---
video_title: "One Design Decision to Create Better Results in Stitch"
video_id: tnP_Q5mS1I8
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tnP_Q5mS1I8
video_date: 2026-04-09T16:33:55+00:00
video_description: |
  You might have heard of Stitch, and it's ability to transform your creative idea to life for a mobile app or website. Now, in this video, learn how to leverage the Stitch design tool to elevate your web design process. Moving beyond basic prompts. Join David as he takes on the role of a creative director, transforming a generic site into a high-end digital experience.
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers
  
  Speaker: David East
  Products Mentioned: Google Stitch
---
DAVID EAST: This designer Stitch is fantastic. And this design is, well-- it's not my favorite. And what's interesting is that this not-favorite screen was the first screen that Stitch generated. Getting to this screen came down to one thing-- direction. So more often than not, you will get better results with Stitch if you can start your prompt with a design concept, a vibe, or a general aesthetic.

Think about it this way. Coding agents, they're really good at writing code. And they can be even more effective if you play the role of their tech lead. And Stitch is really good at designing, and it can be even more effective when you act as the creative director. So let me show you by starting with a basic prompt.

So for the first prompt, I'm going to hold back, and I'm going to just write, "A road running race listing page." All right, let's see what we got. So this is what Stitch gives us with almost no direction. It's dark. It's got races and stuff.

But does it feel like anything? Not exactly. It's a shot in the dark. You might like it. You might not.

But either way, it lacks direction. So the first thing that I think about when it comes to design-- it isn't color, typography, and layouts. It's empathy. I want to think about what my user needs and what I want them to feel when they come to the site. So here's a mistake that I see a lot-- describing your idea with abstract words like "make it look good" or "high-end."

And there's just not enough direction. Here's an example. If I were designing a site about Washington, DC, and I described the aesthetic as patriotic or monumental, I'd get pretty generic results. Think about what DC actually looks like. If you've ever been, it's a lot of marble, columns, wide-open plazas.

And these monuments, they are neoclassical, and that's a word Stitch can build from. And now the design feels real. It feels like standing in the Jefferson Memorial. But how do I turn this feeling into a prompt? So they say that design is a lot like writing.

You should design what you know. I actually don't know if they say that. It sounds very good. I'm going to go with. What I know is running.

So I'm going to make a community marathon site where runners share all the stuff that you learn only after you've actually run the marathon. So this site should feel very "preh-stih-juhs" or "preh-stee-juhs." It should feel very important because these are historic races in world-class cities. And I can take the same approach for my marathon site. Instead of using words like sporty or athletic, that'll just give me green running shoes, I want to describe what it actually feels like.

But how do I use the right words? You know the answer. We ask Gemini, and I ask it to help me write a prompt using design concepts, aesthetic descriptions, and to establish a creative direction. I'm thinking about the prestige of the Boston Marathon, colors that are historic in running, like the clay of an old track. And Gemini comes back with language like architectural limestone, ink on paper.

And these are words that I would not have known to use on my own. But they're exactly the kind of words that Stitch can build from. So now my prompt describes what the site is and how it should feel. Let's see the difference. OK, that's already a lot better because there's intent here-- a runner's guide to the world's greatest marathon, the spirit of the 26.2, the list of the actual marathons.

This is not perfect, but it's something I can work with. So before we go any further, notice that Stitch already created a design system for us. This is the DNA of your design. It contains colors, fonts, components, and you can use this to keep screens in your project consistent. And there's a second tab in here called DESIGN.md.

Stitch generated a structured creative brief from our prompts. It covers creative direction, color hierarchy with specific roles, typography rationale, elevation, components, even dos and don'ts. And this is what's driving the design system. And you can edit it directly, or you can go and have an LLM generate one for you. And we're going to come back to this.

So this design system has four color roles-- primary, secondary, tertiary, and neutral. Now, don't think of these as a palette of matching colors. Think of them as a hierarchy. Each color has a job based on visual weight and importance. And there's a lot of ways that we can establish a color hierarchy.

But here's a method that I like to use. Let's start with neutral. Neutral is about 80% to 90% of your screen. It's the canvas. So with design systems, you can modify every single color manually.

And since I know the direction that I want, that's exactly what I'm going to do. So for the canvas, I wanted that architectural limestone. And limestone is a warmer color. And right here, this isn't as warm as I would like it to be. It's pretty devoid of really any warmth.

So what I'm going to do is I'm going to nudge it on the color hue just a little bit towards that orange. And I'm just going to move it a little bit down until I kind of feel something that feels nice and warm. All right. So that looks good. Let's move on to primary.

Primary is the ink. It's headings, body text. It's the core content. And currently, it's this navy blue, which has good contrast against the warm limestone white. The feeling I'm going for is asphalt. So again, I'm

just going to modify the color, just drop it down to a dark asphalt, and yes, OK. That looks good. Next up is secondary. It needs to be a little more subdued so the primary text can have the focus. And lastly, there's tertiary.

And tertiary can be the accent. You can use this for the most important buttons or the hover state of less important buttons. It's the call to action. It's the loudest, but it's used the least. It's third in volume, but it's first in visual poll.

And I wanted to set this to that clay color. So I'm going to move around on the wheel till it feels something that is a nice old dirt track clay, and this earthy red is going to pull your eye right to the action. So the next part of the design system are fonts. The font hierarchy sets up headline, body, and label, and you can specify which values you want for each. This design system set up Newsreader as the headline.

And this makes sense because I conveyed a very fancy and authoritative and historical tone. But that's not quite the direction I want to go with. So I've been cheating because I have to prepare the video. So I really Public Sans for this because one of the goals is that I want to have the reverence for the marathon and for it to feel like a prestigious journal but approachable at the same time. So Public Sans is great for that because it feels official, but it is a rounder, more friendly font.

So I'm going to set that for both the headline and the body. And then for the label, I'm going to set it to Space Grotesk. Now a note on Space Grotesk. We all have our opinions on fonts.

Space Grotesk has its place, and it's in labels. That's my opinion. That is my opinion. I think that it's fantastic in labels. It looks like a timestamp.

It looks very official. But space Grotesk, I don't think it's like the best for headlines. And that's going to happen in Stitch. It's going to generate headlines with Space Grotesk. And I can't stop it.

I can't. I would just recommend just other fonts. It's a great code font. It's a great label font. It's a great timestamp font.

Keep it out of your headlines. Do me the favor. That's my opinion. It's my opinion. All right.

Next up is this corner radius. And you can set it to pretty much a non-value or a very round value or an extremely round value. And this gives me some pause because I want the friendliness. So that's going to be some round. But I also want it to be like stationary, and stationary tends to not be round.

It's got hard edges. So this is one of those you got to decide moments in design. And so I'm going to lean towards the approachability. So I'm going to go with the little round. We can always change this later.

So now I have a new design system. But to apply it to this design, I need to right-click it and select Update to the latest design system. All right. So this looks pretty good. I really do love the Public Sans font.

I cheated, but it's good. It's a great font. So I want to preview this. And I can click the Preview icon at the top, or I can just hit Shift-P. And this opens it up in this nice Stitch responsive viewer.

And as I scroll through, I can see that this does-- this already looks so much better. There's some work still, but this is a lot better from the original design. It feels like it has a lot of direction going for it. There's stuff I want to change, but I already feel miles better. So this next part is it's my favorite.

And that's layout because layout, it's the coolest. But the great part about layout is that you get to think about what is that core emotion that you're trying to convey. I want the user to feel like they're in the city already. I want them to feel immersion. As much as I love layouts, sometimes I can't find the right one for the right situation, and I just-- I feel stuck.

When that happens, though, I think about the site and its physical application. Well, if my website was a book, what kind of book would it be? Well, to me, it is clearly a coffee table book. Coffee table books have full-page imagery, dense information, and editorial headings. And on the web, the layout that best represents a coffee table book, in my opinion, is a lookbook.

So to set these layouts, I'm going to use variants. Variants are incredible because they allow you to create more than one go at your design, and you can scope it to specific aspects. You can also set the level of creativity. Refine is just a little bit, not too much. Explore-- to me, that's the sweet spot.

And reimagine-- that one, that one can go pretty wild. Buckle up when you use that one. It can be fun, but it goes places. So in this case, I'm going to select Explore, and I'm going to write a custom prompt. I'm going to ask it to explore an editorial lookbook layout.

I want it to be editorial so it has those big headers and that editorial feel. The lookbook will really express that specific layout with the imagery. And I really want to double-down on the large editorial headings over images. And then lastly, this is a little flair that I find to be pretty useful. When you want really nice big headings is you tell it that you want it to be like a luxury travel magazine.

All right, let's generate 5, and let's see what we got. All right, I think that these are much better. In some ways, it's changed the aesthetic. Instead of the big white page that puts the text front and center, it now blends it and shares the attention with the text in the image. And there's some really good applications there, and that can send a good message.

And the large editorial layouts, they're probably too large, but I'm a sucker for them. So I'm just going to keep it like that for now. And as we go through, we have lots of imagery, lots of large texts, and the layout is pretty cohesive. And I really like this one over here where we have the three column images, these marathon cards. These are really good.

These have a lot of potential. And the important thing to think about here is that you're not picking and choosing is it this one screen versus the other. Ultimately, every single bit of these elements on these screens, these are components. And Stitch allows you to export your screens as HTML. And from there, you can slice and dice them up into these little components.

And as long as they fit on the same layouts, which is very much the case with these screens, they're going to just click in like building blocks. All right. So this gives us a lot of good options. But there is one commonality across all the generated screens from this new layout that just needs a little bit of changing. And that is the imagery.

So I'm going to create another variant, and I'm going to choose this one because I like-- this one has a good imagery potential. I'm going to set it to Explore. And I'm going to type in a prompt to focus on the major cities. "Use major marathon city images that convey the scale and grandeur of the event." And I also want it to use minimalist cinematic photography of the road race courses.

And this is going to be a lot of imagery that is maybe one person running on the road or a road that is empty and has a vanishing point off in the distance. And I wanted to avoid that cliché runners on the road images. All right. So let's generate these. All right.

This has some potential here. The layout is a little less lookbooky than I wanted. And so I could have also tuned that in the variant as well, and maybe I should have. But there are some pretty cool things going on here. The third generation over here to the right has some pretty wild topography treatment, and it's pretty interesting.

And it's actually telling me that I like Public Sans more bold than I do not bold and its normal font weight for these headers. So that's pretty cool. So I've learned a lot already by going through all of these different revisions. I've learned which fonts I like, the color scheme, and a lot more of the direction is in place. And sometimes when I get to that point where it's starting to feel the idea is crystallizing, I move on to a new project.

You can take the DESIGN.md and copy it, and you could paste that right into a new prompt for Stitch because it contains all of the direction that we've established. And it will create a pretty good first generation. So I'm not going to use the DESIGN.md that was generated in this design system because I have another DESIGN.md that I worked on while preparing

for this video that I really like, and I spent a lot of time on it. And I think it presents really good results. And I want you to see this DESIGN.md, what it looks like, the details in it, and you can even use it for your own base prompts. You can go into Gemini, and you can write in a new app idea.

Like, I can go and write in the Washington, DC, tours with the neoclassicism and all of the grandeur and the Jefferson Memorial that I can't stop talking about and send in this one as an example. And I think you can get pretty good results. So I will leave a link to that DESIGN.md in the description, and you can check it out and use it. And let me know if you got good results with it.

All right, so this gives me this site, and I really like the input elements on it. And I really like the topography as well. But the grid, it's boring. So I'm going to quickly just set some variants for the layout, for the images, and I'm going to tell it to explore the lookbook editorial. And then I'm going to tell it to also use large typographic headings.

All right. So it came up with a nice mixture of layouts that emphasize the text on white or the text on the image, which is good to look at these options. And I really like a lot of these directions here and some of these components. But let me go and preview this one right here because I'm pretty sure this one is going to be interactive. So when I scroll down to this-- yes, this is a horizontal scroller.

And this was definitely directed by the lookbook layout. So I'm really happy with the way this looks. But to me, there's just this one thing that feels off, and that's the content. It doesn't feel real. So scrolling through this, the aesthetic is clearly there.

The colors, the layout, the topography, it's all working. But reading the text, it's generic. My app is a community app for marathoners, and the heading, the elite calendar, that's not quite what I'm looking for. But there is one thing you can do that will vastly improve the way this looks on the page. And that is copywriting.

And no, you don't have to think about all the text all yourself. I mean, it's 2026. We got lots of tools for that. And one of my favorites are using an agent skill. So here at skills.sh, there's a whole repository

of all of these agent skills that have all this knowledge and expertise, all tied in with all of these tools. Now, if you don't have a lot of familiarity with running command-line tools or development tools, it's OK. There's an easy way to still get set up here. So in skills.sh, the repository of open agent skills, I can type in copywriting.

And up the top, there is a copywriting skill, which is in a GitHub repository of marketing skills that is written by Corey Haines. Thank you, Corey. This one's great. We can click into the GitHub repo and give it a star. And you can take a look at the actual content, clicking into skills and then the skill.md

and all of the reference content as well. So if you are not familiar with command-line tools, agent skills, or any development tools for that matter, that's OK. These skills are largely just really good information packaged up with what tools it needs to use. And this skill is really dependent on the information. So you can copy this text, and you can send that over to Gemini and type in this process that I'm going to be following down in Antigravity.

And you'll get very similar results. So here in Antigravity, I'm going to install this command. I'm going to run the skill. I'm going to set it to the default installation, set it to local. It has the copywriting skill installed at the project level.

So I'm going to paste in some information about my app. And this right here is all the information that I've talked about so far-- what the app is, all of the community aspects, the history of the marathon. And then I'm also going to add in my DESIGN.md because it has a lot of really good information that is useful in copywriting. Then here in the agent manager, I can use the slash command to select the copywriting skill.

And then I'm going to tell it to use the COPY_PROMPT.md file and DESIGN.md as context about the site. So Antigravity using Gemini 3.1 Pro high on Planning mode gives me this Archival Marathon Community Copy, and it's giving me this as this reviewable document where I can put comments on.

And this is really good for this case because there are edits that I'm going to want to apply. So I'm going to change the page title and the meta description. Select the Option C for the headline, make some comments on the subheadlines, and a bunch of other little things that are tailored to how I want my page copy to be. I'm going to submit this revision, and I have myself, I think, what is a pretty good copy. So back in my project, I'm going to select this screen, choose five variants on Explore, and I'm going to target layout, images, and text content only and paste in this copy.

And for good measure, I'm going to target this screen just in the prompt box and send a prompt with a copy as well. And look at that. We have more marathon names, real tips, real CTAs, and it doesn't feel just like a template anymore. So let me pull up this preview one more time. This is where we started, and this is where we ended.

And you can take this direction even further. In this case, I generated these pages for the specific marathon screens, and without prompting, without asking, because I have all this context and because I have all this direction, I got this really cool elevation map. All right, so here is the process. Start with empathy. Who is the site for, and how do you want them to feel?

And then you can move on to things like colors to represent these emotions and the aesthetics. Then typography and imagery and the layout. Think about the physical objects that you can represent with the layout and how they can be structuring the content to do its job. And then use the right copy because it's going to make the site feel real. Stitch does not replace the design process.

It's a design tool, and the best designs come from thought, understanding your content, and setting a creative direction. And once you have a design that you love, Stitch helps you get to building because you can export your screens as code. And if you're interested in that, then let me know because that is what I'm going to be covering in the next video. [MUSIC PLAYING]