---
video_title: "Deep Research Max: A step change for autonomous research agents"
video_id: CfYx8FF26u8
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CfYx8FF26u8
video_date: 2026-04-21T22:57:19+00:00
video_description: |
  Built with Gemini 3.1 Pro, the new Deep Research agents bring MCP support, native visualizations and unprecedented analytical quality to long-horizon research workflows across the web or custom sources.
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers  
  
  Speaker: Thor Schaeff
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini
---
Google's just released a new update to Gemini deepresearch, and we've seen a massive jump in capabilities. The first things that struck us were the speed and the exhaustiveness of it. It's made it possible for anyone to ask and answer heavy duty scientific questions that require evaluating all of the scientific literature, and it lets us answer questions in days rather than waiting weeks or months. What deepresearch is able to do in an impressive way is connect that quantitative data to more qualitative data, and really bring that to life. Factset was an early adopter to a more open approach and an open ecosystem in our industry.

Trust is the very critical piece. You can have innovation and the most advanced features, and if the data is not rock solid, our customers will not use it. Bringing more of an AI ready approach to that data allows it to be integrated into solutions like Deep Research in a way that really helps us ground the answers and bring confidence to our client base. Axiom's goal is to help scientists understand which drugs are going to fail in clinical trials before they do. The data about drug toxicity and clinical outcomes of drugs is buried all over the place, and often what you need to know is at page 80 of a very long PDF.

So Gemini deep researchers ability to access data from all sorts of modalities has been extremely critical to us. Our industry is all about alpha generation and really finding insights in unlikely places. So the multimodal factor, being able to bring in sentiment from video, voice, look at text, bring in quantitative data, all brought together in one place. It's just a richness of the narrative that is much more advanced than research of the past. When you think about the amount of processing that can come through Deep Research across all of these sources.

That really unlocks the expertise of a human to bring out the nuance, focus more on how you relay that information to clients or peers, and bringing a human element. This is a huge shift for the financial industry because of how much they have wished for productivity for so long. Deep Research has really accelerated our team. It saved us from having to build out really complex workflows. Let's our scientists iterate extremely quickly, and it lets them focus on what questions they want to ask.

The number of ideas that could come to fruition, the quality of those ideas, and the way that new insights deliver results for our client base is a huge way that research is shifting. Just allows a broadening of scope that an individual human wouldn't be able to achieve. It's superhuman.