---
video_title: "Explore a high-scale agentic AI-powered simulation sandbox with Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform"
video_id: m6EyN2Z7HJk
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m6EyN2Z7HJk
video_date: 2026-04-23T19:00:27+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn how to use Google Cloud with cutting edge agentic technologies to create a simulation sandbox for a city looking to plan and host a marathon. You will learn how to combine Agent Development Kit with Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform, AlloyDB and Gemma to orchestrate multiple agents for planning, evaluating and simulating a city-scale event.
  
  Resources: 
  Link to Solution → https://goo.gle/4tjZqPe 
  Code Repo →https://goo.gle/3QfjCDa 
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers
  
  Speakers: Tom Greenaway, Casey West
  Products Mentioned: Agent Development Kit (ADK), Gemini
---
[MUSIC PLAYING] TOM GREENAWAY: Hi, I'm Tom Greenaway. CASEY WEST: And I'm Casey West. TOM GREENAWAY: And we're lead developer advocates at Google Cloud Casey, have you ever run a marathon? CASEY WEST: Absolutely not. I'm a backpacker, and I'll happily hike hundreds of miles.

But the longest I've ever run is 10K. And honestly, that was enough for me. TOM GREENAWAY: Well, it is a massive undertaking, but I imagine actually planning a certified marathon is even harder. You have governing bodies with strict core standards, city logistics, road closures, and medical tent placements. CASEY WEST: Exactly.

And if you get one variable wrong, the whole thing can fall apart. And this complexity is exactly why we built race condition. TOM GREENAWAY: Race condition is a deployable reference architecture for orchestrating, scaling, and securing autonomous AI agents using Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform, and it is fully open source. It's a multi-agent simulation that models a marathon through Las Vegas, where we hosted Google Cloud Next this year. And we created this developer solution alongside race condition to help you explore the systems architecture, the demo experiences, and inspect the code directly.

CASEY WEST: Tom, I know you've built some great games over the years, so your expertise was super important to the user experience. And for this project, you oversaw building the front-end visualization using TypeScript, Three.js, and Google's Angular framework. And my background is in platform engineering and distributed systems. So I led the back end and infrastructure.

TOM GREENAWAY: Yeah, thanks, Casey. I think the 3D front end and the back end system have come together really well. And today, we're not just going to show you a cool simulation. We're going to show you how the patterns we use to simulate thousands of runners translate directly to the Enterprise Cloud architectures you are building right now. CASEY WEST: So let's get nerdy.

The back end is a polyglot by design. We have Golang handling high-concurrency infrastructure and WebSocket messaging, while Python hosts the AI ecosystem, which we built with Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform. TOM GREENAWAY: Hey, Casey, what is Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform exactly? CASEY WEST: That's a great question, Tom. Gemini Enterprise Agent platform is a collection of Platform Services like agent runtime, where we run our agents, Agent Registry to allow them to connect to one another, protocols like A2A, frameworks like Agent Development Kit, and standards like A2UI.

And I know that was a lot of acronyms, but we will explain all of this right now. TOM GREENAWAY: Well, sounds handy. OK. Now let's look back at the front end itself. When we need to plan a route, we prompt our planner agent.

And for it to make good decisions, it needs real-world context. So we use Google Cloud's MCP servers to connect the agent to services like Google Maps, allowing it to pull live weather and traffic data to anticipate the event's impact on the city. CASEY WEST: But one agent can't run a whole city event. You need a team and traditional enterprise software-- microservices often talk to each other through rigid, hardcoded REST APIs. On the other hand, AI agents can make decisions when they have the right context.

So, Tom, how do agents collaborate when their needs are constantly shifting? TOM GREENAWAY: Well, in our case, we use the A2A, or agent-to-agent protocol. And instead of static APIs, we use the Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform's Agent Registry, where every agent publishes an agent card detailing its skills and capabilities. CASEY WEST: OK. So when the planner agent designs a route, it doesn't simulate the race itself.

It needs to delegate to the simulator agent. It doesn't call a hardcoded endpoint. It queries the agent registry to discover the simulator dynamically. It's essentially a real-time context mesh for your agents. TOM GREENAWAY: Yeah, think about this for a supply chain application, for example.

You could have an inventory agent dynamically discover and negotiate with a logistics agent to reroute shipping containers during a storm completely autonomously, without a developer writing a custom integration. CASEY WEST: That makes sense, and that can be very flexible. So once the agents agree on a plan, they need to show it to us. Usually, AI spits out walls and walls of text, and that isn't really helpful in an enterprise context. TOM GREENAWAY: Right.

To fix that, we use the A2UI, or agent-to-user interface protocol. Instead of raw markdown, the agent generates structured componentries, and then the front-end renders those native components dynamically. It's an open standard for AI-generated UI, and in our case, we render that generated UI with Angular. CASEY WEST: This completely changes human in the loop workflows. So imagine a fintech application.

An agent is investigating a loan application, and it doesn't just give you a summary. It can dynamically render a custom dashboard, showing a knowledge graph of the applicant's risk factors, and complete that interactive system with an approval button for a loan officer. TOM GREENAWAY: And to make these workflows useful, the agents need to remember what they're doing. So we used the Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform's Session Store to keep track of the immediate active conversation state. CASEY WEST: And for deeper context, we connected the agents to AlloyDB and Memory Bank.

AlloyDB allows the agents to ingest and search unstructured information like Las Vegas laws and regulations, with automatic embeddings for vector search. Meanwhile, Memory Bank allows the agent to remember important details and context over time, and that can bridge the gap across multiple different simulation runs. TOM GREENAWAY: Casey, how about we run the simulation itself? CASEY WEST: Let's do it. It's really pretty.

TOM GREENAWAY: OK, so now the simulation is running. And as we can now see, we have 1,000 independent runner agents moving concurrently through the city. CASEY WEST: Managing that much state across the network usually causes bottlenecks, and keeping the back end and the front end in sync is a really common problem. Tom, this is where your game development background really saved the architecture. TOM GREENAWAY: Yeah, that's true.

In games, it's always important to decide where the authority of the game state is managed. For us, the back end is really holding the authoritative state, but the front end's runners still calculate their local position based on known velocity, a classic dead reckoning design pattern in multiplayer games. And some events that are more spatial in the world, such as the runners reaching a water station, originate their events from the front end and send them back up to the back end so the user experience stays as smooth as possible. CASEY WEST: I loved seeing how the game development concepts map perfectly to modern agentic architectures. Using Agent Development Kit, or ADK, as our agentic framework made it simple to build a game loop with the loop agent workflow.

Agent Registry made it easy for the front end to communicate water and cheering events directly to the runner agents. TOM GREENAWAY: Yeah, this allowed us to implement a massive fan-out architecture. One simulation agent session can communicate with thousands of individual runner agent sessions instantly, completely bypassing the overhead of HTTP. For our customers, this is the exact blueprint for handling high-volume transaction processing in domains like online retail, or ingesting millions of telemetry events from an IoT fleet at scale. CASEY WEST: But building at this scale means things do occasionally break.

During development, our simulation crashed because the agents generated too much data, exceeding their token limits. TOM GREENAWAY: Yeah, debugging a distributed multi-agent system is tough, but we have AI developer tools now to help. And we integrated Google Cloud Assist directly into our developer environments. For example, we experimented with using harnesses like Antigravity and Claude Code. CASEY WEST: So Google Cloud Assist autonomously investigated the crash, identified the token limit bottleneck, and even suggested a context compaction patch to fix it right in the IDE.

TOM GREENAWAY: It's incredible to have an AI operator debugging your AI agents. And finally, we know security is always an important consideration. What stops a compromised agent from going rogue and exposing customer data, Casey? CASEY WEST: Well, we use a shift-down security model. So general purpose service accounts are really dangerous here.

Instead, every agent is assigned a unique, immutable agent identity. We enforce strict IAM policies down at the platform layer within Agent Gateway. TOM GREENAWAY: So even if an agent is tricked by a prompt injection into trying to alter a financial database, our policies block that unauthorized API execution at the network level. It gives CSOs peace of mind that their AI is operating within a zero-trust architecture. CASEY WEST: Race condition is a high-scale sandbox designed to push the boundaries of what's possible.

But you don't need a massive budget to try it out. TOM GREENAWAY: Yeah, in the developer solution, you'll explore several demos that each showcase a different configuration of the planner agent, ranging from a planner using Google Maps data for traffic and weather to one that adds real-time LLM evaluation, A2A and A2UI, and lastly, one that includes long-term memory. And you can also leverage Google Kubernetes Engine to deploy fleets of compute with open-weight Gemma models included to simulate individual agentic brains for the runners. CASEY WEST: But the best experience, of course, is to get the sandbox running in your hands yourself. The entire codebase is open source.

We want you to check out the GitHub repo. Fork it. Break it apart. You'll find links to the code, Agent Development Kit, and the protocol specifications down below. TOM GREENAWAY: So download the code to deploy a lightweight version of this exact architecture to your own Google Cloud project.

We've even included a link for some free Google Cloud credits, giving you enough credits to spin this up and test the A2A and A2UI protocols yourself. CASEY WEST: So that's race condition, a high-scale agentic AI-powered simulation sandbox. What problems will you solve next? Let's get started. [MUSIC PLAYING]