---
video_title: "Gemini co-leads on project origins and what's next"
video_id: 8hfpLa5wPGo
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8hfpLa5wPGo
video_date: 2026-05-29T16:00:20+00:00
video_description: |
  To mark the launch of Gemini 3.5 Flash, Logan Kilpatrick sat down at Gradient Canopy with four of the people who built it: Jeff Dean, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Noam Shazeer, and Oriol Vinyals. They talked about the origin of the Gemini project, the bet on a single unified model, why each Flash generation now outperforms the previous Pro, and what's coming next.
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers  
   
  Speaker: Logan Kilpatrick, Jeff Dean, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Noam Shazeer, Oriol Vinyals 
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini
---
JEFF DEAN: Even before we started the Gemini effort, there were a lot of people thinking about building incredibly general-purpose models that could do things. Oriol was leading some efforts in DeepMind, and I was helping steer some efforts around the Pathways project and things like PaLM and PaLM 2 and so on. I actually said, this is silly. We are fragmenting our efforts and fragmenting our compute. And if we're going to build an incredibly powerful model, we need to all come together and work on building a single model.

That's actually where the name Gemini comes from, the twins. ORIOL VINYALS: We've mapped, and then we reduced. JEFF DEAN: Yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah, something like that. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: I thought it was because I had twins.

JEFF DEAN: That, too. That, too. [MUSIC PLAYING]

LOGAN KILPATRICK: everyone. How's it going? My name is Logan Kilpatrick. I'm on the Google DeepMind team. Today.

We're talking with Jeff, Koray, Noam, and Oriol about all things Gemini, the origin of the Gemini project, and so much more. So thank you all for sitting down and chatting. We're sitting here in Gradient Canopy. We just launched the Gemini 3.5 era of models, starting with Flash.

Contextualize the moment. I think this is the third and a half generation of Gemini models. We've shipped a lot of stuff, a lot of models in between. Maybe, Oriol, you want to fill us in on the moment with Gemini 3.5?

ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah. We could do one each, maybe. Contextualizing-- I guess we started 2023, I want to say. We've had a few releases, some half models or even 0.1, and been building on some foundation of multimodal tool use, agentic from the get-go, and just kept building the capabilities up.

So today, it's exciting to be releasing the Flash version of 3.5. It's a very powerful series, and the focus of this one probably is on agentic, coding, and then, of course, preserving and enhancing the rest of capabilities. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: I think everyone feels like this is really the times where coding capabilities and agentic experiences are defining what it means to experience AI. And 3.5 is a huge, huge step there.

LOGAN KILPATRICK: Yeah. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: And I think everyone is actually experiencing that, and it is being recognized as a very strong model. NOAM SHAZEER: These big release moments have, in one way, gotten less exciting because the thing that's most at the top of everybody's mind is not even the big release to the public. It's like, what am I going to be using tomorrow to do my engineering and my research, and what are my friends around me, around the office going to be using for their engineering and research? And will they be complaining at me?

Will they be happy? It's always fun and exciting on a day-to-day basis. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Reflecting back on the initial moment of coming together and forming the Gemini project and shipping those initial models, was it obvious to you all that product story of how we bring Gemini models to the world was going to be so important? Not from, obviously, a Google-- we have lots of products, and we bring AI to our customers through the products, but actually to improve the model, was that a, "We hope that this happens, and it's something that we're going to intentionally work towards," or has it just become obvious over time that we need to do that because the use cases are much more complicated than the initial version of Gemini? KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: I'm actually curious what you all think because, for me, that's my job.

[LAUGHTER] JEFF DEAN: I mean, I can weigh in. I think that was actually pretty obvious that, if you have a model that is used by a lot of people, that you're going to get a lot of lessons and experience of what's working well, what's not working well. And we've seen this in Search for many, many years is the use of Search by our users really informs, what are the things that's not doing well? What are the things we should be doing better? Aggregating lots of interesting usage statistics to understand that in a deeper way and then working on improving those things is important.

And AI models should be no different. It seemed like that was pretty obvious from the beginning, but we had to have a thing out there that people were using. NOAM SHAZEER: Yeah, that's the true test-- people using it, and is it useful to people? Because if you go in the box, and you try to hill-climb benchmarks, then you end up hill-climbing benchmarks, and maybe you leaked your benchmark. It doesn't end up well.

KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: You don't want to build intelligence in a black box. You want it to be useful. You want people to be using it. Therefore, understanding what is required, what is the-- scratching the frontier is both scratching the frontier of the research in terms of technical capability, but also scratching the surface of, what is the next thing that you can enable users? You can't do it if you don't actually do it with the products.

And those two, hand-in-hand, define what the frontier means. ORIOL VINYALS: So at the time Gemini starts, there's a lot of already machine learning models making it into products. And I think what seemed obvious is that, if we create a single, more powerful than the average of the other models powering everything, that had to be a leap forward. Whether there was a single product that could be created around a single model-- that maybe wasn't as clear at the time. But I think it was very clear that putting all the compute and intelligence into a single, powerful model was going to leap-frog many things Google was using, already, machine learning for.

And that was very exciting to be given that amount of compute and responsibility initially. But I think it's proven to be indeed the core engine of Google intelligence. JEFF DEAN: Even before we started the Gemini effort, there were a lot of people thinking about building incredibly general-purpose models that could do things. Oriol was leading some efforts in DeepMind, and I was helping steer some efforts around the Pathways project and things like PaLM and PaLM 2 and so on. I actually said, this is silly.

We are fragmenting our efforts and fragmenting our compute. And if we're going to build an incredibly powerful model, we need to all come together and work on building a single model. That's actually where the name Gemini comes from, the twins. ORIOL VINYALS: We've mapped, and then we reduced. JEFF DEAN: Yeah, yeah, exactly.

Yeah, something like that. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: I thought it was because I had twins. [LAUGHTER] JEFF DEAN: That, too. That, too. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Jeff, that's a great segue to, again, going back to the formation of the Gemini project.

I'm curious, how controversial was that? Obviously, as you say it now, and we've done three and a half iterations, all the organizational complexity of bringing teams together is now behind us. Was it blatantly obvious at the time that we won't win and actually deliver on building the right product and models for our customers if we don't do this? Or was it a-- originated as a more pie in the sky idea? I'm just curious.

What was your level of confidence? JEFF DEAN: I was sure the right thing was to come together. I actually articulated in a half-page memo, this is silly to fragment. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Do you have this? Have we shared this half-page memo?

JEFF DEAN: I've not shared it publicly. LOGAN KILPATRICK: We should put it somewhere, release it somewhere. JEFF DEAN: But it felt like fragmenting our best ideas across different research teams that weren't really working together and also fragmenting our compute-- just both of those issues seemed things we should fix. And it was a little bit organizationally complicated, and time zone-wise, there were lots of people in London, lots of people here. Eight hours apart is never a recipe for easy collaboration, but I think we've done a really good job of navigating that and bringing people together.

And now we have a really good, amazing team all over the world, and we're cranking out good models. NOAM SHAZEER: There were a bunch of teams building LLMs at the time that you just needed to match together, basically. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: At some point, research in AI was a lot more academic. You go back, like, 10 years, a lot more academic research. And at that point, how you organize it is not really the key element.

It is more about the exploration and the speed of exploration is important. But as things get more and more focused, what you want is, really, to Jeff's point, this focused operation, where, rather than us trying to build things in parallel-- because these things require a lot more focus, effort, and each one of them is a major operation in terms of many researchers coming together, solving many problems. At that point, I think it was really, really a good idea to, OK, this is the moment that we need to change. I think both organizations acted with great urgency on that and enabled it. I think that was an experience.

Of course, it's never easy bringing two organizations together, but I think everyone realized that this is the right moment, and there's a huge value to be gained from this. And I think all of us can see-- the whole organization is very proud of what we have built together. Gemini is really the fruit of that. NOAM SHAZEER: It's the scale. It's the fact that you can-- when you build one big, beautiful, giant LLM that it can do so many things, and so really do need to put together that many people, that much compute, and-- JEFF DEAN: Infrastructure teams, data teams, vowels, and so on.

NOAM SHAZEER: Yeah. Better to have one of those teams than five little ones. JEFF DEAN: Yeah, yeah. I mean-- KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Better to have one model than five models. JEFF DEAN: One thing I would say is, from the start, we wanted Gemini to be-- I mean, even pre-Gemini, one of the origins of the Pathways project was to explore a single model that could do many things, a multimodal model that could deal with all different modalities, a very large model that was sparse, so you would activate different pieces of it for different kinds of things.

And all three of those things are represented in the Gemini models that we have today. And I think now, with Omni, we've gotten the multimodal aspects of the, now, we can even generate video. We used to be able to just generate images and audio-- pretty awesome, because you have the full capability of this amazing reasoning model that can deal with lots of input modalities and can edit the video it's just produced. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: I think Omni is a whole new capability. I mean, we had Veo and Nano Banana, of course.

You can do text to video, text to images. But what you want is really a model that understands all the modalities of the physical world so that it can understand the physics and everything, but together with text, because there's a lot of information about world in text, as well, at a very high level. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Koray, really quick, I have a question about this. In the I/O keynote, we were framing Omni in the world model section, and I'm curious how much-- does it actually have a bunch of the Genie world model stuff? Or is this just positioning for the next stage, where it takes in anything and puts out anything, and that's our representation of a world model?

That wasn't abundantly clear to me. I hadn't thought about it that way. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: I'll give my opinion. Oriol has worked on these things a lot. World modeling means that you really understand the dynamics, the physics, the visuals.

And then you have to be able to simulate that, as well, because that simulation aspect is critical for both us understanding if the model has it right, and also, when you want to rely on the model, you want a model that is going to be able to roll forward that simulation. And the decisions that are coming out of the model is based on those future simulations. That's why I think Gemini Omni is a different category that is really transforming what we had with Gemini, that is mostly understanding and text output, and Veo, that is text input, and doing the video modeling into turning to a really, true world model. ORIOL VINYALS: By training jointly, there's a hope that, of course, everything will transfer, and making a better text-understanding model will help the world modeling aspect. But I think we're seeing these-- every time we try, it's not easy.

But as we get the recipes right, we see that, back in the day, rolling out a complex video scene forward, consistency, all these things, you had to manually think about them and almost pre-specify how to get the visuals right over time. And when you turned the thing, the object disappeared. And just by training at scale and mixing all the data, more and more, we're seeing these capabilities emerge. And that's what's exciting and the main premise, I guess, we were putting forward. And now, finally, we're going to outputting, also, I mean, amazing, consistent, 3D worlds, sounds, all the things.

I mean, it feels almost impossible, if you asked me a few years ago, this approach would work. Otherwise, probably we would have done it, like, 10 years ago. But it did happen. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: [INAUDIBLE] years. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, yeah, probably, probably.

More data, yes. JEFF DEAN: When you say multimodal, you instinctively are drawn to human modalities, like text and images and audio and video. But I think, really, want the model to understand a much richer set of modalities, like understand interesting scientific data that comes in genomic sequences or in chemical structure or robotic grasping data or LiDAR data. Exposing the model to a little bit of this kind of data makes it much better at understanding it when it does encounter more of it. LOGAN KILPATRICK: I feel part of the story of Google DeepMind being able to pull off this model and actually, again, the formation story is actually people and the fact that you all actually know each other.

And we were talking off camera before this about, when did you all meet each other and start working together and hear of each other? And I'm curious for all your versions of that story. JEFF DEAN: Maybe I can go first, since I think I know people the longest. [LAUGHTER] KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: One way to put it. [LAUGHTER] JEFF DEAN: For many years, I did a lot of engineering, hiring, and recruiting in the very early days of Google.

So I screened all the engineering resumes that came into Google for three years or something. NOAM SHAZEER: It was amazing. They would just bring Jeff a giant stack of resumes. He'd be like, no, yes, yes, no, no, no. It was extremely fast.

JEFF DEAN: So I didn't actually interview Noam, I don't think, but he had interviewed and gotten an offer. And I think you were debating, should you take the offer? So I called you up on the phone in 2000, and I said, hey, I mean, just chat. I want to introduce myself. And I really like the kinds of things you're excited about and working on, and I think you'd really enjoy it here.

And I finished the phone call and-- LOGAN KILPATRICK: Jeff, honest question, were you just selling at that point, or was there something-- had you heard of Noam? JEFF DEAN: Oh, no, he had an offer, so I'm selling because I want him to accept the offer. Yes. LOGAN KILPATRICK: I love it. JEFF DEAN: So then-- NOAM SHAZEER: Did he accept?

JEFF DEAN: He did, he did. And then Noam became my office-mate for three and a half years or something, which was great. NOAM SHAZEER: I mean, I remember joining, and everyone got a mentor to ask questions as a new hire because there are a million things you don't know. And I would ask my mentor, and every time my mentor would know the answer, and it was like, wow, everyone knows everything here. And it turns out that Jeff was my mentor, and it was just that Jeff knows everything-- [LAUGHTER] --and had written, like, half the code base.

JEFF DEAN: Yeah. So then fast-forward, I guess, maybe, to 2012, I think. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, yeah. JEFF DEAN: So Oriol had interviewed with us. And I don't think I interviewed you, but I think you had an offer, and I was trying to convince you.

You were considering this and another company. So I called you up, and I said, hey, you should really come here. We're really doing really interesting-- LOGAN KILPATRICK: You made the right choice. ORIOL VINYALS: Yes. JEFF DEAN: --deep learning models, and we're having an awesome time.

We were all in the Google Brain team, wedged in probably a 30-person office just outside on the main patio of the main four buildings of Googleplex. Somehow I managed to convince you to come, which was awesome. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, that was-- I mean, I remember lots of back and forth. I had the last, maybe, one year of my PhD, so I was just writing the thesis-- no LLMs at the time, so you actually had to write every single word. Lots of pondering, but I joined.

And maybe not exactly mentor, like Noam mentioned, but we started two projects, one of which was distillation. And so I remember, I mean, the codebase was complex, like C++. You're in academia, so you don't know exactly how to implement things. But the idea was clear, and literally, I remember sitting by Jeff's desk, and he was just coding the classes, like, OK, distillation and KL divergence and so on and so forth. So we didn't have coding agents at the time, but I can say, maybe for a little bit, Jeff was kind of acting as the coding agent for the project and, I mean, a hard benchmark to beat, still, today.

JEFF DEAN: I think that project was good because Geoff Hinton did some of the very early exploration on MNIST, which is a tiny, tiny data set that he could run on his laptop. And he had some good ideas about how to get a bigger model to transfer into a smaller model. And I'm like, we've got to show this thing at scale. So we trained a 50-model ensemble for 300 million images, which was a lot at that time, and 50 distinct ones. So we grouped the categories.

So this one was going to be good at cars, and this one was going to be good at wild animals. Then we transferred the knowledge with distillation into a single model. And it was much more accurate than the single model you could have trained on the raw data. ORIOL VINYALS: And by the way, at the time, I remember compute was already constraining. JEFF DEAN: Always, always.

ORIOL VINYALS: But all you needed to do is ask Jeff, hey, we ran out of CPU, and he would just go to some website, change a number, and we doubled it. And we did that a few times. JEFF DEAN: I had super user power in the quota thing. ORIOL VINYALS: That was nice. I miss that.

JEFF DEAN: Yeah. Sadly, exponential growth-- sometime it stops happening. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: I remember the first time we really sat together, talked was actually during the acquisition discussions of DeepMind that you flew to New York and-- JEFF DEAN: To London. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: To London, sorry. There was this moment that there were all sorts of discussions and such.

There's a bunch of people in the room. But then Jeff comes to me and says, let's look at the code. OK. JEFF DEAN: So Koray and I sat down at the keyboard. I'm like, OK, don't show me anything too sensitive, but I want to see that directory.

KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Yes. JEFF DEAN: So he pokes at that directory, and we go inside. I'm like, OK, let's see this file. He's like, OK-- opens it up. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: And then I go and explain, OK, here's what we are doing here.

Here's what we are doing there. This is this idea. This is that idea. I mean, at the time, for me, it was a big deal. I'm sitting together with Jeff.

I'm explaining to him, OK, these are the ideas, and this is the code, and we are walking through it. JEFF DEAN: Our first code review together. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Yes, exactly. JEFF DEAN: It looks good to me. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Was it actually, Jeff, you were just pointing at random directories, and then Koray just happened to know what was happening?

JEFF DEAN: Yeah. We'd seen 15 talks, which was great. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: At the time, I would review pretty much all the code at DeepMind. So I would know pretty much everything going on. JEFF DEAN: Yeah, and I think the company was, like, 55 or 60 people or something.

So we all flew over to London. And then we'd not slept super well that night, and then we go in, and we'd see 13 consecutive 30-minute talks. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Yes. JEFF DEAN: Geoff Hinton had a bad back, so he's laying on the floor in the back of the room. We just flattened him.

ORIOL VINYALS: I heard that story. JEFF DEAN: Yeah. Towards the end of the day, I'm like, OK, this seems pretty promising. Let me just-- KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: But let's actually see the code. JEFF DEAN: Let's see the code, because we'd seen some nice slide decks.

LOGAN KILPATRICK: That's crazy. We need a movie about this. I feel like this would be a good movie. Oh, actually, another thread of this, reflecting back to three and a half years, maybe even longer than that, something now, as we sit here, that is both positive surprising and also negative surprising, like something maybe you wish we had made more progress, and it's surprising we haven't, and also something maybe we've made way more progress than you-- and obviously, so much of the stuff is so hard to have imagined five years ago. But anything that sticks out for all of you?

ORIOL VINYALS: Maybe I start with positive and very timely for today. I really didn't expect we could keep doing what we've been doing generation after generation, which is to pack the intelligence of Pro back into Flash. So it's like, that happened in 1.0, and you could say, well, it was the first run, and it was fairly suboptimal in some ways. So that makes sense.

We improved the recipe. But in a way, even that seems to be sometimes even accelerating, depending on which version we looked at, that Flash next gen just outperforms Pro previous gen. I mean, just even understanding distillation, how it works, I'm still mesmerized. How can we pack so much intelligence per byte or per parameter? LOGAN KILPATRICK: Has distillation fundamentally changed?

Is it like it's sort off-- and I'm not super-- I know of the concept. I don't know the details. Is there architectural improvements to the way we do distillation, which is part of how we can keep packing more in? Or is it like, the technique is relatively the same of what you all came up with originally? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, I would say it's even simpler.

I mean, we had trick with temperatures in the softmax, and we had to take an ensemble of models [INAUDIBLE]. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Don't tell what we have now. [LAUGHTER] ORIOL VINYALS: No, no, I won't tell what we have now. JEFF DEAN: I'm going to spill the recipe. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Just making sure.

JEFF DEAN: I'm going to spill the recipe. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Yeah. JEFF DEAN: You have a really, really good teacher, and then you have a student. But you didn't need an ensemble of 50 teachers. You just have one really good teacher and then one student, and you pretty much use the recipe described in the original paper, with some modest tweaks.

But the basic spirit of the idea is pretty much the same. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Wow. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Let me give you the most technical explanation. It's like squeezing the lemon. You squeeze the lemon, the juice comes out.

It's the good bit. You put it in a glass, which is your small model. LOGAN KILPATRICK: I like that. That's good. ORIOL VINYALS: You should read the intro of the paper.

It has some poetic intro, as well, about larvae and insects. [INTERPOSING VOICES] JEFF DEAN: Dark knowledge that you-- ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, yeah. NOAM SHAZEER: The original paper, that was just soft labels and-- ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, yeah. Pretty much, yeah. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Anything you're surprised we haven't been able to pull off, given how much progress across the board Gemini has made over the last three and a half generations?

NOAM SHAZEER: I mean, the good side, thinking back-- LOGAN KILPATRICK: It's all good. It's all good. NOAM SHAZEER: Thinking about the beginning of Google, we had this-- what was it?-- this one-box philosophy. Jeff, you must remember, the one box for everything.

The Search box also was-- you could use it for-- JEFF DEAN: Type in something, it would show you sports scores. Type in something else, it would show you stock quotes. NOAM SHAZEER: Right. And on the backend, these were all very separate backends and our custom-built whatever. Some of them were AI-ish, and some of them weren't.

JEFF DEAN: Spelling-- "Did you mean?" "Did you mean" is largely Noam's starter project, I think. NOAM SHAZEER: Oh, yeah. The user would assume, oh, there must be some brilliant, general-purpose AI behind the whole thing, and it knows-- it can do all these different things. And now we actually built it.

[LAUGHTER] We built the general-purpose AI that-- JEFF DEAN: It's one box. NOAM SHAZEER: It is one box. It is one box, and it's one backend. JEFF DEAN: Eureka. NOAM SHAZEER: We finally have the backend for the frontend, and we have the right interface because we built the one box.

ORIOL VINYALS: He wins the negative thing. LOGAN KILPATRICK: No, no, not negative, not negative. But it's obviously, like, people want more. Is there something that you wish that-- KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: No, but I think you should say it. It's hard for us because we've been in it.

And for us, especially for researchers, you don't operate with negativity that much. If something doesn't work, it's a learning, and you put on top of it. From your point of view, what would you have expected to see, and you are not seeing? What's your disappointment? LOGAN KILPATRICK: That's a good-- I wouldn't frame it as disappointment.

ORIOL VINYALS: But he has it. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: But he has it, clearly. JEFF DEAN: I have one. I'm part engineer, part researcher. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: OK.

All right. JEFF DEAN: Engineers can be more negative. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Oh, right. LOGAN KILPATRICK: OK. JEFF DEAN: I mean, I felt like we would make more progress on continual learning and more not-so-structured model architectures.

Right now, we have MOEs, which are lots of experts. They're all very similar structure. I felt like a much more organic-style thing would be something we might focus on. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Yeah, you always imagined that kind of bigger architecture, that fluid-- JEFF DEAN: I still think that could be interesting, but we are not doing that yet. But what we're doing seems to work.

NOAM SHAZEER: I'm a little disappointed. OK, we haven't cured every disease yet. You can't just type in, invent me a cure for cancer or something, and it'll just do it. But we're moving along. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Yeah.

I think the-- and I'm curious to get y'all's reaction to this. I think it's not a negative thing, but it's surprising to me, it seems like, how much energy and effort it takes to merge the capabilities into a single model and that it's a really difficult juggling act. You merge in a new capability. It's not just like it works out of the box or something like that. You trade-off against something, and then you have to make some change to try to make up those gaps.

And I think it's not super intuitive to me as far as-- KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: From my point of view, that is one thing that I'm amazed with the models that, they're still like-- there's insane amount of capacity in the model, and you keep packing stuff. Imagine that the current models are not that much bigger than what was happening three, four years ago. But we keep packing more and more and more capability and information, so the fact that we can do that-- there is so much room in the model. Maybe this is the negative part. But to me, we keep doing that, and it's still-- there is room, and there's so much more room in these models.

And that's why it makes me actually excited because, in terms of algorithmic AI development, there's a lot of room. I really believe in that. The models have much more capacity than what we are getting out of them right now. There's going to be big innovations that's going to enable us to do a lot more with the models. JEFF DEAN: Yeah, and part of it, I would say, is we really need to come up with algorithmic things that just get much more out of every piece of data or example that the model sees, or every token, because I think, if you look at the efficiency of, say, human learning, it's a thousand times better than what our LLM learning can do.

The LLM gets to see a thousand times as much data as a really capable human and then gets to roughly a similar capability or maybe slightly better in some things and not quite as good in others, but it needed a thousand times as much data. So if we could make it so that you could get a thousand times as much information out of every example, it would be amazing. NOAM SHAZEER: And a human has heard, what, like, a billion words in a lifetime, and then, yeah, a model has been trained on-- JEFF DEAN: A trillion. NOAM SHAZEER: --trillions and can remember them, yeah. ORIOL VINYALS: To disagree a bit though, we're pre-trained.

I mean, it's not like you're the first human. So anyways, there's some arguments also about that. NOAM SHAZEER: That's why I think source code is so small. We've got, like, gigabytes of source code. LOGAN KILPATRICK: This is one of my questions.

KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: This is why you don't want this conversation happening without you. ORIOL VINYALS: By the way, I have a hard one, in terms of what's been difficult. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Please. ORIOL VINYALS: I think evaluation is very difficult. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Interesting.

ORIOL VINYALS: It's been somewhat underappreciated in the community, even from the academic era that Koray was mentioning. Evaluating capabilities in isolation or what are the next big things that will happen and how to evaluate to in a way that is not leaked into the data sets and that users will agree with the number, that's been-- there's a lot of work and progress. But I feel like that's been maybe surprisingly hard. But perhaps because we came from a table of numbers in papers, and now we have users and feedback, that's just been a surprising-- and exciting, because every time you find something difficult, you get motivated by trying to fix it. But evaluation is one that-- LOGAN KILPATRICK: That's a great one.

ORIOL VINYALS: It needs to keep getting better for all of us. JEFF DEAN: I mean, the whole dream of every AI researcher ever has been, how do we build systems that can generalize to things they've never been confronted with? And that's really-- even when you're training specific models on particular tasks, you want to generalize to new examples of that task. But I think what we're trying to do now is generalize to anything anyone might ask. And that is a hard problem.

But by having a lot of users, you get a lot of feedback about, OK, well, we're generalizing pretty well in these kinds of problems, but in these kinds of problems, we're falling short. LOGAN KILPATRICK: One of the controversial questions that I had for you all was, what is-- you all have obviously worked together for a long time in different capacities. What are some research things that you all still don't all agree on? And I want to preface this by, I think this maybe-- this is a positive thing. The beauty of, I think, having people who have different perspectives is that there's disagreement, and we try different things.

I'm curious if there's anything that comes to mind. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: I'm trying to-- LOGAN KILPATRICK: Or you all agree? KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: I don't think we would all agree, but I don't think there would be big, major disagreements because I think, in the grand scheme of design of Gemini, I think this group has experimented with all sorts of things. I think we built a lot of ideas through experimentation. I know that Jeff always had this idea of building something a little bit more flexible and has more plasticity and more fluid.

We didn't get there, but it's not like we disagreed on that. It's just that I think the current systems have empirically showed us the way that, this is the model that we are doing. But otherwise, I don't know if we had big disagreements. JEFF DEAN: At any given time, each of us is kind of spending more of our effort on, say, one particular thing or a few things, and the others are not necessarily spending as much time on that thing. So I'm spending a lot of time on, What should future inference hardware look like? because I think

that's a super important capability for us to have. And you're not spending much time, but I describe it to you in the kitchen, and you're like, oh, yeah, that sounds good. When can we have it? [LAUGHTER] NOAM SHAZEER: Reality is a good way of getting people to agree. You see experimental results and see what works and what doesn't work.

JEFF DEAN: I mean, in general, Gemini is quite data-driven, I would say. Lots of people run experiments at small scale and then say, oh, yeah, here's the results. Oh, that looks promising. Have you tried combining it with this thing? And you need to use your pool of research and compute in the most effective way possible.

And being data driven is [INAUDIBLE]. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: I think something like Gemini, if you think about Gemini or AI in general, it pulls in so many things, from hardware, to model design, to product, to everything. So I think having this group to work together is actually one of the most important factors that actually make it work, like Jeff, as he said, focusing on hardware. Noam is focusing on models. Oriol has been focusing on models, now going very deep on agents and doing really deep work there.

And I try to focus on, OK, where are we going with Gemini? And I mean, are we working well with the products? Are we getting that experience, and are we running well? So I think all of us work together in a way that are taking care of different, important areas of-- because it's a whole technology transformation that is happening. And I think having people who are deeply thinking about different aspects of this technology transformation-- I think that's what makes it work.

LOGAN KILPATRICK: I love it. We should do predictions, just so that we have something to be wrong about a year when we reflect back on this conversation. Obviously, huge amount of progress, lots of exciting things from this year's I/O. If we were sitting here 2027, which sounds like a made-up year-- it's going to be around the corner of 2027. We're going to be sitting here at I/O-- KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Why it's the made-up year?

LOGAN KILPATRICK: I mean, it's just like I-- JEFF DEAN: And he's not used to saying it. LOGAN KILPATRICK: In my mind, I'm like, 2027 just seems not real. It's so far in the future, and it's six months away or whatever. JEFF DEAN: I'm going to be 50. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Wow.

Well, yeah. Your 50-- JEFF DEAN: Happy birthday. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Happy early birthday. Your 50th birthday, we'll be celebrating I/O 2027. Any predictions of things that you are hopeful that will actually land by then from a model capability perspective or anything like that?

KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Let's try to predict I/O 2027, and what are we announcing? LOGAN KILPATRICK: Yeah. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: No, let's not do that. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Let's do that. [LAUGHTER] Well, directionally.

Just, given where we are now, it's like, coding-- obviously, we made a huge amount of progress on coding. Will we be saturated? Will we still be spending as much time focused on it-- same thing with agents? Just given the exponential that it feels like we're on for a bunch of these different capabilities-- KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Maybe I'll jump in. I think one thing that might be happening in a year's time is self-learning.

LOGAN KILPATRICK: Self-learning is the same as continual learning or different? KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: I think they're related. Maybe for some, it is the same. But we are in an era where models are a lot more agentic, and they are very good at writing code. We use them in our research.

I think slowly we're going to use them more and more in our research, and there will be a point where, at least at some experimentation level, we are going to rely on the models to improve different parts of Gemini. And I think, next year, we will definitely be on that path and probably talking about it would be my prediction. Let's see if we are really-- JEFF DEAN: Yeah, probably be able to point to some very significant thing in our models that was generated by the models and agents working to do self-improvement. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Yeah, under the guidance of [INAUDIBLE]. NOAM SHAZEER: Yeah, right.

And instead of suggesting to one of your team members, Hey, why don't you experiment with this a bit and let me know how it's going next week? we'll be telling the model to do that. JEFF DEAN: You have agency. NOAM SHAZEER: Oh. [LAUGHTER] ORIOL VINYALS: Hard to disagree with that one, but maybe to build on the continual learning more as a capability, I mean, the ability of a model to, through its experience, interactions, to improve without the need to update its weights, so some sort of knowledge base update that works really well.

I mean, we have examples of this working, but I don't think the capability has seen a steep curve in terms of being so good that this would be an obvious thing that everyone would be using and turning on in the model. So that's one that I'm hopeful. We'll see. One year, seems possible, maybe. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Yeah.

A lot of interesting, weird problems on that to solve. I feel like I see examples all the time where you ask-- even in today's era of this, you ask models the question. It pulls in some random personal context that is completely unrelated about a friend's birthday party, and somehow that's related to my question that has nothing to do with it. So it does feel like it needs another-- KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: We're sort of in our own tech bubble, I mean, because we are in the research of this. From your point of view, when you are much more plugged into real world than us, I would say, what do you want to see?

What do you expect? LOGAN KILPATRICK: That's a good question. This is not an interview Logan-- [LAUGHTER] --episode, but the-- KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Maybe we should have some of those. LOGAN KILPATRICK: No, you don't want to hear what I have to say. The model is the product.

That's all I have to say. I want the models to get better. No, I think the long-running stuff, I think, will be really interesting to see because it does-- I feel like that's a frontier that we can really easily track. And even if coding models get 20% better tomorrow, and they're really good, I still think you'll run into limitations for how long you want the model to run autonomously for. And it feels like that feels like it's I/O 2027, if we're able to say, this model has been running for 30 days or something leading up to I/O. That would be, I think,

really surprising to a lot of people. And maybe we won't say that, but maybe something to shoot for. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: But that quantity of work that is being done independently by the model would be the good-- LOGAN KILPATRICK: Yeah, would be surprising. And I think, actually, I think it takes the full stack to pull that off. It's like, you're going to need memory systems, and you're going to need continual learning, and you're going to need better hardware because it's going to cost a zillion tokens to let something run for 30 days.

JEFF DEAN: Well, and also, you want your better hardware to have low latency because-- LOGAN KILPATRICK: Yeah, exactly. JEFF DEAN: --if it finished it in one day, you'd be way happier. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Way happier than waiting 30 days. 30 days is a good marketing line, but I'd be happy to have it-- JEFF DEAN: Oh, another prediction is, I think-- well, not a prediction for announcements, but I think one thing that these agents are going to stress is that all of our tools are too slow. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Yeah, yeah.

JEFF DEAN: A lot of the tools that these agents rely on, if you make the model infinitely fast, you are going to limit how much you can actually speed up real work because often they involve interactions with tools that are designed for human latency cadence. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Or the frequency of working, right? Yeah, exactly. NOAM SHAZEER: 29 and a half days of those 30 days are spent waiting. LOGAN KILPATRICK: List files-- NOAM SHAZEER: External tools.

LOGAN KILPATRICK: --read file, check everything. Actually, maybe another sort of meta, controversial question that I'm curious-- and I think, Koray, I like the research take of this, which is why I'm interested. I asked Josh this the other day, which is like, five years from now, Google either has three products, or we have 10,000 products. What do you think? What seems more plausible?

KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: We have one. LOGAN KILPATRICK: Only one product? KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Yeah, it's the model. [LAUGHTER] LOGAN KILPATRICK: OK, I like it. Sure, sure.

I'll take that answer. What do the rest of you all think? JEFF DEAN: I mean, I do think, if you have an incredibly capable model, it can do many, many things. And I think you saw, in the search demos today at I/O, that it can even create little apps inside Search that are customized for you and the visualizations and write code. And so, in some sense, I don't know if that counts as one product or 10,000 products or 10 million products, if there's a bunch of users.

KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: But on a serious note, I feel like people want to consume information in different ways. And I think something like Search is fundamental. And I think, five years from now, we will definitely have Search, maybe with a much more magical box. But I think the idea that people want to reach information and consume that information for themselves, that learning activity, I think it's still fundamental. So I really think that it's going to be there.

And probably we'll have many, many more because it will be easy to do products because they're all powered by the intelligence more and more. JEFF DEAN: I mean, I think there's many product outlets, and there's a smaller number of things that make those products amazing. So if you think about the glasses that were demonstrated at I/O, that's a product, but it's going to be made better because the models are better, and they understand audio better, and they can speak to you better. But that's a distinct product from Search. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: Exactly.

NOAM SHAZEER: Right. ORIOL VINYALS: I think it's clear to us there's definitely one model powering whatever it is. I'm not an expert, but as a user, sometimes I feel like I make an active choice of what I want to do with a digital device-- I want to check my calendar, email, buy something. And having that division, that might be more of a human factor rather than-- the technology is incapable to present all these in a single product, but I feel like the choice of what I want to do, that focus, whether it goes away, or we just evolve out of it, I'm not sure, but I find myself liking the separation of concerns sometimes. So betting on one product, I would not do it at this time, at least, for myself.

NOAM SHAZEER: I guess we've been talking about the informational products, products that deliver information. And there, you can just talk about how do humans want to consume that information. Is it visual? Is it text? Is it glasses?

Is it some kind of brain-computer interface, where you get the model's internal embeddings straight into your neurons or something weird like that? JEFF DEAN: Vector processing. NOAM SHAZEER: But powered by things like Omni, maybe we will get into physical products in the future and start moving atoms and not just bits. But that is a prediction for the far future. LOGAN KILPATRICK: I love it.

Moving atoms and not bits is the future. One more fast round-- things that you all are building. I'm curious if-- obviously, all the AI coding stuff, just maybe personal, less Gemini-specific, anything interesting that you all are doing? It could not be with code, too, anything like physical atoms in the real world, painting, carpentry, woodworking, whatever it is? Jeff, you go first.

JEFF DEAN: I mean, I think I'm just enjoying some of the consumer-facing products that we're putting out that are now much more capable. I made a cute little Mother's Day card for my daughter who had her first baby, and so that was kind of fun. LOGAN KILPATRICK: I love it-- building Mother's Day cards. KORAY KAVUKCUOGLU: As you all know, we just-- I mean, we made the decision. We moved here.

So that means a new house. New house comes with all sorts of things that you need to fix, learn, adapt. So nowadays, house DIY-- it goes from a home automation to fixing stuff with a nail and hammer, so that spectrum. And I enjoy that. I like being able to do hands-on things.

LOGAN KILPATRICK: I love it. NOAM SHAZEER: I'm just trying to make the model smarter. [LAUGHTER] Built some new model architectures. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, I've been trying to build a knowledge base of lots of research that I couldn't possibly process because we were too busy building and then create a brainstorming partner to just figure out what the next big things might be. LOGAN KILPATRICK: I love it.

That's awesome. Well, thank you to all four of you for taking the time to sit down. Lots of controversial answers, but it was wonderful. It's fun. I made this comment last year at I/O in a conversation.

I think I made this to you, Koray. But I feel like I/O and bringing people together and launching this stuff-- you feel the warmth of humanity as we build this technology together, and I feel this conversation made me feel that. So I appreciate it. It was wonderful to sit down and talk, and thank you all. Thank you all for listening and for watching this episode of "Release Notes."

We'll see you in the next one. [MUSIC PLAYING]