---
video_title: "Gemma Playground: Parallel Agents in Action"
video_id: bfvS1UeAkN0
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bfvS1UeAkN0
video_date: 2026-06-22T23:00:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Ian Ballantyne, Developer Relations Engineer at Google DeepMind, demonstrates Gemma 4's multi-agent capabilities by spinning up 10 independent subagents on a single local machine. A high-level prompt goes to an orchestrator, which delegates the work, and within seconds the agents return a complete SVG art gallery, coded locally, simultaneously, and autonomously.
  
  What's covered: Running the Gemma 4 26B model locally, batch processing across 10 concurrent agents, orchestrator-and-subagent task delegation, inference speeds above 170 tokens per second, and what parallel local agents unlock for enterprise workflows and private on-prem deployments.
  
  What would you build with parallel local agents? Drop it in the comments.
  
  Resources: 
  Github →  https://goo.gle/4gzUwd9 
  Gemma Docs → https://goo.gle/3StWr9e 
  Gemma Cookbook → https://goo.gle/4vsfKhF 
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers  
  
  Speaker: Ian Ballantyne
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini
---
Welcome to a demonstration of semaphores powerful multi-agent capabilities. Today we're going to look at the parallel agents demo running locally using the semaphore a-26b model. We start by giving the system a simple high level command. Generate unique pieces of SVG based on space, theme, or sci-fi. Instantly, an orchestrator agent takes this prompt and delegates the workload.

Instead of generating these images one by one, the orchestrator spawns 10 independent subagents thanks to Gemma Ford's advanced batch processing capabilities. All of these subagents can run in parallel on a single local machine or even one of these. What does. Each agent tackles the unique subtask by leveraging model batching, the local machine efficiently handles the heavy lifting, reaching impressive speeds of over 170 tokens a second across all concurrent tasks. Within seconds, the agents finish coding.

The final result is seamlessly collected for the user and put into a complete SVG art gallery. Every icon you see here was coded locally, simultaneously and autonomously by Gemma. For now, extrapolate this to your own workflows. Imagine spinning up 10 or more agent harnesses in parallel to instantly break down and solve a massive enterprise task or picture, providing a completely local private chatbot capabilities to an entire office of 50 people, all running efficiently on one or two GPUs. Using Gemma for this is the new standard for local parallel.

I see what you can build today.