---
video_title: "Agentic approaches to processing long videos with Gemini"
video_id: HyfhaGNVKUA
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HyfhaGNVKUA
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Save this for your next project with heavy video processing 📌
  
  Agentic video understanding transforms how developers process long-form content across demanding applications, leading to massive token reductions, faster latency, and better accuracy.
  
  
  Products Mentioned: Gemini 
  Speaker: Maarten Grootendorst
---
When we have a video that we want Gemini to parse for us to give certain information about, if we give the entire video to Gemini, there will be already more than 100,000 tokens. That's a lot, and there's a lot of information that we really don't need because with agentic video understanding, we don't give the model the entire video. We give the reference to the video and a model can then decide, Oh, maybe I can use a get transcript function to extract a small piece of information about the video already before I zoom in. It gets this transcript and then it continues on with potentially a new tool call. for example, get frames.

The model first thinks about which tools it might want to use to process this video. It can use get transcripts. We can use get frames, and it can specify which frames it wants and at which frames per second. And we can even get the audio. It runs those tools, and then we have this very traditional agentic loop of thinking, acting, observing, and looping until it finally derives at the answer.

And what's so great about this technique is that not only does it reduce the number of tokens it really needs, the performance increases because it can zoom in on certain functions and really pay attention to the things in the video that are actually important to the query. And that's how agentic video understanding works with Gemini.