---
video_title: "Announcing ADK Go 1.0"
video_id: Alu4L3Pgzkw
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Alu4L3Pgzkw
video_date: 2026-03-31T23:06:27+00:00
video_description: |
  ADK for Go 1.0 is here! Build production-grade AI agents with idiomatic Go. This release brings powerful features designed for robust, debuggable, and secure agentic systems, including: Deep Observability: Native OpenTelemetry (OTel) integration for tracing the Reason-Act loop. Extensible Architecture: A new Plugin System to add capabilities like logging or self-correction (e.g., Retry & Reflect). Enhanced Security: Human-in-the-Loop (HITL) confirmation for sensitive tool operations. Flexible Configuration: Define agents using YAML. Stable Interoperability: Refined Agent-to-Agent (A2A) protocol. Watch to dive into these features and learn how to elevate your AI agent development in Go! 
  
  Resources: 
  ADK Documentation → https://goo.gle/3OaV6SX 
  ADK Go Source Code → https://goo.gle/4v5EuwI 
  ADK Go Samples → https://goo.gle/484W4Xz 
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers 
  
  Speaker: Toni Klopfenstein 
  Products Mentioned: ADK, GO
---
TONI KLOPFENSTEIN: AI agents have changed the landscape of how we work and engage online. The focus has shifted from "Can it work?" to "How does it run in production?" [MUSIC PLAYING] I'm Toni Klopfenstein. And today, we're looking at the updates to ADK Go 1.0,

making it a robust stack for building enterprise-grade agents. Debugging nondeterministic agents is notoriously hard. That's why we've integrated OpenTelemetry directly into the core. With our new OTel integration, you get deep visibility into every step of the model call and tool execution loop with structured traces. You can now see why an agent chose a specific tool, what the model was thinking, and where the latency is, all in standard OTel format, ready for Cloud Logging and Trace.

Extensibility is at the heart of our 2026 updates for ADK Go. Our plugin system allows you to hook into lifecycle events without bloating your core logic. For example, the Retry and Reflect plugin automatically catches tool failures and asks the model to self-correct. If a tool returns a specific error, such as a malformed JSON or 404, the agent can self-heal its own tool arguments before retrying. Whether it's custom logging or complex function call modifications, plugins keep your code modular and testable.

Production agents often need to perform sensitive actions, like deleting a database resource or sending an email. In line with Secure AI Framework compliance, we've added human-in-the-loop request confirmation. Your agent can now explicitly pause and wait for a human to confirm go or no go before the agent continues on with their tasks. This ensures that your agents stay within their guardrails, keeping your data and your users safe while meeting the strictest security standards. ADK Go now also supports YAML configuration files for defining agent personas.

Developers can now quickly iterate and manage agent definitions without having to repeatedly write boilerplate Go code for configuration changes. Go developers using ADK Go 1.0 can work with the agent-to-agent protocol as a universal standard to connect, discover, and collaborate with AI agents built on any platform or framework through an official Golang SDK. ADK Go 1.0 brings powerful features for building robust, debuggable, and secure AI agents, including deep observability via OTel, an extensible plugin system, enhanced dependability with human-in-the-loop conformation, flexible YAML configurations, and stable agent-to-agent protocol, all to help you build the future of production agents.

Check out our updated documentation. Try the new samples. And don't forget to join the developer community to get inspired by others and share what you're building. Let's build the future of production agents together. [MUSIC PLAYING]