---
video_title: "How builders at YC Startup School are using Gemini & Google AI"
video_id: hfAkpEM9N5M
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hfAkpEM9N5M
video_date: 2026-08-06T23:00:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Google DeepMind’s Paige Bailey catches up with founders, engineers, and students at the YC Startup School after party to hear how they're using Gemini and Google AI in their work, from parsing multilingual receipts with Gemini Flash to antibiotic resistance research powered by AlphaFold to studying offline with Gemma.
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers  
  
  Speaker: Paige Bailey
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini
---
We're here today at the YC startup school after party, talking with a bunch of founders, engineers, and students about their companies and how they're using AI as part of their work. I'm really excited to have Neil here today who is working at ramp. I'm an intern on the applied AI team. So essentially, what I'm doing is using Gemini 3.1 flashlights to help us parse a lot of our documents, especially receipts that are coming from our customers.

I could basically call AI my co-founder at this point with my company. It's helped me in every step of the process. Specifically, Gemini Gemini's planning mode and fast mode is, I would say, the fastest out of every AI model. One of the biggest benefits I found with using Gemini is the context window. I feel that Gemini Flash is a very underrated model that's not appreciated enough.

I feel that Flash often. You don't need a very hyper complicated model, and Flash does a lot of the great things that you need to be done very quickly. Tell us a little bit about how you're using AlphaFold. I'm using AlphaFold because it's a great way to visualize the different bacterial mutations that we see in our data. So I'm working on a problem known as antibiotic resistance.

It has a really huge potential for global impact in the pharma and drug discovery industry, and it's really special that Google is helping fund products like AlphaFold. Continually innovating in this field. Have you been experimenting with the multilingual features of Gemini and Gemma as well. Our customers will upload receipts from Ubers that are like taken all around the world from Japan to Korea, for example. Our system is able to parse them, and it's able to do that with Gemini 3.1 flashlight.

Even on the fly here, there was no internet, so I downloaded Gemma and I was using that to study on the plane. I love to use Gemini for research, especially when it comes to the research mode in Gemini. It's as simple as just one or two prompts that I can give to Gemini, and I really like the Deep Research mode there, and when I'm doing neuroscience research or working on a paper. Gemini has been a great help and helping me synthesize my ideas and helping me think through the different connections that I'm trying to make in my thinking. I can't wait to see the research that you do at Stanford.

I think it's going to be amazing.