---
video_title: "Stop managing infrastructure for AI Agents 🛠️"
video_id: OWfxybbff9k
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OWfxybbff9k
video_date: 2026-06-08T19:00:07+00:00
video_description: |
  From prompt to production-ready agents, managed Agents in the Gemini API handle the infrastructure layer for you. One simple API call delivers an autonomous agent running inside a remote Google-hosted sandbox.
  Stop managing servers. Focus entirely on agent behavior.
  
  Resources: 
  Build today → https://goo.gle/4ob197u 
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers  
  
  Speaker: Patrick Löber
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini
---
In this tutorial, I want to give you an overview and show you a quick start of how to build managed agents with the Gemini API and AI Studio. This is a new feature that easily allow you to build customized agents running in a secure Linux sandbox that's hosted by Google, and those agents can reason. They can write code and write code to the files on the system and manage the files. They can also browse the web and you can easily customize them. One way to try them is via AI Studio, and the second way is via the API, which also makes it simple to build your agents via simple API.

But first, let's get started in AI Studio. On the right side, you will find this new agents tab and then this new anti-gravity Agent Preview, then sources. This is the interesting part. So if we click on it, it's a agents.md file.

So basically this contains custom instructions like you are an expert customer support agent and so on. And then also skills. So this can be a skill.md file where you define specific agent skills. And it can also include scripts like here this Python file.

And you can easily add your own sources. So this can be files you can use a Cloud Storage URL or also actually just use a GitHub repository. And with this easily customized this just go to a Studio, try some of the agents templates and explore this. Yeah have fun with this and happy building.