---
video_title: "Yossi Matias on the golden age of research"
video_id: FPBwadTeph0
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FPBwadTeph0
video_date: 2026-06-11T19:00:13+00:00
video_description: |
  Yossi Matias, Vice President at Google and Head of Google Research, joins host Logan Kilpatrick for a wide-ranging conversation about what it means to do research at Google scale. Their conversation explores the "magic cycle” of research from breakthrough to real-world impact across flood forecasting, MedGemma, and the just-launched Gemini for Science. Learn more about AI tools for scientific discovery including Co-Scientist and Empirical Research Assistance (ERA), and topics like speculative decoding, generative UI, and quantum computing milestones including the Willow chip.
  
  Chapters: 
  0:00 - The mission of Google Research
  3:27 - the "Golden Age" of scientific research 
  4:38 - Google Earth AI and planetary intelligence 
  6:02 -  MedGemma and health AI Impact
  8:32 - AI as an amplifier of human ingenuity
  11:32 - Flood forecasting, flash floods & crisis resilience
  16:26 - Addressing AI disillusionment & skepticism
  17:40 - Healthcare AI research and real life implementation
  21:12 - Accelerating scientific discovery & the scientific method
  26:17 - AI Co-Scientist: hypothesis generation in action
  29:42 - Overcoming the validation bottleneck; PAT
  32:19 - ERA & Gemini for Science
  38:49 - Model efficiency & speculative decoding
  42:46 - Generative UI (GenUI) 
  45:39 - Yossi's Background: Bell Labs & Search leadership
  48:18 - Research on factuality for LLMs
  53:14 - Education and future of learning, skills of the future 
  1:03:27 - Quantum Computing
  1:09:54 - Concluding thoughts
  
  Watch more Release Notes → https://goo.gle/4njokfg 
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers 
  
  Speaker: Yossi Matias, Logan Kilpatrick 
  Products Mentioned:  Google AI, Gemini
---
What are the skills that are most important for the future? We can debate to what extent do you need to learn the basics? Personally, I think that, for example, thinking how to code, basic computer science, et cetera, is gonna be more important than ever. - Agreed, agreed. - I always thought that computer science is not learning a language, It's learning how to-- - It's how to think.

- Think. - Yep. - So in a way it's gonna be more important than ever, for the same reason that math is important, even when calculators became a commodity.

- Hey everyone, how's it going? Welcome back to Release Notes. My name's Logan Kilpatrick. I'm on the Google DeepMind team. Today I'm joined by Yossi, who leads the Google Research team.

I'm super excited. Yossi, we were just talking off camera about, sort of, the incredible breadth of stuff that GR is doing. So I'm going to ramble off a bunch of things and then add anything that I'm missing. Earth AI. Planetary intelligence. MedGemma.

Flood modeling. Co-Scientist. Empirical Research Assistant. FireSat. LearnLM.

New model architectures. LLM efficiencies speculative decoding. New privacy technologies. Generative UI. Multilingual advancements. Market algorithms.

WeatherNext. Not to mention all the stuff we are doing in quantum, which is just an incredible breadth. And I'm super excited for this conversation. Maybe, actually, you can start with all that context of just the crazy breadth of what GR is doing. What is the mission?

What is the task that you have and the team has? - Yeah. First of course there are more things that we could list here, but-- - Let's add them to the list. - This is, first, the most exciting time to be in technology, and the most exciting time to do research. The mission, really, is to make the impossible possible.

Essentially, looking into what could make a difference. What is the next thing that could actually make a big difference on reality and requires, actually, to move the state of the art, essentially driving the breakthrough research and applying it to reality. Something I to call the magic cycle of research. It's a cycle, by the way, because once we bring it to reality, it actually creates the next question. So many of the things that currently we are so proud of, actually started out by actually asking a question, and making some progress, and having the research, and publishing it, and then applying it, and asking the next question.

It's really a cycle that is pretty magical. It's something that I was always excited about. What we see now is that this is accelerating, this is faster than ever, broader than ever. In fact, with AI, both the research itself is accelerating, and we are actually having our share and actually help it accelerate. - Yeah.

- I'm sure we’ll talk about it. - Yeah. - And then also translating it to reality is also quite exciting. And one important characteristic of Google Research is that we are both doing the transformative research, the breakthrough research, but also the same organizations, same teams, are also working on bringing it to reality, to have impact on products, on science, on society. When we look historically, actually, some of the greatest mathematicians, scientists, were actually motivated by these kinds of questions.

In many cases, they were actually very much doing it, right? I mean, Alan Turing, one of my heroes, all-time heroes, was not only setting foundations for computer science, he also built a computer. He ran Enigma. He was also asking questions about AI, setting up, of course, the famous Turing test. So I think this is actually the biggest opportunity that we have, and today, that's why I'm thinking that today is really the golden age of research.

Never before we could actually have this kind of opportunity to both ask these questions, drive them, and then have them impact on reality. - I love that. You need to tweet from the GR handle just, “It’s the golden age of research,” every day. and just sort of hit this point home for everyone, because I think you're a hundred percent right about this. Maybe we should sort of go into what's enabling that golden age of research and the work that your team actually is doing in GR in order to make that golden age of research actually possible.

- First, perhaps it’s also worth noting that the scope of the work, because Google is touching so many aspects of technology, and products and life, the scope is really broad as you highlighted. I mean, it's anything from foundational machine learning and algorithms, to systems, to building a quantum computer, to advancing AI, to advancing foundations of generative AI models, to applying AI to health, to education, to climate, and so forth. And again, this is in order to really, in all of them, have impact on things that we care about, on products, on science, on society. I'm really excited about the acceleration. What enables us to even further accelerate both the research and the magic cycle itself, is how we are actually bringing together, building bigger platforms, and using AI as an accelerator on its own.

- Yeah. - So for example, on the platform side, we already have many models for geospatial over the years, and for reasons, actually there are, on their own, already life-saving, such as flood prediction, working together on WeatherNext, between GR and GDM, storm prediction, another important area. But taking all these models, including also various remote sensing foundational models and others, and at some point, asking ourselves how can we actually bring them together as one platform, and put AI as an agentic layer on top of that. We call it Google Earth AI. This has so many applications for societal impact, of course.

Public health, crisis resilience, also business, because obviously many care about planetary questions as they relate to their business. We can actually then accelerate the work of others, because they can build on that. We can now unlock new opportunities that never before possible, including, by the way, papers, recently a paper published in Nature by researchers from Harvard, Boston Children's Hospital, and Mount Sinai, about measle vaccination in the US and actually analyzing it in a zip code level by building on Earth AI. Think about the health space. We've been working for years on driving many health AI kind of initiatives.

But also importantly, at some point we ask ourselves, can we actually take some of our greatest models, put them on Gemma, call it MedGemma, on an open platform for health models, we call it High-Def. MedGemma, that we released last year, now has more than 5 million downloads. - People love MedGemma. I get pings all the time from people in the ecosystem who are solving all types of interesting problems, and they're so thankful that, I'm sure you get even more of those, those comments. It's crazy.

- Yeah. You know, 5 million downloads, and we have all these thousands of applications that we learn about, but quite often actually what we get excited about is hearing those stories about how it saves lives. - Yeah. - Just recently heard one from Uganda. one from Uganda.

- Yeah, yeah. - About how a mother and baby were saved actually by somebody using an application based on MedGemma, actually without even internet connection. So that's-- - I think we have a video of this. I haven't seen this video but I heard this story, so I'd love to watch. This is a perfect segue in order to see it happen.

- For us, it's existential to build offline because we know the connectivity in the villages is low. There is no internet. So you have to balance what the African communities have, and what the best frontier intelligence has, and you merge them to work for your communities. - There was a moment with Gemma 4 where the limitations felt they had disappeared. We were actually amazed with what it could do.

- For the first time, a model had the multimodality aspect, it could be agentic, and these are things that are central to anyone who is developing for the African market.

- To me it's personal because at least I've known family members who have lost life and building systems that can help others or save a life is core to our mission. - We think that it's a statement that frontier level AI can actually be done in Kampala. That you can be able to actually develop these systems for your communities without necessarily being a huge lab. - We've seen that AI can be used for impact. It can be used to uplift communities, it can be used to preserve cultures, and it can be used for good.

- I love that. - You know, it's a reminder at the end of the day, why are we doing what we are doing? When I ask people about what makes you excited, it's a combination of working with the smartest people on the most advanced technology in pretty amazing company that you have all these products and outreach, but at the end of the day, it’s really also having impact on people. - Yeah. - And this is one story that we hear about and, but this is representing so many other stories that we are not even aware of.

So to me actually that's, that's kind of one of the amazing opportunities that we have as actually, not only drive research, build technology, but actually also have it helpful to people in a very profound way. And it actually has multiple aspects. One is about how to make it helpful to, obviously, the patient, but also think about the empowerment that it gives the healthcare worker. - Yeah. - So this notion of empowerment, to healthcare workers, to teachers, to business people, to scientists, is, to me, one of the most exciting aspects of AI.

I think about it as AI is an amplifier of human ingenuity. And I'm sure we'll talk more about how we are doing it in science, which is perhaps the most exciting frontier fact of where we are making progress on. - Yeah. I think one more interesting thread on the sort of planetary intelligence bit that you mentioned before, was actually through this lens of empowering these sort of groups who sort of wouldn't have otherwise had access to this information or the means, you know, you imagine the, again, I'm sure you see lots of these examples come in, but the farmer who's trying to understand how weather that's, you know, is affecting, a small farmer somewhere, where they're not a, you know, giant commercial farm, and they're trying to understand how weather patterns are affecting their farms, and stuff that. I think historically, you would not, and my assumption is those folks wouldn't have been the users of some of these really domain specific models that we are creating.

They could potentially be a consumer, a user of, you know, the AI system that brings it all together and does it in a way that's conversational and they can just ask their question in human English, and not need to, you know, have a deep domain expertise of how the models work and all that stuff. - And just imagine that you, you're talking about every single farmer in the whole world, with our technology of NeuralGCM, which helps with weather, in collaboration with University of Chicago, we actually helped provide warnings to 38 million farmers-- - It's crazy - in India. - Yeah. Yeah. And actually for folks who don't know, I just saw this the other day.

There's 130 plus million farmers in India, which is just a mind boggling, so you think of it, and I say that to say that sometimes I think the user population of some of these tools, my bias is to think that it's small. And then you think about India, and you think that actually the tool that helps a farmer is 138 million people, which is a massive group of folks. - One of our missions is really to make the impossible possible on things that matter. - Yeah. - My personal experience, actually watching a nearby fire 15 years ago, got me into understanding how important it is to get time and information, which later actually led me to taking on and lead what we call crisis resilience, launching in search SOS Alerts, which now had billions of views on natural disasters, and COVID, and other things.

We launched it actually about 10 years ago, and at the time, I discovered that this is all great, we’re very helpful, actually got some notes about various incidents and people say, “Hey, thanks for doing it, you saved our lives.” But discovered also that the most devastating natural disasters in terms of people impact, which are floods, were not helpful. Because in order to be helpful you need to actually warn people ahead of the flood. And in fact, I remember going to India to Bihar, getting to a village that was hit by a flood just a few days before, overnight, and a few people perished. And there's also always this personal story because there were three young men who actually saved quite a few people overnight, swimming with them to safety.

Seeing the villagers, seeing the aftermath, you know, the entire village, more or less, covered with water, you realize, you know, what we are missing is a warning. And then, I had conversation with many experts, hydrology, flood experts, everybody were telling me, “Hey, this is too difficult to solve.” Too many variables, you cannot really provide a trusted warning that people can actually take action. We decided it's important enough to try anyway when that's what we do. And, by the way, I have yet to see a problem that is too difficult to solve.

It's a question of how much effort you need to put into that. - Yeah. - Can we use machine learning, the cloud, build some models, simulations. And I asked, actually, an engineer to show me some progress, and once he showed me some progress, I said, what do they need to run the pilot? And within a couple of months he actually ran a small, in India terms, pilot covering about 1 million people.

And we saw that we can actually do some modeling prediction. Started to see enough signs that we were brave enough to publish a paper in a NeurIPS workshop with a hypothesis that we would be able to scale with machine learning and other techniques. And we started iterating, expanded the pilot times 10, covered all of India at some point, and then pushed the science enough to actually publish a paper in Nature about the global, hydrologic model, which could benefit from all the data that we see globally, even benefit areas that do not have data, that you can train models on. That enabled us to scale, and today we have flood prediction in 150 countries covering 2 billion people. - Wow.

- Up to seven days in advance. This is lifesaving. - Yeah, yeah. - And this is for a problem that was considered impossible just a few years ago. But even then, it still hit another wall because this was for river and floods where you know flood is going ahead river going over the board.

And this was not helpful for flash floods, which are also devastating as we've seen the last couple years. And there were no good data set on which you can build machine learning models. In fact the innovation here came just a few--recently we published a technique we call Ground Source, and the idea was taking Gemini, using public data, because flash floods, at least in cities, urban flash floods are reported in the news. So we said let's take Gemini, apply it to all the public data that we have, and try to distill from that, flash flood events. And we did it, we actually constructed a high quality data set of 2.6 million flash flood events

that we could feed into a machine learning model and build a prediction model and now it's actually an operation. So now we have flash flood modeling, at least an important step towards that, based on the Ground Source, and again, iterating on this magic cycle. Pilots, and research papers, and more research, and building a system, and partnering, by the way, with others who are partnering with the WMO meteorologist teams on those countries, and making it available, and now it's part of Earth AI. Just a few months ago, I had the government of Nigeria actually using the API to actually see where the flood is going to hit and send money to villages ahead of the flood so they can evacuate. And similarly, we had partnership with GiveDirectly, again who send funds resources to villagers so they can actually evacuate ahead of time and keep themselves safe as well as take actions to protect their properties.

This is example of something that just a decade ago was kind of out of reach with the kind of approach of technology, of research, of building systems, of partnership. We made it something that actually can now be beneficial for society. - Yeah, this is beautiful. There's many more examples to talk through, which I'm excited about. But actually, maybe it's worth just opining for a moment.

I feel in the current climate that we are in today, I think there's lots of potential disillusionment about AI and it's why are we actually doing all this work? And I think this is such a great reminder of the point of building this technology is so that you can actually do things this. And I'm curious for your perspective being close to obviously, a lot of these really difficult problems, but hopefully at the end of a lot of research and hard work and all this stuff that happens, the outcome for end users and folks in the world, how do you think about this moment that we are in and the feeling of AI being used for good, and to actually push humanity forward? - Yeah, obviously AI is transformative. It's touching all aspects of society.

And by the way, some of these disruptions require adjustments, require us as a society to think through what does it mean for us? How do we actually make sure we are supporting, we are effective on the fact that many jobs are actually impacted, changed the nature of what can be done. - Yeah. - So the question in my mind is always how can we build on that? How can we empower, how can we amplify what people are doing and to the extent that we can, how can we amplify human ingenuity with AI?

With doctors, for example, I mentioned MedGemma, which is applying others but we are not new to the space. We've been using AI now for over a decade. In fact, the paper that was published in one of the leading medical journals, JAMA, a decade ago on AI, pre-gen AI of course, this is 10 years ago, the paper showed that AI can actually do screening for diabetic retinopathy on a par of experts. Basically, retinopathy is a preventable condition that could lead to blindness if not treated, but it's preventable if it's identified. And the shortage of eye experts to actually do the screening for the many people actually that could suffer from that.

And the paper showed that we can do that. In that case, the magic cycle by the way took years in great partnership with some experts in Thailand and India and we even published a paper in Nature Medicine about the process itself of what have we learned. But the reality is that, you know, just two and a half years ago I was in Bangkok in the clinics, seeing how patients getting, sitting in front of a camera, and getting results in just two minutes. - It's crazy. - Just two minutes.

And it turns out that actually the power of AI integrated into the system and empowering the healthcare workers is tremendous and it's impact even beyond the accuracy of the technology. The fact that they actually got the result before leaving the clinic meant that most of them would actually follow up on that. Whereas previously they got it after a few weeks, many would not follow up on that perhaps. - Yeah. - So this is an example for something we've been doing for years and similarly we just published two papers actually in Nature about a study we did with NHS about how to use AI for mammography as a second reader in the UK, showing that AI could actually help identify 25% of the misses and bring back about 40% of time to the radiologists.

Again, an opportunity to actually get into that. On healthcare, there are more ways we can actually look into how to help out. For example, we have a sequence of work looking into how to make language models better for healthcare, actually starting with our paper on med pumps, that for the first time showed you can actually have a language model answer questions for medical style exams in a passing score later in an expert level and iterating on that. Talking about magic cycle, by the time we had our next paper, we already had partners such as HCA using language models to test out end of shift reports for their nurses. And this is the pilot that is ongoing, actually I was just visiting their innovation hospital just recently actually seeing how they expand that pilot.

And looking into how to use generative AI to help out with healthcare, medical diagnostics in a project called AMI, for Articulate Medical Intelligence Explorer, where we are looking into how AI can actually empower in having a conversation, something that we tested out in various stages, and now actually already started the pilot with Included Health to actually see it in the clinics to see if this can be helpful and how we can actually make it more helpful. So these are all examples of how AI can actually help transform healthcare. And you know, healthcare is one of those areas that is so much information based that we have huge opportunity and we, we recently learned that actually adoption of AI in healthcare is about twice the rest of the industry. So things are progressing in a very good way on that front. - Yeah. - When we think about healthcare

and we think about other science areas, then one area that I'm particularly excited about is how we are actually accelerating scientific discovery itself. - Yeah, I love this. Let me just give you my like very quick preface on this. We just came from Google I/O, we are sitting across the street from Shoreline, my hope, and it's on you, it's on teams across Google DeepMind and others to deliver on this. Is that I/O 2028 maybe is us getting on stage just announcing a bunch of major scientific breakthroughs because of AI using our products, it's using our models, et cetera.

That feels so within reach and I feel that sort of is going to be the delivery and ultimate manifestation of hopefully where things are going and maybe 2028 is too early, but I think there will be a moment hopefully before 2030 where that is literally what the Google I/O event is, is just a bunch of people announcing scientific breakthroughs and discoveries when everything is gonna be so cool. And so, I think hopefully Co-Scientist, and a bunch of the other work that we are doing will be a core part of actually making that possible. - Yeah. First let's start with scientific discovery itself. It's obviously something we've been investing for over a decade now.

Think about our work on genomics. We had this early work on DeepVariant, DeepConsensus using AI for genomics research in multiple ways, and having partners actually leveraging all that. And we continue of course doing this work, work on connectomics together with Harvard, how to analyze the structure of the brain, work that we are doing with Princeton and Hebrew University and other universities, about how to understand the signals in the brain that functions in various ways, comparing it to LLMs. One thing that we are actually investing in, really excited about, is how to use generative AI to help accelerate the scientific process itself. Two efforts perhaps to discuss is one is AI Co-Scientist, another one is ERA, which stands for Empirical Research Assistants.

And by the way, last week for both of them we actually had two Nature papers on these projects. - Yeah, yeah. For actually really quick for folks, and I should have said this before, for folks who don't sort of understand the prominence of Nature, can you give just the really quick context of why is Nature, and publications important? - First, it's important to note that when we are talking about scientific research or research in general, one thing that is more important than ever is the scientific method. - Yeah.

- In fact, arguably one of the biggest successes of humanity is creating the scientific method where we can actually build innovation and knowledge and then have it validated by the community, the scientific community in a way that we can actually trust to build on that, to build the next layer. So science and research is this pretty amazing, if you will, cathedral of knowledge built layer by layer by layer, right? I mean I think it was Newton who said, I'm standing on the shoulders of giants. - Yeah. - That's actually what science is about.

It's about building this, this cathedral of knowledge, these layers of knowledge. In order to build those you need to actually have validation. That's why peer reviewed publications are significant so you can actually trust that what has been discovered doesn't only look good, but it was actually validated to the extent possible by the experts in the field. When you talk about the more prestigious, if you will, publications such as Nature, then obviously the importance is that it tests the merit of the scientific results in a very rigorous way, both in terms of its contribution to science, in terms of the validation of the claims made there to make sure that experimentations were done in the right way, et cetera, et cetera. So that's why these scientific milestones make a difference, especially in time that you have so many publications out there.

- Yeah, yeah. - Very much related, when you think about the proliferations of publications and by the way not only peer reviews, I think that publications in archive is one of the amazing phenomenas that we see in recent years. The fact that you no longer wait for the innovation until it's actually appearing in a conference or published in a journal. Sometime it will take months. - Yeah.

- Whereas, somebody actually, they have the result whenever it's ready to share, they just put it out there and it can be shared. Another acceleration of this both the, the research cycle if you will, but also the magic cycle of research between identifying, learning, and applying it. But it's also created huge challenge because with these proliferations of papers, if you are a scientist, how do you actually learn about everything which is going on? How do you actually deal with all this literature? How do you actually build on that for the next one?

- I feel like it's impossible is it not? Or it’s--very difficult. - For a human it's impossible. - Yeah. For a human.

- So of course we are doing our best on, you know, every person with their own techniques of how to try to get a grasp of what's going on. And you know, reading as many abstracts as possible or at least as many titles as possible. And here enter one of the capabilities of a system that we call AI Co-Scientist, which is asking ourselves, can we use AI to actually help us with first, literature search, sifting through all the literature out there for any research question that I'm posing. So I want to have some drug repurposing for a particular condition. And I want to scan, I want to read the entire literature that may be relevant.

By the way, importantly, not all the relevant literature is obviously relevant. Sometime you need to actually read through to look for those scenes. Also importantly, sometime in literature that is relevant for your research is from, not necessarily only your domain. And in fact, quite often the magic happens when you bring together insights from multiple domains, which is quite difficult to do in real life. - Yeah.

- Because especially among scientists, people are encouraged to actually be experts in one area. They need to in order to be the front line. And then when you want to connect disciplines, it's actually quite difficult and there aren't too many polymaths out there, you know, in the state of the art of more than one discipline. With the AI Co-Scientist, which is a multi-agent system that is meant for a given research question posed by a scientist to do literature search practically as vast as needed. But then importantly also given the question, the research question, start creating hypothesis, generating hypothesis that are relevant to that question.

And then once you can start doing this hypothesis, obviously you may have plethora of hypothesis. So an important question is how do you actually filter, how do you actually decide which ones actually are worth exploring? And also how we rank them. Because you know, it's like search results. It's not only about how many pages you find, but what are the top 10 for consideration for the scientist?

- Yeah. - So ranking is important. Validation of course is important. Here's a hypothesis. To what extent can I see that it's actually consistent with literature that I find? Co-Scientist is doing that,

it's actually doing the literature search, it’s doing the hypothesis generation. So think about it as an virtual lab that is actually doing all this work that typically a very senior researcher would do for more junior researchers helping them grad student, postdocs, and others. And what we found out is that this can actually be a huge acceleration for science. So an early partnership that we had with Imperial College, they were studying certain bacteria for, you know, for years actually. It took them almost a decade to come up with a certain hypothesis.

They didn't publish it yet. And then with AI Co-Scientist, they got to the same hypothesis in just a couple days. - It's crazy. And importantly, AI Co-Scientist also presented additional hypothesis they were not considering. And I was speaking with Tiago, a professor in Imperial College who were actually interacting with the system, I asked him, “So how was it to work with the AI Co-Scientist?”

And his response was, well it was like working with an amazing collaborator. And similar response, you know, we have this from our partner in Stanford, we are looking into liver fibrosis, and other partners on drug repurposing and other areas. So we have multiple, actually, research partners. Some of them already published actually papers based on research that was made possible with hypothesis generation. - How much of this-- the hypothesis generation sort of moves, I had a conversation with Jeff Dean the other day about sort of where the bottlenecks move to and it feels like if you can sort of do hypothesis generation with high fidelity, the bottleneck moves to this verifiability loop.

And so I'm curious, if we've seen more traction in domains where, you know, computer science where you could actually do some of this validation or some other domains like that, have we seen anything, any early signs of that? - In the world where you can actually generate hypothesis? And some of them by the way are very novel hypothesis. Again, should not come as a full surprise given that the amazing milestone of Move 37. - Yeah.

- So that you have, when you have a powerful AI that can actually sift through opportunities and try to find something that could actually be good, some of that is going to be extremely novel. A lot of the effort is going to move into validation and into actually also asking the right question, evaluating alternatives, because you know, we typically tend to ask ourselves, here's a question, what's the answer for the question? In reality, really an important area of the research is not only answering the question that you, that is being asked, but also come back and say, you know what, but if I change the question a little bit, here's a much, much better answer. - Yeah. - So being able to actually applying the judgment about the questions, about the interaction, about the validation is becoming increasingly more important.

I think that AI should play a role also in that, in fact, if anything the scientific method is more important than ever, and applying it in a very rigorous way is actually more important than ever because we cannot afford actually having papers or anything that is not validated. We are, in fact, looking into how to use AI to help out with some of those capabilities. We have this experimental tool called Paper Assistant Tool, PAT, that is about getting a paper, actually providing back feedback to the authors. In fact, we worked with three major conferences, ICML, STOC, and NeurIPS, - Nice. - making it available for authors before deadline.

And we had about 10,000 or so uploads and many actually came back and said, hey, this was really helpful. It actually identified a gap, or actually suggested another experiment to run to make the paper better. So this is a step in that direction, but I think there's going to be more opportunity and need in order to have this kind of validation. It's gonna be extremely important for these kind of efforts. - Yeah.

- If I think about the AI Co-Scientist and other tools, think about a world in which everybody can have their own virtual lab. Everybody means including junior researchers, including postdocs, including grad students. - Yeah. - Think about the future where every person could have their own virtual lab doing this literature search, hypothesis generation, good hypothesis validation to some extent. At some point it's going to be connected perhaps to lab experimentation that is going to even do more validation in automatic way.

This actually opens up some opportunity for everyone to ask bigger questions, to move faster and to do that earlier in their career. Of course there's some work to be done because if you ask yourself if you're a junior researcher, do you know how to actually run such a virtual lab? Well, we still have work to do in order to train people to actually build on these kind of new capabilities, which is true also for software engineering as we know and many other areas. So there’s more work for us to do as society, as academic communities in order to prepare for the world in which actually everybody can be empowered to actually do this kind of scientific work in an accelerated way. - I love that. I forgot to mention the punchline of my hope

for 2028 or you know, hopefully before 2028 we have these major scientific breakthroughs announced at I/O. And I think specifically it's going to hopefully come from Stanford and Harvard and all the great institutions will be doing important work. But I think the coolest thing will be if it, if it's coming from folks who we would not have expected, it's gonna be, you know, a cure for a major disease, you know, theoretically, that's not from somebody who had 50 years of experience or with a team in domain. It's gonna be a, you know, a random grad student, master's degree student in Iowa who sort of has had a bunch of ideas and it's somehow worked out. - Definitely so. Because what's really happening is

that when, when I think about AI empowering or amplifying human ingenuity, it actually takes various aspects that today we, we expect actually every person to have all the knowledge and the capability to actually solve all these items in order to even participate to have a seat at the table-- - Yeah. - of research. The world expert, with the best intuition about a particular scientific domain may not necessarily have all the other skills necessary in order to actually build these models. Yeah. Which brings us to another important innovation.

Because if you think about the scientific process, even once you have hypothesis and when you want to actually test it out or you want to actually test out correlation of say COVID events and other factors, these are all scientific problems that require building models. And building models as we know, is actually very tedious work. It's actually something that can take days or weeks or months. And improving on them, finding a better fit, and all of that stuff is something that not everybody can do. So this notion of how to actually build those models is an important aspect and increasingly important part of the scientific progress.

And here is where ERA or Empirical Research Assistants, actually can play a hugely important role. ERA is really about if you have a scoreable problem, namely a problem that you know what you’re trying to compute and how to measure that. And you have the input. ERA is about how to actually do this kind of search and tuning of models to try and solve it for you. So ERA can actually replace work that could be weeks or months or longer to actually try to complete.

And when we build it up, and it can search through thousands of different models or parameter space, et cetera, and actually give the result to you. And we already actually had just ERA again was published in Nature last week, but we at the same time, we also shared about eight or so new papers actually that were enabled, made possible by ERA in various domains. And I think from cosmology to epidemiology to engineering to economics, which is empowering actually to accelerate this kind of research. So now we have this hypothesis generation and now we have also this ability to have model discovery with ERA. And also we have AlphaEvolve, that was created, you know, amazing tool at Google DeepMind.

So we actually announced last week Gemini for Science, which includes these tools, you know, hypothesis generation built for scientists, computational modeling, discovery in computational discovery, built with ERA and AlphaEvolve, and also Literature Insights, built with NotebookLM. So these are all tools that hopefully will accelerate scientific discovery. And now just imagine the world where you can have anybody who's passionate and learns about the topic and they want to actually drive research on that. Of course the opportunity to be a researcher is even greater than ever. Because now you can ask bigger questions.

- Yeah. - You can actually have a virtual lab helping you. And once you want to actually build models, you actually have these computational discovery to help you do that. Quite often the magic happens when you bring in different disciplines. The beauty is that when you think about this AI Co-Scientist, it's not only having this amazing collaborator, but you practically have a polymath in your pocket, because it actually reads through literature across all disciplines. That’s quite powerful.

- It is. It's a good tagline too. I feel like AI Co-Scientist, a polymath in your pocket, is sort of catchy. I like it. I like it.

- Yeah, where did I get it right? - Yeah, I think there's actually still a big gap between an interesting hypothesis and starting to get early signal. If you don't know, if you're not in a place where you have access to those types of resources, do you think we'll actually build or someone is gonna build out the physical infrastructure in order to do that in a, in a more scalable way? - Yeah. I think that the world is heading towards automating many of these areas that can then accelerate stuff.

So various labs, I mean obviously the world that you can actually generate hypotheses faster than the economics make it make sense to actually have labs that can actually then test things faster. - Yeah. - Right? I mean that's becoming the bottleneck. - Yeah, for sure.

- So I'm sure this is going, we are going to see even acceleration on that one. - We need this from Google Research. We need physical labs to make this happen. Cool. Well let's talk then about all the architectural improvements that are coming out of Google Research, interesting novel model techniques.

We were talking before about speculative decoding and we should describe what it's for the audience and maybe for me as well to sort of go through the details. Generally that whole class of-- it's not just science, it's not sort of the applications, but it's also actually fundamentally model techniques to improve Gemini and, and everything else that we are doing. - Yeah. So first perhaps if we can take the overall view for what we are looking for, what kind of problems are we looking at? Obviously a lot of what we do is actually helping transform Google products for the benefit of its users.

And this applies to Search YouTube, Geo, Cloud, and of course Gemini. And working very closely with all teams at Google, we have a lot of collaboration with Google DeepMind, Cloud, Search, and so forth. So these are actually any inherent part and part of the magic actually working at Google is to work across organizations both on the research side as well, on the side of actually bringing it to reality. - Yeah. We need more Google Research AI Studio collaborations.

That's my, that's my pitch. So we-- - Definitely. - We talk offline, we can talk offline. - We should definitely do that. We should definitely do that.

In fact, we are looking into Google Research lab, this off-- - Yeah, yeah. - Off script. - I love it. - Yeah. One of the big questions, of course, with generative AI is how to actually drive research on foundations of gen AI.

Some of the obvious questions, how to make them more efficient. How to make them more factual, have them in multiple languages and so forth. Perhaps we can start with efficiency because efficiency is, it's funny because, you know, as a computer scientist working on algorithms to make things more efficient has always been one of the, you know, the holy grail of things. Obviously with gen AI it's becoming more important than ever. It has direct impact of what we can actually do that.

A couple years ago we actually developed this technique algorithm called speculative decoding, which looks into how to actually accelerate the inference in our LLMs. And what we found out that you can algorithmically, in fact, double or more than double the efficiency of the inference, and the efficiency is both in terms of latency and throughput, and without any loss of quality. And you know, somebody said, hey, there's this no free lunch principle. I said, no, no, with algorithms, actually that's where we are creating free lunch. That's what we try to do.

And you know, it helped us actually accelerate our products right away, and actually save a lot of computation. In fact, practically it became industry standards. So one can actually argue that today the entire world is running at LLMs as if we had at least twice the chips. - Yeah, yeah. - Just because of technique and its variants.

And there are many innovative kind of variants of speculative decoding. So that's an example of actually how to use algorithms to actually, you know, accelerate, and then of course have it applied to our products and obviously to models. - Yeah. What, what about sort of new, new architectures? Is that also something that y'all are exploring?

- So, so as much as I'm excited about, you know, having twice to, you know, twice the performance, and actually recently there was a team who actually applied it to Gemma four and, and got the times three performance. - I think I saw that. That we published this, right? Yeah. Right. I saw this.

- So as much as I'm excited about it, I'm still waiting to see the times 10 or times a hundred improvements algorithmic or architectural, it’s obviously looking to various techniques and research to see, you know, how can we accelerate stuff, and by the way, looking for that from the entire community. So innovation novelty can come from everywhere, and I don't see a reason why we shouldn't see a step function at some point of efficiency just by algorithmic or architectural modeling approach. And suddenly we are doing our own share to look into how to actually accelerate. - Yeah, I love that. Through this conversation and through when we were talking off camera, I think the thing that is so interesting about Google Research is it really is the full stack.

It's everything from making inference more efficient to doing foundational research to actually how do we bring new sort of product UI experiences to customers. And so I saw you mentioned before, I, I had a conversation with Robbie and the Search team about Gen UI, which is actually something that, that your team worked on. So do you want to give context for folks who, - I mean it's hard to believe that just, it was a year ago when I had a conversation with Robbie about how do we actually bring it to Search? - Yeah. - And here you go. You know, Gen UI is one

of those examples where you put a small team, you ask them to come up with, let's come up with some crazy ideas. And you see a demo and wow, it's about how to use generative AI to not only create the content but also to help decide given the content, what is the right presentation of that content that will actually make it most effective. - Feels a very Google problem. Showing the world's information. - Right? Totally.

So, and again, another important thing is, is not only a brilliant team coming with a brilliant idea, but then also using AI to accelerate, to do the demo quick and then to implement it very quickly. - Yeah. - And then to actually have it out both in Search and Gemini and build on that. And many of the announcements on generative UI in search and Gemini app actually are based on this foundation of this demo that was actually iterated on. So again, this is an example for a magic cycle of actually coming up with a research, with a prototype, iterating on that, solving a few more problems along the way and then applying it to reality.

And now we have a new experience of actually consuming content with AI actually helping us to, with the presentation itself. - Yeah, I love that. I feel that also has to be one of the, or I'm curious actually where it's stacks up as far as, you mentioned before this the magic cycle is getting faster and I feel Gen UI is maybe the, maybe one of the fastest examples. I don't know if there's been something faster, but you know, probably the order of months to actually getting it into some of these experiences and then more widely rolling it out at I/O this year, and actually more widely rolling out a few months ago, when Search announced it so, crazy. - Well actually it rolled out within months actually, of the first kind of, if you will, publication or a first kind of demo.

And then within a year, actually we have now a large scale. So I think that this acceleration is there. So again, a combination of innovation, very strong technical kind of capabilities to actually move things. And of course the drive to actually make a difference here. So this is a good combination.

- Yeah. I love it. Yossi, I feel like we could have this conversation or, we will actually have this conversation every couple of months because I feel Google Research is touching so many different things across Google that I think it's, you have a very interesting perspective, seeing all the things that are happening. - On a personal level, my influence have always been both on driving research and again, I had the, the, the opportunity to be in, in Bell Labs in their heyday in the mathematical center where Shannon and Hemming were there many years before me and Paul Erdõs was actually visiting us every year. At the same time, my passion is really about how to build products and have impact.

So, you know, over the years I was actually going back and forth between scientific research and entrepreneurship building products. And at Google actually much of my time, in fact over a decade I was at Google on the Search leadership building products in search called Trends, Auto Complete, and so forth. We are in this amazing time where actually this notion between driving the research breakthroughs and then applying them to products and working with product teams is tighter than ever. - Yeah. - And-- - You should, you should do some writing about this.

I feel like, I'm not sure, I think you're spot on with this and it's not clear that the broad ecosystem really is grokking this point and it's so worth like double clicking on that. - I totally agree. Totally agree. And in a way, for example, I never used the term technology transfer. It's never about the transfer.

- Yeah. - It's really about identifying the problem, solving the research, applying it to reality and circling because it's never a one time, it's never one directional model. - Yeah. - It's, and that's actually where the magic happens. It's really this iterative approach on improving on all all things.

So personally since, in fact, even when I was in Bell Labs, by the way, my best known theoretical research was motivated by real world problem, which happened to be what was then the largest data warehouse in the world. And actually then helped create a field for, you know, data streams that practically enabled big data analytics. But it took years actually to do this kind of cycle. And now actually part of our job is actually to do both. And one of the strengths of Google Research is actually in this, this doing this actually both, same team that actually pushed the research on floods is the same team that actually built the system that is now, you know, providing prediction to 2 billion people.

Same thing. I would ping actually what's going on in that place. Same thing thinking about the next project and is a fun fact. I recently had a conversation with one of the research scientists there and I learned that he was actually looking into a particular model that he for a long time was unable to make progress on. And then with ERA, he actually made some good progress on.

So it's all connected. Let me give another example for research we've been doing for several years. In fact, when LLM just started back in 2021, we actually started looking into research on factuality for LLMs. And again, part of our, what we are trying to do is to not only think about the problems that everybody care about today, but to take bets on what may be important in future. In 2021, very few people actually cared about the future of LLMs factuality, but we actually thought, I, you know, I thought that factuality is going to be more important than perhaps anything else if we ever want to use LLMs.

- Yeah. - So in fact, one of the pioneering papers on factuality for LLM was published by our team in collaboration with academics, academic collaborators back in 2021 about, you know, measuring consistency of LLMs. And even in 2022, we already had the benchmark out published. We called it True. When we started putting out our language models, we started actually taking some of our research and applying it to our language models, you know, and to Bard and, and others to PaLM and other models to Gemini of course.

And keeping on the research and iterating on that. And then working very closely. Everything we do of course on Gemini is a very close collaboration with Google DeepMind. So working with the teams and actually bringing together factuality research into making Gemini even more factual. Publishing the fact leaderboard that, so to encourage actually other, you know, models to also test themselves against benchmarks and keep iterating on that.

So this is an example from a magic cycle that has been going on for since 2021 on the factuality of LLM and is in any given moment, I would say that, hey, in fact much of the work is still ahead of us because factuality of LLM, in order to trust large language models, we really need to know that it's working for the best possible and the better it is, then our expectations are going higher and more nuanced. The nature of factuality is changing it's model, it's taking context into account, it's addressing also more nuanced questions. In fact, - It's sort of doing, doing things on our behalf. - Exactly. It's agentic.

By the way, one of the areas that I think is extremely important is also for not only the question of the how factual things are, but to what extent do we know how factual we are? What's the level of confidence? That's an extremely important aspect from my point of view about the factuality of LLMs or any system for that matter. - Yeah. - The beauty of technology is that what is only possible for very few in very few years becomes a commodity.

Let's call it technology commodity. - Yeah. - Or a scientific commodity, because everybody can now use it, or build on that. It’s like, nobody thinks that there's gonna be a self-driving cars. It's an inflection point. It's only boom.

- Yep. Everybody, it's 20 companies - Of course. Not only that, but looking into what's happening on the street with Waymo is amazing, this amazing success of the Waymo team. - Yeah. - And again, it wasn't that long ago that people were skeptic.

- Yeah, yeah. It’s true. - So the beauty is that technology innovation and scientific progress is not linear. That's actually a common, common mistake. People are extrapolating.

That's where doing again, again the mistake. In fact, going back to Google Research, our job is to look into the horizons and around the corner. It’s not to extrapolate. That's why quite often I would take bets and that, that's part of my fun is actually, you know, I started actually doing AI, you know, I did Duplex. You remember Duplex?

- I don't think so. - No. Google Duplex, - No, it sounds super familiar. - Google Duplex was the big announcement in 2018 of the AI system that's called the restaurant reservation. - Oh yeah, I do remember this, I do remember this.

- The biggest AI moment in 2018, arguably. - Yeah. - So this was my pet project. I was actually in Search at the time. - Yeah. - But at the time I thought about,

well in the future actually conversational experience is going to be most important one. So we should actually look into that. And the question I was asking there, are we going to get to a stage that everybody can just talk to the computer? This was the question I actually put publicly in the talk in TEDx where is actually saying, “Hey, can we actually just talk to a computer we talk to ourselves?” - Feels so common now. - Yeah.

And my answer was, yeah, I think that anything that we can, if we can dream it, we can build it. - Yeah. - So, and again, today, if you ask anybody, of course, yeah. I mean, yeah of course. I can take a Waymo.

And of course I can talk to my computer. - I tweeted this morning actually that in the age of intelligence, sort of you can outsource your thinking, but you can't outsource your understanding. There's this conflation between the two things that I think is actually gonna become ever more present. And that's why I'm even more excited to hear about, about sort of what's top of mind on education. - So, you know, when I think about a few years ago, somebody asked me, “Hey, if you had a magic wand for helping climate, but you cannot just use it to fix climate, but use it somehow, how would you use it?”

And I was thinking about it and my answer was, well, I would actually use it in order to make sure that we are getting the right education for every kid. because they're actually going to solve all the other problems. - Yeah, yeah. - So obviously having the right education is a single most important thing for any society, obviously for societal reason, but obviously also because that's actually the most important resource that we have this human ingenuity. And with AI as a possible amplifier, human ingenuity, that becomes a multiplier.

So the question is how can we actually do a better job in education? And also how do we need to change it given what's happening, right? With AI, it's actually enabling new capabilities in education, but also creates new objectives for us. How to actually educate the next generation so we can actually use AI. You know, AI is not something that happens to us.

It's something which we should build on. - Yeah. - And same applies for education. Like in any system, the first question is how can we build models that are better suited for that. You know, we did work on LearnLM, which essentially is how to adapt a model so that it knows that it can support various needs for education.

Such as, for example, re-leveling, such as quizzes, basic stuff for education. And we actually made it eventually part of Gemini and now we can have applications built on that that can leverage on the capabilities. As an example, I was visiting a high school in Ghana where teacher was using an app developed by a third party, actually built on leveraging and LearnLM. And they told me, “Hey, now students are getting response to assessments every day instead of only once or twice a week.” And the teacher got back five hours.

- Yeah, yeah. - So obviously this is about how to make things more efficient. Now when you think about it and, and we did some efficacy studies and looking into other ways in which you can actually use it. But when you really think about it, the real opportunity is for using AI not to just make things more effective, but actually to change things. Why can't you have assessment that is more personalized?

That is real time as if you have a tutor sitting next to you and actually tapping you on the shoulder every time you need to do some correction. That's actually the real opportunity. Another comment here is the role of the teacher is more important than ever. In fact, you know, a few months ago I had, I spoke about AI for education in the conference and then I actually pointed out that, you know, I'm forever indebted to my own high school math teacher. And I was actually fortunate to have him in the audience actually there, to be there, and in the role, everyone probably every one of us have their own, you know, teachers that influence their lives.

- Yeah. - How can we actually make it even more so for everybody else who perhaps didn't have those teachers? And to me it's really empowerment, it goes back to how do I use technology so we can empower the teachers so they can actually focus on being the inspiration of actually making those change. - Yeah. - Another important comment is that when we think about how to use AI for system, the first thing is to how to make things more effective.

I would say how to amplify human capability, if you will. That's only the first step. The more important impact is how to do things that previously were not possible to do. That's really the amplifying of human ingenuity. And that applies to education, it applies to doctors, it applies to scientists, it applies to all of them.

So when I look into education, really the question is how do we first make sure that we can empower teachers with technology? How can we make things more effective? For example, you have this experiment called Learn Your Way, which essentially asks the question, how can we reimagine textbooks? Can we take textbook and actually make it in multimodalities? And in a way that is personalized.

How do you teach gravity for a girl who's 10 years old and loves soccer? Do that differently than for a 16-year-old that loves tennis. - Yeah. - So these are opportunities to do. We are also looking into how can we actually have programs such as AI Quest, which is working with, we are working with Stanford Education Center, how to actually expose kids to the opportunities of AI.

Think about it as a skilling. Talking about skilling, one question that I think related to your comment, what are the skills that are most important for the future? So we can debate to what extent do you need to learn the basics? Personally, I think that, for example, thinking how to code basic computer science, et cetera, is gonna be more important than ever. - Agreed. Agreed.

- I always thought that computer science is not learning a language, It's learning how to-- - It's how to think. - Think. - Yep. - So in a way it's gonna be more important than ever, for the same reason that math is important even when calculators were, became a commodity. But obviously there are skills that are gonna be more important than ever.

For example, collaboration. If the role of the person is going to be more importantly to ask the right questions and to validate the answer and to ask what is good, it means that certain humanities and certain capabilities that perhaps sometime we call them soft skills, but they're actual skills, how to collaborate is a skill. - Yeah. - These are going to be more important than ever. So how do we teach them? In fact,

we actually launched an experiment called Vantage where we are actually trying to measure those skills, this collaboration with NYU, and we put it out as an experiment to see can we actually look into how to measure it and how to actually practice that and how to skill it. To me, these are important areas that we need to actually double up on in order to see how do we teach the next generation the right skills for a future? How do we keep making sure that they're learning the basic skills? Because when you think about AI becoming a kind of a tool for everybody to build in, we need everybody to actually be elevated. - Yeah. - So they can actually use those tools.

It's true in science to run your own virtual lab, if you think about it, you need to be, do the stuff that you need to be very advanced scientists to do that. If it's a teacher to actually build on that, if it's a business person, et cetera, et cetera. If a healthcare worker essentially to be able to operate is if suddenly you have this kind of capability in your hands. So I think this goes back to education, to the early questions and education across all ages. How do we actually give those skills?

How do we empower them and how do we use AI in order to do a better job at that? - Yeah. Even upskilling folks who are sort of not in the traditional education system, I think is really interesting. I was just thinking as you were saying that I barely eeked my way through calculus. It was very difficult for me for whatever the reasons were, things didn't click in many ways.

And so one of my personal benchmarks, I want to go back and try to from scratch learn and see how long it would take, actually using these tools, using a lot of actually NotebookLM I think is one of the products that hopefully a lot of the research that y'all are doing ends up making its way to and just personalizing the educational experience for people based on what they get excited about. And that was always my challenge was you sort of learn a lot of these things in a vacuum and even actually computer science, you learn computer science sort of, and there's a distant hope that you maybe will do something that's interesting, and I feel like, yeah, what's gotten me excited in the last couple of years about what's happened with software is the distance between the exciting thing you can sort of taste it now and you can feel it and you can experience it. And I feel like in math and other disciplines, it wasn't that. You were sort of, you had to get so far down the path in order to experience it. And I feel it's been, it's been cool to see that change and hopefully get people more excited about doing that type of stuff.

- Yeah. I mean if you think about it, a few observations is those who actually got the right tutor and the right teacher then they actually got this opportunity to do stuff that others perhaps not. - Yeah. - I think that human capability is perhaps one of the most, this is is the most important resource that we have here. How do we actually enable everybody to reach their own potential is an opportunity that we have here. And on education system,

you are totally right. I think my own experience, even as a tutor, I remember when many years ago I was actually tutoring kind of bright kids and I couldn't understand why they're actually failing in math when they're so bright. And actually after a little kind of investigation learned that actually they have a gap to fifth grade math, which they would carry on all the time and it was actually all the time in the way of actually doing things the right way. - Third grade, I got my appendix removed and I was out for a couple of months and I'm sure that that's what it was catching up to me in calculus. - So now all these matters are fixable if you have the right attention and the right time.

Hopefully with AI we can actually fill many of those gaps. - Yeah. - That because some of them are actually not too sophisticated if you put the right intelligent reasoning on them. And I think with AI we can actually get pretty good reasoning to actually address many of these problems that today as if you had suddenly an abundant of tutors, very smart assistants helping you research assistants if you will, helping you on practically any topic. So I think that's actually some of the opportunities that are opening up.

And again, going back to what our role in that is really to think about some of those opportunities and to build into some of those to the extent possible work with others. So I'm quite optimistic about how we can actually make a real difference here on things that really matter, really having societal impact on those. - Yeah. You mentioned before we won the Nobel bunch of the, the researchers won the Nobel Prize for quantum. That shined a light on a lot of the breakthroughs that have been happening.

But folks who have heard bits and pieces maybe thinking quantum is science fiction. What is Google actually doing today in this space? - So I think quantum is an interesting story, but obviously some of the early pioneering thinking came from Richard Feynman about, you know, making the case of why quantum could be a big deal one day. But big breakthrough was Peter Shore actually showing a real practical algorithm that today's perhaps some people would say too practical of actually factoring numbers. And this was by the way, Peter was, his office was just across mine in Bell Labs, so-- - Nice.

- And he showed actually with a quantum computer you could actually solve a problem that is assumed to be hard for classical computers. Actually it's so much assumed to be hard that it's a basis for many of the crypto systems that are used in the industry. - Yeah. - And he showed that if one day we are going to have quantum computer, we are actually gonna be able to solve it. Now by now we have actually a dozen or so, perhaps 70 or so kind of known applications of where quantum could actually make a significant acceleration over classical computer.

But importantly, there are some additional expectations that if we'll have quantum computers, we are going to be able to actually have a better understanding of materials. We can actually simulate materials, we can have quantum sensing. - Well, and for simulating materials as an example, it's just the, some of those simulations are just so computationally intensive that-- - Not only that you need to have the intermolecular, you need to have the quantum phenomenas. So this was actually part of the statement by Feynman, that hey, in order to actually simulate a quantum world, you need a quantum computer. - Yeah. - This was kind of the thesis,

but importantly my projection is that when you think about what is known that quantum computer is going to have advantage over the world, suppose what will happen if you take thousands of bright people working on actually developing more applications. Because think about all the, all the big number of amazing talent working today on AI and machine learning and you see proliferation of progress. - Yeah. - Just think about the fraction of that actually working on quantum. - Yeah. - I'm sure we are going

to see many more opportunities to actually unlock because it's a new computing paradigm. Now the real question is then can we build a quantum computer and what is the technology to do that? Now some of the breakthroughs that are enabling that go back to the eighties and we were really thrilled with the Nobel Prize in physics to Michele DeVore in our quantum AI lab. And also John Martinez used to be part of that lab. And also John Clark, the collaborator from Berkeley, the three of them were recognized with Nobel Prize from their work on the eighties.

Now we built our quantum a lab in 2012. - Actually really quick, why the gap, and I'm not super, I saw the announcement stuff. Why the gap between the work in the eighties to being recognized in, I think it was 2025 or something. It was, it just, it took that long for the, for it to be shown actually that the work was going to prove out or it had been proven out and then folks just are, you know, quantum's becoming more real. And so there's more scientific interest in the ecosystem or why, why such a big gap in that or?

- Well I cannot speak for the considerations of the Nobel Awards Committee. So the big question over the years was will we able to build a quantum computer that actually can do the work? There are many questions, including one of the big technological hurdles was in order to have a scalable quantum computer, you need to solve the problem of errors and you cannot just apply error correction you do with classical computers. So this notion of quantum error correction is increasingly important. Now over the years we did have a significant milestones, our own milestones just last year was actually the Willow chip, which had a couple additional milestones with that.

One was an error correction that was tremendously better than previously known that actually show the promise that we can actually keep scaling quantum computing with error correction. And quantum error correction, just to double click on that is really when, because the basic operations are dealing with qubits and in this physical world, not all operations actually work. And then you need to somehow compensate for that. So how do you actually deal with faulty qubits? So error correction is helping out to do that much in the same way that things happen also in the regular computer.

And then you use error correction on classical computer in order to compensate for that. We had a few milestones. The most recent one is called verifiable quantum advantage. Namely a problem that we could actually apply a quantum computing that we could verify and compare it to the best classical computer that could solve it. And we show that a particular problem, we could actually do that 13,000 times faster.

- Wow. - So this is kind of a verifying in a problem that is different than a mathematical algorithm that hey, there's a certain computation that with a quantum computer we could actually do it much, much faster than classical. Now it's still the premise and we still need to build, keep building the systems. We had very clear roadmaps of how to reach those. And again, it's a combination of an amazing hardware team applications on quantum and we keep actually having these milestones and the premise there is quite significant, obviously also accelerating AI in some capacities.

So it's not going to replace classical computers, but it's going to complement them and for certain problems it's going to unlock opportunities never seen before, such as generated data for example, for which we can possibly build AI models that can help us better understand say materials or biology information or fusion and so forth. So anyway, these are some of the premises and really exciting to, you know, to see how we are making progress on that and how this is actually based on work done in the eighties, but keep iterating on that. So the magic cycle of research here, it takes longer. But it's quite significant. - There's so much stuff happening keeping track of this.

I don't know if we put a metric on the pace of the magic cycle and sort of watch as things happen, the speed up. This would be a fun benchmark. I don't know how to do this, but this might push for you as you should make that. I feel like it'd be super interesting to see. - All the work that I've been talking about is made possible by amazing teams, - Yeah. - that are working together across great collaboration,

obviously within Google Research, but also with our colleagues in Google DeepMind and across Google. And a lot of that also with the academic community. So this notion of actually having smart people that are driven by making real impact, working in collaboration, then applying it on some of the best systems in the world of course. And applying it to products that are actually serving billions of people helping in so many different ways. And then iterating and thinking about what's next about what's around the corner, what's on the horizon, how to take those bets that we can actually drive things that perhaps may seem impossible, how to actually make them possible.

-Yeah. - That's actually a pretty amazing opportunity. That's why it's really more exciting than ever to do research. It's really a golden age of research. - Yeah, it's very exciting.

Well, Yossi, thank you again for sitting down and talking about sort of the golden age of research. I feel it and I think it's sort of our obligation to, to help tell the world this story. So thank you again. - Well thank you. Thank you very much for having me here.

It's always great to have a conversation, and thanks for amazing one. - Of course. Yep. And thanks everyone for tuning into this episode of Release Notes. We'll see you in the next one.