---
video_title: "Introducing Agents CLI in Agent Platform"
video_id: ECYKo70pPNc
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ECYKo70pPNc
video_date: 2026-04-22T16:04:43+00:00
video_description: |
  Discover Agents CLI in Agent Platform, a powerful new set of commands and skills to streamline the entire agent development lifecycle, designed for both coding agents and human users.
  
  Agents CLI serves as a dedicated bridge for the Google Cloud agent ecosystem, providing a collection of pre-bundled skills that allow your coding agents (such as Gemini CLI and Antigravity) to build, evaluate, and deploy new agents automatically. By wrapping essential Google Cloud services into a single, intuitive interface, it removes the manual heavy lifting, allowing you to focus on building high-quality, production-grade agents faster.
  
  Resources: 
  PyPI Installation: pip install google-agents-cli
  Repository → https://goo.gle/4vAZnQj 
  Documentation → https://goo.gle/4cyxyzJ 
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers 
  
  Speakers: Ivan Cheung, Pier Paolo Ippolito 
  Products Mentioned: Gemini
---
PIER PAOLO IPPOLITO: Hello, everyone. We often hear from developers that building agents on the cloud today is fragmented. IVAN CHEUNG: Yeah, and if you ask your AI coding assistant to help, it just gets stuck in an endless loop, hallucinating APIs. It can be pretty messy. PIER PAOLO IPPOLITO: So today, we are super excited to announce Agent CLI.

[MUSIC PLAYING] It's a single tool that makes building and deploying AI agents super simple, not just for you, but also for your coding agent too, like Gemini CLI, Antigravity, or any other coding agent you already use. IVAN CHEUNG: That's right. Think of Agent CLI as a bridge. It packages all the Google Cloud tools you need into a simple command line interface. But the best part, it comes with a set of skills to guide the coding agent throughout the process.

PIER PAOLO IPPOLITO: And that means your AI coding assistant, like Gemini CLI, can actually use the Agent CLI to build other agents for you. Let's say I want our team to build us an outage recovery bot, something that can automatically investigate service interruptions. How does this CLI actually speed up that integration selection process? Why is this better than starting from scratch? IVAN CHEUNG: It's because I'm not writing any of the boilerplate.

I'm letting my AI agent do it. I just tell Gemini CLI, "I need to build an Outage Recovery Agent that can parse server logs, classify incidents by severity, and generate incident reports." I also specify to use Google's Agent Development Kit and deploy to Google Cloud. First, Gemini CLI activates the bundled scaffold skill to learn how to create an ADK project. Then it runs the init command, which generates a standard ADK folder structure.

Next, it modifies the boilerplate code to match our Outage Recovery use case. PIER PAOLO IPPOLITO: Testing a few prompts is fine for a quick check. But at an enterprise level, how do we guarantee quality? How do we definitely measure that this bot won't hallucinate the root cause of an outage? IVAN CHEUNG: That's where we bring in the evaluation harness.

Before deploying, I can ask the AI, "Run the evaluations for the Outage Recovery Agent, using the Agent CLI, and show me the results." You can see it adding evaluation scenarios, which include hypothetical user conversations, expected tool calls, and judging criteria for an LLM judge. The agent then runs agent CLI eval run. This command tests our bot against the scenarios that we just created. PIER PAOLO IPPOLITO: Oh, look at that output.

On our three test cases, we have achieved a perfect score across multiple criteria, including response relevance, answer accuracy, and expected actions. This definitely gives me more confidence we can actually ship this. All right, now we have our working evaluated agent. But moving from a local laptop to production usually involves infrastructure headaches like IAM roles and Secret Management. How does the CLI actually handle the deployment securely?

IVAN CHEUNG: It can completely automate it. So I'll just tell Gemini CLI, "Let's deploy this agent to Google Cloud." The AI runs the deploy command to push the agent to agent runtime. PIER PAOLO IPPOLITO: Awesome. So it's deployed, but how does our actual team interact with it?

We don't want to build custom front ends, we just want to interact with this bot. IVAN CHEUNG: We don't have to. We can just register it directly to Gemini Enterprise. I'll just tell my coding agent, "Can you integrate this with Gemini Enterprise?" Now that it's registered, let's open the Gemini Enterprise UI.

Right here in the interface, I can select our newly deployed Outage Recovery Agent. Let's ask it, "Tell me about recent outages." You can see that our agent is equipped with the tools to securely access our logs and help us debug the issue, right here in our everyday workspace. PIER PAOLO IPPOLITO: So that's the power of Agent CLI. We went from an idea to a fully-provisioned, evaluated, deployed, and published Outage Recovery Agent with Gemini CLI doing all the heavy lifting for us.

IVAN CHEUNG: Yes. Agent CLI cuts down the busy work, saves a lot of time and token cost, and actually gets your agents to production. PIER PAOLO IPPOLITO: Building enterprise-grade agents shouldn't require navigating a maze of Cloud Services. Install the CLI using the link below, and get your agents closer to production today. IVAN CHEUNG: Happy building.

[MUSIC PLAYING]