---
video_title: "Hands on with Gemini 3.7 Flash"
video_id: kacf2bib-X0
channel_name: "Google for Developers"
channel_id: UC_x5XG1OV2P6uZZ5FSM9Ttw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kacf2bib-X0
video_date: 2026-08-17T18:40:25+00:00
video_description: |
  Discover how leaders at Box, Databricks, and Emergent are testing and building with Gemini 3.7 Flash, our most intelligent workhorse model yet for coding and agents. In this conversation, we explore how Gemini 3.7 Flash powers highly efficient, scalable multi-agent systems that need  low latency and efficient token use to scale in production. 
  
  Subscribe to Google for Developers → https://goo.gle/developers 
  
  Speakers: Paige Bailey, Matthew Terrell (Box), Madhav Jha (Emergent), Ivan Zhou (Databricks)
  Products Mentioned: Gemini 3.7 Flash
---
As a developer, I have things I want to build. And if you tell me that these agents can perform this task at a 10x cheaper, that means I have a lot more budget to do work on things.

Greetings My name is Paige. I'm here from our DeepMind team getting to speak with many of the folks who are building the future. I feel like the dynamics of AI are governed on two sides, one is the consumer prosumer excitement around frontier models. And what are the complicated things, and where is the industry going and what's possible to the enterprise space, where it is very practical, very pragmatic. When you think about major insurance businesses or financial services companies are processing thousands and thousands of documents.

And I think wear Gemini app Flash 3.7 comes in, is that none of those specific tasks within that workflow are all that complicated, but it's the scale of some of these operations. And so at box, it's very important that you have a model that not only is capable of powering the agents that do these things, but also one that's efficient and can do this at the scale that businesses need. I think in Databricks, what we observe is that enterprises need to make decisions per day. A lot of decisions need to be grounded on data.

But previously this is very hard. People with right expertise to analyze the data and figure out what is the right information to answer these questions in the excitement, as you mentioned, of using the latest and greatest, there is also the cost aspect to it. And so if you're not actively optimizing on the cost while delivering the same frontier accuracy, you're basically leaving a lot of money on the table, which you can re utilize further exploration. So I think that trend I think is here to stay. Yeah it almost feels like there's a new term with minimum viable model.

Exactly you want to the name of the game is not to be the cool kid on the block because you have access to the top tier model and use that you're trying to figure out, hey, yes, I need to get this right. It needs to be capable, and that's the viable part. But I don't want to overspend where I don't have to. In fact, I never want to do that. That's the worst thing that could happen.

That's waste working with a model that A has reduced token costs between 3.6 and 3.7, not to mention the cost of those tokens being cheaper with better latency means that you can just use a model like Gemini Flash 3.7 in more places. The best model for the job is the one that can do it reliably well for the lowest cost and the fastest.

Well said. Yeah and as a developer, I have things I want to build. And if you tell me that these agents can perform this task at 10x cheaper, that means I have a lot more budget to do work on things I used to have to think about, oh, should I spend my tokens on this. But now I don't need to worry about this. And it sounds like y'all are all really pushing the boundaries of what's possible with multiple families of models, like models of different kind of tiers, and then also multi-agent systems within the context of your companies.

I think right now people are not only using single agent for their tasks. Usually there's this main agent, some agents patterns that main agent will do. Planning, figure out what kind of data I need to look into. And then dispatch some agents to work on parallel exploration thing. So having a very low latency, very efficient model like Gemini 3.7 really helps with this.

Subagents dispatch patterns. We also employ recursive model where we have our agents spawn kind of subagents as necessary, but that initial planning step can be broken down into subcomponents as well. And the first thing that happens when a prompt comes in is this intent classification, so that we can understand exactly what's going on and the time that step that has to happen very, very quickly because you can't spend a whole lot of time just trying to understand the query. You haven't even made the plan yet. And so we found that using models in this tier, handling that intent classification step before it hands to maybe frontier model for the actual planning step is a nice way to have those two puzzle pieces working in concert.

It's been so inspiring to hear how y'all are using our models across your entire stack. It's great to partner with Google on this, and great to see the intelligence frontier always keep pushing over time. Hopefully we'll make you proud. Yeah I don't doubt it. Excellent