---
video_title: "TIRO NO PÉ? CLAUDE AGORA MARCA TODOS OS TEXTOS GERADOS"
video_id: sGyOXY3j-eE
channel_name: "Sandeco Channel - Decomplicated IA"
channel_id: UCIQne9yW4TvCCNYQLszfXCQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sGyOXY3j-eE
video_date: 2026-08-11T21:32:53+00:00
video_description: |
  A Anthropic acabou de marcar o Claude: todo texto gerado agora pode sair com marca d'água invisível costurada nas palavras — e metadados assinados nos arquivos. Não é selo no rodapé. É assinatura técnica. E já vale nos modelos novos.
  
  Quem é Sandeco?
  Doutor pela Universidade Federal de Goiás em ciência da computação, embaixador da Campus Party Brasil, professor e pesquisador no IFG e UFG, escritor de mais de 10 livros sobre IA. Desenvolvedor desde os 14 anos (36 anos de experiência), professor e pesquisador com vários projetos e artigos científicos em Inteligência Artificial e área de visão computacional
  ORCID
  https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5255-596X
  
  Neste corte eu abro a documentação oficial da Anthropic sobre a marca d'água do Claude: o que é o watermark de texto, o que é o C2PA nos arquivos, a narrativa de transparência ligada ao EU AI Act e o motor técnico por trás — o model collapse, quando o treino futuro se contamina com saída sintética em escala.
  
  Participe do nosso grupo de WhatsApp
  https://linktr.ee/sandeco.macedo
  
  Mira Animator - Metáforas Inteligentes Responsivas e Animadas
  https://physia.com.br/mira
  
  Você vai ver também os disclaimers da própria Anthropic: o que a detecção da marca d'água do Claude prova, o que ela não prova, e onde o sinal pode enfraquecer com edição, reescrita ou tradução. Sem pânico. Sem hype. O que a doc diz — e o que muda na prática quando o Claude passa a marcar o texto.
  
  🔗 Documentação oficial Anthropic — How Claude marks AI-generated content
  https://support.claude.com/en/articles/16266773-how-claude-marks-ai-generated-content
  
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  ⏱️ CAPÍTULOS
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  0:00 - A nova marca invisível da Anthropic
  1:11 - Transparência e a lei de IA
  3:02 - Entendendo o fenômeno Model Collapse
  5:53 - O uso aceitável de IA na escrita
  8:22 - As limitações do detector da Anthropic
  
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  🧠 O QUE VOCÊ VAI APRENDER
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  • Como a Anthropic marca o texto do Claude (watermark invisível)
  • O que são os metadados C2PA nos arquivos gerados
  • Por que a justificativa pública aponta para o EU AI Act e transparência
  • O que é model collapse e por que isso interessa a quem treina modelo
  • O que a detecção da marca d'água prova — e o que ela não prova
  • Onde o sinal pode enfraquecer (edição, reescrita, tradução, mistura de texto)
  
  👉 Se esse tipo de conteúdo te ajuda, se inscreve no canal. É de graça e me ajuda a continuar trazendo projetos como o REVERSA e MIRA.
  
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  📚 MEUS LIVROS E MENTORIAS
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  
  IMPORTANTE: Eu explico todos os meus livros em aulas em vídeo. Essas aulas são gratuitas. Eu não vendo cursos. Mas quando você compra um livro meu, principalmente o mais recente, eu explico todos os capítulos em aulas ao vivo pelo Meet, que ficam gravadas e disponíveis para sempre. Além disso, você participa da comunidade do livro. Todo livro tem um grupo de WhatsApp com todos os alunos para trocar conhecimento e eu estou em todos os grupos.
  
  Sempre me perguntam: professor, qual a melhor sequência dos livros?
  
  FAÇA ESSA TRILHA
  
  1. Prompts em Ação Volume 1 - Engenharia de Prompts para Leigos
  https://physia.com.br/prompts
  
  2. Agentes Inteligentes - CrewAI Volume 1 - Básico
  https://physia.com.br/crewai1
  
  3. Python para Inteligência Artificial
  https://physia.com.br/python
  
  4. Agentes Inteligentes - CrewAI Volume 2 - Intermediário
  https://physia.com.br/crewai2
  
  5. Prompts em Ação Volume 2 - Guardrails
  https://physia.com.br/guardrails
  
  6. MCP e A2A para Leigos
  https://physia.com.br/mcp
  
  7. RAG
  https://physia.com.br/rag
  
  8. Engenharia de Software com Agentes Inteligentes
  https://physia.com.br/aieng
  
  9. Mira Animator - Metáforas Inteligentes Responsivas e Animadas
  https://physia.com.br/mira
  
  Em qualquer momento:
  Agentes de Visão Computacional - Deep Learning
  https://physia.com.br/deeplearning
  
  Inteligência Artificial Visual com Orange Canvas
  https://physia.com.br/orange
  
  *Nota: Todos os livros são para leigos. Somente o CrewAI 2 depende do livro de Python.*
  
  🚀 Vamos nos conectar?
  
  📸 Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/sandeco/
  🐦 Twitter: https://twitter.com/sandeco
  💻 GitHub: https://github.com/sandeco
  🎥 TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@sandeco
  🧵 Threads: https://www.threads.net/@sandeco
  🔗 LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/sandeco-macedo-8638b429/
  
  ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  #Claude #ClaudeAI #Anthropic #MarcaDagua #WatermarkIA #IA #InteligenciaArtificial #IAgenerativa #ModelCollapse #EUAIAct #C2PA #PromptEngineering #AgentesdeIA #ClaudeCode #Tecnologia
---
Antrop, who just did something that left the members of the Sandec channel on WhatsApp all on edge and super annoyed, saying it was Antropic's biggest screw-up in recent times. She warned that all texts now generated by Claude will have a kind of mark, they'll be totally marked. It's an invisible mark that will be implanted inside the words of the text. It's that text. Alright, the seal.

Made with AI. It's already in effect for the new models. There's just one detail, there's a badly told lie from Antropica going around, which I'll explain the real reason why they're doing this.

Hey, how's it going? I'm Sandeko, I'm a teacher and researcher in artificial intelligence. at Instituto Federal de Goiás and at Universidade Federal de Goiás. And if you like artificial intelligence with clear info, but without losing technical and scientific quality, consider subscribing to my channel. Turn on notifications to be notified whenever I post new content.

And also, if you want to chat with me directly, come to our WhatsApp group, the link is in the description. Let's get to the news, right? It says here the text is how Cloud classifies content generated by IA. Now they're saying that Antropic signed the code of practices of Article 50 of the Lei de Iá. about transparency of content generated by artificial intelligence.

What will happen now is that all texts, right? generated by all Cloud models from now on will have that watermark, so to speak. From now on, new models will generate a mark. the content...

that was generated by IA. The marking works everywhere where Cloud is used. see. it's going to be exactly here in the API. in Cloud Code, right?

on the regular Cloud and on Call Work, everywhere. these marks will exist. Well, the people from the Sandeco channel on WhatsApp got super upset when this news hit the WhatsApp groups. Because for them, for the channel members, and for me too, I think it's a shot in the foot. But to me it's no surprise, okay, folks?

Technically this moment was going to arrive. You know that after generative IA... a lot happened and people started to generate a lot of content on the web, right?

using generative IA. You know that generative neural networks generative... from Antropic, from OpenAI, from Google...

they're all trained on info that comes from the web. But at the start of training, all the data that came in, you had a guarantee that this data was generated by human beings. Now what happens is there's a bigger volume. very significant, of information, right? of texts, of data that are generated by artificial intelligence.

And in that... it creates a problem. right?

When you go to train new models, and you use synthetic data from those models There is a theory that's not new, it's an old, established theory, in artificial intelligence. called Model Collapse. I'll explain it slowly to you What is this infamous thing? Model Collapse, alright? So let's talk about Model Collapse.

which is... the model losing its sense of reality. Imagine this, you're gonna take an original photo...

And you're gonna make a copy of that photo, alright? it has the details of that photo, right? all the details, you can see here there's the earrings, the necklace and everything else. But then when you make a copy, the copy even convinces. The copy ends up kinda similar with the original.

The problem is happening... it's when you pick up this copy and begin to generate other copies, in other words, the copy becomes a source of information for the model, you get it? You become a form of information to generate other copies.

So what is going to happen... is that, you already know, with Xerox, you begin to feel...

loss of quality of the information. with Xerox. And when you copy, copy, copy, copy, what happens is exactly that, right? you completely lose any sense of how the original photo looked. You even have a...

You can even kind of make out the image like that, but the image... it becomes very impoverished compared to...

the original. So what happens? When you take all this...

the error starts getting heirs, right? Because the same error goes back into the neural network to train. And then...

what happens is exactly what we call model decay. the model disconnects completely from reality. And that's what we call model collapse, right? So the model becomes completely useless to humans. And why?

Because artificial intelligence's main goal is to imitate human behavior. But if you Don't put human information inside the model. What it's going to think is the reality...

it's exactly what was generated in a synthetic way, you know? So the model loses... totally at that point, the connection with reality.

So, how do we solve this problem? by doing exactly a data curation job. So we can mix a bit of reality with a bit of diversity with a bit of synthetic information, that's even possible. But if you keep feeding the model all the time, you'll make your model completely disconnect from actual reality. from what is useful to human beings, you know?

Then you might ask, "But Sandeco, so does that mean we can't use artificial intelligence to generate any text anymore?" That's it. I didn't say that, alright? What I'm telling you is the following...

If you keep generating text completely generated by artificial intelligence and feed the model, it completely loses reality. But there's one thing you can do. which is to take your text, You give an improve the text...

you can improve your text. Today the text... or artificial intelligence.

But the origin of the text is still human, alright? It's more or less like if you took a photo of yourself... opened it in Photoshop, And give it a bit of a touch-up. I need to run myself through Photoshop too. I need to give myself a pass in Photoshop. That's more or less the idea. And that's absolutely acceptable.

For example, scientific journals they accept texts that are improved with artificial intelligence. And I'll show a scientific paper of mine, that was reviewed by human peers And it was published in an international journal. but that I used artificial intelligence to improve the text and make the text nicer, like we do, right? Then Photoshop...

on Sandeco's face, alright? This is the text here, see. This scientific paper is a scientific paper that's published in Elsevier, it's an international journal from a research project of mine which is about drone detections at airports, alright? all this text here, All the research was actually conducted by me. But the text...

There were some contributions... from artificial intelligence. And then...

here's what happens. This text, guys... has an AI mark on it.

If you look to the left here, in the sections of the text, all the details, There's a section that says here, see. Generative AI statement. Let's click here. So at this point here, I put it, right? that this...

This... this manuscript, this text, right? It was written by the authors, alright?

But during the study prep, The authors used Grammarly as a tool to improve agreement, alright? from chat PT4, to provide the structure. Also, I used chat EPT back then to improve the translation of this text. And that's why in the paper there, where they raised the issue about the mark, they made a kind of disclaimer, alright? talking about the limitations of those markings.

So... It said the following, a detected mark indicates the content was processed by cloud. But it's not conclusive. Detecting a cloud mark

indicates that the content... may have been processed by it. or it just doesn't state or confirm, the full provenance of the content. For example,

Cloud may not be the original author. People often use Cloud to review translate summarize and convert articles And the result... may contain the mark.

Even if the ideas... the original text or data come from another source. So this here...

Or if it only... already shows that If a scientific journal if she wants to start using it this brand-detection tool they'll have...

a kind of problem. because what will happen is that people... will already be able to use...

the Cloud to improve their own texts, which is already allowed by... scientific journals, But...

What happens, actually, is that the scientific journals realized And... it's kinda like chasing your tail, because what's going to happen...

is that people will try to locate those... watermarks inside the texts to be able to pull them out One other thing too, is that the Cloud may have been processed, right? or a post-processing by the Cloud, And the content may be modified.

or the mark could be extracted it could be extracted by another AI that's not the Cloud. That's why it's not necessarily... a text that doesn't have any mark Of Clowns?

wasn't generated by the Cloud, you know? That's the big question. So they put this disclaimer here So that...

these problems, you know, Maybe a shared understanding for everyone. But what I know is the channel folks got super upset about this news. And they didn't like this story, not one bit. about a watermark in the text. And I wanted to know from you. What do you think of this idea?

Do you think it's really, like the folks said in the group, right? It's shooting yourself in the foot. Oh, and if you want to join our WhatsApp group...

There's a link down below in the description. The group is totally free for anyone to join. there are already over 17 thousand people for us to chat with about artificial intelligence, alright? Well, I hope you enjoyed this video. A big hug to you.

And see you next time.