---
video_title: "Kestra: Tudo que você precisa saber"
video_id: i0SuV9yTv7o
channel_name: "Ronnald Hawk"
channel_id: UCPiCs9REsEymr43a0ceL_BQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i0SuV9yTv7o
video_date: 2026-03-04T17:56:18+00:00
video_description: |
  ––– Recursos & Educação –––
  Comunidade  https://www.rhawk.pro/comunidade 
  
  Comunidade  https://www.rhawk.pro/empresas
  –––Kestra–––
  https://www.youtube.com/@kestra-io
  
  ––– Descrição –––
  Quer construir soluções com IA Generativa e automação de negócios e não sabe por onde começar? Este guia completo sobre Kestra é para você. Junte-se a nós em uma conversa com Will, especialista da Kestra, e descubra como esta poderosa plataforma de orquestração de código aberto pode ser a sua ferramenta principal para criar automações e fluxos de trabalho inteligentes. 
  
  Aprenda na prática como integrar scripts Python, tarefas definidas em YAML e o poder dos Agentes de IA para automatizar processos, ingerir dados para sistemas RAG e gerenciar sua infraestrutura. 
  
  Abordamos desde os conceitos básicos para iniciantes até funcionalidades avançadas como o uso de ferramentas, memória para agentes e saídas estruturadas com modelos como OpenAI e Google Gemini. Se você é um desenvolvedor, empresário ou entusiasta querendo aprender a construir aplicações de IA do zero, este vídeo vai te mostrar o caminho para transformar suas ideias em realidade.
  
  ––– Playlist –––
  Playlist IA:   https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLk6saMUFiINn0Y0CnynRthzCCC6e-juJY
  Playlist Negócios: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLk6saMUFiINl-TQpZjq6isCdhw8eZ7c9P
  
  ––– Capítulos –––
  00:00 — Introdução e apresentação do Will
  02:45 — O que é Kestra e como funciona (YAML, tarefas, plugins)
  08:46 — Agentes de IA no Kestra (provedores, prompts, ferramentas)
  14:16 — MCP servers e recuperadores de conteúdo
  16:00 — Gerenciamento de segredos
  17:10 — Statefulness: memória entre agentes com key-value store
  27:03 — Saída estruturada (JSON schema para respostas previsíveis)
  31:23 — Estrutura geral do kestra para IA
  33:33 — Como começar com Kestra (Local com Docker, AWS, Railway)
  
  
  ––– Social –––
  Instagram:   / rhawk.pro
  Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/ronnald-hawk/
  #kestra #ia #agentesia #automação #orquestração #engenhariadeai #workflow
---
Já faz mais de um ano que eu uso Kestra em produção. E para ele levar o nível de discussão no tema, eu trouxe aqui no canal nada mais nada menos do que o Will. Provavelmente você já conhece o rosto deles, se você está aí procurando conteúdo sobre o tema, e ele tem um canal literalmente sobre o Kestra. Então, ele trabalha no Kestra. Então, a gente discutiu aqui bastante sobre o Ork Flows e a gente. E eu falei também um pouco de como eu implemento isso aqui no meu dia a dia, e conecto isso na minha infraestrutura, que eu tenho coisas eleintente, com o Excelin graph, como que eu amarro isso tudo numa solução final. Beleza. Antes de começar o vídeo, alguns recados. Você vai ver que a gente tem uma legenda em português. Eu coloquei legenda já no vídeo, então você não precisa usar do YouTube. E o YouTube também, eu sei que ele cria dublagem automaticamente, só que eu não posso garantir a qualidade. Tá bom? É outro recado. Você vai notar que esse vídeo aqui está linkado com uma outra, com outro canal. Esse canal também é meu, e qual é a ideia desse canal? Eu vou trazer aqui mais profissionais para eu entrevistar, trocar a ideia, e trazer pessoas do mundo real, pessoas que realmente constrói, pessoas que realmente estão no mercado, falando sobre as coisas que elas constrói, sobre a, sobre a automação de negócios e tal. Tem muita gente boa que eu converso sempre, só que geralmente essas pessoas não estão no internet, não têm canal. Então, a gente vai fazer isso a partir de agora. Beleza. Então, eu espero que você curto o vídeo. Se você é sério sobre a automação de negócios, provavelmente o Castro é uma boa alternativa para você. Então, cabe a você avaliar a informação estar aqui, gratuita e de qualidade. Agora é com você. Faça seu trabalho. Vamos lá, abraço. Então, a minha background é histórica e sortos de open source software e sobre educar pessoas e como eles podem desenvolver open source, e tal. Então, quando eu veio através do Castro, eu me pensava que isso é um produto interessante. É um novo um novo um, eu estou seguro de alguma coisa com você, e eu estava curioso sobre como eu posso ver com outras que desenvolver a Castro, bofinho, usando o produto, mas também contribuir a Castro. Se eles se vê algo que eles pensam que eles podem improvementar, ou fixar, ou fixar, então, instead de esperar para isso ser fixo, então, eles felizes. É uma oportunidade de aprender uma nova skill, mas também para contribuir a um projeto mais grande. Então, isso é muito exáduo de ajudar a ver as outras. Mas para a Castro, eu uso para que a gente tenha começado o Open Source. É muito legal de fazer isso aqui e ajudar as pessoas a aprender como eles podem usar new tools e tecnologias. É muito cool. Então, quando eu estava usando Castro, eu ghosto de dança de data engineer com um Realm手. Me deu, como uma verdade! É很よね, o besser, o Ideen de fle drink, de sobretudo, eu estou se thinking que se poderia que trabalham em checking mais o extermination unboxing da Yellow taught nainda de DIGA e esta sota de ed совершendo heritage e assim você pode viajar como que sua eu malfunctionouoidamente a vez para entering a professorurun e a reckless biology. o estado analisando quanto a hoéitor stinky é como vamos fazer. Queja, итоге é o confesso. Você pode definir ciertos jogadores. Throwei um coração muitohö screws da home få. Porque agora também é muito preciso. Dem [(arte nourgence fraça do pacão)] E decide o produto vir protecting qualities incorrectos. E 720x00 num ser impresso, Mas pode que também da forma fix attorney que vousите. Eu te lembro que eu需要 ressensar essas范as para poder interrochir as cartas. Aí todo lição pode ter que milhares de extens toddêres queThen a водia, então portalar seu de vyros da afeira de repente e procur ב�торы. Essa magia é uma forma de queать. A teoria tendo trim detina. These types could be built into Kestra natively, but they could also be plugins. And that's where you can start delving into the world of AI because we've got support for both all of the major sort of AI agent and AI model companies that like open AI, you're anthropic, Google Gemini. We've got support for those. But we also have our own AI agent plugin where you can then define providers. So in this case, you could define your provider as open AI, or you could provide Gemini, whatever model at the time is best for what you're trying to do. You can easily then change it. And then you can also with that AI agent task, tell it, give it a bit more information. If you want to give it access to like a file system, or maybe access to web search, you can give it access to all these different tools so that when you are then prompting the task to the go and do something, it's got access to all those things to be able to do it. And again, this is all defined in YAML. So I like to think it's relatively human readable. And I could pick up someone's workflow, and I could look at it, and I could understand, yeah, I can see what's happening here. So it makes it quite a nice process. And I imagine you found the same as well when you got started with Kestra. There are one big advantage on Kestra that when I start to realize what I could do was like, OK, I can define new tasks using like a Python, just being up like a job and define there, just using code, like a software engineer do, and just like a used Kestra to concatenate these steps using code. So to me, it was like the main thing when I started working with Kestra. And I do believe like the combination of YAML, and you can use the YAML to define the steps, you can just save on GitHub and stuff like that. You can have the full control of everything. And by the end of the day, if you have a script, like running something, you can just play in Kestra and it's work, it's work. Yeah, no, I do love the fact that if you see an example workflow, maybe in our Blueprints collection or on a blog post, you can just copy it, paste it straight in, and it just works. You haven't got to go and change load of configuration. Everything about that workflow is one file, so you can put it on GitHub, you can share it with someone. It makes it very easy. There's nothing worse than having to like, oh, there's a few different configurations that make this one workflow work. So annoying. Yeah, yeah. And the fact that you can have some kind of governance on top of your automation is amazing, because actually you can work with Teams across like you can have two, three, four developers work on the same structure. And you can just like, OK, work on this and work on that. You create your PR, do your stuff. Yeah, and we've got this concept called system namespaces, which is the idea is that you have all these workflows that help you sort of manage that governance inside a Kestra. So whether that's automatically pushing things to GitHub at the end of the day or when a flow fails, it will automatically send you a notification. You can have all these different workflows that help you then manage your workflows that are solving your actual problems. And so it's kind of a full circle where Kestra can help you manage Kestra. Yeah, yeah. I use Kestra here for like a two managed itself and also manage my infrastructure a lot. So I have a lot of like playbooks or stuff like that. And it's amazing how we can do that. Also, I use other stuff related to AI here today. Like I have some kind of fast API endpoints to like some kind of link chain thing. But it's amazing how I can build like a mind infrastructure. And use Kestra to just like manage everything. It's amazing how it can be like a useful for teams that are building different things. Like for instance, every time I need to ingest some data to my reg system, just use Kestra to do everything else. And Kestra is like a two for data to me. I have like a very small agents here and there to make small decisions. The have load I have like this fast API that I told. And also use Kestra to check how the infrastructure see everything is working as a planet and so on and so forth. So it's amazing. So about workflows and the agents, of course, workflows are quite important. And people maybe do not realize how important it is to them today. Like people just talk about the agents, how they long, of course, but how Kestra can work in both situations. Probably people already know about the workflows a lot of Kestra. But can you show up a little bit more about the agent solution on Kestra today? Yeah. So I think people love getting on the AI trends. And AI can do so much. There's lots of ways you can interact with AI with Kestra. Actually, sort of as a side note, something I've been playing around with is using stuff like OpenAi's code X or Claude code to generate me Python code. But then I can then have Kestra run automatically. So it's like, I might have a certain problem. I can't remember. What was the example I did last week? Oh, it was like finding stale PRs on GitHub. I just had it write me some Python code that could just find all of these PRs. And then I created a workflow that would run this every few days. And then it can then send me a notification to let me know these are the things that you should go and look at and clean up. These are the PRs that need some love, haven't been touched in a while. Either close them or get them sorted. And that's like, no, one way you can sort of use AI with Kestra is have it generate code. And the main thing I like about this is Kestra doesn't need you to go and add Kestra's specific bits to your Python code. Any random Python script you've got, Kestra will just run the commands just like you will locally or wherever you may run your Python code. You can just run that in the workflow. So that's like one thing I really like. Because some different orchestrators, like airflow, for example, you have to write a lot of extra airflow stuff around your Python code. Which is not necessarily a bad thing. It's just different. And with the world of AI coding being more of a thing, Kestra's just sort of built for that direction, which is very nice. Yeah. I really love this feature. Like in the very beginning before the AI code pilot on Kestra, I need to understood how to call the Python script. And the first time I was trying to clone my repo inside Kestra and run the script, it's quite amazing. But took me, I watch a lot of your videos, actually, to figure out how to do it. But today is quite easy to do with the AI code pilot because you can just like in playing Portuguese or English. You can have your job done. Yeah, that's actually a really good point. The AI code pilot does make things very easy because I've heard some people, they'll just write entire their entire workflows via the AI code pilot. And then they'll just go and make a couple of tweaks. Maybe it's just changing a couple of names to point to the right things. But it's got the task with most of the information there. So they just go, oh, I want a thing to run every day at 9 AM. I wanted to run this Python script. I wanted to then use a file produced from that to send it somewhere. And it'll go, OK, I'll connect all those together for you. You just now need to go and rename things. But that's a big save in time rather than having to write it all yourself. So let's dive a little bit on the agent. Let's see what's going on. Yeah, so this workflow here only has one task in it, which is using that AI agent task that I talked about. As you can see here, like I said earlier, with the AI agent task, we can give it a provider. In this case here, I've given it the Google Gemini Provider, where I've just given it an API key so it can go and access Google Gemini. And I've told it which model I like it to use. And then after that, I've also got a prompt and then a system message. So I can then tell my agent how I want it to react, what I wanted to do. Effectively, I'm telling it that there's a goal, right? I have a clear goal I want to achieve. And I'm telling it that it can figure out, based on the information I'm giving it, how it can achieve that goal, and how I would like it to get to that end result. So I've told it here, I'd like it to summarize. Instructural the findings in a markdown format. And I believe this example is going to, yeah, it's going to save it as a dedicated file as well. So it knows, regardless of what I give it, which in this case is to research workflow and data orchestration trends, I could tell it's anything, right? And in theory, it will always produce me the response in that same format. So this system prompt is then very powerful. Which just allows you to separate the prompts, which in this case, I'm just dynamically pounding to the AI agent. This could maybe be from a different task. In fact, I actually had the AI agent task the other day with this Python script that was getting PRs. I gave it the raw content of a file and said, some of them make this a nice readable Slack message that I can then action on. Because at the moment, this is a big CSV file, and that's not hugely helpful to me. So I just gave it the CSV file in the system message. I told it to format it in a certain way. And then at the end, I was able to then send that response to Slack in another task. Now, if we scroll down a little bit further, we've also got a content retriever here, which in this case is the tavily web search. So now I'm telling my agent, you can go off and find things yourself. You don't have to rely just on your memory, which is, which is quite important. Because when I'm asking it for latest trends in workflow and data orchestration, the reality is it's training data is probably not going to have that information. It's probably going to be quite outdated. It's amazing about tooling. Actually, I never saw before these Docker MECP clients. So it's amazing. So here are the channels. We have a lot of contents about like AI. And of course, the AI agents today is like basically the model and the tools. So as you have like the possibility to add MECP, it's becoming like a carry. That's the thing. You can have it connect to any MCP server. So yeah, if there's a tool that has an MCP server, then the Kestia AI agent can connect to it. It's as simple as that. Yeah, very cool. And about the tool like a content retrieval. For instance, you have other content retrievals there, or maybe someone can develop a new one. How does it work? Yeah, so we've got a repository called plug-in-AI. And that's where all of the tools that we support, the providers as well. So maybe there's a model out there from a new provider I haven't heard of. I think we've done a pretty good job of supporting all the providers that I'll pop you up. But maybe there's some providers out there that are open source or something. You could then go and contribute a provider. You could go contribute new content retrievers. But even if you don't want to contribute them, you can open issues and make suggestions and say, oh, it'd be great if you guys could add a content retriever for a different web search. Or for something else. So yeah, there's loads of opportunities there. I'll send a, I'll open up the plug-in-AI repository in a bit if you want to be able to have a look at that. Yeah. But yeah, this gives you lots of opportunity to both build your own custom ones. But you could also use the ones out of the box. Or you could use an MCP server to sort of interact with this AI agent too. Yeah, so before that, something that's quite important, that you can see here on the screen is the secret. Like, for instance, if you are using some kind of service like the web search or like you're in the model, you need to provide the API key, right? And actually, you don't want to ever want that have access to your demo. See the thing, right? It's not good for anyone. So how can you handle the secret? Yeah, I said, like I said earlier, it's really helpful having everything about the workflow being inside this yaml. But it also means that if you want to put that in GitHub, you're also going to expose to any keys or anything. So being able to use a secret, which I'm using the enterprise edition here, which you can do in the UI, but it's quite easy to add a secret in your Docker Compose configuration, just as an environment variable. And then you can just reference it like so. And then the other nice thing is this won't appear in any logs. So we've asked, you don't need to worry about any of your logs or execution histories showing this secret, unmasked. So that's also quite nice. Yeah, very cool. So for instance, this agent like I sent a message and they respond. But it is stateless or stateful or you have some way to handle with that on Kestra today. Yeah, there's actually a way of handling this. We have this concept called the key value store in Kestra. And you can actually use that as a memory for your AI agent. I actually have an example I can bring out. Let me find it. The uses two different agents. Let me just bring this up. So using the key value store, in this case, as the AI agents memory, this allows us to get a little bit of state between these. Now these are two completely separate AI agent tasks. They're going to run completely isolated to one another. But the key thing is we've now given it in a memory. And we've told it, it can store some messages. And it's going to remember it for one minute. So it means in this case, if we don't want the memory to be used in future executions, we can set that to longer or shorter times. Now the thing that's really nice is in this kind of thing, I am John. I live in New York. So then when the next one asks, what's my name or where do I live? It can go and fetch that from the memory. So if I actually execute this, I'm actually going to change the provider here to be Gemini. Because I'm not convinced I actually have an OpenAI API key. We will just double check. We'll just change that quickly to use Google Gemini. So now if I execute... Yeah, it's pretty easy to change the problem. I could have just used the author completely. Everything else is handled wonderfully. Yeah, exactly. So if I press execute now, you'll see that it started the execution. Like so, we get this wonderful Gantt chart. And we can see that the first agent has run. If I clear the log level here, like so, we can see that it's taken in that message. And it would have added that to the memory now. And we can see here that it knows our name is John and that we live in New York. With this idea of a handle in states, you can combine both the agents and the workflow. You can have multiple steps, multiple tasks, do something. At some point, call the agent to do something that I can do very well. Yeah, exactly. It means that you could have agents in completely different workflows, running completely different goals. But because of all of this statefulness, maybe you'll have it set that their system prompt is all very similar or something, or that they're all using the same memory. But it means you can sort of slowly over time build up an AI agent to respond in the way you want it to interact. Which is very good because AI is obviously non-deterministic. So one thing you've got to be careful with with an AI workflow is, well, it is great. And if I run this multiple times, it's probably going to give me the same response when I ask it, what's my name and where do I live. But that's not guaranteed, which is where a traditional workflow in some cases is definitely better because you give it the same inputs and you'll always get the same outputs. But with an AI workflow, you give it the same inputs, you might get the same output, but you might also not. And in some scenarios, that's fine. If you don't need it to be exactly replicable, then it doesn't matter. And that's where I love the fact that AI agents work, how they work in Keshebro, because it now means you can have workflows that are repeatable, but you can also have workflows that can take data. The input's not necessarily consistent, so you can take completely different input data. And then it will go and get the result, even though the input wasn't consistent, which I think is really smart. I have a community here in Brazil with some developers. And every Sunday, I sent in a message about what's happened on Discord the week. So I used GuestRat to that. So I went through the Discord API, fed the data, put on my database, second step. I call, again, the database, and read the data, the data of the week, of course. And call these AI agents using some kind of tricky prompt, I think. And the agent created a response. And by the end of the day, they send, they may be using like the RISAN API or something like this. And it's work flourless, like every Sunday, everything is happening very easy to do. And it's amazing because, by the way, the fact that I can change the answer, of course, sometimes if you need like some structure, outputs, if I say, like if you have like some kind of research or something like like you showed before, you can actually like use like a prompt technique to improve like the output. And it's amazing because you can do everything like a one demo, and you have something else like everything connected and just running. So I use GuestRat every day, as I said, like it's like a my main tool. I really believe that you are in a phase of like your industry on building platforms are a big thing right now because you have like a lot of operations inside the business. People want to automate everything inside the business. People want to put agents. People want to create the automations. And GuestRat can be like a very solid piece of software in your infrastructure, as general. How do you see this whole thing right now to wrap up your conversation? Yeah, it's very interesting sort of the way the world's going. Agentsic orchestration is still a word that a lot of people don't understand. And it's a lot of things, it's really interesting because loads of people have interacted with AI agents. Right. That's people have tried these sort of prompting tools and they've tried them. But if you said to someone, okay, now put that into production in an automation, they would have no idea how to best go around doing something like that. And that's where tools like Kestra are. So always I would say ahead of the curve. Like there's obviously people like people watching this video who are interested in doing that. But there's a lot of people who don't even know how to get started. So I think for us as Kestra, it's an interesting time to sort of educate people about what even is this AI workflow world and why it can be useful. But it's also keeping an eye on the trends as well. Because at the moment, the main thing I find useful for AI agents and sounds like you're using this sort of use case as well, which is to basically go and get lots of information. Well, you go and fetch information and then you use AI to summarize it and help figure out what to do with that information. That seems to be like a common use case I see. But I'm sure that will evolve over time as one models get more advanced and complex, the providers and tools, MCP servers that get better. As all of these things evolve, right? The way we'll be using agents in a year or two's time will be completely different, I'm sure. Yeah, absolutely. I'm in this think of AI agents like a two years, like a full time. And you start just with like the workflow. And you have like one step, another step. And okay, you put the AI here, but the idea was in the very beginning workflow. So you create some kind of, okay, you can create a chain, you create a, you can create a router and so on. And that was the first place. So later on, people figure out like they'll react to agents, think. And you have something like this right now. And at this very moment, you are like in hardness, like you have like some kind of codex and cloud code and GPS agents. So the things keep it going. We are discovering and figure out how to work with this thing to be honest. Everyone else that are in industry right now are trying to figure out how to extract the best of the models and remove the downsides because you have those signs here and there. Oh, yeah. Right. And that's amazing. And that's why I would like to bring you here as well because you have a lot of noise in the market, right. Some people claim that they do everything magically. But in the day to day work, I say, guys, you can do a lot of things. But actually you can, you need to work a lot like a, it's a work. It's not like a magical thing. And bringing it, yeah, right. And bringing here, bringing you here on the channel is like, okay, let's listen to someone else outside of Brazilian bubble. We've heard a vision about what's going on and I think is the same, right. There is a lot of work to do to make things work well. And that's why Kester is amazing because it's like a help a lot through like the process of great like AI, a lot of forms or something like that. Yeah, I think the building process in Kester makes being able to like take just talking to an AI chatbot to actually building something that's automated. It makes that building process quite fun and quite experimental. You can try things. You can tweak with different system prompts. You can try using different tools. And I find that that is, well, when I first started trying to do AI stuff with Kester, I was like, I do not understand why you would want to automate with a model. Like, I can't understand a use case for this. And the more you play around with it in Kester and the more we add to the AI agent itself, you go, okay, there's a lot you can do here. And there's a skill set in understanding how to get the most out of a model, picking which model, right. I'm quite a fan at the moment of using Gemini 3, but I also know a lot of people are very fond of some of the Claude models. I think GPC 5.2 is pretty good too, but it's one of those things where it's like, you've got to keep on top of the models. One day, the GPC models are not very good, but a few weeks later, they're the ones that are class leading, or really good for the thing you're doing. And being on top of all of that and knowing what's best for you is, like you say, it's a lot of work. It's not, you just ask a question to a chatbot, and it's all of a sudden comes back and goes, yeah, easy, I didn't have to do any work. It's all about knowing how to talk to them, and knowing how to get them to actually do things, because another thing that the Keshe AI agent does, and I can actually show you this with documentation quickly, if I just put that here, is obviously with agents, you do want them to not just give you a big waffle of text when they respond to you. That is obviously sometimes useful, but sometimes you want them to give you data in some sort of data structure, whether that's a JSON or whatever. And so a lot of the AI models, if you've used them before, the APIs will support a thing called structured output, and Keshe AI believe does have support for structured output, if we can find it. There we go. Under chat configuration, you can do response format, and so you can give it a JSON schema, and I've done this before, actually, where I have gone, hey, I would love to, in fact, I can show you on the Keshe AI website, on the Blueprints, which is a great place also, if you want to start building with AI with Keshe AI, have a look at the Blueprints, and some ready-to-made examples, you can just click on them, click copy and paste into Keshe AI, and away you go. Now, I did this silly one here that was all about basically asking AI, whether the weather was suitable to do sport, but the key thing is I use a JSON schema here this is using the actual Gemini plugin, rather than the AI agent one, but it's fundamentally the same. I've basically gone, give me a Boolean, right? I want you just to tell me, true or false, is it suitable? Is it not? I don't want you to, because if you ask it to do that, without a structured output, you end up getting, sometimes it will say, yes, sometimes it will say, different things. They all mean yes, but they will just use different words, and then if you put that into an if statement, which I'm doing down here, if it doesn't say exactly the word you're looking for, then your whole workflow breaks. Using a response schema makes building a workflow where you can actually then take steps of going, okay, AI has determined that this should be true, then do these things. In this case, I've told it to notify me and block my calendar if the weather is suitable, but if it's not, I've told it to do nothing, so it doesn't, I don't need it to tell me that it's not good, that will just make me sad that the weather's not good. So, yeah, this is all another really powerful thing that I think I also opened me up to understanding, oh, you can build things with AI and automation, because I can actually get a somewhat reliable response from it. Yeah, you can create some kind of classifier and create like some kind of workflows by your own dad, and use the AI to figure out the whole idea and point out if you know that the output will be in the way that you expect. It's amazing. I use a lot of these on, like when I use Houter on like a length graphic, because it's the same. You have the data coming, like a natural language, people need to figure out how, the model needs to figure out how to, okay, I figure out the answer, but, so what? So, it's a good output, it's amazing, and it's amazing to know that Kestros support this already. I didn't know, to be honest. Yeah, it's one of these things, I mean, that's just AI in a nutshell, like there's, I didn't know that it's existed until I looked through the OpenAI Responses API, and I was like, oh wow, okay. There's a lot of things that you can get from this, that you don't necessarily realize when you're interacting with these agents, but it does make building workflows a hell of a lot easier. Everything that are on the OpenAI endpoint, you can find out here on the Kestros, for instance, the structure output, because if you use, like, the single OpenAI, you have the parameter. I'm not sure how you implement this on Kestros, but just a matter of curiosity. Yeah, I mean, for the most part, the, so there's sort of two sides of the AI tasks in Kestros. You've got our agent, which is very similar to, like, the OpenAI Responses API, where a lot of the sort of properties you would see are similar. For context, this is actually built on top of, it's built on top of one of the, I think it's built on top of a Lang chain. I think it's built on top of Lang4j, I do believe. Lang4j. The last time I saw, I was through the documentation, and then, how the guys do this, because Kestros is Java, I think, on the hood. And, yes, right. And they don't have Lang chain on Java. So, I was there, and I figured out it was like a Lang4j or something like that. Yeah, that sounds right. So, that's how we then add the providers and so on like this. And it means you can then use that up one, in this case, right? These could run different models, but the actual setting up the task with the responses and stuff is the same. So, there's that side. But then, if we go over to this one, which is using the Gemini plugin, this might be a little bit more up to date, because if Google announces a new API, we can then just basically replicate that, so that you can then start building a workflow with it. So, if they change it or make it more powerful, you can do that here. But fundamentally, they are very similar in the properties and how you use them. It's just different task types. Yeah, very cool. So, how people can use Kestros today? Yeah, so, you can go to our Documents, and you can run Kestros through Docker Compos. So, at the moment, Kestros is only self-hosted. We've got a cloud version coming in the future. But for now, you can go to our documentation, download the Docker Compose file, which has a database and a Kestro container. So, you don't have to, like, set that up manually, which someone tells you to do. Just run Docker Compose up, and then you'll be presented with a Kestro homepage that looks a little bit like this. So, this then gives you the flexibility to start building workflow straight away without any limitations. Now, this obviously, I imagine is a big question for people who want to then have Kestro running, like, in the background somewhere, so they can keep running automations. I've not tried it, but I am curious if you could run Kestro on something like a Raspberry Pi or on a, you know, a small computer. Isn't there a trend at the moment where everyone's buying, like, Mac minis to run OpenClaw? It's like, yeah. Yeah. Maybe you could do something like that if you can get hands on what that is. But, yeah, I don't think you need to go quite that extreme. It depends on what kind of workflows you're running in Kestro on how much computing you need. But you can also actually run it on big cloud platforms. We've actually got, we're on the AWS and the Azure marketplace. So, if you want to be able to just spin up an easy two instance with Kestro up and running, has a database set up and S3 storage for your files. Just click that, it will set it up and then you can decide how big or small Kestro is and how much you want to run it. So, that's also an option if you are looking for hosting Kestro in the cloud. Yeah. There is another option that I saw another day on Rayway. I don't know if you know the service. Oh, yeah, I've heard it all the way. Yeah. And they have like something like a just like a template and you can Kestro there and that's it. Everything running. I've never seen Rayway but I've heard really good things about it. Yeah, maybe that's where I've been looking. Yeah, it's quite easy. I'm not like the Rayway guide do not pay me. Okay, I just think the service is good. But yeah, no, it's too product. Yeah, yeah, it's cool. So, well, thanks so much for your time here with us. I'm really glad that you save some time to talk with us. So, everyone else asked about Kestro. Learn more. You can go through the Kestro channel. We will be there and we will show a lot of things. Of course, today here you cannot show everything that Kestro has because Kestro has a lot of things. And we will show then step by step there on the channel. Okay, so we'll say goodbye to your Brazilian fans. Well, thank you everyone for watching. Yeah, if you want to learn more about Kestro, I mean, we've only talked about AI today but Kestro can really do all sorts of things whether it's data, infrastructure, business or AI. It can do it all. So, if you're interested in learning about other things you can do at Kestro, definitely recommend checking out our YouTube channel where we've got guides and tutorials on all those different use cases and maybe Kestro will be a great tool for you because what we often find is people like you and Kestro because it doesn't really have any limits. If you want to do AI agents with Python, with whatever else it is, it can do it. Right? It might not look very pretty when you're building the workflow but if that's what you want it to do, then it can do it, which yeah. So, I'm excited to hear what everyone gets building with Kestro. Yeah, you should definitely let us know in the comments below and I'm curious to hear what kind of workflows you're building. Yeah, pretty cool. Kestro is a big deal. I use Kestro. I start to talk about Kestro here in the YouTube. Later on in the community, I show people how to use Kestro like to do like a data thing and basic automations and I really believe that people can just like a sping up the cluster, try out or try locally. Feel the thing like a and start to open the mind like for the possibilities because you can do a lot of stuff there. So, thanks so much. Well, see you soon. Yeah, thank you very much. Bye.