---
video_title: "we need to talk..."
video_id: Q8Sb2ox0fls
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q8Sb2ox0fls
video_date: 2025-06-27
video_description: |
  Head over to https://bit.ly/3TuH6Cy and use code JAYDONE at check-out for 10% off your order!
  
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
---
It's been a little over 9 months since I launched this channel. And I recently gained over 100,000 subscribers. I genuinely would have never guessed I'd make it this far, and you guys have literally changed my life in ways I cannot even begin to describe. So, from the bottom of my heart, thank you very much. But with that being said, I think it's about time I tell you all more about who I am as a person, as I have literally never talked about myself on this channel. And for some reason, many

of you think I'm just an AI voice. So, what better way to learn about someone than looking into their ancestral roots? This video is brought to you by Adentro. I was born and raised smack dab in the great United States of America. And for any of you even somewhat familiar with this area, many of us white folk aren't that in touch with our ancestral or cultural roots. So because of that fact,

I genuinely have no clue where my ancestors are from. I'm a pretty hairy man, so I always assumed I might be part Italian or something, but other than that, it is literally a complete shot in the dark of me trying to guess where I'm from. So, this is why I'm very happy to say that the lovely people at Adro have reached out to me and sent me a DNA test kit so I could find out where my ancestors originate from. After weeks of waiting, my results are finally here, and I'm very excited to jump right into this. But before that though, for those of you who are not familiar with that intro, they're a Spanish biotech company that specializes in analyzing DNA. Their

website is very easy to navigate. They offer great options for testing kits. And if you've already taken a DNA test with companies such as My Heritage, 23 andMe, or Ancestry DNA, you don't even need to buy a new kit. And you can just upload the file of your results onto the website and it will just provide you with all the information. If any of this interests you, make sure to go to adenttro.com and use code jdon at

checkout for 10% off your order. Anyways, with all that being said, it's time to finally jump into my results. Okay, I'm on the website. So, if I just go to Ancestry and Ancestry Report, I should be able to see my results. I briefly glanced at this about a week ago just so I can make sure everything is here, but I didn't look too much into my results so I could have my first time reaction here for you guys. So, I'm 37%

Dutch and Belgian. I always thought maybe Italian or maybe Irish. Those were like my only two guesses really. It does say I have 10% British and Irish. Okay, it says right here actually Scottish and Irish. That makes sense. I'm surprised I

have 0% Italian. I thought that's what I would mostly be is Italian. What the So I'm mostly Dutch and Belgian or Dutch, not Belgian. I'm just mo Okay. I'm mostly Dutch. So then I also have

10% Austrian and 4% Hungarian. Okay. So that's 79% northwestern Europe, 14% central Europe, and now we have 4% Southern Europe, Greek and Balkan. I have some Serbian, Bosnian, Croatian. Okay. And then I have 3% other traces.

So, okay, I guess I got a little bit of Italian in me, but not enough to call myself Italian. But that's the first page of this website, just going over the historical and ancestral roots. Fun facts related to nutrition. Farmer versus hunter. Okay, I'm going to guess I'm a hunter. Like, come on. Look at me.

Look at how I'm built. I'm definitely a Okay, I'm a farmer. That's fine. Metabolizers. I have an intermediate metabolism to caffeine. I actually do

not consume like caffeine at all. I have an intermediate metabolism to alcohol. I also don't consume alcohol at all. So, these don't really matter to me, but we already know that I'm genetically built like an athlete. Like, come on. This is

this is going to be obvious. Your genetic predisposition compared to the population. Average is average. All right. I mean, that makes more sense than what I was saying, but below average muscle building. Oh, no. Below

average power, low extreme sports. Okay. I do have high endurance. Above average. That is true. I used to go on runs quite

a bit and my endurance is pretty good. I I can run for quite a while. Athletic ability average. Damn, why are they exposing me like this? Heart rate recovery. Okay, average to high. That's

That's pretty good. Heart rate increase. Oh, that's also average to high. That I don't Maybe that's not good. Recommended sports: marathon, cycling, soccer. I've

barely done really any of these in my life. But I've always had an interest in running. It's always something I've enjoyed doing. So, that's good to know that it's recommended to me to do a marathon. Maybe I'll do one at some point. And it'll all be because of Adro.

Okay. So, now we're on behavior. So, for agreeableness, it says I'm around the average. Maybe a little below average, more on the challenging side, but overall pretty average. It's not that bad. Tendency to experience negative

emotions, sensitive, nervous. I don't think that's true, actually. I'd say I'm more on the secure confident, but hey, now we're on the addictions, hormones, and risk section. Gambling very, very high. I've never gambled. I never plan

to gamble. Maybe it's for the best. I don't. Sugar consumption is also high. I consume a lot of sugar. I'm not going to

lie. Nicotine. I've got a medium more on the lower side. Okay. I've never consumed nicotine. Alcohol. I rarely

consume alcohol, but that's pretty medium. So, now we're on the health section. And all this is just saying this is not intended for medical purposes. And all these scores are relative to a reference population. Also, this is just for research andformational purposes. So, this is the

section I was most interested in. I want to see if I have a higher risk of any sort of health issues. So, let's just pull this band-aid off and scroll down. It's saying that I have more protection than the population average to hypertension, high blood pressure, and like heart problems and all that stuff. That's like one of my biggest fears in life. Actually, it's good that it's

saying I'm more protected than average to high blood pressure. That's good. Heart muscle due to buildup of plaque in the arteries of the heart. Oh no, it's saying I'm less protected than the average. My biggest fear is coming true.

I'm going to have heart problems. No, that's fine. It's saying that I don't really have too many problems with heart stuff, genetically speaking. Okay, this section is skin related stuff. Now we have here, holy this is the highest one. I have more predisposition

than the population average for acne. I think my face is pretty clear overall. I do have acne every once in a while, but nothing too bad. I have pretty bad backne though, so honestly that's fine if I have acne. If that's my biggest problem, then I'm okay with that.

Nervous. So in this section, I'm most protected against the leading cause of blindness. Okay, that's good. Restless leg syndrome. It can cause uncontrollable sensations in the legs and irresistible urges to move them.

This whole video I've been moving my legs like crazy. If you see me bouncing around, it's literally me moving my legs. I have ADHD, though, so I don't think I have restless leg syndrome. Reproductive. Let's see. It's saying I'm

more protected against this, which is the opening of the urethra on the other side of the penis instead of at the tip. What the? Okay, I'm glad I don't have that issue. Now, we're on the final section. Here, we will explore the connection between different skin traits and their impact on aging. Oh, it's

saying I have a youthful appearance. Is that Is that what it's saying here? Yeah, I I think I look pretty youthful. Guide for a better sleep. I actually sleep like a baby. Oh, look at that

right there. According to your genetic predisposition, your natural sleep duration is 7 hours 15 minutes. Yeah, I sleep about 7 hours. Okay, so now it's saying my reaction to pain. Calculate my score. I feel like I have a pretty

average pain tolerance. It hurts. I'm not exaggerating. Yeah, I'd say that's about me. Maybe it hurts normal, but I'll take a six. That's fine. Level of

relatedness. Okay, I'm horrible with names. I'm sorry if you're watching this, but Fire Blum, not related. Okay, Patri, not related. Okay, Morgan, not Am I going to be related? Jane, no. It

seems like I don't really have a strong relationship with anyone from the Ad Intro team. But hey, that's the end of this. Uh, what a cute little way to end this. I want to say again, thank you to Ad Intro for this. They gave me this kit completely for free. Honestly, it's

something that I would have paid for. This was all very interesting to learn about from just seeing my ancestry report and learning that I'm not Italian and mostly Dutch. looking into my health, behavior, nutrition, and everything. This was pretty cool. If any of you are interested in looking at your results, go to adinttro.com

and use code jdun for 10% off your order at checkout. And if any of you go do this or have done this, let me know what your results are in the comments. But yeah, I'm happy I was able to switch up the content a bit from the usual stuff. Don't worry, we're going to get right back to the usual stuff from here on out. Don't expect many videos like this one in the future. I just thought this

would be a cool little thing to do for 100,000 subscribers. So, thank you guys very much for that. again. It really does mean a lot to me. And thank you for watching. Thanks again to Ad Intro for

sponsoring this video. And until the next one, goodbye.