---
video_title: "The Most Evil People in History Explained"
video_id: QC4WjwnERWk
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QC4WjwnERWk
video_date: 2025-09-22T19:00:31+00:00
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Genghis Khan
  1:20 - Torquemada
  3:16 - Vlad III
  4:42 - Ivan IV
  6:07 - Robespierre
  7:29 - Leopold II
  8:57 - Stalin
  10:55 - Mussolini
  12:02 - Hideki Tojo
  13:38 - Hitler
  14:43 - Franco
  16:15 - Mao Zedong
  17:43 - Kim Il-Sung
  19:22 - Pol Pot
  20:44 - Idi Amin
---
Genghis Khan, born around 1162, was the founder of the Mongol Empire, and one of the most feared conquerors the world has ever known. His campaigns were soaked in blood and tear. In the level of destruction he unleashed his few parallels in human history, the clearest example of his cruelty was the siege of Merv, in 1221. When the city surrendered, instead of showing mercy, his forces massacred nearly the entire population. Contemporary accounts suggest between 700,000 and 1.3 million people were killed. Wealthy citizens were tortured for treasure, and the city itself was burned to the ground. Another infamous campaign was against the Quares-Mien Empire. After a Mongol trade caravan was executed, and their ambassador killed, Genghis Khan saw revenge. What followed was one of the most brutal retaliations in history, cities were destroyed, populations wiped out, and the Shah hunted across deserts. Historians estimate millions were killed, with Persia's population declining so severely that it took centuries to recover. It is estimated that his conquest killed around 40 million people, nearly 11% of the global population at the time. Genghis Khan's legacy is not only empire building, but also unmatched brutality, mass killings, and the use of tear as a weapon that scarred civilizations for generations. Tomas de Torqumada, the first Grand Inquisitor of the Spanish Inquisition, has gone down in history as one of the most feared and hated men of the late Middle Ages. Appointed in 1483, he turned the Inquisition into a weapon of terror, punishing not just heresy, but entire communities through fear, torture, and death. Torqumada focused much of his attention, on converts, Jews and Muslims who had converted to Christianity, but were suspected of secretly practicing their old religions. Proof was rarely needed. People could be accused based on rumors, jealousy, or personal grudges. Once accused, victims were hauled before inquisitors, and subjected to brutal torture until they confessed. The Strapato was a favorite method. Victims had their hands tied behind their backs and were raised into the air by ropes, often until their shoulders snapped from their sockets. Another device, the rack, stretched bodies until their muscles tore and joined broke. There was also the water torture, where water was poured down a prisoner's throat until they felt like they were drowning. A primitive version of what today we call waterboarding. Under such agony, many confessed to crimes they never committed, sealing their fate at the stake. Public executions, known as acts of faith, were very common. Entire families, sometimes even children, were paraded in front of crowds before being burned alive. These events served as both punishment and a warning to anyone who might defy the church. Torquemata's cruelty reached beyond torture chambers. He played a leading role in the 1492, Edict of Expulsion, which forced Spain's Jews to convert or leave. Historians debate the numbers, but estimates range from 40,000 to as many as 200,000 people forced into exile. Many were robbed, starved, or killed along the way, ending centuries of Jewish life in Spain almost overnight. By his death in 1498, thousands had been tortured, around 2000 burned alive, and entire communities destroyed. Vlad III of Wallachia, remember it is Vlad the Impaler, is one of the most sadistic rulers in history. Some Romanian still call him a defender for fighting against the powerful Ottoman Empire, but the cruelty of his methods makes him stand out as a figure of pure terror. His signature punishment was impelement, and it was designed to make death as slow and painful as possible. Victims were stripped naked, tied down, and forced onto sharpened wooden stakes that pierced their bodies. The stake was pushed through the rectum of a jaina and carefully angled, so it would come through the chest, shoulder, or even the mouth. This way, the victim did not die quickly. Instead, they could remain alive for hours or even days. Chronicles of the time wrote about entire forests of the impaled. Roads and battlefields were filled, with thousands of corpses left to rot. The air thick with the stench, one account describes how in 1462, Sultan Mehmed II advanced on Vlad's capital, only to find 20,000 Ottoman prisoners impaled outside the city of Targavise. The site was so horrifying that the Sultan himself turned back and discussed. Vlad's brutality was not about justice or survival, it was about enjoying power through suffering. He became such a symbol of inhuman cruelty that later legends transformed him into the model for Count Dracula. To this day, Vlad the impalers remembered not just as a ruler, but as a monster whose crimes blurred the line between history and nightmare. Ivan was a ruler so paranoid and violent that even his own people lived in constant terror. Crowned as Russia's first Tsar in 1547, Ivan started as a promising leader, but his reign soon descended into one of the darkest and bloodiest in European history. In 1565, Ivan created the O'Prichnina, his private army of Black clad enforcers. These men became the instrument of his cruelty, storming towns, seizing property, and slaughtering anyone he suspected of this loyalty. Victims were tortured with fire, stretched on racks, boiled in hot oil, or impaled. Their death meant to serve as lessons and obedience. One of his most infamous acts was the massacre of Navgorod in 1570, convinced the city was plotting treason. Ivan's men drowned thousands and frozen rivers, burned families alive, and executed citizens in the streets. His story and estimate tens of thousands died in just a few weeks, in atrocities so shocking that it left the city devastated for generations. Ivan's paranoia also destroyed his own family, and one outburst of rage. He struck and killed his eldest son, Ivan Ivanovich, the very heir who was meant to succeed him. By the time Ivan the terrible died in 1584, Russia was weakened, traumatized, and drenched in fear. His name remains a warning from history. When paranoia and absolute power collide, the result is nothing short of terrifying. Maximilian Robespierre was a leader during the French Revolution, and he is remembered for one of the bloodiest periods in history, the reign of terror. This was from 1793 to 1794. A time when the government used fear to control people, Robespierre believed that the way to protect the revolution was to kill anyone who seemed like an enemy. At first, Robespierre spoke about freedom and equality, but soon he became the man who made executions in every day event. He pushed through a law called the law of suspects, which meant that almost anyone could be arrested. You did not need proof. If someone whispered that you were against the revolution, you could be dragged away. Even small things, like not showing enough excitement for the revolution, were treated as crimes. About 300,000 people were arrested during this time. Around 17,000 were officially executed, and thousands more died in prisons or were killed without proper trials. Trials were also shortened on fear. People could not have lawyers, and sometimes there was not even real evidence. The jury had two choices. Let you go or send you to death. People lived in constant worry that they might say or do something wrong and lose their lives. Families were destroyed, whole communities were silenced, and in the end, Robespierre himself was arrested. His enemies turned against him, and in July 1794, he was executed by the very machine he used to kill others. King Leopold II of Belgium is one of history's most brutal rulers. He took control of the Congo in the late 1800s, not for his country, but as his personal property. He called it the Congo free state, but there was nothing free about it. Leopold wanted rubber and ivory because they were valuable in Europe. To get them, he forced the local people to work. Soldiers went from village to village demanding the people collect rubber from vines in the forest. The targets were so high that it was almost impossible to meet them. If workers failed, the punishment were horrifying. One of the cruelest punishment was cutting off hands. Soldiers were told to bring back a hand for every bullet they used. Prove they had not wasted ammunition. This led to people having their hands chopped off even children. Sometimes the soldiers killed people first. Sometimes they cut off hands while people were still alive. Villages that did not obey had their homes burned down. Families were held hostage to force men to work. People were whipped, tortured and killed. This was a system of tear designed to squeeze profit out of human suffering. Historians believe that between 1 million and 10 million people died. Under Leopold's rule, some say it may have been as high as 15 million. If you count those who died from hunger and disease caused by the chaos, Leopold hit his crimes for years, but eventually missionaries, travelers and even some of his own officers exposed the truth. International pressure forced Belgium to take control of the Congo away from him in 1908. Joseph Stalin ruled the Soviet Union from the mid 1920s until his death in 1953 and his reign turned into one of the deadliest in history. One of the most terrifying systems was the Gulag. A Gulag was a forced labor camp, often located in frozen wastelands of Siberia. People sent there were not always criminals. Many were simply accused of being enemies of the people, which could mean disagreeing with Stalin, having the wrong friends, or even being in the wrong place at the wrong time. Prisoners were worked to death cutting trees, mining or building roads. They starved, froze, and suffered beatings. Millions passed through these camps, and at least one and a half million never came out alive. Stalin also forced farmers into collectivization. This meant taking away their lands and animals and making everyone work on giant state farms. Anyone who resisted, especially wealthier farmers, was arrested, shot or deported to die in the wilderness. This policy led to one of his greatest crimes. The Ukrainian famine of 1932 to 1933, known as the Halatomor, crops were seized, villages were left with nothing, and millions starved to death. Many believed Stalin did this deliberately to crush Ukraine's independence. Then came the great purge in the late 1930s. Stalin ordered secret police to arrest and execute anyone he suspected of disloyalty, politicians, generals, teachers, and even ordinary citizens were killed or sent to camps. Sometimes quotas were given, meaning local officials had to arrest a certain number of people, guilty or not. Families were torn apart overnight. One horrifying case was the Nazino tragedy. Thousands of prisoners were dumped on a deserted Siberian island with no shelter or food. Many froze or starved, and some resorted to cannibalism to survive. Stalin's rule was not just about mistakes or poor leadership. He used our evasion, forced labor, and mass executions as deliberate tools to control people. He turned fear into government policy. Benito Mussolini ruled Italy from 1922 to 1945. He was the founder of fascism, an ideology that glorified violence, dictatorship, and absolute control. Mussolini's crimes show how far he was willing to go to keep power and expand Italy's empire. In Libya, entire tribes of Bedouin were forced from their homes. People were locked in concentration camps with little food, medicine or water. Thousands died of disease, hunger, or exposure. Italian forces poisoned wells, destroyed villages, and slaughtered livestock so survivors had no way to live. The goal is to wipe out resistance and make way for Italian settlers. Mussolini also used banned weapons. In Ethiopia, his soldiers dropped mustard gas from airplanes. Mustard gas burns the skin, blinds the eyes, and destroys the lungs. It was banded war. Yet Mussolini ordered it anyway to crush the Ethiopian people. Mussolini's reign ended violently. In 1945, as Italy collapsed, he was captured and executed by partisans, the very people who had once suffered under his rule. Hideki Tojo was the prime minister of Japan. During most of World War II, he was also the minister of war. That meant he was not just a politician. He was also in charge of the army. Tojo helped guide Japan's military plans that led to terrible suffering across Asia. One of the darkest parts of Japan's war program was something called Unit 731. This was a secret military research group in occupied China. There, Japanese doctors and scientists carried out human experiments. These were not normal medical experiments. Prisoners were used against their will to test things like biological weapons, deadly diseases, frostbite, and even surgery without pain medicine. Japanese forces under Tojo also became infamous for their harsh treatment of prisoners of war. A clear example is the baton death march in the Philippines. After the Japanese army won a battle there in 1942, they forced over 76,000 captured soldiers, both American and Filipino, to march nearly 65 miles. There was almost no food or water. Many were beaten or shot at they slowed down. Thousands died on the road before they ever reached the prison camps. Another crime tied to the Japanese army was the comfort women system. Women from many countries, especially Korea and China, were taken and forced to serve as sexual slaves for Japanese soldiers. They were kidnapped, tricked, or threatened, and the traumas stayed with them forever. After Japan lost the war, Tojo was arrested and put on trial at the Tokyo War Cribs Tribunal. He was found guilty of crimes against peace and war crimes, and he was executed in 1948. Adolf Hitler was the leader of Nazi Germany, and under his rule that country carried out one of the greatest crimes in human history, his ideas about race and power were not just beliefs. They became state policy. Hitler believed that some people were superior, and others were inferior or even dangerous. These racist beliefs became the reason for organized mass killings. The most infamous crime was the Holocaust. At first, Jews were forced into ghettos, which were closed neighborhoods with poor living conditions. Later, they were deported on trains to concentration camps or extermination camps. Many of these camps used gas chambers, where poison gas was used to kill large groups at once. Afterwards, bodies were burned in ovens. Six million Jewish people were killed in this system, along with millions of others, including Roma people, disabled people, and political prisoners. Hitler rarely killed with his own hands, but he created a system where the law, the police, the army, and even businesses worked together to carry out mass killings. By 1945, millions of lives had been destroyed. Francisco Franco ruled Spain from 1939 until his death in 1975. His rule came after the Spanish Civil War, and it turned the country into a place of fear and silence. Historians called the killings and punishments carried out by a side the white terror. That phrase basically means widespread violence against anyone who is not loyal. This included mass executions, torture, force labor, in this stripping away of rights. Estimates vary, but many historians say hundreds of thousands died because of Franco's repression. After the war, Franco did not forgive a rebuild. Instead, he punished teachers, writers, union leaders, and political opponents were arrested. Many were executed by firing squads. Others were locked in overcrowded prisons where hunger and disease finished what the bullets did not. Families of suspected enemies often suffered too, losing their property or being forced into silence. The cruelty was not only physical, Franco banned regional languages, shut down political parties, and censored books and newspapers. Speaking freely became dangerous. Whole communities were erased from public life, and countless people fled into exile. To this day, families still searched for the bodies of loved ones buried in unmarked graves. This was not a moment of wartime violence that ended with peace. It became a system lasting for decades that turned daily life into a prison for millions. Franco used the police, the courts, and the army to silence an entire nation, ensuring his power stayed unchallenged. Mao Zedong, the leader of Communist China from 1949, changed the country forever, but his rule also caused some of the deadliest disasters in human history. Two of his campaigns, the Great Leap Forward, and the Cultural Revolution, left tens of millions dead or broken. The Great Leap Forward began in 1958. It was Mao's plan to make China richer and stronger by quickly boosting farming and industry. He forced millions of farmers into giant groups called communes. These communes were supposed to share everything, but they reportedly managed. Local officials had to report big harvest numbers. In many lie to please Mao, the state then collected the food that did not exist, leaving villages to starve. People caught hiding food or beaten or killed. The result was famine on a massive scale. Historians estimate that between 15 and 45 million people died. Then came the cultural revolution in 1966. Mao urged young people, called the Red Guards, to attack anyone seen as against the revolution. Teachers, artists, and even government officials were humiliated, beaten or killed. Ancient temples, books, and art were destroyed. Millions of families were torn apart, and countless lives were ruined. Mao also used harsh land reforms and political purges, where so-called enemies were executed or sent to labor camps. In trying to shape a perfect society, millions were left to starve, suffer or die. His policies did not just fail, they crushed generations of Chinese citizens. Kim Il Sung is remembered as the man who created North Korea, but also as the one who trapped its people in a cage of fear. After the Korean war, he did not just rule. He made sure no one could ever challenge him. In 1956, when rival party members tried to remove him, Kim responded with brutal purges. Thousands of people, including their families, were sent away or executed, leaving behind a trail of broken lives. He also built something called the Song Bun System. Song Bun is like a permanent label for each family. If your family was considered loyal to Kim, you could get good jobs, live in better areas, and even have better food. If your family was seen as disloyal, you were pushed into the lowest ranks of society. It did not matter how hard you worked, or who you were as a person. You were stuck in the status your family had been given. Children paid for the so-called crimes of their grandparents. Kim also built a vast network of prison camps, known for their brutal conditions. People were forced to work long hours with little food, often until they died. Stories from survivors described torture, starvation, and guards treating prisoners as less than human. Entire families were locked away for decades because one person was accused of speaking against the state. On top of all this, Kim demanded worship. His face was everywhere. In schools, homes, and public spaces, people had a bow to his pictures, memorizes speeches, and prays them as if he was more than human. This was not just respect, it was forced devotion, and anyone who refused could be punished. Kim Il-sung built a state where fear, loyalty test, and punishment were normal, and millions are still living under that shadow today. Polpa was the leader of the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia. From 1975 to 1979, he believed he could turn Cambodia into a completely new kind of society. One where everyone worked as farmers and lived in small villages. He thought this would erase all social classes, and he saw cities, schools, money, and even religion as enemies to his plan. When his forces took over the capital city, up in Nam Pinh, they ordered everyone to leave their homes immediately. Polpa claimed this was to start a new beginning, but what followed became one of the darkest chapters in modern history. People were sent to harsh labor camps where they had a work in the fields, from sunrise to sunset with a very little food. Anyone who was educated, such as teachers, doctors, or people who even wore glasses, was seen as a threat, because Polpa thought they might question his ideas. Many of these people were killed. Religion was banned, so monks in priests were also targeted. The Khmer Rouge also built prisons, like the infamous Toul sling, where people were tortured until they confessed to crimes they did not commit, then executed. Mass graves called the killing fields were filled, with the bodies of men, women, and children. Historians estimate that around 2 million people, nearly a quarter of Cambodia's population, died during his rule. Polpa wanted to create a pure society, but what he created instead was fear, suffering, and death on a massive scale. EDM, the former dictator of Uganda, turned an entire country into a place of terror during the 1970s. He seized power in 1971, and ruled with violence from the very beginning. Under his watch, an estimated 300,000 people were killed. Bodies were dumped in rivers or buried in mass graves. Families often never saw their loved ones again. He even targeted religious leaders. He also forced an entire community out of Uganda. In 1972, a meanic spell tens of thousands of Asians, many of whom had lived in Uganda for generations. He gave them only a few days to leave. Families lost homes, businesses, and property overnight. The economy collapsed after this, but a mean did not care. His focus was on tightening his grip through fear. Ordinary people lived in constant terror. Soldiers would show up without warning, and neighbors disappeared overnight. Survivors tell stories of torture chambers, where people were beaten, starved, and killed in horrifying ways. When a mean was finally removed from power in 1979, he fled into exile and never faced trial for his crimes. He lived comfortably abroad, while millions of Ugandan were left grieving. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like. Comment down below your thoughts on any of the evil historical figures I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part 2 or more videos like this one. Thank you again, and goodbye.