---
video_title: "The Most Devastating Mass Shootings Explained"
video_id: Ug5fGgbWc-8
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ug5fGgbWc-8
video_date: 2025-11-07T20:00:26+00:00
video_description: |
  If you’re ever injured in an accident, you can check out Morgan & Morgan. You can start your claim in just a click without having to leave your couch. To start your claim, visit: https://www.forthepeople.com/Jaydone
  
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Hungerford
  1:41 - Luby's Cafeteria
  3:09 - Dunblane School
  4:59 - Morgan & Morgan
  6:32 - Erfurt School
  8:19 - Red Lake School
  11:42 - Kauhajoki
  13:25 - Norway Attacks
  15:53 - San Bernardino
  17:47 - Pittsburgh Synagogue
  19:36 - Christchurch Mosque
  21:23 - Virginia Beach
  22:58 - Boulder Supermarket
  24:56 - Monterey Park
  26:44 - Prague University
---
On August 19, 1987, a quiet town in Berkshire, England, became the site of one of the deadliest mass shootings in Britain history. The killer Michael Ryan was a 27-year-old unemployed laborer and gun enthusiast. Early that morning, Ryan began his rampage in Severnake Forest, where he opened fire on a mother and her two children who were having a picnic. He then drove to his home in Hungerford and set it on fire before continuing to shoot at people in the streets. Over the course of several hours, Ryan killed 16 people, including his own mother, and injured more than a dozen others. Ryan was heavily armed with legally owned weapons, and his fascination with guns had been well known in the local area, yet his behavior had not raised official concern before that day. The police response, though brave, was hampered by serious communication problems. Officers from different regions struggled to coordinate because of poor radio coverage and limited training for such emergencies. As the manhunt unfolded, Ryan took refuge in a school building, surrounded by armed officers. He eventually turned one of his weapons on himself. The public outrage that followed changed the United Kingdom's approach to gun control. An official report known as the Hungerford Report identified weaknesses in firearms licensing laws and police procedures. In response, Arlimin passed the Firearms Act of 1988, which banned most semi-automatic rifles and imposed stricker controls on shocked an ownership. On October 16, 1991, George Hinner drove his pickup truck through the front window of a Luby's cafeteria in killing Texas during the busy lunch hour. Without warning, he stepped out of the vehicle and began firing two semi-automatic pistols that customers and staff. The attack lasted about 15 minutes, but left behind devastation that shocked the entire nation. Hinner had killed 23 people and wounded more than 20 others before turning one of his guns on himself as police closed in. Witnesses described the mesh shouting angry insults at women during the shooting, which investigators later linked to his deep resentment and misogynistic beliefs. Hinner legally owned the firearms used in the attack. His background revealed personal grievances and growing isolation. The event became one of the deliast mass shootings in U.S. history at the time, sparking intense public debate about gun laws, mental health support, and self-defense rights. The massacre also gave rise to political movements. One survivor, Susanna Hub, who laws both of her parents that day later became a prominent advocate for concealed carry laws in Texas. She argued that she could have stopped Hinner'd if she had been allowed to carry her weapon inside the restaurant. Her testimony influenced the passage of Texas's concealed handgun law in 1995. On March 13, 1996, tragedy struck Don Blaine primary school in Scotland when 43-year-old Thomas Hamilton entered the building armed with four legally-owned handguns in hundreds of rounds of ammunition. In less than five minutes, he killed 16 children, all aged five and six in their teacher, Gwen Mayer, before taking his own life. The attack remains the deadliest mass shooting in Britain history. Hamilton was a former scowl eater who had been forced out of the organization years earlier due to inappropriate behavior toward boys. He had a reputation for erratic, and obsessive behavior, yet he retained his firearm licenses. The fact that he legally possessed multiple handguns, despite repeated complaints about his conduct, became a central point of investigation. A public inquiry led by Lord Colin examined every detail of the attack. The Colin report exposed flaws in the firearm licensing system in consistent communication between police forces, and failures to properly assess Hamilton's mental fitness. It regumined stronger controls, over handgun ownership and better background checks. The response from the public was immediate. The Snowdrop campaign, organized by the victim's families, gathered more than 700,000 signatures demanding a handgun ban. The government soon passed two firearms acts between 1997 and 98, outlawing almost all private handgun ownership in the United Kingdom. Dunblane's massacre deeply shaped British law and culture. The strict regulations that followed effectively ended the era of legal handgun ownership, and made the UK one of the countries with the toughest gun laws in the world. Now, before we continue, I have something that I need to tell you guys. When I was a kid on the 4th of July of all days, I was hit by a car, fireworks, barbecue, and then camp. A trip to the hospital. Thankfully, I recovered, but for my parents, it was a nightmare, especially because of the insurance companies, and then having to deal with the mountain of medical bills. And that's the reality for so many other people as well. Traditional personal injury claims are designed to wear you down. Insurance companies drag their feet, offer you pennies to what you deserve, and hope you'll just give up. That's why I wish my parents had known about Morgan and Morgan. There's a reason history remembers those who fought for justice. Just like there's a reason why Morgan and Morgan is America's largest injury law firm. And for over 35 years, they've been fighting for the people, not the insurance companies. Their result turns sane. In Florida, one client was offered just $350,000. But Morgan and Morgan fought for them and got them over 12 million. In Pennsylvania, another client was awarded $26 million, which was 40 times higher than what the insurer wanted to pay. That's because when you hire Morgan and Morgan, it's like hiring a legal army. They've got over a thousand attorneys and a hundred plus offices nationwide. And they've recovered over $25 billion for over 500,000 clients. And the best part, there are no upfront costs. Their fee is free unless they win. Submitting a claim is super easy. You can start less than a minute with no endless appointments, overwhelming paperwork or long waits. So if you're ever injured, don't settle for less and let the insurance companies win. You can just click the link in the description or scan the QR code on screen to get started with Morgan and Morgan today. On April 28, 1996, a man named Martin Bryant carried out one of the deadliest shootings in modern history at the Port Arthur historic site in Tasmania, Australia. The tragedy began earlier that day when Bryant killed a couple who owned a bed and breakfast known as SeaScape. Soon after, he drove to the Port Arthur tourist area, which was filled with visitors enjoying a peaceful Sunday afternoon. Without warning, Bryant entered the broad arrow cafe and started shooting at people eating lunch. Within seconds, 20 people were dead and many more were injured. Bryant then moved through the site, firing at anyone he saw. His attack continued along the roads near Port Arthur as he targeted people in cars nearby homes. Witnesses later described the horrifying scenes of panic and confusion with many people hiding wherever they could find cover. By the time police surrounded him the next day, 35 people had been killed and 23 others were wounded. He eventually surrendered and was taken into custody. Investigators discovered that Bryant had a long history of social isolation and possible mental illness. He had also shown a fascination with firearms and violence. The weapons he used were legally purchased, which shocked the public and fueled anger toward Australia's gun laws. The Port Arthur massacre immediately pushed the government to act. Within months, Prime Minister John Howard introduced the National Firearms Agreement, which banned semi-automatic rifles and shotguns, required stricter licensing, and created a National Gun by Vag Program. Hundreds of thousands of weapons were turned in and destroyed. On April 26, 2002, a 19-year-old former student named Robert Steinhauser entered Gutenberg, Gymnasium, a secondary school in Erfurt, Germany armed with a semi-automatic pistol. Within minutes, he killed 16 people, including 12 teachers, a secretary, two students, and a police officer before taking his own life. The attack lasted less than 20 minutes, but it left an entire community and shock and became one of the worst school shootings in German history. Steinhauser had been expelled from the school months earlier for forging medical excuses. Because of the expulsion, he was unable to complete his final exams or pursue a career. Witnesses and investigators later concluded that his actions were driven by anger, humiliation, and a sense of hopelessness. On the day of the attack, he wore black clothing and carried two weapons, although he used only one. He moved through classrooms at hallways, targeting staff members who had been involved in his disciplinary actions. Many of his victims were shot at close range. When police entered the building, the situation was chaotic. Students were hiding under desks or locked in classrooms. A teacher managed to lead several students to safety while others barricaded doors. The standoff ended when Steinhauser encountered a teacher he knew who confronted him calmly. Moments later, he took his own life in a classroom. Germany reacted with grief and outrage. The government quickly reviewed its firearm regulations, leading to new laws that raised the minimum age for gun ownership, limited access to certain types of weapons, and required psychological evaluations for younger applicants. Schools across the country adopted new safety measures, and protocols for emergencies. On March 21, 2005, the quiet red lake Indian reservation in Minnesota was shaken by a deadly school shooting carried out by 16-year-old Jeff Weiss. Before heading to school, Weiss shot and killed his grandfather, who was a tribal police officer, in his grandfather's girlfriend. He then took his grandfather's patrol car, armed himself with several of the officer's guns, and drove to red lake senior high school. At around 2.45 pm, Weiss arrived at the school and opened fire on the security guard at the entrance, killing him instantly. He then moved through the halls and classrooms, firing at students and teachers. In a matter of minutes, he killed five students, a teacher, and a security guard, and injured several others. The school descended into chaos as students ran for cover, hiding in classrooms or escaping through windows. Police arrived quickly in exchange gunfire with Weiss, before he retreated into a classroom and took his own life. In total, 10 people died, including the shooter. Investigations later revealed that Weiss had a history of depression, isolation, and behavioral struggles. He had also posted disturbing content online that hinted at his fascination with violence and previous school shootings. Despite these warning signs, he had received little mental health support. The Kauha Joki School shooting took place on September 23rd, 2008, in a small finish town called Kauha Joki. The attacker was 22-year-old Madhi Juhani Sari, a student at a local university. That morning, Sari arrived on campus with a semi-automatic pistol, extra ammunition, and several Malatov style fire bombs that he had made himself. At around 10.40am, he began shooting inside classrooms, targeting both students and teachers. Panic spread throughout the building as fire alarms went off, and thick smoke filled the hallways. By the time police entered the building, 10 people had been killed, and several others were seriously injured. Sari eventually turned the gun on himself, and later died from his wounds at the hospital. Investigations later revealed that Sari had planned the attack in detail. He had posted disturbing messages and videos online before the shooting, showing himself firing weapons, and expressing admiration for previous school shooters. Reports after the shooting described Sari as isolated and deeply troubled. He had shown a fascination with violence, and had previously been rejected from military service due to behavioral issues. Friends and teachers later mentioned that he seemed withdrawn and angry, particularly toward classmates, psychological evaluations conducted after the incident concluded that Sari suffered from significant social anxiety and resentment toward society. These findings filled national discussions on how to better identify mental health warning signs before tragedy occurs. On July 22, 2011, Norway suffered one of the most devastating attacks of domestic terror in modern European history. The attacker, Anders Bering-Brivic, first detonated a car bomb in Oslo's government district at around 3.25pm, the powerful explosion tore through government buildings, killing eight people, and injuring more than 200 others. As emergency responders rushed to the scene, Brivic began the second part of his plan. Dressed in a fake police uniform, he drove to the island of Utoya, where the youth division of the labor party was holding its annual summer camp. When Brivic arrived, he tricked security personnel and campers into believing he was there to protect them after the Oslo bombing. Once he gained access to the island, he began shooting indiscriminately at the hundreds of teenagers gathered there. The attack lasted more than an hour, during which 69 people were killed, most of them under 20 years old. Survivors described scenes of horror as campers tried to swim across the lake to escape the gunfire. Police units arrived at the island about an hour after the first emergency calls, in Brivic surrendered without resistance. Brivic's arrest led to one of the most closely followed court cases in Norwegian history. The central legal question was whether he was sane and therefore criminally responsible. Two separate psychiatric evaluations were carried out. The first concluded that he was psychotic, while the second found him mentally competent. The court accepted the second evaluation, and ruled that Brivic was sane at the time of the attacks. In 2012, he was found guilty of mass killing, causing a fatal explosion, and an act of terror. He was sentenced to 21 years in prison, which can be extended indefinitely under Norway's system of preventive detention, if he is still considered dangerous. Throughout the trial, Brivic used his time in court to express extremist views, forcing the Norwegian judiciary to carefully manage the hearings, to prevent him from spreading propaganda. Norway later restructured its police response system and established stronger national counter-terror units to ensure faster reaction times in future emergencies. The San Bernardino attack occurred on December 2, 2015, at the Inland Regional Center in California. It began during a holiday training event, organized by San Bernardino County's Public Health Department. The attackers were Syed Farouk, a county employee, and his wife, Tashfin Malik. At around 11 a.m., they entered the conference where wearing black tautical gear and opened fire with semi-automatic rifles. 14 people were killed, and 21 others were injured within minutes. After the shooting, the couple fled and rented SUV, sparking a major manhunt that involved local and federal authorities. Hours later, police located and cornered them, leading to a gun battle that resulted in both suspects being killed. The FBI took charge of the case, and classified it as an act of terror. Investigators discovered that the couple had been radicalized for years before the attack. They had pledged loyalty to an extremist organization in private online messages, though no direct foreign coordination was found. The couple had built and tested several pipe bombs, and possessed over 4,000 rounds of ammunition. They had also attempted to destroy digital evidence, but agents were able to recover key files, including a shredded document that outlined parts of their attack plan. Some of Farouk's relatives were charged, with immigration and fraud offenses, connected to his family's visa paperwork. The FBI also sought access to Farouk's encrypted iPhone, leading to a major public legal battle between Apple and the federal government over digital privacy and national security. The government ultimately accessed the phone through an outside contractor, ending the dispute without setting a legal president. On October 27, 2018, the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, became the site of one of the deadliest anti-Semitic attacks in American history. Worshipers had gathered for a Saturday morning service, when a man armed with multiple firearms entered the building and began shooting. The attack left 11 people dead, and several others wounded, including police officers who responded to the scene. It was a moment that shocked the United States, and deeply scarved the Jewish community. The gunman Robert Bowers was captured alive after an exchange of gunfire with police. Investigators quickly discovered that he had posted numerous anti-Semitic messages, and conspiracy theories online before the shooting. These posts revealed a deep hatred for Jewish people, and a belief that they were responsible for helping immigrants enter the country. Federal prosecutors charged Bowers with 63 counts, including hate crimes resulting in death, and obstruction of the free exercise of religion. During his trial in 2023, prosecutors presented evidence linking his online activity to his actions at the synagogue. They showed jurors post, weapons and the detailed plans he had prepared. Survivors and family members gave powerful testimonies, describing the impact of the attack, while the defense attempted to argue that he suffered from mental illness. The jury found Bowers guilty on all counts, including the hate crime charges, and later recommended the death penalty. The judge accepted that recommendation, marking the first federal death sentence imposed under the Biden administration. The case served as a major legal example of how online hate speech can translate into real-world violence. On March 15, 2019, a white supremacist's gunman attacked two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand killing 51 people and injuring dozens. The attacks took place during Friday prayers, one of the holiest times of the week for Muslims. The shooter began at the Al-Nor mosque before driving, to the Linwood Islamic Center, to continue the assault. The tragedy was live-streamed on social media, spreading shock and outrage around the world. The attacker was identified as Britain Terrent, a 28-year-old Australian who had legally purchased his firearms in New Zealand. He had published a minifesto online shortly before the shooting, filled with racist and anti-immigrant views. Police captured him within minutes after his vehicle was forced off the road. Authorities charged him with 51 counts of killing, 40 counts of attempted killing, and one kind of committing a terror act. In court prosecutors detailed how Terrent had planned the attacks for months, scouting the mosques, and modifying his weapons for maximum damage. He had also written numbers and slogans linked to far-right ideology on his guns. Terrent initially pleaded not guilty, but later changed his plea to guilty on all charges, avoiding a long trial. His sentence took place in August 2020, where survivors and families of victims delivered emotional impact statements describing the horror and lost caused by his actions. The judge sentenced Terrent to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole, the harshest punishment ever handed down in New Zealand. The court declared that his actions were motivated by deep hatred and were meant to terrorize a peaceful community. On May 31, 2019, a longtime city employee named Awain Cratic opened fire inside Building 2 of the Virginia Beach Municipal Center in Virginia. The attack began late in the afternoon as employees were preparing to end their work week. Armed with two legally purchased handguns, Cratic moved through the building, firing at co-workers and anyone who crossed his path. By the end of the attack, 12 people were dead and several others were seriously injured. Before police fatally shot him in a gun battle, Cratic and engineer in the city's public utilities department had worked there for about 15 years. In the months leading up to the shooting, he had resigned from his job but had not raised major disciplinary concerns that could not predict the violence. Investigators later found that he had acted alone and there was no clear evidence of political or ideological motives. It appeared that personal grievances and workplace frustrations may have contributed to his decision. Families of victims filed lawsuits alleging that the city failed to recognize warning signs in Cratic's behavior. Some co-workers had described them as withdrawn and difficult in the months before the attack but there was no formal record of threats. Law enforcement experts emphasized the importance of threat assessment programs and mental health interventions for public employees. The tragedy also reignited debates about gun access and safety in government buildings. On March 22, 2021, the city of Boulder and Colorado based a shocking tragedy that took place at the King's Super's grocery store in the table Mesa neighborhood. The attack began when 21-year-old Ahmed Issa opened fired in the parking lot before entering the supermarket and continuing a shoot. Within minutes, 10 people were killed, including a police officer who had rushed to the scene. The shooter carried multiple firearms and a large number of high-capacity magazines. When police arrived, the confrontation was brief but intense. Issa was shot in the leg and arrested at the scene. Authorities later charged him with 10 counts of first degree killing and several counts of attempted killing. The investigation uncovered that the attack had been planned. Those exact motives remained unclear. His behavior in the months before the shooting had shown signs of paranoia and withdrawal, leading investigators to question his mental state. Court proceedings became complicated as mental evaluations revealed he suffered from a serious mental illness. For several months, the trial was delayed while Issa was treated at a state hospital. In 2023, doctors declared him competent to stand trial. Prosecutors emphasized strong physical and digital evidence linking him to the scene, including firearms records and witness accounts. Defense lawyers centered their case on a psychiatric condition, arguing that a state of mine affected his ability to form intent. After lengthy hearings, in September 2024, a jury found Issa guilty on 55 felony counts, including 10 counts of first degree killing and many counts of attempted killing. He was sentenced to multiple life sentences without the possibility of parole. On January 21, 2023, during Lunar New Year celebrations, in Monterey Park, California, a gunman opened fire inside the star ballroom dance studio where hundreds of people had gathered to celebrate. Eleven people were killed and nine others were injured. The community, known for its large Asian-American population, was left in deep shock in mourning. The shooter was identified as 72-year-old who can't train. After the attack, he fled the scene and drove to another dance studio, in nearby Ahambra. There he was confronted by a civilian who wrestled the gun away from him, preventing another potential massacre. Law enforcement agencies launched a large-scale search across the Los Angeles area. Hours later, police located trans white vannin torrents. When officers approached, they found him dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. The investigation revealed that the firearm used was a semi-automatic weapon equipped with an extended magazine, which was illegal under California law. Police recovered additional ammunition, an evidence suggesting that the attack had been planned, though no direct motive was ever confirmed. Authorities learned that train had been a frequent visitor to local dance studios in the past and had shown signs of resentment and isolation. There were reports that he felt excluded from social circles, but officials could not confirm any personal connection to the victims. Even though the suspect died before facing trial, investigators continued their work to ensure that the event served as a lesson in prevention, awareness, and community solidarity against gun violence. On December 21, 2023, a mass shooting occurred at the Faculty of Arts building of Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic. The attacker, a 24-year-old student of the university, opened fire on fellow students and staff inside classrooms and hallways. 14 people were killed and 25 others were wounded. The attack is regarded as the deadliest mass shooting in modern Czech history. The tragedy began earlier the same day when police discovered the body of the shooter's father at their home in a nearby town. Investigators later found that the student had also been linked to the killing of two other people days before the university attack. Shortly before the shooting, he posted online warnings that hinted at his plans. Czech authorities rushed to Charles University after receiving these alerts, but the shooter had already begun firing when officers arrived. The situation ended when the gunman took his own life. Inside the university, chaos unfolded as students barricaded themselves in classrooms and offices. Videos from inside the building showed terrified students, hiding while police secured the area. Authorities later searched the shooter's home and found explosive materials and documents suggesting that he had planned the carefully. Investigators said he legally on the firearm used, which led to an immediate public debate about Czech gun laws. The Czech government declared a national day of mourning and memory on the victims. Flags were lowered and candlelight visuals were held across the country. Although the gunman's death prevented a criminal trial, police focused on reconstructing his movement and determining how warning signs were missed. The Prague University shooting exposed gaps in mental health intervention, communication between police departments, and early warning systems. Universities across Europe later began revisiting their campus security protocols, and response to the lessons learned from this tragedy. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure you leave a like. Comment down below your thoughts on any of the mass shootings I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part 3 or more videos like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.