---
video_title: "Every Nuclear Close Call Explained"
video_id: ksdhMkmGYh4
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksdhMkmGYh4
video_date: 2025-06-25
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Goldsboro Crash
  2:10 - Cuban Missile Crisis
  4:12 - Soviet Submarine
  6:02 - Thule Air Base
  7:49 - Israeli Nuclear Alert
  9:37 - NORAD Glitch
  11:26 - Damascus Incident
  12:34 - Korean Flight Incident
  14:27 - Petrov Incident
  15:46 - Able Archer 83
  17:07 - Black Brant Scare
  18:48 - Minot AFB Incident
  
  Song: Legionnaire
  Composer: Scott Buckley
  Website: https://youtube.com/user/musicbyscottb
  License: Creative Commons (BY 4.0) https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  Music powered by BreakingCopyright: https://breakingcopyright.com
  
  Song: Phoenix
  Composer: Scott Buckley
  Website: https://youtube.com/user/musicbyscottb
  License: Free To Use YouTube license youtube-free
  Music powered by BreakingCopyright: https://breakingcopyright.com
---
On January 24th, 1961, one of the most alarming nuclear close calls in American history occurred near Goldsboro, North Carolina, when a B-52 Strata Fortress carrying two Mark 39 nuclear bombs, broke apart in midair. The bomber, part of the United States Air Force's Strategic Air Command, was flying on a routine alert mission as part of Cold War nuclear readiness. At the time, the US maintained a policy of keeping nuclear armed bombers in the air at all times to ensure retaliatory capability in case of a surprise Soviet attack. While refueling midair over North Carolina, the B-52 experienced a significant fuel leak in its right wing. Within hours, it had lost a massive amount of fuel, and the pilot was forced to attempt an emergency landing.

However, the aircraft became uncontrollable and broke apart at an altitude of around 10,000 ft as the B-52 disintegrated. Two hydrogen bombs were released. One bomb deployed its parachute and gently landed largely intact in a field. The second fell freely and crashed into a muddy field at high speed, disintegrating upon impact. The most dangerous aspect of the incident was that the first bomb, the one that parachuted down, had gone through nearly all its arming steps and came terrifyingly close to detonating.

Of its six safety mechanisms, five had failed. A single low voltage switch prevented a 3 to 4 megaton thermonuclear explosion which could have destroyed much of North Carolina and possibly caused radioactive fallout as far as Washington DC or New York. The investigation revealed that the fuel leak caused by a structural failure in the right wing led to the breakup of the aircraft worsened by the air force's demanding airborne alert practices was blamed. While no nuclear detonation occurred, the crash exposed serious flaws in nuclear safety mechanisms in command and control protocols. The US government initially downplayed the incident, but later declassified documents, including a 1969 report by nuclear weapons expert Parker F. Jones

confirmed just how close the bomb had come to detonating. The Goldsboro incident prompted reforms in the design and safety protocols for nuclear weapons, including stricter safeguards and an eventual reduction in constant airborne alert emissions. The Cuban missile crisis, which unfolded over 13 tense days in October 1962, is widely regarded as the closest the world has ever come to full-scale nuclear war. The crisis was triggered when the United States discovered that the Soviet Union had secretly placed nuclear missiles in Cuba, just 90 mi off the coast of Florida. Leading up to this event, cold war tensions between the US and the USSR had been escalating. In 1961, the failed

Bay of Pigs invasion in which US backed Cuban exiles attempted to overthrow Fidel Castro pushed Cuba closer to the Soviet Union. Soviet Premier Nikita Kruev saw an opportunity to level the playing field by placing nuclear weapons in Cuba, countering US missiles stationed in Turkey and Italy that were within striking distance of the USSR. On October 14th, 1962, a U2 reconnaissance plane photographed missile sites under construction in Cuba. President John F. Kennedy was informed the next day and he chose to implement a naval blockade to prevent further Soviet shipments of military equipment to Cuba. The crisis

then escalated as both superpowers moved to high alert with nuclear forces prepared for possible conflict. Several incidents during the standoff nearly sparked a war, including the shooting down of a US2 plane over Cuba in the nearly fatal miscommunication between military commanders and political leaders. One of the most dangerous moments occurred when a Soviet submarine B59 near the blockade zone was being depth charged by US forces to force it to surface. The Soviet officers aboard, unable to contact Moscow and believing war might have already begun, debated launching a nuclear torpedo. The launch was only prevented because one officer, Vasili Archipov, refused to authorize it, requiring unanimous agreement.

Ultimately, the crisis ended on October 28th when Kruev agreed to remove the missiles from Cuba in exchange for a public US pledge not to invade the island and a secret agreement to remove US Jupiter missiles from Turkey. A direct hotline between Washington and Moscow was established and future arms control agreements such as the nuclear testban treaty of 1963 were signed. The loss of the Soviet submarine K129 in March 1968 remains one of the Cold War's most mysterious nuclear close calls. K129 was a Gulf secondass diesel electric submarine armed with three nuclear tip ballistic missiles and part of the Soviet Union strategic deterrent force. While on a patrol mission in the Pacific Ocean, K129 suddenly disappeared without sending a distress signal. The

Soviet Navy launched a massive but unsuccessful search effort in the North Pacific. At the same time, the US Navy, using advanced underwater listening systems, had tracked a likely implosion event and located the wreck at a depth of about 16,000 ft, roughly 1500 m northwest of Hawaii. The exact cause of the disaster remains unclear with theories ranging from an accidental missile explosion, mechanical failure, or a collision with a US submarine. The US has never confirmed any role in the subsyncing, but suspicions persist on both sides. Whatever the cause, the sinking of K129 created a serious nuclear threat. The submarine had

nuclear missiles on board as well as nuclear torpedoes. A detonation or accidental release of radioactive materials could have had major environmental and geopolitical consequences, especially if interpreted as an act of aggression or sabotage. In a top secret operation known as Project Aorian, the CIA partnered with industrialist Howard Hughes to build a massive ship, the Gloumer Explorer, under the cover story of deep sea mining. In 1974, 6 years after the sinking, the US attempted to recover the submarine from the ocean floor. The operation was only partially successful as during the lift, part of the submarine broke off and sank again. The

recovered section reportedly included two nuclear torpedoes, cryptographic equipment, and possibly the bodies of several crew members. The Soviets were unaware of the operation until much later. On January 21st, 1968, a United States Air Force B-52 bomber carrying four hydrogen bombs crashed near the Tuli Air Base in Greenland, resulting in a major nuclear scare and environmental contamination. The aircraft involved had been flying a routine patrol mission over the Arctic when a fire broke out in the cabin due to a malfunction and an electric heating pad used by one of the crew members. The fire spread rapidly, filling the cabin with smoke and causing systems to fail. As the situation

worsened, the crew was forced to abandon the aircraft. Six of the seven crew members parachuted to safety, while one unfortunately perished. The plane eventually crashed onto the sea ice in Northstar Bay near Tuli Air Base and exploded on impact, dispersing its nuclear payload. Although the bombs did not detonate with a nuclear explosion due to the failsafe mechanisms in place, the conventional explosives within them did detonate, causing radioactive plutonium and uranium to be scattered across the ice and water. The incident triggered an immediate and large-scale recovery operation known as Project Crested Ice. American and Danish

personnel worked under extreme Arctic conditions to clean up the contamination. Much of the radioactive debris, ice, and snow was removed and shipped to the United States for disposal. However, some radioactive material was never fully recovered, raising long-term environmental and health concerns for both the local population and military personnel involved in the cleanup. The crash led to serious diplomatic tension between the United States and Denmark, as Denmark officially prohibited the presence of nuclear weapons on its territory, including Greenland. The revelation that the US has been routinely flying nuclear armed aircraft over the region caused political fallout and public outrage in Denmark. The

Israeli nuclear alert of 1973 occurred during the early stages of the Yam Kapor war. One of the most dangerous moments in Middle Eastern history with global nuclear implications. On October 6th, 1973, Egypt and Syria launched a surprise attack on Israel during the Jewish Holy Day of Yamapour. The assault caught Israeli forces off guard and within the first 48 hours Arab armies had made significant territorial gains in both the Sinai Peninsula and the Golden Heights. In response to this existential threat, Israeli Prime Minister Gulamir and her defense ministers reportedly authorized a nuclear alert on October 8th or 9th.

According to later reports, Israel placed several of its nuclear capable Jericho missiles and nuclear armed aircraft on standby. These weapons were likely moved into a state of readiness, not to be used immediately, but to signal to the United States that the situation was slipping beyond control. While Israel never publicly acknowledged possessing nuclear weapons at the time, it was widely suspected by US intelligence and other global powers that it had a secret arsenal. The signal worked and the United States responded with urgency. US President Richard Nixon and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger initiated a massive resupply effort to Israel known as Operation Nickelgrass, delivering tanks, ammunition, and aircraft to bolster Israeli forces. This

helped turn the tide of the war in Israel's favor. Within the following week, the aftermath of the Israeli nuclear alert was complex. While the weapons were never used or officially confirmed, the incident demonstrated how regional conflicts could spiral into total nuclear war. The event also reinforced the United States's strategic commitment to Israel while increasing Soviet involvement in supporting Arab allies. The NORAD computer glitch occurred on the morning of November 9th, 1979 in which the NORAD headquarters in Colorado received alarming data. A

massive Soviet nuclear missile launch appeared to be underway. According to the early warning system, the United States was under a full-scale nuclear attack. This triggered immediate highlevel military responses. US bomber crews were placed on alert. Missile crews were brought to readiness and senior military officials including the national security adviser Zignu Brazinski were notified of the unfolding crisis. Brazinski reportedly prepared to

wake President Jimmy Carter to recommend retaliatory action. What made this situation particularly dangerous was the short time window available to evacuate and respond to such threats. The entire concept of nuclear deterrence depended on the ability to launch a counter strike within minutes. However, before a response was ordered, additional verification methods were used, including satellite systems and radar, which showed no actual Soviet missile launch. The incoming threat data was found to be false. Within minutes, the

alarm was called off. The cause of the incident was later traced to a training tape. It had been mistakenly inserted into the no red computer system. The tape simulated a massive Soviet missile attack and was meant for internal exercises, not live operations. Due to a failure in system safeguards, the data was processed as real and sent out to decision makers as a live event. The air

exposed serious flaws in the structure of the US nuclear early warning system. In response, improvements were made to command and control systems to better differentiate test data from live operations and to ensure multiple confirmation layers before any retaliatory action could be taken. The Damascus incident occurred on September 18th, 1980 at a Titan 2 missile complex near Damascus, Arkansas. The incident began as a routine maintenance operation. That evening, two Air Force maintenance technicians were performing routine work on the missile's oxidizer tank. During the procedure, a technician

accidentally dropped a socket from a torque wrench, which fell about 70 ft inside the silo and struck the missile's first stage fuel tank. The impact punctured the tank, causing a dangerous leak of highly volatile aerosine 50 fuel. For several hours, emergency teams struggled to manage the situation without triggering a disaster. In the early hours of September 19th, as technicians re-entered the silo to evaluate the leak, the missile's first stage exploded. The blast killed one airmen, injured more than 20 others, and destroyed the missile complex.

Miraculously, the nuclear warhead was thrown free of the explosion, but did not detonate. While no nuclear explosion occurred, the incident revealed the dangerous fragility of America's aging missile infrastructure and the immediate risk posed by human air. The Korean Airlines flight 007 incident occurred on September 1st, 1983 and nearly escalated into a nuclear confrontation. The event involved the accidental string of a civilian passenger plane into Soviet airspace, leading to its tragic shootown by the Soviet military. It intensified global tensions and brought the world dangerously close to a potential military conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union. Korean

Airlines flight 007, a Boeing 747 traveling from New York City to Seoul via Anchorage, Alaska. Due to a combination of navigational errors and autopilot misconfiguration, the aircraft unknowingly entered restricted Soviet airspace near the Kamchaka Peninsula, both areas housing sensitive military installations. Soviet radar tracked the unidentified aircraft, assuming it could be a US spy plane. Despite several attempts to identify the aircraft in warnings that went unheard, a Soviet SU15 interceptor was ordered to shoot it down. The missile strike destroyed the plane, killing all 269 people aboard, including US Congressman Larry Macdonald. The incident caused a global

outcry and pushed US Soviet relations to one of their lowest points since the Cuban missile crisis. President Ronald Reagan condemned the act as a massacre and a crime against humanity. While the Soviets insisted they had acted in defense of their national security, the shootown deeply alarmed US military and intelligence officials who feared that the Soviets might have believed the plane was deliberately testing their defenses or part of a broader military maneuver. Though no direct military retaliation occurred, the tragedy played a role in escalating cold war tensions. In the aftermath, the US made GPS technology publicly available to prevent similar navigational errors. The Petrov

incident, which occurred on September 26th, 1983, is widely regarded as one of the most critical moments during the Cold War. On that night, Stannis Lav Petrov, a Soviet lieutenant colonel, was on duty at the Sir Pov 15 bunker near Moscow, which housed the Soviet early warning satellite system. Just after midnight, the system reported that the United States had launched a nuclear missile toward the Soviet Union, followed shortly by reports of four more missiles. Under Soviet military doctrine, such a signal would typically trigger a retaliatory nuclear strike. Petrov was responsible for interpreting these signals and reporting to his superiors, who would then decide whether to launch a counter strike. However,

rather than immediately passing on the alert, Petro questioned the reliability of the warning. The system was relatively new and had never been tested in real world conditions. Trusting his instincts in training, Petrov reported the alert as a false alarm. His decision prevented a potential nuclear retaliation based on incorrect data. It was later discovered that the satellite system had mistaken the sun's reflection off high altitude clouds for incoming missiles. The aftermath of the incident

remained classified for years, and Petro was neither punished nor rewarded at the time. His actions were later recognized as an extraordinary act of judgment and restraint. The Able Archer incident of November 1983 unfolded during NATO's annual military exercise known as Able Archer 83, which simulated a coordinated nuclear release in the event of war with the Soviet Union. The exercise involved realistic protocols, encrypted communications, and the participation of high-ranking officials, all of which made it appear more lifelike than in previous years. President Ronald Reagan had called the Soviet Union an evil empire, and the US had deployed persing 2 missiles to Western Europe capable of striking Moscow in minutes. In response,

the KGB and Soviet military intelligence launched Operation Ryan, a global surveillance operation aimed at detecting signs of a western first strike. As April Archer intensified and moved into its final phase on November 8th, the Soviets feared they were witnessing the early stages of a real nuclear war. Soviet nuclear forces were placed on high alert, and aircraft in East Germany and Poland were readied for immediate deployment. Fortunately, NATO completed the exercise without triggering a military response. Western intelligence agencies were largely unaware of how close the Soviets had come to launching a nuclear counterattack. It was only years later

through declassified documents and accounts from Soviet defectors that the full extent of the danger became known. The Black Branch scare of January 25th, 1995 was one of the most alarming nuclear close calls of the postcold war era. It occurred when the Russian early warning system mistakenly identified a Norwegian scientific rocket as a possible US nuclear missile. The event began when a team of American and Norwegian scientists launched a Black Brand 12 sounding rocket from the Andoya rocket range in northern Norway. The rocket was part of a joint research mission to study the northern lights and had been announced in advance to multiple countries including Russia. Shortly

after launch, Russian radar detected the rocket and tracked its trajectory. Because it followed a path similar to that of a US submarine launched Trident missile, Russian military officials feared it could be a high alitude nuclear detonation intended to blind Russia's radar and communication systems in preparation for a surprise attack. Within minutes, Russia's early warning systems went on high alert and the nuclear briefcase, the Chegget, was brought to President Boris Yelten. For the first time in history, a Russian or Soviet leader activated the nuclear briefcase during a potential threat. Yelten, along with his military advisers, had only minutes to decide whether to authorize a nuclear retaliation. Fortunately, Russian

satellites and radar soon confirmed that the rocket had veered away from Russian airspace and posed no threat. The alert was cancelled and the crisis deescalated. In the aftermath, the Black Brand incident prompted renewed discussions about improving early warning systems and better communication between nations. The Mano Air Forcebased nuclear weapons incident which occurred on August 29th to 30th, 2007 was a significant security breach involving the unauthorized and unintentional transfer of nuclear weapons within the United States. The incident began at Mino Air Force Base in North Dakota, where six AGM129 advanced cruise missiles, each armed with a W81 variable yield nuclear warhead, were mistakenly loaded onto a B-52 Stratofortress bomber. The aircraft was scheduled to

transport unarmed missiles to Barksdale Air Force Base in Louisiana for decommissioning. However, due to a breakdown in multiple safety protocols and procedures, nuclear armed missiles were loaded onto the plane and remained undetected for approximately 36 hours. The air crew was also unaware that they were transporting live nuclear weapons. The B-52 flew across the country with the warheads on board, parked at Barksdale, and sat on the tarmac unattended for several hours before the air was finally discovered. The blame fell on several levels of command and operations within the Air Force.

Investigations revealed systemic problems in training and oversight. The incident resulted in the firing of multiple officers, including commanders at both Mano and Barksdale. The Mano incident was a wake-up call and prompted a major review of US nuclear weapons procedures, leading to the reorganization of the Air Force's nuclear command structure. Thank you very much for watching this video and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like. Comment down below your thoughts on any of the nuclear close calls I discussed in this video and subscribe if you would like to see a part two or more videos like this one.

Thank you again and goodbye.