---
video_title: "The Most Tragic Nuclear Disasters Explained"
video_id: ACA_IxkpxF4
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ACA_IxkpxF4
video_date: 2025-08-06
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Hiroshima & Nagasaki
  2:08 - Khysthym Disaster
  5:18 - Windscale Fire
  8:23 - SL-1 Explosion
  10:58 - Chernobyl Disaster
  13:44 - Goiania Accident
  16:01 - Tokaimura Accident
  18:12 - Fukushima Disaster
---
In August 1945, during the final days of World War II, the world witnessed a turning point in history. The United States dropped two atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. These events not only brought about Japan's surrender, but also opened the door to the nuclear age, changing warfare in global politics forever. The first bomb called Little Boy was dropped on Hiroshima on August 6th, 1945. It was a uranium based device and it exploded with a force equal to about 15,000 tons of TNT. In just seconds, much of the

city was destroyed. Around 70,000 people died immediately and tens of thousands more would die in the weeks and months that followed due to burns, injuries, and radiation sickness. The heat from the blast was so intense that people were vaporized, buildings caught fire, and shadows of victim were burned into concrete walls. 3 days later on August 9th, a second bomb called Fat Man was dropped on Nagasaki. This bomb used plutonium and had even more explosive power. However, because of the city's

hilly terrain, the destruction was somewhat limited compared to Hiroshima. Even so, about 40,000 people died instantly with the final death toll rising above 70,000. Many survivors in both cities suffered from long-term effects of radiation. They faced a lifetime of health issues, including cancer, birth defects in their children, and ongoing social stigma. These bombings played a major role in Japan's decision to surrender on August 15th, 1945. While the war ended, the debate

over the ethics of using nuclear weapons began. Some argue the bombs were necessary to avoid a full-scale invasion of Japan, which could have caused even more deaths. Others believe there were other ways to end the war without using such devastating force. The tragedy of Hiroshima and Nagasaki left deep scars on humanity. These cities became symbols of both the terror of nuclear war and the need for peace. Today, Hiroshima

holds an annual peace memorial ceremony, and both cities host museums that educate visitors about the effects of nuclear weapons. On September 29th, 1957, one of the most severe nuclear accidents in history occurred at the Mak plutonium production plant in the Soviet Union. Located near a closed city called Chelabins 40, now known as Ozorsk, the facility was part of a secret government program for producing nuclear weapons. That day, a strange tank containing highly radioactive liquid waste exploded after its cooling system failed. This tank held dissolved plutonium mixed with nitrates and acetates. And when the

solution dried out, it detonated with the force of roughly 70 tons of TNT. The explosion sent a 160 ton concrete lid flying into the air and released a massive cloud of radioactive dust. The fallout spread across about 20,000 kilometers of land in the Eural Mountains. This radioactive zone later became known as the East Eural radioactive trace. The contamination affected nearly 270,000 people living in nearby villages and towns, many of whom had no idea they were exposed. Immediate

evacuations were limited. In the first week, about 10,000 people from 22 villages were relocated. However, it took almost 2 years for the authorities to fully evacuate all the high-risk areas. Many villagers continued to live in contaminated zones, unaware of the danger they faced. Since the explosion occurred on a Sunday, most workers were not on site, which prevented any immediate deaths. But within months,

signs of radiation sickness began to appear among the local population. Doctors recorded at least 49 to 55 cases of radiation induced cancers. Around 66 people were diagnosed with chronic radiation syndrome, a condition caused by prolonged exposure to high levels of radiation. However, because the Soviet government kept everything secret, the true number of casualties remains unknown, some estimates suggest that hundreds may have died over the following decades from radiation related illnesses. For many years, the Soviet Union denied that anything had gone wrong. The Mak facility was not even

shown on official maps, and people living in the area received no warnings or explanations. It wasn't until 1976 that the world began to learn the truth when exiled Soviet scientist Zorus Medved published an article in New Scientist describing the disaster. The Soviet government finally admitted that an accident had occurred in 1989 over 30 years after the explosion. Even today, the region remains highly contaminated. Radioactive particles entered rivers and lakes, poisoning the water and surrounding environment. In some cases,

radiation levels are still thousands of times higher than normal. Forests have died, animals have suffered genetic damage, and radioactive isotopes still linger in the soil. To monitor the long-term effects, the Soviet authorities turned part of the contaminated zone into the East Eural Nature Reserve. This area is closed to the public and used only for scientific study. The Kishtum disaster is ranked as a level six event on the International Nuclear event scale, making it one of the most serious nuclear accidents ever recorded. While the explosion itself was

not nuclear, the radiation it released had long lasting and deadly consequences. The Windscale fire, which broke out on October 10th, 1957, is remembered as the most serious nuclear accident in the history of the United Kingdom. It occurred at the Windscale nuclear facility in Cumbria in the northwest of England. This site, now known as Coffield, housed two large nuclear reactors called windscale pile number one and pile number two. These reactors were constructed in the aftermath of World War II during Britain's push to become a nuclear power. The primary goal at the time was

to produce plutonium 239, a key ingredient in nuclear weapons. The two windscale piles were air cooled, graphite moderated reactors. This meant that they used graphite blocks to slow down neutrons and natural air to keep the reactor cool. These reactors were considered innovative, but also came with serious design risks. The decision to build them quickly under political pressure during the early Cold War years led to several shortcuts in safety and long-term planning. Engineers working on

the site were constantly under pressure to increase production, which led to procedures that pushed the equipment beyond safe limits. By the mid 1950s, the British government had expanded the mission of the windscale reactors. In addition to plutonium, the site began producing palonium 210, a radioactive isotope used in initiators for atomic bombs. This production required the reactor to operate in unusual and more stressful ways. The repeated heating and cooling cycles began to store energy in the graphite moderator. To manage this

dangerous energy accumulation, engineers introduced a controlled process called annealing. This involved deliberately heating the reactor to high temperatures so the graphite could safely release the stored energy. The process was risky and not well understood at the time. On October 8th, 1957, operators began an analing process in pile number one. However, during the cycle, temperature readings began to behave unpredictably.

By the time operators noticed smoke, a fire had started in the reactor. The graphite blocks along with the uranium cart ridges inside them were burning uncontrollably. The fire burned for 3 days, releasing radioactive particles into the atmosphere. Eventually, workers were able to bring the fire under control by pumping carbon dioxide into the core and later using water, which carried its own risk of causing an explosion. Fortunately, disaster was narrowly avoided. But by then, a large

amount of radioactive material had already escaped into the environment. Radioactive particles drifted over large areas of the United Kingdom and possibly into parts of mainland Europe. Milk from nearby farms were found to be contaminated and over 500 square kilometers of farmland were affected. Authorities had to destroy large quantities of milk to reduce the public's exposure to radiation. Despite the seriousness of the fire, the British government kept many details hidden from the public for years. The true scale of

the disaster only became widely known decades later. Estimates suggest that the Windscale fire caused at least 100 cases of cancer, although the real number may be higher due to under reporting and poor tracking of health outcomes at the time. On the night of January 3rd, 1961, the United States experienced its first and only fatal nuclear reactor accident. It happened at a small experimental facility in Idaho known as SL1. This reactor was part of the Army nuclear power program, a cold war effort aimed at creating portable nuclear power sources for remote military outposts. The idea was to

provide consistent heat and electricity for radar stations in isolated areas such as the Arctic. SL1 was never meant for large-scale use. It was a prototype designed to produce just 200 kW of electricity and 400 kW of heat with the ability to operate independently and with minimal human intervention. On the evening of the incident, three military technicians were performing maintenance on the reactor after it had been shut down over the holiday break. During this process, one of the operators manually lifted the central control rod, which regulates the nuclear chain reaction inside the core. However, instead of

lifting the rod just a few centimeters as intended, it was pulled out nearly 50 cm. This single movement caused an immediate and deadly reaction. Within milliseconds, the reactor went prompt critical, which means the nuclear chain reaction accelerated uncontrollably. Power levels surged from near zero to an estimated 20,000 megawatt almost instantly. The reactor water boiled rapidly, producing a violent steam explosion. The force of the blast was so

strong that it launched the entire reactor vessel about 3 m into the air before it slammed back down. Pieces of fuel plates shattered and radioactive steam blasted through the building. The explosion killed all three technicians. One was impaled through the chest by a control rod shield plug and pinned to the ceiling. The other two suffered severe trauma and died shortly after.

These men remained the only Americans ever killed by a nuclear reactor explosion. Because SL1 was a small reactor located in a remote part of Idaho, the radioactive contamination did not reach the public. Even so, small traces were detected in the nearby area, including Atomic City, but no civilians were harmed. Radiation levels at the site reached up to 25 rottgains per hour, which was extremely dangerous. It took six days to recover the bodies, and the radiation exposure was so high that the remains had to be buried in lead line coffins and handled like radioactive waste. As a result of the

SL1 disaster, major safety improvements were introduced across the nuclear industry. Reactors were redesigned so that no single control rod could trigger a critical state. The SL1 accident became a lesson in how small human errors in nuclear systems can lead to fatal consequences. On April 26th, 1986, at 1:23 a.m., reactor number four at the

Chernobyl nuclear power plant near Privyot in what was then the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic exploded. This single event would become the worst nuclear power plant accident in human history. The disaster not only released radioactive materials across Europe, but also exposed major flaws in the Soviet nuclear program and emergency response systems. The explosion occurred during a late night safety test. Engineers had planned a simulate a power outage to ensure the reactor could continue to cool safely until backup generators kicked in. However, the test was poorly

planned and executed. Several critical safety protocols were ignored and the reactor was already operating at dangerously low power. Due to a flawed reactor design and critical operator errors, the system became unstable. When the operators pressed the emergency shutdown button, a design flaw caused a sudden power spike instead. The result was a violent explosion that tore through the reactor core and released a massive amount of radioactive material into the atmosphere. The initial blast

killed two plant workers. Over the next few days, 28 more died from acute radiation sickness. However, these were only the immediate casualties. In the weeks that followed, fires continued to burn inside the reactor building. The radiation release contaminated vast parts of the Soviet Union in Europe. The

Soviet government initially attempted to cover up the disaster. It was only after Swedish radiation detectors picked up abnormal levels that the world learned of the incident. By then, radioactive clouds had already drifted across Europe. In response, the Soviet Union launched a massive containment and cleanup effort. Hundreds of thousands of workers known as liquidators were sent in to decontaminate the area, build a concrete sarcophagus around the reactor prevent further leakage. Many of them

received high doses of radiation and suffered long-term health issues. The city of Pryyot, home to around 50,000 people, was not evacuated until nearly 36 hours after the explosion. By then, residents had already been exposed to dangerous levels of radiation. Over time, more than 350,000 people were relocated from contaminated zones. The long-term health effects of the disaster are still debated, but estimates suggest that thousands of people may have died from cancers and other illnesses linked to the radiation exposure. The Chernobyl

disaster remains a defining moment in the history of nuclear energy. It led to significant changes in reactor design, international safety standards, and emergency preparedness. protocols. It also shattered public trust in nuclear power, specifically in Europe. While the exact death toll is still debated, the impact of the disaster on human health, the environment, and global energy policy is undeniable. In 1987, the

Brazilian city of Goyana experienced one of the worst radiological disasters in history. The incident started when two scrap metal scavengers broke into an abandoned medical facility. Inside, they found a forgotten taotherapy machine. Once used for cancer treatment, it contained a sealed source of cesium 137, a highly radioactive isotope. They hauled the machine away to sell it for scrap, unaware of the danger it posed.

Over the next few days, they pried it open, eventually cracking the small capsule containing the cesium. A glowing blue powder spilled out. Fascinated, they touched it, shared it, and even took it home. The substance was attractive, especially at night, and some people rubbed it on their skin or used it to decorate objects. One man even gave it to his daughter to play with. What they did not realize was that

this power was deadly. Cesium 137 emits beta and gamma radiation, which can penetrate the body and damage internal tissues. Within days, several people began falling ill. They developed serious skin burns, vomiting, and internal pain. Hospitals in the area struggled to diagnose the strange symptoms. It was only after a physicist

from a nearby nuclear agency was called in that the source of the radiation was identified. By then, it was too late. Over 240 people were contaminated and four people died from radiation sickness, including a 6-year-old girl who had been playing with the powder. Cleanup crews had to demolish contaminated homes, remove large amounts of soil, and bury thousands of tons of waste. The city was gripped by fear.

Some residents fled, others refused to touch people who might have been exposed. There were even reports of hospitals turning away victims. The Goyana accident exposed serious flaws at nuclear safety and public awareness. The machine had been left behind when the clinic moved locations, and no one had properly decommissioned it or secured the site. The facility had no guards, no warnings, and no education in place to prevent people from tampering with the device. It also revealed how dangerous

radioactive materials can be when they fall into the wrong hands. Unlike weapons or reactors, even small medical devices can become deadly if mishandled. This was not just a technical failure. It was a human disaster driven by poverty, poor regulation, and lack of awareness. On the morning of September 30th, 1999, Japan faced one of the most serious nuclear accidents in its history. It took place at a fuel

conversion facility in Tokyura located about 140 km northeast of Tokyo. The facility in question belonged to JCO company, a subsidiary of Sumitomo Metal Mining Company. It was used to produce enriched uranium fuel for a fast breeder reactor. On that day, three workers were manually mixing a uranium solution in stainless steel buckets, bypassing safety protocols in an attempt to speed up production. They poured the mixture into a precipitation tank not designed to handle such a high concentration of uranium. Once the critical mass

threshold was reached, a self- sustaining nuclear chain reaction began. This reaction released a powerful burst of neutron radiation. Emergency response was slow and confused. Initially, it was not clear to plant workers or local officials what had happened. By the time the chain reaction was brought under control, roughly 20 hours later, radiation had spread throughout the facility and even beyond the plant's boundaries. The Japanese government

eventually evacuated more than 160 people living within a 350 m radius and instructed over 300,000 residents nearby to stay indoors. Radiation readings were significantly higher than normal ones in the surrounding areas. Medical teams rushed to treat the victims. One of the three original workers, Hashashi, attracted worldwide attention. He suffered severe radiation burns, bone marrow failure, and massive organ damage. Despite the best efforts of

doctors who kept him alive for 83 days using advanced treatments, including stem cell transplants, AI passed away in December. A government investigation later revealed that the plant was not authorized to enrich uranium to that level and had routinely cut corners on safety to save time. The facility had operated without proper oversight and workers were not adequately trained in nuclear safety. In response, Japanese authorities implemented major reforms in the nuclear industry. With that being said, public confidence in nuclear energy sharply declined and the Tokaira incident became a pivotal moment in the debate over nuclear policy in Japan. The

Fukushima Dichi nuclear disaster occurred on March 11th, 2011 following a powerful 9.0 0 magnitude earthquake off the northeastern coast of Japan. This earthquake triggered a massive tsunami with waves reaching up to 14 m high. These waves struck the Fukushima Daichi nuclear power plant which was located right along the coast in Fukushima Prefecture. The impact caused widespread destruction and crippled the plant safety systems leading to one of the worst nuclear accidents in modern history. At the time of the earthquake,

the plant automatically shut down its three active reactors, units 1, 2, and three. However, the cooling systems that were supposed to keep the reactor cores from overheating required electricity to function. When the tsunami hit, it flooded the backup diesel generators and electrical switch gear located in the basement. This led to a complete power outage. Without power, the cooling systems failed. As a result, the reactor

cores began to overheat. Over the next several days, temperatures in the reactor pressure vessel soared. Hydrogen built up inside the reactor buildings and led to a series of violent explosions in units 1, 3, and 4. These explosions severely damaged the structures and released radioactive material into the air and surrounding environment. To prevent a complete meltdown and further radiation release, operators flooded the reactors with seawater. This emergency step helped

cool the cores, but permanently damaged the reactors and rendered the plant unusable. Meanwhile, thousands of residents in a 20 kilometer radius were evacuated to avoid radiation exposure. In total, over 150,000 people were displaced from their homes, and many have still not returned due to contamination and long-term health concerns. The radioactive releases from Fukushima were significant. Contaminated water used to cool the reactors leaked into the Pacific Ocean, prompting global concern about seafood safety and marine life. The long-term environmental impact

remains a subject of ongoing research and debate. The Fukushima disaster also sparked intense criticism of nuclear regulation in Japan. The plant operator, Tokyo Electric Power Company, was accused of ignoring safety warnings and failing to adequately prepare for a tsunami of such scale. Investigations later revealed that many of the plant's vulnerabilities were known years before the disaster, but were not addressed due to cost concerns and regulatory shortcomings. Internationally, the disaster led to major policy shifts.

Countries like Germany accelerated plans to phase out nuclear power altogether. In Japan, all nuclear reactors were temporarily shut down for inspections. Cleanup and decommissioning of the Fukushima plant is expected to take decades. The Japanese government continues to face challenges, including the removal of melted fuel debris and management of large volumes of contaminated water. Despite technological advancements, the situation remains delicate, and any misstep could lead to further environmental damage. Thank you very

much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on any of the nuclear disasters I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see more videos like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.