---
video_title: "The History of the Roman Empire Explained"
video_id: b0uFNXxgUfg
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b0uFNXxgUfg
video_date: 2025-06-13
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Roman Kingdom
  2:57 - Roman Republic
  6:54 - Early Roman Empire
  10:03 - Crisis of Third Century
  13:03 - Late Roman Empire
  16:37 - Western Roman Empire
  19:16 - Byzantine Empire
  
  Song: Legionnaire
  Composer: Scott Buckley
  Website: https://youtube.com/user/musicbyscottb
  License: Creative Commons (BY 4.0) https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  Music powered by BreakingCopyright: https://breakingcopyright.com
  
  Song: Phoenix
  Composer: Scott Buckley
  Website: https://youtube.com/user/musicbyscottb
  License: Free To Use YouTube license youtube-free
  Music powered by BreakingCopyright: https://breakingcopyright.com
---
The Roman Kingdom era, also known as the Regal period, is the earliest phase in Roman history. Traditionally dated from 753 BC to 509 BC. According to Roman legend, the city of Rome was founded in 753 BC by Romulus, its first king and namesake. This semi- mythical beginning is deeply intertwined in Roman identity with tales of Romulus and his twin brother Remis, who was apparently raised by a sheolf serving as symbols of Rome's resilience. During this era, Rome transitioned from an area made up of small communities into an organized urban settlement, laying the groundwork for its rise into a major Mediterranean power. The Roman kingdom was ruled by a

succession of seven kings, each contributing uniquely to Rome's early development. Romulus, the first king, is credited with establishing many of Rome's foundational institutions, including its military structure in the Roman Senate, which originally served as an advisory council to the king. The second king, Numo Pompilius, was known for his focus on religion and law, organizing Rome's priesthoods and religious calendar. He is often seen as the architect of Roman spiritual life, helping to balance the warrior ethos with divine order. Under the third king, Tolles Hostilius, Rome adopted a more aggressive military position. He led the

conquest of Albalonga, an older Latin city, and integrated its population into Roman society, helping expand Rome's influence in Latium. The fourth king, Ankis Marius continued this expansion and is credited with building the first bridge across the Tyber River and founding the port of Aia which became vital for Rome's trade in naval power. The fifth king Lucius Tarquinius Prriscus of Atruscan origin introduced several Atruscan cultural influences into Roman society. He expanded the Senate and began significant public works such as the cloa maxima which was a large sewer system. The sixth king, Servius Tulius, is remembered for creating Rome's first census, which classified citizens based on wealth and military capacity. This led to the

establishment of the Centriate Assembly, an early form of representative government based on class divisions. The final king, Lucius Tarquinius Superbus, ruled as a tyrant and was widely despised for his cruelty and disregard for Roman traditions. His reign came to a dramatic end after the scandal involving his son, Sextus Tarquinius, and the noble woman, Lucriccia. in which he was accused of forcing himself onto her and she ended her life as a result. This triggered widespread outrage and led to an uprising led by Lucius Junius Brutus. In 509 BC, the monarchy was

abolished and the Roman Republic was established in its place. The Romans vowed never to be ruled by kings again and republican ideals of shared power and checks on authority began to dominate Roman political thought. The Roman Kingdom era saw the development of essential institutions like the Senate, religious customs, social hierarchies, military traditions, and early urban infrastructure. Although much of what we know from this period comes from later historians such as Livby and Plutarch, and also contains elements of myth, this era set the cultural and political groundwork for the Roman Republic. The Roman Republic era began in 509 BC following the overthrow of the Roman monarchy, resulting in a new political system centered on representative institutions, shared power, and deep suspicion of centralized authority instead of kings. Rome was now led by

annually elected magistrates, most notably two consoles, and guided by a powerful Senate. This new republican model laid the groundwork for Roman expansion, governance, and military strategy for nearly five centuries, shaping the core values and identity of Rome. The early republic faced significant challenges from both internal class struggles and external threats. Domestically, the struggle between the patricians, which were the aristocratic elite, and the plebeians, who were the common citizens, define the early political landscape. This conflict known as the conflict of the orders lasted for over two centuries and gradually resulted in greater political inclusion for the plebbeians. Major

milestones included the creation of the office of tribune of the plebs in 494 BC which granted plebbeians political representation in veto power and the eventual passage of the lexensia in 287 BC which made plebeian decisions binding on all Romans. These reforms helped establish the republic as a mixed constitution balancing aristocracy and democracy. Externally, the Roman Republic expanded through a series of wars and military campaigns. One of the most critical early conflicts was the series of wars against neighboring Latin and Atruscan communities which allowed Rome to dominate central Italy. By the 3rd century BC, Rome had extended its influence across the Italian peninsula.

This set the stage for its most defining conflicts, the Punic Wars. The first Punic War from 264 to 241 BC against Carthage was Rome's first major overseas war resulting in the acquisition of Sicily. The second Punic War from 218 to 2011 BC was especially pivotal as the Carthaginian general Hannibal invaded Italy and won several major battles including the devastating Roman defeat at Cany. However, under the leadership of Publius Cornelius Cypio, Rome defeated Hannibal at the Battle of Zama in 202 BC, securing dominance in the Western Mediterranean. The third Punic War from 149 to 146 BC ended with the complete destruction of Carthage, establishing Rome as the dominant power in the Mediterranean world. During the

Republic, Rome also fought major wars in the Eastern Mediterranean, including against Macedonia and the Seuced Empire. These wars brought Greece, parts of Asia Minor, and later Egypt into Rome's fear of influence. With each conquest, Rome accumulated vast wealth, slaves, and territory, but also increasing instability. The late Republic was defined by growing economic inequality, military loyalty to generals over the state, and violent political rivalries. Reform attempts by figures such as the Gratchi brothers in the 2nd century BC, who tried to redistribute land to the poor were met with resistance and led to political assassinations. The late

republic was defined by a series of civil wars and the rise of powerful military leaders. Marius and Sula set the precedent for using the army to seize power leading to Sula's dictatorship in the early 1st century BC. Later the first triumphirate formed in 60 BC which was an informal alliance between Julius Caesar, Pompy and Cresus. Julius Caesar's military conquest especially in Gaul made him immensely popular and powerful. His crossing of the Rubicon River in 49 BC sparked a civil war against Pompy and the Senate which Caesar ultimately won. In 44 BC,

however, Caesar was assassinated by senators fearful of his growing power and ambitions of monarchy. The final phase of the republic saw further chaos as Caesar's heir Octavian later known as Augustus, Mark Anthony, and Lepedus formed the second triumphirate. The alliance soon fractured leading to the decisive battle of Actium in 31 BC where Octaven defeated Anthony and Cleopatra. In 27 BC, Octaven was granted the title Augustus by the Senate, resulting in the end of the Roman Republic in the beginning of the Roman Empire. The early Roman Empire, often referred to as the Principe era, began in 27 BC with the rise of Augustus and lasted until approximately 235 AD. This era was

defined by the transition of Rome from a republic to an empire under the control of a single ruler while still maintaining the facade of republic and governance. The term principate derives from the title princip meaning first citizen which Augustus used to preserve the illusion of republican values. Augustus reformed the military by creating a standing army loyal to the emperor, expanded Rome's borders, and initiated large-scale building projects throughout the empire. He also introduced moral legislation and promoted traditional Roman values. This era witnessed substantial territorial expansion. Under emperors such as

Tiberius, Claudius, and Trajan, the empire reached its greatest extent. Claudius successfully invaded Britain in 43, integrating it into the empire. Trajan launched campaigns against modern-day Romania, Mesopotamia, and Arabia, pushing the empire's frontiers to their furthest limits by 117. These conquests brought wealth and new people into the Roman Empire, strengthening the economy and culture. Domestically, the empire experienced long periods of peace and prosperity, especially during the Pact Romana, a roughly 200-year span of relative stability that began with Augustus. Roman cities thrived,

connected by a vast network of roads and aqueducts that facilitated trade and communication. The economy flourished due to this infrastructure, the use of standardized currency, and the efficient collection of taxes. Roman engineering achievements such as the construction of the coliseum. Aqueducts like the Aqua Claudia and roads such as the Via symbolized the empire's power and innovation. One of the most stable and admired periods within this era was the reign of the five good emperors including Nerva, Trejan, Hadrien, Antonyinus Pius and Marcus Aurelius from 96 to 180. These emperors were known for

their effective governance, military competence and commitment to public welfare. Hadrien, for example, consolidated and secured the empire's borders, famously building Hadrien's wall in Britain to defend the northern limit of Roman territory. Antonyinus Pius presided over one of the most peaceful reigns in Roman history. Marcus Aurelius, a philosopher king, faced renewed pressure from Germanic tribes, but is remembered for his stoic writings and dedication to duty. Despite these successes, the seeds of future and stability were sewn during this period.

The increasing importance of the military in political matters meant that emperors increasingly needed the army's support to rule. Additionally, the succession process often lacked clarity leading to periodic conflicts. The death of Marcus Aurelius in 180 resulted in the end of the high point of the principate and his son Kimotus proved to be a disastrous and erratic ruler signaling the beginning of a slow decline. The severe dynasty which came to power in 193 following a brief civil war further militarized the empire and centralized authority. The increased use of the military to enforce political power and the burden of maintaining a vast empire strained Rome's economy and institutions. This era came to an end in

235 with the assassination of emperor Alexander Seis which resulted in the beginning of the crisis of the 3rd century. The crisis of the 3rd century was a chaotic and nearly catastrophic period in Roman history lasting from 235 to 284. After the severe dynasty came to an end following Emperor Alexander Severus' assassination by his own troops, a period of military commanders seizing power through force, then quickly being assassinated took place. Between 235 and 284, over 25 emperors claimed the throne with many ruling for very brief periods. The constant power struggles, civil wars, and assassinations deeply destabilized the empire and drained its resources. At the

same time, the Roman Empire faced severe threats along its borders. In the east, the Sassined Persian Empire emerged as a powerful opponent, defeating Roman armies and capturing key cities. In 260, the Sassined captured Emperor Valyrian in battle, the only time a Roman emperor was taken prisoner by a foreign power. This humiliating event shocked the empire and weakened Roman morale. In the west and north, Germanic tribes such as the Alammani, Franks, and Goths launched repeated raids across the Rine and Danube frontiers, pillaging Roman towns and pushing deep into imperial territory. The Roman military was forced

to divide its attention across multiple fronts, often lacking the manpower and leadership to properly respond. Amid the chaos, the empire temporarily fractured into three competing states. In 260, the GIC Empire broke away in the west, including Gaul, Britain, and parts of Spain. In the east, the city of Palmyra under the leadership of Queen Zenobia, declared independence, and created the Palmyan Empire, controlling Egypt, Syria, and parts of Asia Minor. These breakaway empires operated independently for years, collecting taxes, raising armies, and issuing their own currency, while the Central Roman Authority in Italy struggled to maintain control.

Constant warfare and invasions disrupted agriculture and trade, leading to food shortages and declining urban populations. A devastating plague further reduced the population and workforce, worsening the empire's economic troubles. Despite the turmoil, some capable leaders emerged. One of the most important was Emperor Aurelion, who ruled from 270 to 275. Aurelion is credited with reuniting the empire by defeating both the GIC and Palmyan separatist states. He also fortified

Rome with new walls, reorganized the military, and attempted to stabilize the currency. Though assassinated before completing his reforms, Aurelian's efforts resulted in a turning point in restoring imperial strength. The crisis of the 3rd century came to an end in 284 with the ascension of Diolesian. Recognizing that the old system was no longer viable, Diolesian instituted fundamental changes that transformed the empire into what historians call the dominate. The crisis of the 3rd century was one of the most dangerous moments in Roman history. It exposed deep flaws in

the imperial system and nearly led to the collapse of the empire. But it also forced Rome to evolve. While the crisis resulted in the end of the old Roman world, it also brought in the emergence of a new and even stronger era of the Roman Empire. The late Roman Empire, often referred to as the domin era, began in 284 with the rise of Emperor Diolesian and lasted until 395. Unlike the earlier Principate, which had maintained the illusion of Republican traditions, the dominate was overtly autocratic, emperors no longer styled themselves as first citizens, but instead embraced titles and customs that emphasize their supreme authority and divine status. Diolesian recognized that

the empire was too large and complex to govern efficiently from a single center, which led him to introduce the tetrarchy, a new form of rule that divided the empire into four regions. each ruled by either an Augustus, meaning a senior emperor, or a Caesar, meaning a junior emperor. He himself ruled as a senior Augustus in the east. This division was designed to improve administrative efficiency, ensure smoother succession, and allow for rapid military responses across the empire. Diolesian also enacted wide-reaching reforms. He expanded the imperial

bureaucracy, separating civil and military authority to reduce the risk of rebellion. He introduced a new tax system based on land and population designed to bring stability to imperial finances. He also initiated a currency reform to address decades of inflation. While these reforms improve state control, they placed heavy burdens on the population. In religious matters, Diolesian is infamous for launching the last and most severe persecution of Christians. Beginning in 303, the great

persecution sought to destroy Christian scriptures, closed churches, and forced believers to renounce their faith. Thousands were killed and Christianity was pushed underground. However, this persecution ultimately failed and even backfired, strengthening Christian identity and resistance. After Diolesian's resignation in 305, the tetrarchic system quickly broke down into civil war. Among the many contenders for power, Constantine emerged victorious after a series of battles, including the decisive battle of the Milivan Bridge in 312, where he claimed divine favor following a vision of the Christian cross. Once in power,

Constantine enacted transformative policies that changed the course of Roman and European history. Constantine was very supportive of Christianity and in 313 he issued the edict of Milan alongside his co-emperor Lasinius granting religious tolerance throughout the empire. He later became the first Roman emperor to convert to Christianity actively supporting the church with imperial patronage and integrating Christian structures into state institutions. Under Constantine, Christianity began its evolution from a persecuted sect to the empire's dominant religion. Another major achievement of Constantine was the founding of Constantinople in 330 on the site of the ancient city of Bzantium. Built as a new

Rome, the city became the capital of the Eastern Roman Empire and a vital center of politics, culture, and Christianity for over a thousand years. The final major figure of the domin era was Theodosius I who ruled from 379 to 395. He is most notable for making Christianity the official religion of the Roman Empire through the edict of Thessalonica in 380 which declared nyine Christianity as the only legitimate imperial faith. Theodosius also suppressed pagan rituals and closed many temples further cementing the transformation of the Roman world from pagan to Christian. This era formally ended in 395 when Theodosius I died and permanently divided the empire between his two sons, Arcadius in the east and Henorius in the west. This resulted in

the final administrative split of the empire, setting the stage for the eventual fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476. The Western Roman Empire lasted from 395 to 476 and represented the final stage of the Roman state in the western half of the empire. This period began after Theodosius the first son, Hanorius, became the ruler of the western empire. The division resulted in the beginning of increasing isolation, decline, and instability in the western half as it faced external invasions, economic collapse, internal decay, and weakened political leadership. The early years of the Western Roman Empire were troubled by waves of invasion from Germanic tribes and internal power struggles. In 406, a coalition of

vandals, Allens and Subie, crossed the frozen Ryan River and invaded Gaul, setting off a chain of events that devastated the western provinces. By for Rome itself was sacked by the Visigothths under King Allaric, an event that shocked the Roman world and symbolized the empire's vulnerability. Though Rome retained part of the empire afterward, the sack dealt a severe psychological blow to Roman authority. Throughout the fifth century, the Western Empire saw its provinces fall one by one to invading or migrating tribes. Britain was advanced around 410 as Roman forces were withdrawn to defend Italy. In 439, the Vandals captured

Carthage in North Africa, depriving the empire of one of its wealthiest provinces in a major source of grain. Meanwhile, in Gaul and Hispania, the Visigoths and Franks steadily carved out independent kingdoms. One of the most influential figures during this era was Flavius Etius, a Roman general who wielded considerable power as the empire's chief military commander. Edius is best known for leading the Roman forces against Aillaa the Hun at the Battle of the Catalanian plains in 451. This battle fought in Gaul with the aid of Visiggoth allies halted's advance into Western Europe and was one of the last major military victories of the Western Roman Empire. However, Edius was

assassinated in 454 by Emperor Valatinian III, which destabilized the already fragile political order and led to further military decline. The economic situation during this period also deteriorated significantly. The loss of key provinces reduced tax revenues while the cost of defense continued to rise. The end of the Western Roman Empire came in 476 when the Germanic chieftain Odoacer overthrew the last Western Roman Emperor Ramulus Augustus. Despite its collapse, the Western Roman Empire left behind a major legacy. The Latin language, Roman law,

Christianity, and Roman administrative structures continue to influence the kingdoms that emerged in its place. Meanwhile, the Eastern Roman Empire, also known as the Byzantine Empire, would survive for nearly a thousand more years, preserving and transforming the Roman legacy. The Byzantine Empire, also known as the Eastern Roman Empire, began in 395 after Theodosius the first son, Arcadius, became the ruler of the Eastern Empire. The Byzantines viewed themselves as Romans, but their state became fundamentally different in culture, religion, and political structure from the ancient Roman Empire. One of the most pivotal rulers of the early Byzantine period was Emperor Justinian I, who reigned from 527 to 565. Justinian launched massive military

campaigns to reclaim lost Western Roman territories, temporarily regaining North Africa, Italy, and parts of Spain under his general Bellisarius. While these conquests strained imperial resources and were largely lost within a few generations, they demonstrated the empire's continued strength and aspirations. Equally important was Justinian's codification of Roman law, which became the foundation for legal systems in much of Europe for centuries. The Byzantine Empire faced constant threats from outside powers, adapting to survive over centuries. In the 7th century, the empire lost large portions of its territory, including Egypt, Syria, and the Levant, to the rapidly expanding Islamic caliphates. These

losses dealt a significant blow to Byzantine power, wealth, and influence. In response, the empire restructured itself both administratively and militarily. This helped the empire survive through centuries of continuous pressures from Arab, Slavic, and Turic enemies. The Byzantines also played a central role in shaping medieval Christianity. Following theological debates, the empire developed distinct Eastern Orthodox doctrines that eventually clashed with those of the Roman Catholic Church. The growing

religious and cultural divide between East and West culminated in the Great Schism of 1054 when the Pope in Rome and the patriarch of Constantinople formally excommunicated each other. This split permanently divided Christianity into Western Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy. In the 9th and 10th centuries, the Byzantine Empire experienced a revival under the Macedonian dynasty with emperors such as Basil II expanding imperial borders and strengthening central authority. Basil II in particular defeated the Bulgarian Empire and brought the Balkans firmly under Byzantine control. This era also saw the flourishing of Byzantine culture, art, and learning. often

referred to as the Macedonian Renaissance. Despite these successes, the empire began a long decline starting in the 11th century. The defeat of the Battle of Monzikert in 1071 by the Seljic Turks resulted in the loss of much of Anatolia, which was formerly the empire's heartland. In desperation, Emperor Alexios the first Comminos, appealed to the West for aid, helping trigger the first crusade. Although the Crusades temporarily brought some relief, they also introduced new dangers. In 1204, during the fourth

crusade, western crusades sacked Constantinople, developing the city and establishing the short-lived Latin Empire. The Byzantines retreated to exile in places like Nika until they recaptured Constantinople in 1261 under Michael VII Palia Logos, though the empire never fully recovered. The final two centuries of the Byzantine Empire were defined by territorial shrinkage, internal decay, and constant threats from the rising Ottoman Turks. By the 15th century, Constantinople was surrounded with only a fragment of its former empire remaining. In 1453, Sultan Memed II led a massive Ottoman army against Constantinople after a prolonged siege. The city fell on May 29th, 1453.

The death of Emperor Constantine the 11th and the capture of Constantinople resulted in the end of the Byzantine Empire. Despite its fall, the Roman Empire left behind a major legacy. It shaped the foundations of Western civilization through its innovations in law, government, engineering, architecture, and language. Even long after its fall, the idea of Rome continues to echo throughout history. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on anything I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see more like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.