---
video_title: "The Most Notorious Wild West Outlaws Explained"
video_id: aY0VPKp0gus
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aY0VPKp0gus
video_date: 2025-09-03T19:00:01+00:00
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Black Bart
  1:30 - Cole Younger
  3:11 - Jesse James
  4:40 - Jim Younger
  5:58 - Belle Starr
  7:04 - Bob Younger
  8:05 - Curly Bill
  9:43 - Billy Clanton
  10:58 - Ike Clanton
  12:07 - Johnny Ringo
  13:33 - Sam Bass
  15:05 - Billy the Kid
  16:27 - Tom Horn
  18:10 - Butch Cassidy
  19:22 - Sundance Kid
---
Charles Earl Bulls, more famously known as Black Bar, earned a reputation not just for his daring heist, but also for his unusual refinement. Unlike most outlaws at the time, he became remembered as the gentleman bandit, a polite, soft-spoken robber who left behind poetic verses that elevated his legend far beyond a mere crime. Born in Norfolk, England in 1829, Charles Bulls immigrated with his family to Jefferson County, New York. The hardships of losing siblings during the California Gold Rush in his later service as a civil war veteran shaped his resilience. Wooned at Vicksburg, in hardened by years of conflict, Bulls struggled to settle into farming life after the war. Disillusionment in dispute with Wells Fargo employees fueled his bitterness, eventually pushing him toward a life of outlawy under the alias Black Bart. Between 1875 and 1883, Black Bar carried out 28 confirmed stage coach Robert Ees. With settima part was not brutality, but courtesy, he never killed, avoided profanity, and often reassured passengers with calm manners. After several robberies, he even left behind mocking poems, signed with his outlaw name, cementing his image as a strange mix of criminal and poet. His downfall came in 1883 when he left a hinkertift at a robbery scene, leading investigators to his San Francisco residence, arrested in sentence to six years. He served for before disappearing from history. Thomas Coleman Cole Younger was one of the most infamous outlaws of the American West. Remembered both as a Confederate guerrilla fighter, and as a leader of the James Younger gang, his reputation was forged in the violence of the civil war, and cemented in the years that followed, as he became part of some of the most daring robberies in American history. Born on January 15th, 1844, in Jackson County, Missouri, Younger grew up on a prosperous farm as one of 14 children. His life changed when the Civil War tore Missouri apart. After his father, a Union supporter was killed by a Union soldier, wholesome avenged by joining William Quantrill's Confederate guerrillas, the bloody conflict harden him, and though he briefly served in the Confederate Army, the war left him embittered, and shut out of civil life under harsh reconstruction policies. Outlawry for Younger was not just rebellion, but survival. Younger's criminal career gained momentum in the late 1860s, as he and his brothers joined forces with Jesse and Frank James. Together, they formed the James Younger gang, robbing banks, trains, and stage coaches across several states. Their robberies were bold in bloody, and Younger became known as a steady fearless fighter within the gang. His notoriety peak during the failed Northfield Minnesota raid of 1876, where towns people fought back, leaving the gang decimated. Colin's brothers were wounded, captured, and sentenced to life in prison. Released on parole in 1901, Younger's spin is final years as a lecturer in showmen, attempting to reshape his image. He died in 1916 and Lee's summit, Missouri, remembered as both a ruthless outlaw in a man who sought redemption. Jesse Woods and James, often called the Robin Hood of the West, remains one of the most infamous outlaws in American history. Born on September 5, 1847, in Clay County, Missouri, Jesse grew up in Little Dixie, an area deeply loyal to the Confederacy. His father died when he was a child, and his mother, Remarie Twice, raised amid slavery and political division, Jesse's world was shaped by turmoil. During the Cold War, he and his brother Frank joined pro-Confedere guerrillas, fighting under notorious leaders like William Quantrill, in bloody Bill Anderson. This brutal upbringing on the battlefield would define his path into outlaw life. After the war, Jesse and Frank formed the James Younger gang. Their crimes were marked by both precision and violence. Jesse gained notoriety after the 1869, Gallatin Missouri-Bankrobery, where he killed the cashier, believing him to be a union officer, responsible for Anderson's death. With sensational newspaper coverage in the support of sympathetic Southern writers, Jesse's image shifted into that of a Confederate hero, striking back against reconstruction. Jesse's downfall came on April 3, 1882, when Robert Ford, a fellow gang member, shot him in the back of the head in his own home. Though he died a criminal, his myth only grew stronger. Countless books, films, and ballads have portrayed him as both a villain and folk hero, cementing his place as the most famous outlaw of the Wild West. James Harden, Jim Younger, a lesser known but important member of the James Younger gang, lived a life caught between loyalty, violence and tragedy. Born on January 15, 1848 in Missouri, Jim was the 9th of 14 children in the prominent Younger family. While fighting in the Civil War, he was captured by Union forces, and endured imprisonment to Alton Prison before being released at war's end. For a time, Jim attempted to rebuild a normal life, working as a deputy sheriff in Texas, in trying his hand at ranching. But the scars of war and family loyalties soon pulled him back toward outlaw life. In 1873, Jim joined the James Younger gang, and he was present during violent clashes with Lawmen, including the death of his brother John in 1874 at the hands of Pinkerton agents. Though he briefly stepped away, Jim returned for the infamous 1876 Northfield Minnesota Bank raid. The failed robbery ended in disaster. Shot through the face, Jim was captured in sentence to life in prison, paroled in 1901 after decades behind bars. Jim attempted to find peace. He became engaged, but strict parole conditions barred marriage. Haunted by broken dreams, he ended his life on October 19, 1902 in St. Paul, Minnesota. Myra Mae Bell Shirley, better known as Bell Star, carved out a place in the Wild West legend as the so-called Bandit Queen. Born on February 5, 1848, in Carthage, Missouri, her family supported the Confederacy, and her brother Bud taught her to riot and handle firearms, skills that would define her reputation. After Bud's death in 1864, the family moved to Texas, where Bell married Jim Reed, whose outlaw alive drew her into criminal circles. Bell's notoriety increased after marrying Sam Star in 1880, a Cherokee man and leader of the Star Gang. Together, they lived in Indian territory, harboring criminals and engaging in horse theft. She spent time in prison following in 1883 conviction, and newspapers sensationalized her as a hardened female outlaw. Her flamboyant style, pistols at her side, feathers in her hat, made her a rare and memorable woman in a male dominated world. Her life ended violently on February 3, 1889. When she was ambushed near Briar Town, Oklahoma, the killer was never identified. Robert Ewing Bob Younger was born on October 29, 1853. In Missouri, he was the 13th of 14 children. The Civil War left deep scars. Union soldiers killed his father and burned the family home, surrounding him with lost and resentment. While his older brothers rode with Quantrill's raiders, Bob grew up immersed in grief and family loyalty, which ultimately drew him into outlaw life alongside his siblings. By around 1873, Bob joined the James Younger gang, participating in early train robberies, including the Rock Island Railroad heist, in Iowa, in the Kansas Pacific Railroad raid in 1874. Bob's downfall came with the failed Northfield Minnesota bank raid in 1876. Shot twice during the robbery, he was captured along with Cole and Jim Younger, after a desperate manhunt. Pleading guilty to killing, Bob received a life sentence, and died of tuberculosis and stillwater prison on September 16, 1889 at 35. William Curley Bill Brosius was one of the most feared outlaws of the Arizona territory during the late 1800s, known for his violent temper and unpredictable behavior. He left behind a reputation as both a ruthless killer and a charismatic gang leader. Curley Bill was born around 1845, in Crawford'sville, Indiana, and later moved to Texas before drifting in outlaw life. Little is known of his childhood, but his later actions suggest a man hardened by frontier struggles and shaped by the lawless opportunities of the expanding west. By 1878, he had settled in the Arizona territory, where he quickly earned a reputation as both a cattle rustler and an enforcer under share of Johnny Behan. His sharp wit and reckless streak soon made him both respected and feared among fellow outlaws. As leader of the Cochise County Cowboys, Curley Bill organized raids into Mexico, staged bold robberies, and committed acts of terror such as massacres in violent disruptions of community gatherings. His notoriety grew after the accidental killing of tombstone martial Fred White in 1880, an event that placed him in direct conflict with Wyatt Earp. He later participated in bloody ambushes, including the skeleton Canyon massacre, and was tied to the killing of Morgan Earp, though never convicted. Newspapers in word of mouth spread his name across the frontier, as a symbol of reckless outlaw power. Curley Bill's violent life ended in March 1882, when Wyatt Earp shot him during a gunfight at Iron Springs. Accounts say the blast nearly cut him in half, bringing an end to his reign of chaos. William Harrison Billy Clinton was born in 1862 in Hamilton County, Texas. He was the youngest son of new manhains Old Man Clinton, and Mariah Sexton Kelso, the Clinton family-led a nomadic frontier life, moving from Texas to California before settling in Arizona. In 1877, his father established the Clinton ranch, and Cochise County just as tombstone was transforming into a booming silver town. Growing up in this lawless environment, Billy followed his father and older brother, Ike, into ranching, and also into cattle rustling, in Borderland skirmishes. By his teens, Billy was tied to the loosely organized cowboys, accused of stealing livestock, and bushing travelers, and smuggling cattle across the Mexican border. His reputation grew with his frequent clashes in tombstone against Wyatt, Virgil, and Morgan Earp, though less notorious than Ike, Billy was considered more dangerous, willing to draw his gun when provoked. Billy's life ended violently on October 26, 1881. At the Ok Corral, he was shot during the 30-second gunfight, reportedly emptying his revolver before falling, his funeral drew hundreds, highlighting tombstones divided loyalties. Joseph Isaac Ike Clinton, remembered as one of the most notorious members of the cowboys, remains a controversial figure in Wild West history. Unlike hardened gunfighters, Clinton was infamous for his skilled weapons, and more for his loud mouth and temper, he was born around 1847 in Callaway County, Missouri. After his mother's death in 1866, he remained with his father, who shifted between farming, mining, and cattle ranching. Clinton's notoriety grew from his volatile clashes with the Earp brothers, and Doc Halliday, who was often drunk and boastful, threatening violence but rarely following through. Present at the Ok Corral, on October 26, 1881, he fled unarmed as his brother, Billy, and the McLeary Brothers fell in the gunfire. Afterwards, he accused the Earps of killing, but his testimony collapsed under contradictions. Earning him a reputation as a coward who talked more than he thought. Later, linked to assassination attempts against the Earps, he drifted deeper into outlaw circles and cattle theft. In 1887, while fleeing a rest for rustling, Ike was shot and killed by lawman, Jonas Brighton. John Peters Johnny Ringo earned a reputation as both a dangerous gunman and a man haunted by inner demons. Ringo was born in Greensfork, Indiana, and raised in Missouri and later California. His childhood was marked by hardship, including the tragic accidental death of his father, when Johnny was only 14. Related by marriage to the younger family, he grew up in a turbulent environment where violence and lawlessness often seemed inevitable. By the mid-1870s, he was drawn into the Mason County Warren, Texas, where he committed his first confirmed killing and began down the path of an outlaw. Ringo's notoriety spread as he drifted westward, eventually settling in Tombstone, Arizona. There he became entangled with figures like Ike Clinton and Sheriff Johnny Behan, aligning against the Earp brothers. He was suspected of involvement in the shootings of Virgil and Morgan Earp and even had a tense standoff with Doc Holiday. His reputation grew through newspaper reports and dime novels, which pinneth him as both ruthless and charismatic. Though feared, Ringo also carried a strange aura of fatalism, often speaking of his belief that death was inevitable. On July 13, 1882, Ringo was found dead with a bullet wound to his temple. It was officially ruled that he took his own life, but rumors persisted that why at Earp, Doc Holiday or others may have killed him. Regardless, his death sealed his myth as a tragic brooding outlaw. Samuel Base was a notorious American outlaw, whose short but explosive career made him one of the most famous train robbers of the Wild West. He is best remembered for leading a gang that pulled off the largest train robbery in US history, stealing $60,000 and newly minted gold coins. From a union Pacific train in 1877, born in Mitchell, Indiana, Base laws both parents before his 14th birthday and was sent to live with an abusive uncle. Leaving home at 19, he drifted south, working briefly in Mrs. Cippy before finding his way to Texas. He tried cattle wrangling, horse racing, and even a cattle drive to Nebraska, but poor luck in gambling habits kept him restless. With few prospects, Base turned outlawy alongside his partner, Joel Collins, setting the stage for his infamous career. Base's rise came in September 1877, when his gang intercepted a union Pacific train at Big Springs, Nebraska, seizing the massive gold hall that made national headlines. After the gang split up, Base returned to Texas and formed a new band of outlaws, who robbed stage coaches and trains around Dallas. Though these later highs yielded little, they attracted the relentless pursuit of the Texas Rangers and the Pinkerton Detective Agency. His downfall came when gang member, Jim Murphy, pressured by lawmen, ended up betraying him, ambushed at round rock Texas. Base was mortally wounded during a shootout on July 19, 1878, and died two days later, on his 27th birthday. Henry McArthie, better known as William H. Bonney, or simply Billy the Kid, is one of the most legendary outlaws of the American West. Born in New York City in 1859 to Irish immigrant parents, McArthie faced hardship early on after his father's death, his mother moved the family westward, but she too passed away when Billy was only 14. Orphaned an abandoned by a stepfather, he drifted through foster homes and odd jobs, before turning to petty theft. His arrest for stealing food at 16 was the beginning of a criminal path out of law from small time mischief to infamous violence. Billy's rises and outlaw came during the Lincoln County War of 1878, where he joined the regulators and took part in bloody shootouts, including the ambush that killed Sheriff William Brady. By then, he had gained a reputation as a deadly gunfighter, though accounts also painted him as friendly and almost polite outside of combat. Newspapers carried his exploits far beyond New Mexico, transforming him into a folk figure. His notoriety grew after killing deputies during a daring jail escape in 1881. His fate was sealed when Sheriff Pat Garrett tracked him down and shot him at Fort Sumner on July 14, 1881. Just 21 years old, Billy became immortalized in dime novels, films and folklore, as the reckless symbol of youthful rebellion in the Wild West. Thomas Tomhorn Jr. was one of the most complex and controversial figures on the American frontier, known as a law man scout Pinkerton Detective, in hired gun. He embodied the thin and often blurred line between justice and outlaw violence in the Wild West. Born on November 21, 1860, in Scotland County, Missouri, Horn grew up in a large farming family where hardship and physical abuse shaped as independence. By his teens, he had left home, seeking adventure in the West. His natural gift for tracking and languages led him to work as a scout and interpreter during the Apache Wars, where he played a key role in Geronimo's eventual surrender. That early service with the US cavalry honed both his survival skills and his lethal reputation. Steering him toward a life where law and outlaw blurred, Horn's career span many roles, but his notoriety grew when he joined the Pinkerton Detective Agency. As a tracker, he pursued outlaws with relentless skill, yet his methods were as ruthless as those he hunted. Later, he worked as a hired gun for powerful cattle barons, and Wyoming in Colorado protecting their herds against Russellers and homesteaders. He became notorious for his ambush style killings, which were efficient, cold, and deadly. Newspapers branded him as a merciless assassin, though supporters saw him as a necessary enforcer of frontier order. His downfall came in 1901 when he was accused of killing 14-year-old Willie Nichol in Wyoming, allegedly a hired killing gone wrong. Despite doubts about the evidence, Horn was convicted and hanged in 1903. His execution sparked a debate, and many believed he was a scapegoat for the violence of the Ranged Wars. Robert Leroy Parker, better known as Butch Cassidy, was born on April 13th, 1866, in Beaver, Utah, Territory. Cassidy was the eldest of 13 children, an amormon pioneer family. He grew up working on ranches, but hardship and restlessness soon shaped his past. As a teenager, he fell under the influence of cattle thief Mike Cassidy, from whom he borrowed both skills and a surname after failed attempts at honest ranching. Parker transitioned fully into outlaw life, combining cowboy skills with criminal ambition. Cassidy's first major robbery came in 1889 when he and accomplices stole $21,000 from a teleriad Colorado bank. Over the next decade, he organized the wild bunch. The gang became infamous for their train heist, especially the 1899 Union Pacific robbery and Wyoming, which made headlines nationwide. Pinkerton detectives pursue them relentlessly, further fueling their notoriety. By 1901, Cassidy fled to South America. His final years ended in Bolivia, where he was reportedly killed in a shootout in 1908, yet uncertainty about his death only enhances his legend, turning Cassidy into a full hero of rebellion. Harry Alonzo Longobah, also known as the Sundance Kid, was remembered as both skilled in loyal, born in Montclair, Pennsylvania. In 1876, Longobah was the youngest of five children in a working class family. At 15, he headed west to Colorado, where he worked as a regular and ranch hand. Economic hardship, harsh winters, and limited opportunities pushed him toward outlaw life. In 1887, he was arrested in Sundance, Wyoming, for horse theft, a conviction that earned him the nickname Sundance Kid, and marked the turning point toward a career outside the law. Sundance rose to fame as a member of Butch Cassidy's wild bunch, participating in train and bank robberies that captured national headlines. He was supposedly quick with a gun, and often relied on speed and precision, rather than sheer violence. Alongside Cassidy, he evaded relentless pursuit by the Pinkerton Detective Agency, retreating to hideouts such as the whole in the wall. Wanted posters with rewards up to $30,000 spread his reputation across the frontier. By 1901, he, Cassidy, and at a place fled to South America, where they continued their robberies in Argentina, Chile, and Bolivia. Their story ended in 1908, when Bolivian authorities surrounded them, and San Vicente, leading to a fatal shootout. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like. Comment down below your thoughts on any of the outlaws I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part 2 or more videos like this one. Thank you again, and goodbye.