---
video_title: "The Most Devastating Terror Attacks Explained"
video_id: hzGAuEnu3EM
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hzGAuEnu3EM
video_date: 2025-06-30
video_description: |
  Part 2: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nPFg5S1fj44
  
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Air India Flight 182
  1:18 - Lockerbie
  2:54 - Oklahoma City
  4:31 - September 11th
  6:14 - Bali Bomb
  7:41 - Madrid Train
  8:59 - Beslan Siege
  10:24 - Sadr City
  11:42 - Mumbai Attacks
  13:23 - Norway Attacks
  14:31 - Westgate Mall
  15:51 - Garissa University
  16:59 - Paris Attacks
  18:30 - Nice Truck Attack
  19:49 - Sinai Mosque
---
One of the deadliest aviation terror attacks in history, the bombing of Air India Flight 182 stunned the world on June 23rd, 1985. The Air India Flight 182 was destroyed by a mid-air explosion off the coast of Ireland, killing all 329 people on board. The Boeing 747 named Kishka was in route from Montreal to Delhi with a layover in London. The bombing was later linked to seek extremists in Canada, specifically members of the Babarcalsa group who were seeking revenge for the Indian government's 1984 military operation at the Golden Temple in Amaritzer, a major seek religious site. Investigations revealed that a suitcase containing a bomb had been checked onto the flight in Vancouver and transferred without inspection. The device detonated at

31,000 ft over the Atlantic Ocean. A second bomb intended for another AirIndia flight exploded at Japan's Narita airport the same day, killing two baggage handlers. The bombing of flight 182 remains the deadliest aviation terror attack involving Canada and at the time was the worst act of terror before 9/11. It was also a significant intelligence failure as Canadian authorities had received warnings about possible attacks but failed to act decisively. Legal proceedings dragged on for years with only the person who built the bomb being convicted. Others accused

were acquitted due to lack of evidence. On December 21st, 1988, Panama Flight 103 exploded over the town of Lockerby in Scotland, killing all 259 people on board and 11 residents on the ground. The Boeing 747 was in route from London to New York when a bomb hidden in the aircraft's forward cargo hold detonated just 38 minutes into the flight. The blast caused the plane to break apart midair, scattering wreckage across 845 square miles. Investigations determined that the bomb had been placed inside a suitcase, loaded in Malta, transferred in Frankfurt, and loaded onto Flight 103 at London Heathrow. The device was

triggered by a barometric pressure switch, detonating once the plan reached cruising altitude. In 2001, Libyan intelligence officer Abdel Bask al- McGrai was convicted for the bombing after a lengthy trial held under Scottish law in the Netherlands. Libya formally accepted responsibility in 2003 and paid compensation to victims families, though it did not emit guilt. The LockerB bombing was the deadliest terror attack on British soil and one of the most complex aviation security cases in history. It exposed serious vulnerabilities in international luggage screening and airport security protocols. The incident also had major

diplomatic consequences with years of sanctions and tension between Libya, the US and the UK. Over time, the case has remained controversial with some questioning the reliability of the evidence. Against Al McGra, he was released in 2009 due to terminal illness and died in Libya in 2012. Memorials in Lockerby, the United States, and at Arlington National Cemetery continued to honor the victims. Before 9/11, the Oklahoma City bombing was the deadliest act of domestic terror in US history. On

April 19th, 1995, the Alfred P. Mora federal building in downtown Oklahoma City was destroyed by a massive truck bomb, killing 168 people and injuring more than 600. The attack was carried out by Timothy McVey, a Gulf War veteran with assistance from co-conspirator Terry Nichols. McVey parked a rental truck with approximately 5,000 lb of ammonium nitrate fertilizer, fuel oil, and other explosives outside the building. At 9:02 a.m., the bomb

detonated, causing catastrophic structural damage and killing men, women, and children, many of whom were in a daycare center housed within the building. The blast destroyed onethird of the ninestory structure and damaged over 300 nearby buildings. The motive behind the bombing was rooted in antique government sentiment. McVey claimed the attack was a retaliation for the federal government's actions during the sieges at Ruby Ridge in 1992 and Waco in 1993. He was arrested just 90 minutes after the bombing for a traffic violation and later linked to the attack through forensic evidence. McVey was executed in

2001 and Nicholls received a life sentence. The Oklahoma City bombing led to widespread changes in US law enforcement and counterterror. It prompted new legislation aimed at preventing domestic terror and increased security around federal buildings nationwide. The attack also brought attention to extremist militia movements within the country. Today, the Oklahoma City National Memorial stands on the site of the Mora building, honoring those who lost their lives in one of the most shocking attacks on American soil.

The September 11th terror attack was one of the most devastating events in modern history. It happened in the United States on the morning of September 11th, 2001. That day, 19 individuals from the extremist group al-Qaeda hijacked four commercial airplanes. Each plane was used as a weapon to target key locations in the United States. At 8:46 a.m., the

first plane, American Airlines Flight 11, crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center in New York City. 17 minutes later, United Airlines Flight 175, struck the South Tower. At 9:37 a.m., a third plane, American Airlines Flight 77, hit the Pentagon, the headquarters of the US military. The

fourth plane, United Airlines Flight 93, was headed for Washington DC, but passengers fought back. That plane crashed into a field in Pennsylvania before it could reach its target. The attack caused massive destruction and loss of life. Around 3,000 people were killed, including firefighters, police officers, and medical teams who responded to the scenes. The Twin Towers collapsed within hours, filling the air with dust and debris. Buildings around

the area were also damaged. Rescue workers spent weeks searching through the rubble for survivors and victims. Many first responders later suffered from breathing problems and other health issues due to the dust and smoke. In response, the United States launched a military campaign known as the War on Terror. Just weeks after the attack, American forces entered Afghanistan to fight al-Qaeda and removed the Taliban from power. Nearly 10 years later, in

2011, US Navy Seals found and killed Osama bin Laden, the leader of al-Qaeda in Pakistan. His death was seen as a major moment in the fight against terror, but many challenges remained. Today, September 11th is remembered each year as a day of mourning and reflection. On October 12th, 2002, a series of coordinated bombings struck the tourist district of Couta on the Indonesian island of Bali. The attacks killed 202 people and injured over 200 others, making it the deadliest act of terror in Indonesia's history. Many of

the victims were foreign tourists, including 88 Australians, 38 Indonesians, and others from more than 20 countries. The attack began with a small bomb detonated inside Patty's Pub, a popular nightclub. As survivors fled outside, a second, much larger bomb exploded from a van parked in front of the nearby Siri Club, causing massive destruction. A third device exploded near the US consulate in Den Pasar, but caused no injuries. The attacks were carried out by members of Jima Islamia, a Southeast Asian Islamist extremist group with ties to al-Qaeda. The bombing

shocked Indonesia and the international community. Investigations led to the arrest of several key suspects, including bomb maker Aahari Hassan and strategist Hambali. Three men were sentenced to death and executed in 2008. The attacks exposed serious weaknesses in Indonesia's counterterror capabilities at the time and prompted a significant overhaul of the country's security and intelligence operations. The Bali bombings also changed how countries approach travel security in the region with Australia and others increasing cooperation with Southeast Asian nations on counterterror efforts.

Memorials have since been built in Bali, Australia, and other nations to honor the victims. On March 11th, 2004, a series of coordinated bombings targeted the commuter train system in Madrid, Spain, killing 193 people and injuring around 2,000. 10 explosives occurred on four trains during the morning rush hour just three days before Spain's general elections. The attacks remain the deadliest terror incidents in Spanish history. Initially, Spanish authorities suspected the Basque separatist group ETA, but evidence quickly pointed to Islamic extremists inspired by al-Qaeda.

The bombs were packed in backpacks and detonated by mobile phones. Investigators later found a van containing detonators and coronic tapes which led them to a cell of Moroccan and other North African militants based in Spain. The attack shocked Europe and had major political consequences. Public anger over the government's handling of the investigation and its support for the Iraq war influenced the outcome of the elections, resulting in a surprise victory for the opposition party. Within weeks, Spain withdrew its troops from Iraq. In the aftermath, Spanish police

arrested dozens of suspects. And in 2007, 21 individuals were tried. Several were convicted, though some high-profile suspects were acquitted due to lack of evidence. The bombings led to major reforms, and Spain's intelligence coordination and transportation security. The Bessin school siege was one of the deadliest terror attacks in Russian history. It began on September

1st, 2004 in the town of Bezelin in North Oishia when heavily armed militants took more than 1100 people hostage at school number one. Most of the captives were children along with their parents and teachers gathered for the first day of school celebrations. The attackers were mostly Chetchin and Ingouch militants affiliated with the separatist movement seeking independence from Russia. Their goal is to demand the withdrawal of Russian forces from Cheschna. Over the course of three days, hostages were held in a crowded gymnasium without food, water, or medical aid. The situation worsened as

explosives were placed throughout the building and several hostages were executed to pressure the authorities. On September 3rd, Russian security forces stormed the school after explosions and gunfire were heard inside. The assault resulted in a chaotic and violent firefight. In the end, 334 hostages were killed, including 186 children. Hundreds more were injured. The operation faced

criticism for its lack of coordination and excessive force, and many families accused the government of mishandling the rescue. The Best Massacre shocked the world and exposed the brutality of the Chchin insurgency, as well as flaws in Russia's counterterrorist strategy. The Russian government responded by tightening national security laws and increasing central control over regional governments. On November 23rd, 2006, a series of car bombings and mortar attacks struck the Shiite district of Solder City in Baghdad, Iraq, killing at least 215 people and injuring more than 250 others. It was one of the deadliest single day attacks during the Iraq war and resulted in a sharp escalation in the sectarian violence that plagued the country after the fall of Saddam Hussein. The attack involved multiple

car bombs that detonated within minutes of each other in a busy marketplace. This was followed by mortar fire targeting the surrounding area. The bombings took place at midday when the market was filled with civilians maximizing the destruction. The coordinated nature of the attack pointed to a high level of planning. The assault was widely believed to have been carried out by Sunni extremist groups linked to al-Qaeda in Iraq with the intention of provoking a violent response from Shiite militias. The incident came just days

after the killing of a prominent Sunni cleric, further inflaming tensions. In retaliation, Shiite militias launched counterattacks, contributing to a cycle of violence that pushed Iraq closer to civil war. The Iraqi government responded by imposing a curfew, shutting down the airport, and deploying additional security forces. Despite these measures, sectarian violence continued to spiral throughout 2006 and 2007. The 2008 Mumbai attacks were a series of coordinated terror strikes that took place over 4 days from November 26th to the 29th in India's largest city. 10 gunmen trained and

armed by the Pakistan-based militant group Lash Kari Taiba carried out 12 separate attacks across multiple locations. A total of 175 people were killed, including 18 security personnel and 26 foreign nationals, while over 300 others were injured. The attackers arrived by sea and split into teams targeting high-profile sites such as the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel, the Aroy Trident Hotel, the Chhatrapati Shivahi train station, and the Jewish community center known as Naraman House. They used automatic weapons and grenades, taking hostages and setting parts of building on fire. Indian commandos engaged in intense gun battles. And the siege of

the Taj Hotel lasted nearly 60 hours. The only surviving attacker, Ashal Kasab, was captured and later executed in 2012 after a high-profile trial. Investigations linked the operation to Lashkari Taiba with support from elements within Pakistan's intelligence network, heightening tensions between India and Pakistan. The attacks revealed significant weaknesses in India's intelligence sharing and emergency response capabilities. As a result, the Indian government overhauled its counterterror framework, established the National Investigation Agency and enhanced coastal security. The 2008

Mumbai attacks remain one of the most traumatic events in India's modern history. They brought global attention to the threat of crossber terror and left a lasting mark on international security policy in South Asia. On July 22nd, 2011, Norway experienced the deadliest attack on its soil since World War II. The assaults were carried out by a lone individual, Anders Bearing Brivik. He first detonated a car bomb near government buildings in central Oslo, killing eight people and damaging several ministries, including the office of the prime minister. Less than 2 hours

later, Bravik, dressed as a police officer, traveled to the island of Utoya, where a youth camp organized by the Labor Party was underway. He opened fire on campers, systematically hunting and killing 69 people, most of them being teenagers. The shooting lasted over an hour before police arrested him. Briv claimed he was motivated by farright ideology, blaming multiculturalism and immigration for what he viewed as the decline of European society. He published a manifesto online shortly before the attack, outlining his extremist beliefs and calling for violence. He was later

tried and sentenced to 21 years in prison, which is Norway's maximum sentence, with the possibility of extension. The attack shocked a nation known for its peaceful reputation and led to a national reflection on extremism and security preparedness. On September 21st, 2013, four armed gunmen stormed the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi, Kenya, the upscale mall was packed with shoppers when the attackers affiliated with the Somali Islamist group Al-Shabaab opened fire and began a deadly siege that lasted 4 days. At least 67 people were killed and over 175 were injured. The attackers targeted non-Muslims, reportedly allowing some hostages to leave after quizzing them on Islamic practices. They used automatic

weapons and grenades, taking control of large parts of the mall and setting fires during the standoff. Kenyan security forces launched multiple rescue operations, facing stiff resistance inside the complex. Responsibility was claimed by al-Shabaab, who said that the attack was in retaliation for Kenya's military intervention in Somali. The siege was widely covered by international media and drew condemnation from around the world. Surveillance footage later showed the attackers moving calmly through the mall, suggesting detailed planning.

Kenyan officials were criticized for the slow response and poor coordination between military and police units during the rescue efforts. The Westgate Mall attack highlighted the regional threat posed by al-Shabaab and raised concerns about the group's ability to strike beyond Somali. It also led to increased counterterror cooperation between Kenya and its allies. Gunmen from the Somali based militant group Al-Shabaab launched a brutal assault on Garissa University College in eastern Kenya in the early hours of April 2nd, 2015. The attackers stormed the campus during morning prayers, killing security guards before targeting dormitories filled with sleeping students. The militants

separated Muslim and non-Muslim students, executing many of the latter on the spot. The siege lasted nearly 15 hours, leaving 148 people dead, which were mostly students, and over 80 injured. Hen security forces eventually cornered and killed the four attackers. Several accompllices were later arrested, including individuals who helped plan the operation. Al-Shabaab stated the attack was in retaliation for Kenya's military presence in Somalia, warning of further violence unless the troops withdrew. The Gerissa massacre

exposed gaps in regional intelligence and raised concerns about soft targets like schools and universities. The incident also prompted a national outcry with Kenya declaring 3 days of morning. Security was tightened across educational institutions in the country and additional anti-terror operations were launched in Kenya's northeastern regions. On November 13th, 2015, a series of coordinated terror attacks struck Paris, France, killing 130 people and injuring over 400. The attackers linked to the Islamic State, targeted six locations across the city, including restaurants, a concert hall, and the National Stadium. The deadliest attack

occurred at the Backland Theater, where gunmen stormed a rock concert, and took hostages. After a prolonged standoff, police stormed the building, but 90 people had already been killed. Meanwhile, bombers detonated devices outside the Stad de France where France was playing Germany in a football match attended by the president. Other teams of gunmen opened fire on crowded cafes and restaurants in central Paris. Most of the attackers were French or Belgian nationals with ties to extremist networks in Syria and Iraq. Authorities

later discovered that the operation was planned in Belgium and involved at least nine attackers, most of whom died during the assault or were killed in subsequent raids. The Paris attack shocked Europe and led to a state of emergency in France. Borders were tightened. Military forces were deployed in urban areas and counterterror operations expanded across the continent. In response, France intensified its air strikes against ISIS targets in Syria and Iraq. The attacks

also fueled debates about immigration, surveillance, and European security policies. Memorials were held worldwide for the victims, and the battaclin eventually reopened a year later. The Paris attacks remain one of the most significant and well-coordinated acts of terror in Western Europe. On June 14th, 2016, a large truck was used as a weapon to carry out a deadly terror attack in Nich, France. As crowds gathered along the prominade Deanglay to watch best steel day fireworks, a 19-tonon cargo truck plowed through pedestrians at high speed, killing 86 people and injuring over 400. The attacker, Muhammad Leah

Bul, a Tunisian national living in France, drove the truck for nearly 2 kilometers, deliberately swerving to hit as many people as possible. He was eventually shot and killed by police after a firefight. Investigators found weapons and ammunition in the truck, though most were non-functional. While the attacker was not known to have direct ties to terror groups, ISIS later confirmed responsibility, calling him a soldier of the Islamic State. The attack stunned France coming just eight months after the coordinated Paris attacks.

Authorities described the attacker as having a history of violence and mental instability and evidence suggested he had recently been radicalized. However, the planning and execution showed intent and awareness of terror tactics. In the aftermath, France extended its state of emergency, increased military patrols, and reviewed its counterterror strategies. The use of a vehicle as the main weapon also resulted in a shift in terror tactics, focusing on easily accessible tools for maximum impact. On November 24th, 2017, militants carried out the deadliest terror attack in Egypt's modern history at the Alra Mosque in Biral Abed, a small town in North Sinai. During Friday prayers,

armed men surrounded the mosque and opened fire on worshippers, killing 311 people, including 27 children and injuring more than 100. The attackers arrived in several vehicles, blocked off escape routes, and detonated explosives inside the mosque. As people tried to flee, gunmen shot at them, and also had ambulances arriving at the scene. The mosque was associated with Sufi Islam, a mystical branch of the religion that some extremist groups view as heretical. Although no group officially claimed responsibility, authorities blamed Islamic State affiliated militants active in the regions, the scale and brutality of the attack shocked the country. Egypt's president responded by

vowing revenge and launching a major military crackdown in the Sinai Peninsula. Air strikes and ground operations followed, targeting suspected militant hideouts. The massacre highlighted the growing threat of extremism in the Sinai region, where the Egyptian military has been battling insurgents for years. It also raised questions about how militants were able to organize such a large-scale attack in a heavily monitored area. The Alado mask attack remains a deeply painful moment for Egypt and a reminder of how even places of worship can become targets in violent ideological conflicts. Thank you

very much for watching this video and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on anything I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part two or more videos like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.