---
video_title: "The Most Deadly Battles in History"
video_id: a1y3BsQH_lk
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a1y3BsQH_lk
video_date: 2025-10-22T19:00:01+00:00
video_description: |
  If you’re ever injured in an accident, you can check out Morgan & Morgan. You can start your claim in just a click without having to leave your couch. To start your claim, visit: https://www.forthepeople.com/Jaydone
  
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Cannae
  1:26 - Gaugamela
  3:03 - Catalaunian Plains
  4:46 - Morgan & Morgan
  6:18 - Talas
  7:48 - Borodino
  9:37 - Leipzig
  11:32 - Gettsyburg
  13:17 - Sedan
  14:57 - Somme
  16:33 - Verdun
  18:12 - Brusilov
  19:52 - Stalingrad
  21:32 - Moscow
  23:08 - Leningrad
  24:51 - Berlin
  
  Song: Legionnaire
  Composer: Scott Buckley
  Website: https://youtube.com/user/musicbyscottb
  License: Creative Commons (BY 4.0) https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  Music powered by BreakingCopyright: https://breakingcopyright.com/
  
  Song: Phoenix
  Composer: Scott Buckley
  Website: https://youtube.com/user/musicbyscottb
  License: Free To Use YouTube license youtube-free
  Music powered by BreakingCopyright: https://breakingcopyright.com/
---
The Battle of Canny fought on August 2nd to 16 BC during the Second Punic War, is remembered as one of the most devastating defeats in Roman history, and a masterpiece of military tactics. Confronted by the vast power of Rome, Hannibal Barca of Carthage sought not only to defeat Roman armies in the field, but to break the alliance system that underpinned their strength. The Roman Republic determined to crush Hannibal once and for all, assembled one of its largest armies, around 80,000 infantry and 6,000 cavalry. Hannibal, fielding a smaller force of roughly 50,000 men, arranged his lines in a deliberate press information, placing his weaker Gallic and Iberian infantry in the center, and his seasoned African troops on the flanks. As the Romans pressed forward, his center slowly gave way, drawing them inward. At the critical moment, the African infantry pivoted and attacked from both sides, while Hannibal's cavalry overwhelmed Roman horsemen and struck from the rear. The result was catastrophic for Rome. Tens of thousands of soldiers were killed or captured in one of the bloodiest single days of ancient warfare. Yet, despite its scale, the victory did not alter the strategic outcome of the war. Although 50,000 to 70,000 soldiers died that day, Rome adapted and eventually recovered its dominance. The Battle of Gagamella fought on October 1, 331 BC, marked the defining clash between Alexander the Great of Macedonia and Darius III of Persia. Sometimes referred to as the Battle of Arbella, it was a turning point that ended Persian supremacy in the ancient world and secured Alexander's rise as the Master of Asia. The conflict had its roots in the long-standing Macedonian ambition to conquer the Persian Empire. After multiple victories, Alexander advanced steadily east, claiming Egypt before pressing toward Mesopotamia. Darius determined to halt him, gathered a massive army on the plains near Gagamella, relying on cavalry, sith chariots, and sheer numbers to overwhelm the smaller Macedonian force. Alexander, leading about 47,000 men, countered with disciplined formations and tactical innovation. He extended his right flank to draw the Persians out of position, then led a decisive cavalry charge into the gap that opened in their lines. Meanwhile, his infantry failings advanced steadily, while light troops neutralized the Persian chariots. Before they could break the line, Darius once again confronted by Alexander's audacity, fled the battlefield, abandoning his army. The result was a crushing Macedonian victory. Persia's forces scattered, its noble stern against Darius, and the great empire quickly unraveled. Alexander entered Babylon, Susa and Persepolis, seizing vast wealth and proclaiming himself the ruler of Asia. The Battle of the Catalanian Plains, fought in 451, near Shalone and Gaul, was one of the most dramatic encounters of late antiquity, and a defining moment in the struggle against Attila the Hun. Known as the Battle of Shalone, it brought together an unlikely coalition of Romans, Visigoths, and other Germanic tribes against the formidable Hunnic Horde, halting Attila's westward expansion into Europe. By the mid-5th century, the Western Roman Empire was weakened by internal decline and political instability. Attila commanding a vast army of Huns and Allied tribes, sought to exploit this weakness by invading Gaul, his campaign threatened to overwhelm the fractured provinces of the Empire. Roman General Flavius ETS however, forged alliances with the Visigoths, under King Theodorik I and other tribal leaders, rallying a combined force to meet the invaders. The battle unfolded on uneven ground that blunted the full advantage of Hunnic cavalry. Fierce fighting raged throughout the day while Attila's horse archers unleashed devastating valleys, while the coalition pressed to hold the high ground. Theodorik I was killed in the clash, but his son Doris Man rallied the Visigoths, preventing the coalition's collapse. Attila eventually withdrew, constructing a defensive wagon as his battered army retreated from the field. Though there were between 165-300,000 casualties, the outcome was a strategic victory for Roman its allies. The aura of Hunnic invincibility was broken and Attila's advance into Western Europe was decisively checked. Now, before we continue, I have something that I need to tell you guys. When I was a kid on the 4th of July of all days, I was hit by a car. Fireworks, barbecue, and then camp a trip to the hospital. Thankfully, I recovered, but for my parents, it was a nightmare, especially because of the insurance companies and then having to deal with the mountain of medical bills. And that's the reality for so many other people as well. Traditional, personal injury claims are designed to wear you down. Insurance companies drag their feet, offer you pennies to what you deserve, and hope you'll just give up. That's why I wish my parents had known about Morgan and Morgan. There's a reason history remembers those who fought for justice. Just like there's a reason why Morgan and Morgan is America's largest injury law firm. And for over 35 years, they've been fighting for the people, not the insurance companies. Their result turns insane. In Florida, one client was offered just $350,000. But Morgan and Morgan fought for them and got them over 12 million. In Pennsylvania, another client was awarded $26 million, which was 40 times higher than what the insurer wanted to pay. That's because when you hire Morgan and Morgan, it's like hiring a legal army. They've got over a thousand attorneys and a hundred plus offices nationwide. And they've recovered over $25 billion for over 500,000 clients. And the best part, there are no upfront cost. Their fee is free unless they win. Submitting a claim is super easy. You can start less than a minute with no endless appointments, overwhelming paperwork or long waits. So if you're ever injured, don't settle for less and let the insurance companies win. You can just click the link in the description or scan the QR code on screen to get started with Morgan and Morgan today. The Battle of Talas, bought in 751 near the Talas River in Central Asia, was a decisive encounter between the Abysseid Caliphate and the Tang Dynasty of China. The conflict arose from local rivalries between the kingdoms of Furgana and Chach, when Furgana called upon Tang assistance. The Chinese intervened and executed the ruler of Chach, despite promising safe passage. His son sought support from the Abysseids, who were then expanding eastward under the leadership of Abu Muslim, governor of Khorasan, Ziyad and Manzala, an experienced commander led the Muslim army, bolstered by Turkic army such as the Karluks, while the Tang forces marched west under General Goushi and Ji. The battle lasted several days, with Muslim accounts speaking of 100,000 Chinese troops, while Chinese records suggested far fewer. The turning point came when the Karluks attacked the Chinese from the rear, shattering their formations. Caught between discipline Abysseid forces in the Karluks, the Tang army collapsed, suffering heavy losses before retreating east. With around 40 to 50,000 casualties, the victory secured Abysseid dominance in Central Asia, in permanently ended Chinese expansion into the region. In the aftermath, Islam spread rapidly, across Trans-Oxiana, reshaping its cultural identity. The Battle of Borodino, fought on September 7, 1812, was the largest and bloodiest single-day clash of the Napoleonic Wars, pitting Napoleon's Grande Armée against the Russian Empire, under General Mikhail Kutuzov, taking place just 75 miles west of Moscow. It became the climatic encounter of the French invasion of Russia, in a turning point in Napoleon's ill-fated campaign. Napoleon's decision to invade Russia stemmed from growing tensions with Sar Alexander I, specifically over Russia's withdraw from the continental system, the trade blockade against Britain. After advancing deep into Russian territory, Napoleon sought a decisive battle to force the Russians into submission. The Russians, having retreated and squirted their own land, finally chose to stand in fight near Borodino, with some 150,000 men, against Napoleon's 128,000. The fighting was ferocious and relentless. Napoleon launched repeated frontal assault on Russian fortifications, such as the Bagration and the Great Red Dau, where casualties stored on both sides. Despite local successes, the French failed to deliver a knockout blow. Kutuzov's troops, battered but unbroken, retreated in good order by nightfall, leaving the French technically in control of the field, but too weakened to capitalize on their costly victory. Casualties reached staggering levels, with estimates of 70 to 80,000 dead and wounded combined. Though Napoleon could claim a tactical win, strategically it was hollow. The Russian army survived, Moscow was abandoned and burned, and the Grande Armée soon faced the devastating retreat that sealed Napoleon's downfall. The Battle of Leibzig, fought from October 16th to 19th, 1813, was the largest engagement of the Napoleonic Wars, and one of the most decisive battles in European history. Known as the Battle of the Nations, it marked the moment when Napoleon bonapartes dominance of the continent began to collapse. The route to the conflict lay in Napoleon's disastrous 1812 invasion of Russia, which destroyed much of his Grande Armée and emboldened his enemies. By 1813, a coalition of Austria, Prussia, Russia, and Sweden formed the sixth coalition, determined to drive France out of Central Europe. Despite raising a new army, Napoleon faced inexperienced conscripts in wavering allies, while his opponent reunited under the Trochenberg plan, designed to avoid direct confrontation with him and instead overwhelm its marshals. The battle unfolded around the city of Leibzig, with over half a million soldiers engaged, making it the largest battle in Europe prior to World War I. Napoleon initially fought with his usual brilliance, repelling coalition assaults, at Watchau, and Lieberlokwitz, yet as days passed, the overwhelming numbers of the allies, bolstered by the defection of sex and troops from Napoleon's side, gradually encircled his army. On October 18th, the coalition launched a massive coordinated assault, forcing Napoleon into retreat. A catastrophic error during the demolition of a bridge across the Elster River trapped thousands of French troops, leading to massive losses. With around 100,000 casualties, the consequences were immense. Napoleon's defeat dissolved the confederation of the Rhine, and ended French control east of the Rhine. The coalition pressed its advantage, invading France and forcing Napoleon to accept defeat in 1814. The Battle of Gettysburg fought from July 1 to 3, 1863 was the bloodiest and most decisive clash of the American Civil War. The road to Gettysburg began after Confederate General Robert E. Lee's stunning victory, at Chancellor's Villain May 1863. Hoping to carry the war into Union territory, relief pressure on Virginia and possibly force Northern leaders to negotiate peace, Lee marched north with the army of Northern Virginia. In response, newly appointed Union Commander, George G. Meade moved the army of the Potomac to intercept, the two forces collided unexpectedly, at the small town of Gettysburg. The three-day battle unfolded in dramatic phases. On July 1, Confederate forces overwhelmed Union troops and pushed them through the town to strong defensive positions, on Cemetery Hill and Ridge. On July 2, Lee launched massive assault on the Union Flanks, resulting in brutal fighting at little round top, the Wheatfield and Devils Den. Though costly, Union defenders held firm, on July 3, Lee gambled on a frontal assault, known as Picket's Charge, sending 12,000 men across open fields against fortified Union lines. The attack failed disastrously, inflicting staggering Confederate losses, enforcing Lee to retreat southward. The consequences were immense. Union casualty is numbered about 23,000, while the Confederate suffered roughly 28,000. Crippling losses Lee could now replace. Gettysburg halted Confederate momentum, shattered Lee's aura of invincibility, and bolstered Northern Morale. The Battle of Sedan, fought on September 1 to 2, 1870, was the decisive clash of the Franco-Prussian War. It marked the downfall of Emperor Napoleon III, the collapse of the Second French Empire, in the rise of the United Germany under Prussian leadership. The background to Sedan lay in France's growing unease at Prussia's expanding power. After victories against Denmark and Austria, when tensions over the Spanish succession crisis erupted, Napoleon III declared war on Prussia in July 1870. The French hoped for a swift Morale-Busing victory, but instead suffered defeats at worth, spits are in and gravel a lot. As martial Patrice did McMahon, led the French army of Shaolone northward. In an attempt to relieve the besieged army of the Rhine and Metz, Prussians under Helmuth von Mokki, cut him off and forced him toward the fortress town of Sedan. On September 1, German forces from the Third and Fourth Armies encircled Sedan, unleashing relentless artillery bombardments. McMahon was wounded early, and command passed through a chaotic chain of generals. French attempts to break out, such as the desperate cavalry charge, led by General Marguerite, were crushed by concentrated German fire. By September 2, the French army trapped in the Moose trap accepted defeat, over 100,000 French soldiers, along with Napoleon III himself were taken prisoner. France lost its Emperor in its main field army, while Prussia secured the upper hand in the war. Within days, the French Empire collapsed and the Third Republic was proclaimed. The Battle of the Somme fought between July 1 and November 18, 1916. Stance is one of the most infamous and devastating battles of World War I. The origins of the battle lay in the Allied strategy of launching coordinated, offensive across multiple fronts to overwhelm the central powers. Initially conceived as a largely French-led attack, the plan shifted when the Germans launched their massive assault, and for done in February 1916. With French resources tied down, the British expeditionary force under General Douglas Hague, assumed the primary role in the Somme offensive, supported by French forces under General Joseph Jaffrey. The battle began on July 1, with one of the heaviest artillery barrage in history, followed by waves of infantry, advancing across No Man's land. The bombardment failed to destroy German defenses, and the first day became the bloodiest in British military history, with nearly 60,000 casualties. Despite the horrific losses, fighting dragged on for months as the Allies attempted to wear down the Germans through repeated assaults, new technologies, including the first use of tanks in September, made their debut but had limited impact. By its end, the Allies advanced roughly 10 kilometers, but had a staggering cost. Over one million men killed, wounded or missing on both sides, while tactically inconclusive, the battle weakened the German army and demonstrated the skill of modern industrialized war. The Battle of Verdun, fought from February 21st to December 18th, 1916, was the longest in one of the bloodiest battles of World War I. The German Chief of Staff, Erich von Thalkenhain, initiated the offensive with the aim of bleeding France-wide, by forcing it to defend a location of immense national pride. Verdun, with its centuries-old fortifications and strategic importance, was chosen deliberately. German Crown Prince Wilhelm led the Fifth Army against the French Second Army, commanded first by General, Fernand Dalingel, and later by Feli Pieten, the German sought to capture the Mew's Heights, forcing the French into costly counterattacks. The battle opened with an unprecedented artillery bombardment, followed by infantry advances, that quickly captured Fort Duomont. However, French counterattacks under Pieten's command, stiffened resistance, the fighting turned into a war of attrition, with the French rallying around the cry. They shall not pass, Fort Vaux fell in June, but subsequent German pushes stalled, by July, with resources directed to the Somme in Russian France, the German advanced faltered. French counteroffensives later in the year, recaptured Duomont in much of the lost ground. By the battle's end, French casualties numbered around 377,000, and German losses about 337,000, making Verdunna human catastrophe. Yet France emerged with a symbolic victory, halting German ambitions, and strengthening national morale. The Brüssel of Offensive, fought from June 4th to September 20th, 1916, was the Russian Empire's most significant military operation of World War I, and one of the deadliest offensives in history. The offensive was launched under the framework of the Chantilly Agreement, in which allied powers pledged to coordinate summer offensives against the central powers. France reeling from the battle of Verdun, pressed Russia to strike in order to relieve pressure. Brüssel of, commending the southwestern front, proposed a bold plan targeting Austro-Hungarian lines in Galicia. Despite skepticism from Russian high command and limited reinforcements, he insisted on using innovative tactics to maximize surprise. On June 4th, the attack began with carefully planned artillery barrages, an infiltration style assault along a broad front. Instead of relying on massed frontal charges, Brüssel of deployed smaller specialized units to exploit weak points in enemy defenses. Within days, Russian forces broke through the Austro-Hungarian 4th Army, driving deep into Galicia. The skill of collapse was catastrophic for Austria-Hungary, which lost nearly half a million men, many as prisoners, and had to rely heavily on German reinforcements. Although initially successful, the offensive slowed by late summer due to Russia's staggering casualties, inadequate logistics, and lack of support from other Russian commanders. By its end, Russia had suffered over 1 million losses. The Battle of Stalingrad fought from July 17th, 1942 to February 2nd, 1943, stands as one of the deadliest in most decisive battles in human history. By mid-1942, Hitler sought to seize Stalingrad, both for its industrial capacity, and its symbolic value as the city-bearing Joseph Stalin's name. German forces, specifically the 6th Army, under General Friedrich Paulus, aim to secure the Volga River and advance toward the oil-rich Caucasus. The Soviets, under Commander's Georgi Shukhov, Vasily Chukov and others, prepared to defend the city at all cost. The battle unfolded with massive German bombardments that reduced much of Stalingrad to rubble. Street to street and even room to room fighting characterized the struggle, with Soviet defenders famously clinging to every block along the Volga. Despite initial German gains, the Soviets launched Operation Uranus in November 1942, encircling the 6th Army by striking at its vulnerable Romanian flanks. Hitler forbade retreat and attempts to resupply the trapped army by air-proved disastrous. After months of starvation and relentless Soviet assaults, Paulus finally surrendered in February 1943, with over 90,000 Axi soldiers taken prisoner. With around 2 million casualties, Germany lost an entire army while Soviet morale soared. The defeat ended German advances into the Soviet Union and shifted momentum irreversibly toward the Allies. The Battle of Moscow fought between October 2, 1941, and January 7, 1942 was a critical turning point on the Eastern Front of World War II. It marked the first major failure of Hitler's operation Barbarossa and demonstrated the resilience of Soviet defenses. After the rapid German advance towards Soviet territory, in summer 1941, Moscow became the ultimate objective. Operation Typhoon, launched by Army Group Center, sought to encircle the Soviet capital with a massive pincer movement from the North and South. The German-high command believed the cities fall, would cripple the Soviet Union politically and militarily. Initial German offensive captured, Viasma and Briansk, trapping hundreds of thousands of Soviet soldiers. Yet the advance soon slowed under harsh autumn rains, logistical breakdowns, and fear Soviet counterattacks. By November, German forces were within Sido-Moscow, with some units only 30 kilometers from the Kremlin. However, the brutal Russian winter, combined with the arrival of fresh Soviet troops, halted the offensive. On December 5, the Red Army launched a massive counter-offensive, pushing the Germans back 100 to 250 kilometers from the capital. The outcome was a decisive Soviet victory, ending hopes for a quick German conquest. It caused both sides dearly, the Soviets suffered over a million casualties, while German losses reached nearly 200,000. The siege of Leningrad, lasting from September 8, 1941, to January 27, 1944, was one of the longest and most devastating blockades in military history. Stretching 872 days, it became a symbol of Soviet endurance during World War II. Following the launch of Operation Barbarossa, Germany's army group North advanced toward Leningrad, while Finnish forces closed in from the North. Hitler viewed the city as both a strategic target, and a symbol of Bolshevik ideology. Rather than storming Leningrad directly, German high command chose to starve it into submission, cutting all the land routes in bombarding the city. By September 1941, the last railing was severed, and over 3 million inhabitants found themselves trapped. Inside the city, life quickly descended into desperation. Food rations dropped to starvation levels, and the brutal winter of 1941 and 1942 claimed hundreds of thousands of lives. Despite the suffering, the Soviet Baltic fleet, anti-aircraft defenses, and civilians, many of whom dog trenches and built barricades held the line. The Soviets launched multiple offensive to break the blockade, finally opening a narrow land corridor. In January 1943, yet it was only a year later, in January 1944, that the red army completely lifted the siege, driving access forces 100 kilometers away. The toll was catastrophic, over 1 million civilians and soldiers perished, mostly from starvation and bombardment, yet the survival of Leningrad became a powerful symbol of Soviet resistance. The Battle of Berlin, fought from April 16th to May 2nd, 1945, was the climatic final offensive of World War II in Europe. By early 1945, Germany was collapsing. Under relentless Allied pressure, in the east, the Soviet red army had driven through Poland during the Vistula order offensive, halting only 60 kilometers from Berlin. Hitler refusing to abandon the city, ordered a last-ditch defense under operation Clauswitz. The defenders included exhausted, Wormock divisions, Waffen SS units, Volkstrom militias, and even Hitler youth. Facing them were over 2 million Soviet troops, led by Marshall's Georgi Shukhov, Ivan Konev, and Konstantin Rokosovsky. The Soviets began their assault at the Silo Heights on April 16th, where Shukhov's first bellow Russian front, broke through after days of brutal combat. Konev's first Ukrainian front pushed from the south, quickly encircling Berlin. By April 20th, Hitler's final birthday, Soviet artillery was shelling the city center. Fear street by street fighting followed as German forces, vastly outnumbered, resisted with desperation. In the fear of bunker, Hitler acknowledged a feat, on April 30th he took his own life. On May 2nd, General Helmuth Wydling surrendered the city. Casualties were immense. Around 80,000 Soviet soldiers died. While German military losses reached nearly 100,000, with hundreds of thousands more captured. The legacy of the battle is monumental. Berlin's fall marked the definitive collapse of the Third Reich, and the end of World War II in Europe. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure leave a like. Comment down below your thoughts on any of the battles I discuss in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part 2 or more videos like this one. Thank you again, and goodbye.