---
video_title: "Every Nazi Company Explained"
video_id: DDYCJDa5m-4
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DDYCJDa5m-4
video_date: 2025-09-19T19:00:22+00:00
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Coca-Cola
  1:25 - IBM
  2:37 - General Motors
  4:02 - Mercedes-Benz
  5:15 - Kodak
  6:29 - Audi
  7:57 - Porsche
  9:30 - Gillette
  10:25 - BMW
  11:52 - Deutsche Bank
  13:31 - Volkswagen
  14:53 - Ford
  16:06 - Adidas
  17:25 - Chase Bank
  18:33 - Universal Pictures
---
Coca-Cola's involvement with Nazi Germany is one of the most complex examples of business survival during a time of authoritarian control. The company had established a strong presence in Germany during the 1920s, where its bottling plants and local executives worked to capture one of Europe's largest consumer markets. By the time the Nazis consolidated power, Coca-Cola was already a household name among German consumers. Once the Second World War began, trade restrictions made it impossible for the American headquarters to continue supplying syrup to its German subsidiary. The leadership of the German branch was faced with a choice, shut down operations, or find a way to keep the company alive during the constraints of wartime scarcity. Their solution was to create a new product using ingredients available within Germany. That invention was Fanta, developed in 1940, marketed as a domestic beverage. Fanta became extremely popular within the Reich, and it was promoted in a way that aligned with German self-sufficiency campaigns. After the war, Coca-Cola quickly reestablished control of its German operations, and reintroduced its flagship drink to a consumer-based that had developed loyalty to both Coca-Cola and Fanta. Today, historians and critics point to the creation of Fanta as a clear example of how corporations adapted to authoritarian markets, prioritizing survival and profits over moral opposition. IBM's relationship with Nazi Germany remains one of the most scrutinized and controversial corporate histories of the Second World War. At the heart of the story is IBM's punch-car technology, a data processing system that revolutionized record keeping during the 1930s. German authorities quickly realized that these machines could be used to streamline census-taking, registry management, and other administrative functions. What made this significant was that the Nazi state relied heavily on bureaucratic precision to identify, classify, and ultimately deport Jews, Roma, and other targeted groups. The claim is that IBM not only supplied equipment, but also customized punch-car designs, and serviced the machines through local subsidiaries. This, according to the evidence, meant that IBM technology was embedded within the Nazi bureaucracy, making their processes more efficient and far-reaching. The company, however, has disputed the strongest allegations, arguing that subsidiaries operated independently once war broke out, in that corporate leadership in the United States did not fully control how machines were used. Despite the debate, one fact remains firmly documented. IBM equipment and services were actively used by Nazi Germany. General Motors, through its German subsidiary Opel, played an important role in Germany's motorization during the Nazi period. Opel was a well-established German car manufacturer by the time GM acquired majority ownership, and under Nazi rule, the company became closely tied to the rearmament efforts of the regime. In the 1930s, as Hitler emphasized the importance of mobility and infrastructure, Opel vehicles became a cornerstone of both civilian and paramilitary motorization. While some managers and board members in Opel openly cooperated with the Nazi authorities, the parent company in the United States faced a more complicated situation. When America entered the war, direct oversight became nearly impossible, and Opel operated under German control. After the war, General Motors sought to distance itself from accusations of collaboration, framing Opel's production as coerced under the demands of an authoritarian regime. Scholars, however, stressed that while coercion existed, Opel's leadership also acted opportunistically, profiting from contracts in favor with the state. The controversy deepened in post-war compensation debates, where critics argued that GM benefited financially from Opel's wartime contributions. While avoiding responsibility for its involvement, this has led his story to conclude that Opel's operations represented more than mere survival, they actively contributed to Nazi Germany's military capacity. Mercedes-Benz developed a relationship with the regime that was both symbolic and deeply practical. The luxury Mercedes cars were closely associated with Adolf Hitler himself who frequently used them for parades and appearances. This connection helped elevate the brand as a symbol of prestige within the Reich. Perhaps the most troubling aspect of Mercedes-Benz's wartime history is its reliance on forced labor. As the war progressed and labor shortages increased, the company used workers drawn from occupied territories, prisoners supplied by the concentration camp system. These workers endured brutal conditions while contributing to the production that fueled Germany's military campaigns. Historians have confirmed that Mercedes-Benz executives did not merely comply with orders, but actively sought out contracts and adapted their operations to profit from state demands. After 1945, Mercedes-Benz confronted the legacy of these actions. The company eventually participated in compensation programs for former forced laborers and funded independent research to investigate its wartime conduct. Although Mercedes-Benz rebuilt its reputation as a global luxury brand, its role during the Nazi era has never been a race from historical scrutiny. Codex's role during the Nazi era is often overshadowed by larger industrial giants, but its history provides insight into how consumer good companies adapted under authoritarian systems. Eastman Codex had established a strong European presence long before the war, including a German subsidiary that remained active throughout the 1930s and 40s. When international trade was disrupted by wartime restrictions, Codex German branch operated with considerable autonomy. Its supplied photographic materials to German institutions, catering to both civilian and state needs. Investigative reports have shown that Codex European branches sometimes source materials from territories controlled by Germany, ensuring the continued availability of film and chemicals. This meant that the company was indirectly supporting the wartime economy, even if Codex American headquarters was not directly coordinating those activities. Scalars have also found evidence of forced and coerced labor within parts of the photographic industry during the war, and Codex affiliates were not immune to these broader labor practices. After the war, Codex resumed its global expansion, and the darker chapters of its European operations were left largely on examined for decades. The company we know today as Audi was once part of auto-union, a German automotive conglomerate that became deeply tied to the Nazi war effort. Auto-union was formed in 1932 through a merger of four companies, and during the Third Reich, it grew into a significant manufacturer of vehicles and engines. By the late 1930s, its factories were producing military equipment for the state, including engines and trucks essential for wartime mobility. Archival research has confirmed that auto-union operations relied heavily on forced labor, tens of thousands of civilians from occupied territories, as well as prisoners of war, were compelled to work in its factories, conditions were extremely harsh, and deaths were documented in camps established near auto-union's plants. These camps were set up in cooperation with Nazi authorities, and the company's management made active use of the labor supplied by the SS. This shows that auto-union was not just a passive actor, but a willing participant in the system of exploitation that defined Germany's wartime economy. In the decades that followed, Audi commissioned independent research into its history, and in the 2010s the company publicly confirmed these findings. Audi acknowledged that auto-nation had employed tens of thousands of forced laborers, under brutal conditions, in that many had suffered severe abuse. The company has since contributed to compensation funds for survivors and has supported public awareness projects to ensure this history is remembered. The Porsche brand owes much of its early success to Fertigand Porsche, a gifted engineer whose career was closely linked with the ambitions of Nazi Germany. In the 1930s, Adolf Hitler envisioned creating a people's car that would make automobile ownership accessible to ordinary Germans. To achieve this, Hitler turned a Fertigand Porsche, commissioning him to design what became the Volkswagen, originally called the KDF-Wagen. Porsche's contributions did not stop with civilian vehicles. His firm worked on military projects as well, designing vehicles that could be adapted for wartime use. The Volkswagen design itself was modified into military variants, and Porsche's engineering firm became part of the Nazi industrial machine. These activities were supported by state contracts, and by the regime's patronage, which allowed Porsche to expand its influence and resources. The company also operated within the labor system established by the state, like many manufacturers at the time. Porsche's operations benefited from forced laborers and conscripted workers supplied under wartime conditions. This meant that the engineering brilliance behind Porsche's name was closely tied to systems of exploitation and militarization. After Germany's defeat, Fertigand Porsche was briefly detained by Allied authorities. While his reputation was tarnished by association with the regime, his technical achievements ensured that his influence on post-war automotive design remained strong. The Porsche brand eventually emerged as a symbol of luxury and performance, distancing itself from its founder's wartime connections. By the 1930s, Gillette, the American Razor Company, had established subsidiaries across Europe, including in Germany, where razors and blades were marketed to both civilian consumers and industrial buyers. During the years of Nazi control, Gillette's German operations led to comply with local regulations and restrictions. This meant that while the American headquarters did not endorse Nazi ideology, the German subsidiary had to align itself with the economic and legal framework set by the regime. Historians have grouped Gillette with other consumer brands that were not ideological aligned but commercially entangled. By maintaining a presence in Germany, Gillette helped normalize everyday consumption within a state that had consumer goods as part of its propaganda of stability and strength. While razors may have not carried the same political weight as cars or weapons, their availability reflected how deeply integrated ordinary brands were within Nazi society. BMW's record during the Nazi era shows how a company's growth can become inseparable from authoritarian power. Founded in 1916, BMW began as an aircraft engine producer before expanding into motorcycles and automobiles. When Hitler rose to power, BMW quickly became integrated into the military economy. By the late 1930s, BMW's factories were producing aircraft engines that were essential to the regime, alongside motorcycles and vehicles for the German Army. One of the darkest aspects of BMW's wartime history was its use of forced labor. As German men were conscripted into the army, companies faced severe labor shortages. BMW responded by employing tens of thousands of forced laborers drawn from occupied territories, including prisoners of war, and individuals assigned through concentration camp systems. These workers endured brutal conditions, often with little food and no rights. Survivors later recalled the harshness of life inside BMW's factories, where productivity was demanded at the expense of human dignity. The company's leadership benefited directly from state contracts and embraced its role in the war economy. After the war, BMW struggled to recover. Its factories were heavily damaged and the company faced scrutiny during the denazification process. In later decades, BMW issued formal apologies and contributed to compensation funds for forced laborers. Deutsche Bank was one of Germany's most powerful financial institutions before enduring the Nazi period, and its role highlights how finance became a tool of dictatorship. By the early 1930s, Deutsche Bank had already positioned itself as a central player in German industry. When the Nazis came to power, the Bank's executives did not resist. Instead, they cooperated with the new government and adapted to its agenda. One of the most significant ways Deutsche Bank supported the regime was through its involvement in the process known as areaization. This was the systematic takeover of Jewish owned businesses, where Jewish entrepreneurs were pressured or forced to sell their companies at far below market value. Deutsche Bank financed many of these transactions, profiting while Jewish owners lost everything. The Bank also helped integrate these businesses into the broader German economy under Aryan ownership, which furthered the Nazis' economic and racial policies. Deutsche Bank also provided capital for the rearmament of Germany, as the state poured money into expanding the military. Deutsche Bank played a crucial role in arranging loans and managing bonds. This financing enabled the regime to build the infrastructure of war. The Bank's executives, far from being passive, actively supported these policies because they were profitable and strengthened the Bank's position. After 1945, Deutsche Bank faced scrutiny from Allied authorities. In the late 20th century, Deutsche Bank commissioned independent studies that confirmed its complicity. The Bank eventually contributed to compensation funds for Holocaust survivors and victims of forced labor, though critics argued that acknowledgment came too late. Volkswagen's story begins directly with the Nazi regime in Adolf Hitler's vision of a motorized Germany. In the 1930s, Hitler promoted the idea of a people's car, or Volkswagen, that would be affordable for ordinary German workers. This was not simply about transportation, but about propaganda. The car symbolized progress, national pride, in the promise of equality in modern life. Workers were encouraged to pay for the car through installment plans, which were heavily advertised as proof that the Nazi state cared about ordinary civilians. However, very few Germans ever received a car before the war. Instead, the newly built Volkswagen factory in Wolfsburg was converted into a hub for military production. The Volkswagen factory also made use of forced labor, including prisoners of war and individuals from concentration camps. Conditions for these laborers were extremely harsh, and many suffered or died while contributing to the Nazi war machine. After the defeat of Germany, Volkswagen was taken over by Allied forces, and later rebuilt into the civilian car company we know today. Its early association with the Nazi regime was gradually overshadowed by its success as a postwar symbol of West Germany recovery and innovation. Yet historians continued to emphasize that Volkswagen was born as a Nazi project designed and promoted as part of Hitler's political agenda. Ford Motor Company occupies a unique and controversial place in the story of Nazi Germany because of its founder Henry Ford. Known for revolutionizing automobile production, Henry Ford was also notorious for his public anti-Semitism. In the 1920s, Ford published articles in his newspaper, The Dearborn Independent, that spread anti-Jewish conspiracy theories. These writings were later compiled into a book called The International Jew, which was widely circulated and became influential. Among right-wing extremists, Adolf Hitler himself admired Ford, mentioning him approvingly in Mein Kampf as an example of a successful man who shared his views. By the 1930s, Ford had a strong presence in Germany through its subsidiary, Ford Work, located in Kallon. The factory produced vehicles for the German market, and once the war began, contributed to the military supply chain by producing trucks for the regime. Some evidence suggests that the German subsidiary acted largely on its own once the United States entered the war, while other accounts argue that connections remained. What is undeniable however, is that Ford's personal anti-Semitic views had made him a celebrated figure in Nazi circles long before the war began. The story of Adidas begins with Adolf Dessler, the founder of the Sports shoe company, and his brother Rudolph. The Dessler brothers established their factory in the 1920s, and quickly became recognized for producing high quality athletic footwear. When the Nazis rose to power, both brothers joined the Nazi party on May 1st, 1933. Their membership was not unusual for businessmen at the time, but it does reveal a clear willingness to align with the regime. Adolf Dessler, later the namesake of Adidas, built strong relationships with state institutions. His shoes were supplied to the Hitler youth, and other national athletic programs, which gave the company valuable visibility. When the war began, the Dessler factory shifted some production to military goods. Like many companies of the time, they relied on forced labor to meet production demands. This meant that the company benefited directly from the exploitation of individuals under Nazi control. After the war, the Dessler brothers relationship collapsed, and Rudolph went on to found Puma, while Adolf continued with Adidas. Although the Desslers were not huge supporters of Nazi ideology, their party membership and active cooperation with state institutions placed their company firmly within the Nazi economy. They gained recognition and profit under the system, even while using coerce labor. Chase Bank, one of the largest American financial institutions, had controversial ties to Nazi Germany before the United States entered the Second World War. In the 1930s, Chase operated branches in Paris, which became entangled with the German occupation. After France fell in 1940, these operations would later raise serious questions about the role of international finance in supporting dictatorships. Investigations after the war revealed that Chase Bank's Paris branch, under German control, froze Jewish accounts and made transactions that benefited Nazi authorities. Reports suggest that the Paris branch actively were to maintain its business ties, even as Nazi policy stripped Jewish citizens of their property and rights. By choosing to maintain operations, the Bank indirectly supported a system that excluded and persecuted Jews. After the liberation of Paris, Chase Bank faced criticism, but escaped the most serious penalties, largely because the company argued that its branch had been forced into compliance. Later historical research, however, showed a clearer picture of active cooperation rather than mere victimhood. Universal Pictures, the Hollywood Film Studio, provides a fascinating case study of how entertainment companies navigated Nazi Germany. During the 1930s, the German market was one of the largest and most lucrative in Europe, and Hollywood studios, including Universal, face pressure to adapt their content to avoid censorship by the regime. In the early years, Universal made concessions to continue distributing films in Germany. Like other studios, it removed Jewish staff from its German offices and adjusted content to avoid offending Nazi authorities. These changes reveal how deeply German censorship shaped the international film industry. For American studios, profit often outweighed principle, and they were willing to compromise to maintain access to German audiences. By the late 1930s, as Germany became more aggressive, American studios gradually withdrew from the German market, yet their earlier years showed how even a company with Jewish roots made compromises under financial pressure. After the war, Hollywood's Roland Nazi Germany was revisited by historians, who criticized studios for cooperating too long. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure you leave a like. Comment down below your thoughts on any of the companies I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part 2 or more videos like this one. Thank you again, and goodbye.