---
video_title: "Every Celebrity on the Epstein List Explained"
video_id: EiIOTI8dBdg
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EiIOTI8dBdg
video_date: 2025-07-28
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Donald Trump
  3:10 - Bill Clinton
  5:37 - Kevin Spacey
  7:29 - Prince Andrew
  10:29 - Maxwell
  13:20 - Chris Tucker
  15:03 - Naomi Campbell
  16:51 - Dershowitz
---
Donald Trump and Jeffrey Epstein first became acquainted in the late 1980s to early 1990s. Both men were active in New York in Palm Beach High society, which made it easy for them to cross paths. Trump was already known as a wealthy businessman and real estate developer, while Epstein was building influence as a finance seir with powerful connections. In 2002, Trump gave an interview to New York magazine in which he described Epstein as a friend. He said, "I've known Jeff for 15 years.

Terrific guy. He likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them are on the younger side. This comment has been widely quoted because it suggests that Trump was aware of Epstein's preference for very young women, even if nothing illegal was directly acknowledged. There is also video footage from a 1992 party held at Mar Lago, Trump's private resort in Palm Beach, Florida. In the video, Trump and Epstein can be seen laughing together, pointing at women, and enjoying themselves in the company of cheerleaders. This footage supports the

idea that the two men were socially close at the time. Flight records from the 1990s show that Trump and some members of his family flew on Epstein's private jet. The jet was sometimes referred to in the media as the Lolita Express. Although there is no evidence that illegal activity took place on the specific flights involving Trump. Epstein also kept a personal address book, sometimes called the black book, which contain names and contact details of many high-profile individuals, including Donald Trump. This book has

been made public through court filings and investigative journalism. Epstein also once claimed, according to author Michael Wolf, that Trump was one of his closest friends. He reportedly told stories about their time together, including nights in New York and Atlantic City, where they would look for women to meet. Epstein described these outings as part of their routine during their friendship. However, by 2004, the relationship between Trump and Epstein came to an end. Reports suggest that

their falling out happened during a bidding war over a luxury mansion in Palm Beach. Trump won the bid and some sources say Epstein never forgave him for it. Other unconfirmed reports claim that Trump banned Epstein from Mara Lago after complaints that he had behaved inappropriately toward young women working at the club. While that ban was never officially confirmed, it has been repeated by various media outlets over the years. After Epstein was arrested in 2019, Trump publicly distanced himself from him. When asked by reporters, Trump

said, "I had a falling out with him a long time ago. I was not a fan of his." He claimed that they had not spoken in over 15 years and denied any close relationship after their fallout. Later, during his political campaigns, Trump made additional comments. He at one point promised to release grand jury transcripts and other documents related to Epstein's criminal network. However,

he later shifted his position, calling the people demanding the documents troublemakers and referring to the Epstein issue as a distraction created by political opponents. No official legal filings or testimonies have ever accused Trump of participating in Epstein's sex trafficking activities. Multiple news outlets, including the Washington Post, have confirmed that there is no direct evidence linking Trump to any of Epstein's crimes. Still, the fact that he was once socially close to Epstein, continues to raise questions, especially in the court of public opinion. Bill Clinton's name often comes up in conversations about Jeffrey Epstein. This is mainly because

they were connected through global charity work and political circles in the late 1990s and early 2000s. By this point, Epste was known as a wealthy Finn and Seir who donated to high-profile causes and moved in elite circles. While Clinton had just left the White House and was becoming deeply involved in international philanthropy, one of the earliest links between them was through the Clinton Global Initiative. Epstein was reportedly interested in being part of its early development. He was also active in major organizations like the Council on Foreign Relations. These

overlapping interests in global development brought them into contact with one another. According to visitor logs, Epstein visited the White House at least 17 times between 1993 and 1995. During these visits, he reportedly attended donor events alongside musicians and other guests. These meetings took place while Clinton was still president. Although there is no evidence that the two men were close at the time, more attention was brought to their connection when it was revealed that Clinton flew on Epstein's private jet in the early 2000s. Flight records

confirmed that Clinton traveled on the jet at least four times between 2002 and 2003. These trips were to places like Europe, Asia, and Africa, where Clinton was involved in speaking engagements in global health missions tied to his foundation. Each trip included Clinton's staff, Secret Service agents, and other invited guests. There is no evidence that these flights involved any illegal activity. When Epstein was arrested in 2019, Clinton publicly denied knowing anything about Epstein's crimes. In a

statement, his office explained that Clinton had not spoken with Epste in many years and had never visited Epstein's private island in the Caribbean. However, one of Epstein's accusers, Virginia, later claimed that Clinton had been on the island in 2002. She said Epste told her he owed Clinton favors, but there are no records and Clinton has strongly denied ever visiting the island. In his 2024 memoir titled Citizen, Clinton described Epste as odd and admitted he regretted ever meeting him. He explained that Epstein had become involved in elite donor networks and was not someone he considered a close friend. Importantly,

Bill Clinton has never been accused of any sexual misconduct in connection with Epstein's crimes. No court filings or law enforcement investigations have linked him to the sex trafficking operation that Epstein was eventually charged with. Although Clinton has explained and defended his past contact with Epstein, public interest in the story continues. Kevin Spacy, a well-known actor, has been named in documents related to Jeffrey Epstein. These connections have raised questions, especially because of Spacy's own legal troubles in recent years. However, based

on current public records, his link to Epstein appears limited to few public events and documents, with no evidence of direct involvement in Epstein's crimes. One of the clearest links between Spacy and Epstein comes from a 2002 humanitarian trip organized by the Clinton Foundation. Spacy along with former President Bill Clinton and other public figures flew on Epstein's private jet to visit several countries in Africa. Flight records confirm that Spacy was on the jet during this time. The purpose of this journey was to support international aid work and raise awareness for public health issues.

Young girls were seen at some of the visited charity centers which later led to media speculation. However, Spacy has stated he was unaware of any inappropriate activity and had no personal relationship with Epstein. In addition to the flight, there is a famous photograph from 2002 showing Kevin Spacy seated beside Gileain Maxwell at Buckingham Palace. In the photo, the two are smiling while sitting on ceremonial thrones used by the British royal family. According to Spacy, the visit was part of a public tour and he did not know Maxwell personally. In July 2025, Kevin Spacy

made public statements requesting that the government release all Epstein related files. He wrote online, "Release the Epstein files. all of them. For those of us with nothing to fear, the truth cannot come soon enough. This message was seen by some as an attempt to clear his name and distance himself from the ongoing conspiracy theories surrounding Epstein's network. Spacy has

consistently stated that he had never visited Epstein's island and that he did not maintain any kind of personal friendship with Epste or Maxwell. As of now, there is no credible evidence placing him at the center of Epstein's criminal activities. Prince Andrew, the Duke of York and second son of Queen Elizabeth II, became connected to Jeffrey Epstein in the late 1990s. Their relationship began through Gile and Maxwell, where Prince Andrew stated that he met Maxwell first and that she later introduced him to Epstein. From there, their association grew as all three operated within elite circles of politics, wealth, and international philanthropy. By the year 2000, Prince

Andrew was spending time socially with Epstein and Maxwell. Reports confirmed that he had invited them to several royal events, including a shooting party at Sandringham and gatherings at Windsor Castle in Buckingham Palace. These were not secretive meetings. They were part of the royal calendar, which included many international guests. Epstein and Maxwell's presence, however, gained later attention due to what was eventually revealed about their private criminal activities. One major moment of

controversy came in December 2010 when Prince Andrew was photographed walking through Central Park with Jeffrey Epstein. This happened shortly after Epste had been released from prison on charges related to the solicitation of a minor. The public response was strong as many questioned why a senior member of the British royal family would continue to associate with someone already convicted of a sex crime. Buckingham Palace released a statement soon after saying that the prince had ended his friendship with Epstein and regretted the meeting. The most serious issue connected to Prince Andrew involves the allegations made by Virginia Joffrey, one of Epstein's most vocal accusers. In

court filings, Joffrey claimed that she had been forced to have sexual encounters with Prince Andrew when she was only 17 years old. She alleged that these encounters happened in London, New York, and on Epstein's private island. A widely circulated photo shows Prince Andrew with his arm around Joffrey's waist at Gileain Maxwell's London home. Maxwell is also visible in the background. Andrew has denied any memory of meeting Joffrey and questioned the authenticity of the photo. In 2019,

Prince Andrew gave an interview to BBC News Night in an attempt to explain his side of the story. He admitted that he had seen Epstein a few times a year in the early 2000s. He also acknowledged poor judgment, especially in staying at Epstein's New York residence after his conviction. However, his explanations were widely seen as evasive, and the interview caused public backlash. As a result, Prince Andrew stepped back from public duties and lost several military titles and royal patronages. It was also

revealed that Epste had helped pay off a personal debt of Sarah Ferguson, Prince Andrew's former wife. In 2021, Virginia filed a civil lawsuit against Prince Andrew in a United States federal court. Though Andrew continued to deny all allegations, he eventually settled the case in early 2022. The settlement did not include an admission of guilt, but it further damaged his public image. As of 2025, Prince Andrew is no longer under investigation by US authorities, and he is free to travel internationally. Advocacy groups for

Epstein's victims continue to call for more transparency, arguing that no powerful figure should be immune from accountability. Gileain Maxwell is one of the most significant figures in the story of Jeffrey Epstein. Her relationship with him was not just personal, but also operational. She played a central role in building and maintaining the sex trafficking network that brought Epstein to global attention. Maxwell attended Oxford University and moved to New York shortly after her father's death in 1991. That

move marked the beginning of her relationship with Jeffrey Epstein. Their connection began through shared social circles and by the mid 1990s they had become extremely close. Epste also referred to her as his best friend and their partnership was both personal and professional. In public, Maxwell was often seen as a well-connected socialite, but in private, witness accounts and court records showed she was deeply involved in Epstein's illegal activities. Employees at Epstein's home described her as the lady of the house.

She helped manage his properties, handled money transfers, organized events, and monitored staff. However, her most serious role involved the recruitment and grooming of underage girls. Multiple victims testified that Maxwell approached them under the pretense of job opportunities. Some said she invited them for tea or shopping and acted as a trustworthy adult figure. Once trust was gained, they were brought into Epstein's homes and directed to give him massages, which often turned sexual. For example, a victim known as

Jane described how Maxwell spent time with her and her mother before gradually introducing her to Epstein's abuse. Virginia Juy also accused Maxwell of recruiting her and claimed Maxwell was involved in the abuse itself. Maxwell's social connections helped extend Epste's influence. She introduced him to high-profile figures such as Prince Andrew, Bill Clinton, and Donald Trump. These introductions helped Epste gain credibility and access to more powerful circles. Many of the names that later

appeared in Epstein's contact book were likely shared through Maxwell's network. After Epstein's 2019 arrest and death, attention turned to Maxwell. She was arrested in 2020 and charged with several federal crimes, including sex trafficking of minors, conspiracy to transport minors, and perjury. Her trial began in late 2021. In December of that year, she was convicted on five of six counts. In 2022, she was sentenced to 20

years in federal prison. She is currently serving her sentence in Florida. Maxwell has attempted to appeal her conviction. Her legal team argued that she was protected under a 2007 non-prosecution deal made with Epstein in Florida. However, courts rejected this claim, explaining that the agreement only covered local charges in Florida and did not apply to her case in New York. In 2025, her appeal reached

the US Supreme Court, but the Department of Justice recommended against reviewing it. There has also been public pressure for Maxwell to disclose more information about Epstein's network. She has hinted at willingness to testify before Congress, but as of now, no official effort has been made to bring her forward. Chris Tucker is a famous comedian and actor best known for his role in the Rush Hour movie series. His name has occasionally come up in discussions about Jeffrey Epstein, largely because of a single trip he took in 2002. In September 2002, Chris Tucker

joined a humanitarian trip to several African countries. This trip was organized by the Clinton Foundation and included visits to South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana, Rwanda, and Mosambique. The purpose was to raise awareness about HIV and AIDS and to support public health work across the continent. Other people on the trip included former US President Bill Clinton and actor Kevin Spacy. The group traveled on Jeffrey Epstein's private jet. Tucker's name

appears in Epstein's flight logs from this trip. That fact alone has led to speculation. However, it is important to note that there is no evidence Tucker had a personal relationship with Epstein or that he knew anything about Epstein's crimes. In fact, Tucker has stated publicly that he did not even know who Epstein was. In an interview, he referred to Epstein simply as this guy, indicating he was not someone Tucker was familiar with at the time. The

speculation increased when comedian Cat Williams made a public joke that seemed to suggest Chris Tucker had been to Epstein's private island. However, no evidence supports that claim. Tucker has never been linked to Epstein's Island, and no official record shows he had ever visited the property. No victims, legal documents, or investigations have connected Tucker to any misconduct. As of today, Chris Tucker has not been accused of any crime related to Jeffrey Epstein. He has not been mentioned in

any lawsuits, criminal complaints, or credible media investigations. In Tucker's case, all evidence suggests he was part of a well-known humanitarian effort and had no deeper connection to Epstein. Naomi Campbell is one of the most recognizable supermodels in the world, known for her global fashion career and humanitarian efforts. She has also been connected, at least socially, to Jeffrey Epstein. Campbell reportedly met Jeffrey Epstein in 2001. According

to her own account, the introduction came through her then boyfriend, Flavio Briator. Campbell described Epstein as someone who is often seen at high-profile events such as Victoria's Secret fashion shows, which were commonly attended by many public figures during that period. Her name appears in Epstein's contact list and on his private flight logs, specifically in the years 2001 and 2003. In Campbell's case, no evidence has surfaced suggesting she engaged in or was aware of Epstein's criminal activities. Virginia Jre, one of the most prominent Epstein accusers, mentioned Naomi Campbell and unsealed court documents. Joffrey recalled

meeting Campbell at a yacht birthday party hosted in the south of France. This detail is important, but also limited. Juffrey never accused Campbell of any wrongdoing, nor did she suggest that Campbell was involved in abuse or trafficking. The mention served more to show how interconnected Epstein's social circle was rather than to imply criminal activity by all attendees. In response to her name being linked to Epstein, Campbell made a public statement in 2019. She said she was sickened by

Epstein's crimes and offered her support to the victims. She addressed the fact that her name had appeared in court records and in the media, stating that while she had met Epstein through social circles, she had no involvement in his legal actions. She also expressed frustration that simply being photographed at the same event or listed in a contact book could lead to misleading narratives. She has publicly condemned Epstein's behavior and clarified her limited connection. To date, there has been no credible claim of misconduct against her related to this case. Alan Dersowitz is a

well-known legal scholar, author, and former Harvard Law School professor who became connected to Jeffrey Epstein in the early 2000s. Their relationship began within elite academic and legal circles, but it eventually placed Dersowitz under intense public scrutiny due to both his legal work and later accusations. Dersowitz first met Epstein through mutual associates who were also involved in intellectual and philanthropic communities. Dersawitz reportedly viewed Epste as intellectually curious and saw him as someone who enjoyed being surrounded by accomplished individuals. In 2005, when Epste faced criminal investigation in Florida for soliciting a minor, Durowitz joined his legal defense team. He played

a key role in negotiating a plea deal with federal prosecutors. The final agreement allowed Epstein to plead guilty to two state level charges, which led to a 13-month jail sentence with work release. Durowitz later described this as a favorable plea, but insisted it was based on legal merit, not special privilege. The deal also controversially granted immunity to any unnamed co-conspirators. Nurowitz defended that clause as standard legal practice, but critics argued it gave Epste's inner circle undue protection. Virginia

Duffrey later alleged that she had been trafficked to several powerful men, including Alan Dersowitz. She claimed Epste and Gileain Maxwell forced her into sexual encounters with him when she was underage. Dersowitz denied the allegations forcefully, stating that he had never met Juffrey and that she was lying. He provided travel logs, records, and testimony to support his claim and filed defamation lawsuits against her and her legal team. Jure counters sued.

In 2022, the legal battle ended in a confidential settlement. As part of the agreement, Juffrey issued a public statement saying she may have made a mistake in identifying Dersawitz and acknowledged that her accusation may have been incorrect. Durowitz emphasized that he had been vindicated and reiterated that he had always told the truth. Beyond his personal defense, Dersowitz has become a vocal figure in calls for transparency around the Epstein case. He has urged the release of sealed documents and grand jury materials related to Epstein's network.

He also supported the idea that Gileain Maxwell should be allowed or even compelled to testify before Congress. He has also attempted to address ongoing rumors about a supposed Epstein client list. Dersowitz has said that no such list exists in the form people expect. Instead, he argues that law enforcement already knows which individuals were mentioned by victims and that further speculation only distracts from the real evidence gathered during investigations. Although Dersowitz was never charged with any crime related to Epstein's actions, his involvement as a lawyer in the later accusations have made him a controversial figure. Thank you very

much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on anything I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part two or more videos like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.