---
video_title: "The Most Evil Mass Shooters Explained"
video_id: zzAMHJ0OlaY
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zzAMHJ0OlaY
video_date: 2025-09-10T19:01:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Part 1: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e-rZl0icHuQ
  
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Black Bart
  1:30 - Sherrill
  2:56 - Michael Ryan
  4:11 - Lépine
  5:33 - Hennard
  6:33 - Hamilton
  7:25 - Steinhäuser
  8:20 - Weise
  9:45 - Roberts IV
  11:11 - Auvinen
  12:38 - Saari
  13:42 - Kretschmer
  15:12 - Anderson
  16:27 - Kelley
  17:55 - Roslyakov
---
On September 6, 1949, World War II veteran Howard Barton Unruh carried out what became known as the Walk of Death, one of the earliest modern mass shootings in American history. Over the course of 12 minutes, he killed 13 people along River Road in the Kramer Hill neighborhood of Camden, New Jersey, armed with a German-Lugar pistol and carrying extra ammunition. Umaru moved deliberately from his home to nearby shops and apartments. He shot a barber as he worked in his chair, a cobbler inside his store, and several neighbors he had long considered enemies. Others were killed simply because they were present, including a passerby caught in his path. Three additional victims were wounded but thankfully survived. Police responded quickly, but Unruh retreated into his apartment where he exchanged gunfire and held off officers until tear gas forced him out. He surrendered without further resistance. Investigations revealed that Unruh had a troubled history marked by paranoia, resentment toward neighbors, and grudges over perceived insults. His mental health had deteriorated after his military service, and he often cataloged disputes in a notebook, recording slides that to him required revenge. When evaluated after the shooting, he was declared legally insane and unfit to stand trial. Rather than being persecuted, he spent the rest of his life confined at Trenton Psychiatric Hospital. He remained there for 60 years until his death in 2009 at the age of 88. On August 20, 1986, part-time postal worker Patrick Henry Sherrill committed one of the deadliest workplace shootings in American history. In less than 15 minutes inside the Edman Oklahoma Post Office, he killed 14 co-workers and wounded six others before turning a gun on himself. At the time, the event was unprecedented in its scope and it quickly became associated with the phrase going postal, a saying for workplace violence in the United States. Sherrill entered the building just after 7 a.m. carrying legally purchased handguns. His first targets were supervisors, reflecting the deep resentment he held toward management. Reports confirmed that he fatally shot Richard S. Jr., a supervisor who had disciplined him the day before. Another supervisor, Bill Bland, escaped death only because he was not present when the attack began. Witnesses later recalled how Sherrill locked doors to trap employees inside, making escape difficult. Within minutes, dozens of people were either dead or wounded and the shooting ended when Sherrill took his own life before law enforcement could intervene. Sherrill had previously served in the Marine Corps in the Oklahoma Air National Guard where he was regarded as a skilled marksman. In his postal career however, he faced ongoing disciplinary issues and had a reputation for being unpredictable. Fearing termination, he appeared to have reached a breaking point. On August 19, 1987, the quiet town of Hungerford, England was shattered by one of the most shocking mass shootings in British history. The perpetrator, 27-year-old Michael Ryan, embarked on a violent spree that left 16 people dead and at least 15 others injured. Armed with multiple semi-automatic weapons and a pistol, Ryan first struck in Savornec forest where he killed Susan Godfrey. From there, he moved into Hungerford, shooting residents and passersby and discriminally. Ryan later killed his own mother, Dorothy Ryan, before setting fire to his home. He eventually retreated at John O. God's school where he ended his own life. Investigators never identified a clear motive for the killings. It was later revealed that there were serious shortcomings in the emergency response. Police communications were disrupted due to network congestion, which delayed coordination and hampered efforts to contain the situation. Despite these issues, officers on the ground attempted to manage the crisis as Ryan moved through the town. The massacre had immediate and far reaching consequences for British firearm legislation. In 1988, Parliament passed the Firearms Amendment Act, which prohibited civilian ownership of semi-automatic weapons. On December 6, 1989, Canada experienced one of the darkest days in its modern history when Mark Lepline carried out a mass shooting at Eccle Polytechnic in Montreal. Armed with a legally purchased rifle and a hunting knife, Lepline entered the engineering school and began a deadly attack that lasted about 20 minutes. He separated male and female students in a classroom, declared his hatred of feminist, and opened fire on the women. By the end of the attack, 14 women were dead and 14 other people were injured. Lepline then turned the weapon on himself, leaving behind a note that described his actions as an attack against feminists whom he blamed for his personal grievances. In the years that followed, December 6 was formally designated as the National Day of Remembrance in action on violence against women, ensuring that the victims would not be forgotten, and that the issue of gender-based violence would remain in the public consciousness. In response, Parliament passed Bill C-17 in 1991, which strengthened control on firearms, including enhanced background checks, and restrictions on certain weapon types. This was followed by the landmark firearms act of 1995, which introduced sweeping reforms. The law required licensing, mandatory training, safe storage rules, waiting periods, and stricter classification of restricted and prohibited weapons. On October 16, 1991, the city of Kylene, Texas, experienced what was the deadliest mass shooting by a single gunman in modern United States history. George Pure Hennard drove his 1987 Ford Ranger pickup truck straight through the front window of a crowded Luby's cafeteria. During the busy lunch hour, armed with two semi-automatic pistols, he opened fire on unsuspecting diners. In a matter of minutes, Hennard killed 23 people and wounded 27 others before turning one of the weapons on himself. Investigators never confirmed a single clear motive, but evidence and testimony pointed toward a history of hostility toward women and an isolated social life. Of the 23 victims, 15 were women, a pattern that fueled ongoing discussion about misogyny and personal grievances as possible driving factors. Police quickly converged on the restaurant and exchanged gunfire with him, but he refused to surrender and died by taking his own life at the scene. On March 13, 1996, Scotland experienced one of the darkest moments in its modern history. When Thomas Hamilton entered Dunblane Primary School and carried out a mass shooting that shocked the world. Armed with four legally-owned handguns, Hamilton targeted a class of young children. In only three to four minutes, he fired approximately 105 rounds, killing 16 children and one teacher, and enduring 15 more before turning a gun on himself. The political response was unprecedented in its speed and scope. The conservative government first passed the Firearms Amendment Act of 1997, banning most high-collabor handguns. Shortly after, the newly elected labor government went further by passing the Firearms Amendment No. 2 Act of 1997, which outlawed the private ownership of cartridge handguns across Great Britain. On April 26, 2002, Germany faced one of its darkest days in modern history. When 19-year-old Robert Steinhauser carried out the Erfurt School Massacre, armed with a pump-action shotgun and a semi-automatic pistol, he entered the Gutenberg Genesium, a secondary school in Erfurt, Therringia, and began his attack. Within minutes, 16 people were dead, most of them teachers and staff, along with one police officer. The shooting ended when Steinhauser ultimately took his own life after being confronted by a teacher. The background to this tragedy lies in Steinhauser's expulsion from the school in October 2001. He had been removed for forging a medical certificate in for skipping classes. And under German law at the time, this left him with no qualifications or career prospects. The expulsion filled a deep sense of anger and resentment, leading him to plan a calculated act of revenge. On March 21, 2005, 16-year-old Jeffrey Weiss carried out a devastating mass shooting at Red Lake High School in Minnesota, a Native American reservation community, armed with a 40-caliber-glock pistol, a shotgun, and a 22-caliber rifle. Weiss killed 10 people, including himself, and wounded five others. The tragedy became the deadliest school shooting in the United States since Calabine at the time. Weiss' troubled life played a central role in the tragedy. He had a history of severe depression, multiple suicide attempts, and was on anti-depressant medication. Weiss also struggled with a fractured family life, having lost his father by taking his own life, and his mother to a debilitating car accident that left her institutionalized. He was living with his grandmother at the time of the attack. Before arriving at the school, Weiss killed his grandfather, who was a tribal police officer, and his grandfather's girlfriend. He then stole his grandfather's police issued weapons, and bullet-proof vest before driving to the high school. Once inside, he opened fire and classrooms and hallways, targeting both students and staff. The attack ended when Weiss turned the gun on himself after being cornered by police. Investigations revealed that Weiss had shown signs of obsession with violence, and Nazi ideology, frequently posting disturbing content online, expressing admiration for school shooters. On October 2nd, 2006, a devastating tragedy unfolded in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, when 32-year-old milk truck driver Charles Carl Roberts IV attacked the West Nickel Mine School. This was a small one-room schoolhouse operated by the old order Amish community. At around 9.51am, Roberts entered the school carrying a handgun, a shotgun, wires, chains, and other tools that suggested he had prepared for a siege. He ordered the boys and adults to leave and kept 10 female students between the ages of 6 and 13 inside. He restrained the girls using wooden boards with hooks, forcing them against a chalkboard. After an escalating standoff, Roberts opened fire, killing five of the girls before turning the weapon on himself. Four others were injured but survived, while a six-victim, who had suffered severe brain damage, died years later in 2024. The Amish community's response drew international attention. Instead of reacting with anger or blame, they chose forgiveness almost immediately. Members of the community visited Roberts' family to comfort them, publicly express compassion, and even attended his funeral. In the aftermath, the original school building was torn down, in a new facility named New Hope School was built nearby. This decision reflected the community's effort to heal and move forward, while also protecting their children from daily reminders of the tragedy. On November 7th, 2007, 18-year-old student Peca Erich Alvinin, a Takjo-Kela High School, in Tussula, Finland, armed with a semi-automatic pistol, he began as a soul around 11.42am, and moved through hallways, clashermed in the canteen. Over the course of approximately 20 minutes, he fired 53 shots, killing eight people, including several students, the school nurse, and the principal. 12 more were injured, either through gunfire shattered glass, or attempts to flee. Alvinin ended the attack by taking his own life. Investigators found that Alvinin had meticulously planned the massacre under the name Operation Main Strike. He posted a video on YouTube and not to his intentions, and uploaded a manifesto that expressed themes of hatred, alienation, and misanthropy. These documents revealed both his disconnection from peers and his engagement with online communities that celebrated school violence. The attack shocked Finland. A country with one of the highest rates of legal gun ownership in Europe, public debate quickly turned to the availability of firearms, bullying in schools, and the gaps in youth mental health care. In response, Finland passed stricter gun laws in 2010. These included raising the age for firearm license from 1820, introducing psychological assessments for applicants, and requiring stricter rules for safe storage of weapons. On September 23rd, 2008, Finland witnessed one of the darkest days in its modern history. At the Kauha Joki School of Hospitality in Western Finland, 22-year-old student Maddie Juhani Sari carried out a carefully planned school shooting, armed with a semi-automatic pistol, and homemade and sendyary devices. He entered the school during a business studies exam. Sari moved deliberately through classrooms, firing at close range and setting off fires with his devices. By the end of the attack, 10 people were dead and one more was seriously injured. Sari turned the weapon on himself and later died in the hospital. Investigations revealed that Sari had been planning the massacre for years. Noten writings recovered from his belonging showed a deeper detestility toward humanity, in a fascination with violence. Those who knew him reported that in the months leading up to the attack, his behavior had shifted noticeably. He grew increasingly isolated, showed obsessive interest in firearms and often referenced previous school shootings. On March 11th, 2009, the small German town of Winnenden was shaken by a deadly school shooting carried out by 17-year-old Tim Kreshmur. At Albertville Realshul, his former school, he opened fire with a pistol that he had taken from his family home. Kreshmur entered classrooms and fired repeatedly at close range, killing 12 students in a teacher. He then fled into nearby towns where he killed additional victims before ultimately taking his own life. Kreshmur's personal background revealed troubling warning signs. He had graduated from the school the year before, with unremarkable grades and had sent enrolled in a vocational program. Friends and acquaintances described him as increasingly withdrawn, socially isolated, and resentful toward peers. He had shown signs of depression and frustration with his academic and personal life. His father, a legal sports shooter, owned several firearms. The pistol that was used in the attack had not been stored securely in a safe, which was a clear violation of German law. This led to legal proceedings against the father for negligent storage, a case that fueled national anger. The massacre ignited heated debates in Germany about the accessibility of firearms in the influence of violent media on young people. Later that year, the German parliament passed reforms that tightened gun storage laws, raised atrostrictions for large caliber weapons, and introduced an electronic national registry to monitor firearm ownership more closely. On April 10, 2017, the quiet community of San Bernardino, California, was shaken when 53-year-old Cedric Anderson entered North Park Elementary School with a revolver hidden inside a box. Anderson, who had briefly been married to special education teacher Karen Elaine Smith, used the visit as a cover to reach her classroom. Once inside, he opened fire on Smith, killing her instantly. Tragically, two of her students, who were standing nearby were also struck. Eight-year-old Jonathan Martinez later died from his injuries, while another child survived. Anderson then turned the gun on himself, ending his life before police arrived. What made this tragedy particularly devastating was that Anderson had been allowed into the school without raising suspicion, as staff believed he was there to see his wife. Their marriage had only lasted a few months, ending after Smith filed for separation due to his abusive and controlling behavior. Later reports revealed that Anderson had a history of domestic violence, with past charges related to weapons possession and assault. Despite this troubling background, those around him described his public persona as charismatic and religious, which masked the darker aspects of his character. On November 5, 2017, Devin Patrick Kelly carried out the deadliest mass shooting in Texas history at the first Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs. Kelly, a 26-year-old former Air Force serviceman, entered the small royal church during Sunday services, armed with a rifle. He opened fire on the congregation, killing 26 people ranging from young children to the elderly, and wounding at least 22 others. Kelly's violent history had been documented years before the massacre. While serving in the Air Force, who was court-martialed in 2012 for assaulting his wife and fracturing his steps on school, he served a year in military confinement and was discharged for bad conduct in 2014. However, a critical failure occurred. The Air Force did not enter his conviction into the federal database that would have prevented him from purchasing firearms legally. As a result, Kelly was able to buy multiple guns, including the rifle used in the attack. The shooting only stopped when Stephen Wilford, a local resident, heard the gun firing confronted Kelly with his own rifle. Kelly fled the scene in his vehicle, crashing shortly after. It was later found dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Authorities later revealed that Kelly had sent threatening messages to his mother-in-law, who attended the church but was not present that day, suggesting the attack was motivated by personal grievances, as well as rage from his abusive past. On October 17, 2018, a tragedy unfolded at Courts' Pally Technic College in Crimea. When 18-year-old student Vladislav Roslayakov carried out a deadly attack on his own campus, he entered the building with a legally purchased pump-action shotgun and homemade explosives, executing one of the most devastating school massacres in modern Russian history. CCTV footage in eyewitness accounts revealed him walking calmly through the corridors in cafeteria, firing at students and staff while also detonating at least one improvised device. His rampage ended when his body was discovered in a classroom where investigators confirmed he had died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Official reports confirmed around 20 fatalities, including Roslayakov himself. In dozens of survivors were left with severe injuries. Emergency responders rushed to the scene where they discovered and defused additional explosive devices that had been planted around the school. As investigators pieced together, Roslayakov's background reports revealed a young man defined by social isolation. He had been fascinated by previous mass killers and had openly admired them in online posts. His meticulous preparations, choice of weapons, and timing all pointed to a deliberate desire to emulate these acts. Thank you very much for watching this video and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on any of the mass shooters I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part 3 or more videos like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.