---
video_title: "Every World War II Battle Explained"
video_id: vCgKWsh-fYA
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vCgKWsh-fYA
video_date: 2025-12-19T20:37:45+00:00
video_description: |
  Play Supremacy Call of War 1942 for FREE on PC, iOS, or Android: https://callofwar.onelink.me/q5L6/JAYD001
  Receive a Unique Starter Pack with a value of USD/€ 25, available only for the next 30 days!
  
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Invasion of Poland
  2:31 - Battle of France
  4:11 - Battle of Britain
  5:20 - Operation Barbarossa
  6:33 - Battle of Moscow
  7:55 - Pearl Harbor
  9:07 - Battle of Midway
  10:09 - El Alamein 2nd Battle
  11:09 - Battle of Stalingrad
  12:27 - Battle of Kursk
  13:33 - Invasion of Sicily
  14:32 - D Day
  15:47 - Battle of Leyte Gulf
  17:22 - Battle of the Bulge
  18:32 - Battle of Berlin
  
  Song: Legionnaire
  Composer: Scott Buckley
  Website: https://youtube.com/user/musicbyscottb
  License: Creative Commons (BY 4.0) https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  Music powered by BreakingCopyright: https://breakingcopyright.com/
  
  Song: Phoenix
  Composer: Scott Buckley
  Website: https://youtube.com/user/musicbyscottb
  License: Free To Use YouTube license youtube-free
  Music powered by BreakingCopyright: https://breakingcopyright.com/
---
The invasion of Poland opened the Second World War in Europe and showed a new way of fighting that shocked the world. The German assault began on the first day of September 1939. It started with a mix of fast-moving tanks, aircraft strikes, and coordinated infantry attacks. This style of warfare focused on speed, surprise in breaking the enemy's communication and organization. German forces entered through multiple points and pushed deep into Poland before Polish units could regroup or create strong defensive lines. Poland had brave soldiers in a proud military tradition, but had faced several challenges that made its defense extremely difficult. The Polish army had been preparing for a more traditional style of war and did not have enough modern equipment or armored vehicles to match the Germans. The country's long borders forced Polish forces to spread out thinly. That made it easy for German troops to cut through weak areas and trap Polish divisions far from support. The situation became even worse on the 17th of September when the Soviet Union also invaded from the east, following a secret agreement that had divided Poland between both powers. With two large armies closing in, Poland could no longer hold organized resistance for long. By early October, almost all remaining Polish units had been overwhelmed or forced to withdraw into neighboring countries. By the way, you can relive, fight, and manage these battles against thousands of players with our sponsor Call of War 1942, a free online PvP strategy game that actually lets you play the role of a real nation during World War II. Command amazing units like the Marines from this season update, this elite amphibious unit combines mobility, versatility, and late game stealth who dominate forest in urban terrains, competing against up to 99 other real players and matches that unfold over days or weeks. You'll build your economy, command tanks, artillery, fighter planes, and even unlock secret technologies like nuclear weapons as the war progresses. You get to choose how you strategize by forging alliances, negotiating, or declaring war. Every decision matters, from where you deploy your troops to who you trust. It's fully cross platform on PC and mobile, and you can log in any time to continue your campaign. Get an exclusive starter pet containing the new loot boxes which can drop the new unit, the Marines, with a value of 25 US dollars, using the link in the description below or scanning the code on screen. Now let's get to the next battle. The battle of France was a major campaign that changed military thinking forever. Many leaders remembered the long trench warfare of the First World War, and believed that a strong defensive line, with heavy fortifications, could stop any attack. France built the famous Maginot line and expected that Germany would attack directly. Instead, Germany used a new approach that focused on speed, coordination, and surprise. This approach allowed them to defeat France in only six weeks. The campaign began on the 10th of May 1940. Germany attacked Belgium in the Netherlands to draw Allied forces north, while the Allies rushed to defend those areas. German armored divisions secretly pushed through the Ardenz forest. This was a bold decision because the terrain was rough and considered unsuitable for tanks. However, the Germans moved quickly and broke through before France and Britain could react. Once in the open, German tanks advanced to the English channel and cut off a huge number of Allied troops. This sudden encirclement forced the British expeditionary force and many French soldiers to retreat toward the port city of Dunkirk, a large evacuation known as Operation Dynamo managed to rescue more than 300,000 soldiers. Their escape would later help Britain continue the fight. However, saving those troops did not change the situation inside France. German forces were still advancing and French defenses were collapsing. In June 1940, France signed an armistice that divided the country, the Northern and Western regions fell under German control, while a new French government and Vichy governed the remainder, but under German influence. The Battle of Britain was the first major campaign in history fought completely in the air. After the defeat of France, Adolf Hitler hoped that Britain would surrender or accept peace, when that did not happen. Germany planned to destroy the Royal Air Force, so that an invasion of the United Kingdom could take place. The battle began in July 1940, with German attacks on shipping and coastal defenses, followed by large-scale raids on airfields and aircraft factories. The Lufthafa had many experienced pilots and strong aircraft. However, Britain had key advantages. The Royal Air Force used an advanced radar network that detected incoming German formations long before they reached their targets. This allowed British commanders to send fighters quickly to the right locations. German leaders eventually shifted their attacks toward cities, especially London. They believed that terror bombing would break more out. Instead, a United the country even more strongly. By October 1940, German losses had increased to a point that made invasion impossible. Germany could not gain air superiority, forcing Hitler to postpone and eventually cancel plans to attack Britain. Operation Barboso was the largest land invasion in history. On 22 June 1941, Germany launched the massive surprise attack on the Soviet Union. The goal was to conquer huge territories, defeat the Red Army quickly, and take control of important resources, including food and oil. Adolf Hitler believed that this rapid victory would remove the Soviet Union as a threat and secure dominance in Europe. Germany prepared millions of soldiers, thousands of tanks, and a powerful air force for this campaign. They attacked the long-of-front that stretched across thousands of kilometers. In the early months, German forces achieved incredible success. They captured large Soviet armies, advanced deep into enemy territory, and took major cities. Soviet troops suffered heavy losses and were forced to retreat rapidly. However, the Soviet Union had advantages that Germany underestimated. The country was extremely large, which stretched German supply lines, and made it difficult to bring fuel and ammunition to the front. The Soviet government moved many factories eastward, far from the fighting. This allowed them to continue producing tanks, planes, and weapons. The Red Army, although weakened, continued to resist fiercely. The Battle of Moscow was a major turning point on the eastern front because it was the first time German forces failed to gain a key Soviet objective. After months of fast advances, during Operation Barbosa, the German plan called Operation Typhoon aimed to capture the Soviet capital. The goal was to take Moscow before winter and force the Soviet Union out of the war. German armies moved forward quickly at first, and encircled several Soviet units. However, as they approached Moscow, serious problems began to slow them down. German supply lines had become very long and difficult to protect. Trucks carrying food, ammunition, and fuel struggled along damaged roads. The weather changed early. Heavy autumn rain turned roads into deep mud and made movement extremely slow. Later the extreme winter cold froze vehicles and wounded soldiers. German troops did not have enough warm clothing or proper winter equipment. The Soviet Union used this time to prepare new defenses, reinforcements from Siberia in the Far East. Arrived near Moscow because Soviet leaders believed Japan would not attack from the east. These soldiers were trained in equipped for winter conditions. In early December 1941, the Red Army launched a strong counterattack. Soviet forces pushed German troops away from the capital and forced them to abandon the hope of a quick victory. The attack on Pearl Harbor was a surprise attack by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States Pacific Fleet. The attack took place early on the morning of December 7th. On the island of Oahu, Japan wanted to weaken American naval power, long enough to expand across Southeast Asia and secure important resources such as oil and rubber. Japanese leaders hoped that one powerful blow would discourage the United States from entering a long war. The attack was carried out by aircraft, launched from Japanese carriers positioned at sea, the first wave of aircraft-arguaded battleships that were anchored in the harbor, airfields, and repair facilities. The second wave attacked remaining ships and support buildings. The results were devastating. Several American battleships were sunk or badly damaged. Hundreds of aircraft were destroyed on the ground. More than 2000 Americans lost their lives. However, the attack did not achieve every goal. The most valuable American aircraft carriers were not in the harbor at the time. Japan also failed to destroy repair facilities and fuel storage areas to the extent needed. This allowed the United States to recover faster. The very next day, the United States declared war on Japan. The Battle of Midway was a decisive naval and air battle that changed the balance of power in the Pacific War. In June 1942, Japan planned to capture Midway and destroy remaining American carriers. Japanese commanders hoped to draw the United States into a trap and remove America as a major naval threat. However, American codebreakers had partially cracked Japanese naval communications and discovered the day and target of the attack. When the Japanese launched their assault, United States aircraft already had a plan to strike back. American dive bombers reached Japanese carriers at a critical moment while their aircraft were being refueled and armed. This led to enormous damage. In just a short period, four Japanese fleet carriers were sunk. These carriers had been part of the attack on Pearl Harbor and represented the Corps of Japanese offensive power. The United States lost one carrier in a destroyer, and many pilots died during the battle. Even with these losses, the outcome was a major victory. The second Battle of El Alamin was a major turning point in North Africa. By 1942, Axis forces had pushed deep into Egypt and were close to the Suez Canal. Britain could not allow this because the canal was an important supply route. They gathered large amounts of supplies, troops, tanks and artillery. They also organized units trained to clear minefields because the Axis had created strong defensive positions filled with mines and obstacles. The battle began with a heavy artillery bombardment, followed by infantry and tanks working together to break through. Progress was slow at first. The Allies had a fight through mine-built and defensive fire. Over several days, they widened gaps in weakened Axis positions. On November 4th, a major armored push forced Axis forces to retreat. Shortages of fuel and equipment made it difficult for them to hold their lines. The victory at El Alamin stopped the Axis threat to Egypt and gave the Allies confidence. The Battle of Stalin grad was one of the bloodiest battles in history. The German army advanced toward the city in the summer of 1942 to seize the industrial hub on the Valka River and to cut Soviet transport routes. When the Germans reached the city, intent urban fighting began. Soldiers fought from building to building, factory to factory. While artillery and bombs destroyed much of the city, the Soviets used the ruins to their advantage, creating small defensive strong points, moving reinforcements into big spots and slowing the German advance. The battle extended into the cold winter months. The German had limited supplies and food, and the freezing temperatures caused additional suffering for troops. Without proper winter clothing, the Soviets used the time to organize a larger plan. In November, they launched a counter-offensive from the north and south that encircled the German Six Army. Surrounded soldiers faced shortages of ammunition, food and medical supplies. Fighting became even more desperate, as German forces were trapped in the city with no possibility of retreat or reinforcement. By early February 1943, the Soviet forces regained full control of Stalin grad. The victory stopped the German advance into southern Russia, weakened the German army, and raised Soviet morale. The Battle of Kursk was a major confrontation between German and Soviet forces. Germany planned to attack a large Soviet bold in the front lines, and encircled the Red Army. The Soviets had excellent intelligence about the attack and prepared deep defensive belts. These included multiple layers of trenches, anti-tank obstacles, mines, artillery positions, and infantry units. They also placed large numbers of tanks and aircraft in reserve to counter the German assault. The German attack began in early July, with two main forces attacking from the north and south. They initially made progress, but encountered heavy resistance at every stage. Strong defensive positions slowed their advance, and caused severe losses in men and tanks. On the southern side, the Klashe Prokhoroffa became one of the largest tank battles in history. Soviet counterattacks forced the Germans to retreat, and prevented them from achieving a strategic breakthrough. After Kursk, the Red Army gained the operational initiative and began a series of offensive that pushed the German to westward. The Allied invasion of Sicily, called Operation Husky, was a major campaign to remove Axis forces from the Mediterranean and opened the way to Italy. The operation began on the nights of July 9th and 10th, with amphibious landings and airborne drops. British, American, and Canadian forces each had specific objectives to capture port, airfields, and road junctions. The landings were supported by naval gunfire, and air attacks to protect troops and disrupt Axis reinforcements. The initial progress varied. Some beachheads were secured quickly, while others faced strong Axis defenses and difficult terrain. Sicily's mountains and rivers slowed the advance at certain points. Axis forces were hampered by limited air cover, and shortages of fuel and equipment. The Allies slowly advanced inland, capturing key cities and ports. After several weeks of fighting, Axis forces were forced to retreat to the Italian mainland. D-Day was the largest amphibious invasion in history. On the morning of June 6th, 1944, Allied forces began air-enabled bombardments along the Normandy coast. Peric troopers were dropped behind enemy lines to secure bridges and disrupt German defenses. Thousands of ships and landing craft-delivered infantry tanks and equipment to five beach sectors. American troops landed at Utah and Omaha, British forces at Golden Sword and Canadian forces at Juno. Each beach presented different challenges such as cliffs, obstacles, and well-defendant German positions. Troops faced heavy fire in many areas, causing high casualties. In other places units succeeded more quickly, in taking objectives, reinforcements moved inland, to connect beachheads and secure a continuous front. The successive D-Day relied on detailed planning, deception operations that misled the Germans, about the invasion location, and the coordinated use of naval air and ground forces. By the end of the day, tens of thousands of Allied soldiers were on French soil, establishing a base for further operations. The invasion opened the way for the Allied push across France, and ultimately toward Germany. The Battle of Leite Golf was the largest naval battle of the Second World War, and one of the most complicated sea operations ever attempted. It began when the Allies launched an invasion. Of Leite and the Philippines in October 1944, as part of the plan to cut Japan off from vital resources in Southeast Asia, in response, the Japanese command created a risky plan that involved four separate naval forces, approaching from different directions. Their goal is to lure American carriers away, weaken the main fleet, and attack the landing ships that were bringing soldiers and supplies to the beaches. The fighting took place in several different areas. In the Sibuyaan sea, American aircraft forced heavy attacks on the Japanese Center Force, and sank the heavy cruiser Musashi, which was one of the largest warships ever built. In the Saregau Strait, Allied battleships and cruisers engaged the Japanese Southern Force, and succeeded in destroying much of it with carefully planned crossfire. Near Cape Angano, a Japanese decoy force of carriers was attacked, and defeated by American naval aircraft, which sank several ships. While these events were happening, Japanese aircraft and remaining ships continued to search for opportunities to strike the invasion fleet. Although both sides suffered losses, the outcome removed Japan's ability to carry out large-scale carrier operations. The Allies gained control of the seas around the Philippines. This allowed the Laita invasion to move forward and weaken Japanese supply lines. The Battle of the Bulge was a Dothillers final attempt to change the outcome of the war on the Western Front. On December 16, 1944, German forces launched a surprise offensive through the Ardennes Forest. Their goal is to split the Allied armies, capture the port of Antwerp, and force negotiations that would allow Germany to focus completely on the Eastern Front. The attack initially caught Allied troops off guard because the dense forests in winter weather hid the movement of German units. The Germans pushed deep into Allied lines, creating a large bulge in the map. The advanced slowed as small groups of Allied soldiers held key crossroads, bridges and towns. Harsh winter weather also limited the use of Allied aircraft in the early stages. Once the skies cleared, Allied bombers and fighters were able to strike supply routes and support ground troops. Reinforcement arrived and counterattacks began from several directions. By January 1945, the Germans were forced to retreat. The offensive caused Germany, irreplaceable equipment, fuel and soldiers. It reduced their ability to defend against the growing Allied advance. The Battle of Berlin was the final major battle in Europe. In April 1945, the Soviet Red Army launched a massive assault to take the German capital. The Soviets gathered large numbers of soldiers, tanks, artillery and aircraft. Their objective was to capture political centers and destroy the last organized German resistance. The attack came from multiple directions and quickly reached the outskirts of Berlin. When the fighting moved into the city, it became a brutal and destructive struggle. Soldiers fought street by street and housed by house, bombing artillery and fires. Reduced many areas to rubble. The German military had few resources left and their forces were a mix of regular soldiers, remaining armored units and hastily formed groups of older men and young boys. Food, ammunition, fuel and equipment were in short supply. Inside the city, communication and organization broke down. The Soviets cut off different parts of Berlin, isolating defenders and seizing important sites. Adolf Hitler spent his final days in an underground bunker near the Reichstag. He died there on April 30th. German forces in Berlin surrendered soon after. The battle left the city heavily damaged. It signaled the end of Nazi control. And within days, Germany agreed to unconditional surrender. Thanks to the sponsor of this video Call of War 1942, the free online PvP strategy game set in World War II, jump into real battles, outsmart real players, and fight for world domination. Click the link in the description to get an exclusive starter pack with new loot boxes that can drop the brand new marine unit, which usually costs $25 free for the next 30 days. Thank you for watching and goodbye.