---
video_title: "The Most Tragic Cave Deaths Explained"
video_id: q9rmBQiTMEU
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q9rmBQiTMEU
video_date: 2025-08-18T19:00:47+00:00
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Floyd Collins
  1:56 - Neil Moss
  3:35 - Mossdale Flood
  5:28 - Mount Gambier
  7:18 - Sterkfontein
  8:49 - Cave Creek
  10:21 - Croatia Cave
  12:16 - Nam Talu
  13:55 - John Jones
  15:45 - Sergei Kozeev
  17:19 - Brett Hemphill
  19:01 - Twin Caves
---
Floyd Collins, born July 20, 1887, in Logan County, Kentucky, is remembered as one of the most famous and tragic figures in Caving History. His death inside Sand Cape in January 1925 became a nationwide sensation. One of the earliest and most publicized cave rescues in American history. In Experience Cave Explorer, Collins discovered Crystal Cave in 1917, beneath his father's farmland. Despite its beauty, Crystal Cave struggled as a tourist attraction due to its remote location. Seeking a more profitable site, Collins turned a sand cave, located right off Cave City Road. Collins began exploring the cave on January 30, 1925, hoping it would yield a new attraction for the growing tourist trade. Sand Cave, however, was a dangerous, tight limestone passage riddled with loose rock. That day, Collins ventured deep into the narrow corridors with only a kerosene lantern. After turning back when his light flickered, he attempted to crawl through a particularly light section. His foot dislodged a 27-pound rock that pinned his ankle, trapping him in a space so tight he could barely move his arms. Early rescue attempts failed as shifting rock in narrow conditions prevented direct extraction. Engineers, miners and caveurs began digging a vertical shaft, but cold weather, elapses, and leadership disputes slowed progress. Over the 17-day ordeal, sand cave became a media circus. Thousands of onlookers arrived, vendors set up stands. In the state dispatch troops to maintain order. On February 17, rescuers finally reached Collins through the shaft, but he had already died of exposure. His body was initially left in the cave and recovered months later for burial. At mammoth cave Baptist Church Cemetery, more than a century later, Floyd Collins' story remains one of the most defining and haunting events in the history of cave exploration. On March 22, 1959, 20-year-old Oscar Hackett Neil Moss, an Oxford undergraduate joined a British Speleological Association team, exploring a newly discovered passage deep within P. Caverin, known for its dramatic entrance in complex network. The cave held both a lyrid danger. The group sought to extend their knowledge of the system, venturing to a shaft later named Moss Chamber. Moss, tall and slim, volunteered to descend first into the tight, twisting shaft. The descent involved a near vertical drop, a corkscrew turn, into constricted bedding plane. As he tried to clear loose boulders blocking the route, the latter beneath him jammed. Attempting to retreat, he found himself wedged in an 18-inch wide slits. Early optimism gave him way to alarm as repeated rope hauling attempts failed, that confined space, combined with restricted airflow, quickly led to oxygen depletion. Rescuers battling disorientation and unconsciousness from foul air, struggled to reach him. At one point, Ron Peters managed to secure a rope around Moss's chest, but it worsened his breathing difficulties. Even deliveries of oxygen via tubing could not reverse the situation. For almost 24 hours, rescuers worked at shifts, using compressed air and excavation attempts to know a veil. By Tuesday morning, silent from below's signal the end. At the request of his father, Moss's body was left in place to avoid further danger. Loose rock sealed the shaft in a small inscription marked the site. Decades later, the Moss incident remains a reminder of the unforgiving nature of cave exploration, in the limits of human endurance underground. On June 24, 1967, tragedy struck in the Yorkshire Dales, when a sudden flood in Mossdale caverns claimed the lives of six young cavers. With this being the worst loss of life in British caving history, Mossdale is a long, complex, and notoriously hazardous cave system, famous for its constricted passages in risk of flooding. The group, all members of the University of Leeds, Speleological Association, were experienced and motivated by the challenge of exploring Mossdale's remote and rarely visited passages. The cave had a fearsome reputation, long crawls through tight muddy conduits, poor air circulation, and multiple low sections prone to rapid flooding. Despite these dangers, the cavers aim to push deeper into the system during what began as a warm summer weekend, unaware that rain elsewhere on the moors was already sitting, a deadly chain of events in motion. By early afternoon, heavy rain on the surface began draining into the cave's streamway. Deep inside, the team was negotiating the notorious rough passage section when the water level surged. Two members, position near the entrance, managed to escape and raise the alarm. The others were further in, beyond multiple flooded constructions. Rescue teams arrived quickly, but Mossdale's extreme remoteness meant precious time was lost, simply reaching the entrance. Inside, rescuers battled cold, fast-flowing water and treacherous crawls, but the floodhead cut off all hope of reaching the trapped cavers. Conditions continued forcing a retreat before the system became impassable. In the aftermath, all six bodies were left in place, sealed behind rock walls to prevent future entry to the fatal passages at the request of the families. To this day, the Mossdale caverns flood stands as a stark reminder of the uncompromising power of nature underground. On May 28, 1973, a tragic cave-diving accident unfolded in the shaft, a submerged sinkhole near Mount Gambier, South Australia. Known for its beauty and hidden dangers, the site became infamous after four divers lost their lives in one of the most deadly incidents in Australia cave-diving history. The shaft had been discovered in 1938 when a horse fell through a small opening in a pettic. Subsequent exploration revealed a vast underwater cavern, with the main chamber 460 feet long, and tunnels dropping to death exceeding 400 feet. Access was only possible by lowering divers in gear separately through the narrow entrance. The site slid, tight passages, and extreme depths made it inherently dangerous. On the 1973 expedition, the eight participating divers were mostly recreational cave divers, aiming to explore beyond the main rock pile, a known safety limit due to darkness, poor visibility, and the risk of nitrogen narcosis. That morning, the group descended initially staying within their plan range. However, several divers pressed deeper into unexplored sections without proper guidelines, decompression staging tanks, or gas management plans. Conditions quickly deteriorated. Visibility plummeted from stirred silk. In nitrogen narcosis and pure judgment, three divers returned safely, but the remaining four became disoriented and trapped. Rescue efforts were hampered by the cave's depth, narrow tunnels, and near zero visibility. Police divers reached their limit without locating the bodies, and recovery was postponed for months. Over the following year, stage recovery mission slowly brought the victims to the surface. The shaft remains a sobering reminder of how quickly beauty can turn a peril in underwater caves. On September 29, 1984, South African diver Peter Verhulsal lost his life deep within the stirred-funtine caves. Part of the cradle of humankind world heritage site, northwest of Johannesburg, Verhulsal 29, had limited cave diving experience compared to his two companions on the dive. Their goal was to measure the depth of Milner Hall in underwater section within the stirred-funtine chambers. The caves themselves are carved from dolomite and honeycomb with passages, some ending in submerged tunnels. The team entered the water following a guideline. Twice, Peter let go of the line to explore its side passages, each time retrieved by his friends. On the third occasion, he swam into a tunnel maze and became hopelessly lost. Surfacing in a small air pocket on a tiny island of rock, he avoided drowning but was trapped without a clear route back. His air supply gone, he was forced to remain in the pitch-dark chamber hoping for rescue. For six weeks, divers searched the submerged passages. At one point coming within 36 meters of his location without realizing it, Cavers exploring a dry passage, discovered footprints leading to his remains near a sumpule. In all tops he revealed he had survived, for roughly three weeks before dying of starvation. Scratched into the sand beside him was a final message to his wife and mother. I love you, Cheryl and Ma. The incident led to a ban on diving in the stirred-funtine caves and the true depth of Milner Hall remains unknown. On April 28, 1995, tragedy struck. In Papa Roa National Park on New Zealand's rugged west coast, when a wooden viewing platform at Caver Creek collapsed, sending 17 people plunging 30 meters into a limestone chasm, 13 outdoor education students, and one department of conservation staff member were killed instantly or succumbed to injury shortly after. Four other survived the fall, but the disaster became one of the worst peace-time tragedies in New Zealand's history. The group, comprised mostly of students training an outdoor recreation, had been on an educational field trip to study local conservation work, cave creek featured shear cliffs, underground streams, and fragile limestone formations, while visually stunning. The area's hazards included steep drops, unstable surfaces, unlimited accessibility. The viewing platform, which extended over the chasm, had been built without proper engineering oversight at approximately 11.25 a.m. as the group gathered on the platform to take in the view. The structure suddenly gave way. Witnesses recalled a deafening crack before the wooden frame splintered and fell into the chasm below. Helicopters, paramedics, and local volunteers worked frantically, but many victims could not be saved. Recovery operations required specialized rope teams in spanned several days. Today, visitors to cave creek walk past a memorial and interpretation panel, a somber reminder of the life's loss. In 2002, a scuba diver known only as MK was found dead deep inside an undersea cave near the island of Sulta, Croatia, at a depth of 54.1 His body lay with a diving knife protruding from his chest. The shocking nature of the discovery led to a homicide investigation before forensic evidence suggested a far stranger conclusion that MK had intentionally stabbed himself to avoid drowning. After running out of air, MK was reportedly an untrained diver who entered the cave alone without specialized gas mixtures or adequate safety planning. The cave system near Sulta features narrow galleries, deep descents, and limited visibility requiring careful navigation and strict air management hazards made worse by nitrogen orcosis at depth. MK's dive reached around 114 feet. A zone where both cognitive impairment and poor judgment are common. To complicate matters, his blood alcohol level was measured at .114, worsening his susceptibility to disorientation. According to the Croatian Medical Journal Case Report, MK may have become lost and found an air pocket but lacked enough air to return to the surface. In an impaired mental state, he might have chosen a knife to the chest over the slow suffocation of drowning. Investigators initially pursued a theory that he was killed, arresting two suspects, but dive computer data reconstructed his movements, showing patterns consistent with the solo diver exploring the cave before succumbing to his predicament. The case remains controversial. Some experienced divers doubt the explanation that he took his own life entirely, arguing that nitrogen orcosis in panic would have prevented such a deliberate act. Regardless, the event stams as a grim reminder about the dangers of overconfidence, intoxication, and entering hazardous environment unprepared. On October 13, 2007, tragedy struck southern Thailand. A group of tourist and guides entered the Tham Nam Tulu cave despite heavy rains and warnings from locals and park rangers. The resulting flesh flood claimed a lives, making it one of the deadliest cave disasters in Thailand's history. The group consisted of eight tourists, mostly from Europe and two local Thai guides. Tham Nam Talu, about 750 meters long, is popular with adventure tourists for its wild, unlit passages, and underground stream. The cave is normally traversed downstream, but it is known to be dangerous in the rainy season due to a sudden water surges. At the time, the cave was officially closed, with warning signs posted in both Thai and English. Despite these precautions, the guides led the group inside, around midday, midway through their journey. A powerful flash flood swept through the cave, water depth rose from 50 centimeters to 10 meters in moments. A British couple managed to scramble onto a high ledge, but the rest of the group was swept away. Hours later, the British man attempted to swim out to some in help but drowned. Rescue teams arrived that night, recovering several bodies, from outside the cave's resurgence before dawn. The sole survivor, British tourist Helena Carol, was found stranded on the ledge and brought to safety. The dead included Swiss German British anti-nationals, their anxious ranging from 10 to 49. In the cave and tourism community, the event stands as a grim reminder of the unforgiving speed in power of flash floods, in the fatal cost of disregarding nature's warnings. On November 24, 2009, 26-year-old John Edward Jones entered Nadi Plutty Cave in Utah with friends and family, seeking an adventurous outing, ahead of Thanksgiving. The hydro-thermal cave, known for its twisting claustrophobic passages, had been popular with spelunkers for decades, but carried a history of dangerous entrapments. Jones, a medical student and experienced outdoorsman, was visiting Utah from Virginia. He joined a small group exploring the cave's narrow sections, drawn by its challenge, and familiarity to local caveers. Nadi Plutty's passages included notorious tight squeezes, such as the birth canal and the scout eater, though the cave had previously seen rescues. No fatality had occurred since its discovery in the 1960s. While navigating a tight vertical shaft he believed was the birth canal, Jones mistakenly entered a different smaller passage. He became stuck head down in an 18-inch wide fissure, with his torso angled downward, and his legs wedged above. Rescue team's labor throughout the night, attempting pulley systems, drilling, and even plans to widen the passage. The crimp space allowed little leverage, and Jones slipped in and out of consciousness. Communication with his family was made possible via radio, adding emotional weight to the already desperate situation, multiple attempts to free him failed due to the severe constriction in awkward angles. After 27 hours trapped, Jones was pronounced dead late on November 25. The position of his body, combined with the risk to rescuers, made retrieval impossible. Authorities made the decision to steal the passage with concrete, permanently entombing him inside. The tragedy drew national attention, prompting renewed discussions on cave safety, and leading to Nadi Plutty's permanent closure. In November 2020, 37-year-old Russian caveur, Sergey Kozyv embarked on a solo descent into very off-kinna cave, the deepest known cave in the world, plunging 2,212 meters into the Arabeka Massif of Apkezhia. Already notorious for its extreme vertical drops, flooded sections, in unpredictable conditions, the cave had claimed no known fatalities, in its recorded exploration history until this event. Kozyv was an experienced, spilloalogist and technical climber, known in Russian caving circles for his endurance and skill. Friends later reported that he intended the trip as a personal challenge, rather than part of an organized expedition. Kozyv's descent proceeded without a known incident, until he reached depths beyond 1100 meters. There, circumstances remain partly unclear. Reports suggest he suffered a fall, possibly due to equipment failure, or fatigue while negotiating a rope-pitch. Injuries left him unable to ascend, and with no immediate support, he succumbed to his situation. Russian and Apkezhian rescue teams mounted a multi-day operation through cramped, vertical passages, retrieving his body required negotiating repeated rope drops, in hauling a stretcher vertically over hundreds of meters, in effort that took more than a week. Kozyv's death highlighted the lethal margin for error, in extreme depth caving. Today, his story has cited alongside other extreme cave tragedies, as a stark reminder that even the most skilled can be claimed by the depths. On October 4, 2023, veteran cave diver Brett Hempfl entered Phantom Springs, Caven, Texas, a site where he had once said a US cave depth record a decade earlier. The system, known as the deepest submerged cave in the United States, is a notoriously demanding environment of long penetrations deep to sense and hazardous currents. Hempfl, based in Dade City, Florida, was the president of Cursed Underwater Research, in a globally respected figure in Deep Cave exploration. His resume included groundbreaking exploration and mapping in Florida, Texas, Missouri, the Bahamas, the Dominican Republic, and Mexico. His return to Phantom Springs in 2023 came after newly obtained permission to revisit the cave. Following a change in land ownership, the 2023 dive aimed to push beyond previous limits. Hempfl was estimated to have reached 174 meters, surpassing the US cave depth record by around 30 meters. Somewhere on the return leg, however, he failed to reappear. At over 3 kilometers inside the system, in 145 meters deep, the operation was immediately deemed more likely a recovery than a rescue, multiple flooded passages, strong currents, and the extreme depth complicated every step of the effort. Hempfl's body was located days later deep inside the cave. The recovery was described as one of the most technically demanding ever attempted in US cave diving. His depth-pomped wide spread tributes from the diving community, with peers recalling him as both a pioneer and a mentor. The loss reignited discussions about the risks of deep penetration dives, in the fine line between pushing exploration boundaries and surviving them. On March 18, 2025, a tragic incident unfolded at Twin Caves, part of the merit mill pond system in Jackson County, Florida, known for its tight passages, silt-prone tunnels, and appeal to both recreational and technical divers. This site has long been a favorite among the cave diving community. Twin Caves, located in a 202 acre man-made lake, features multiple entrances and passages that descend to depths of about 30 meters. Its hazards include narrow restrictions, abrupt depth changes, and a tendency for silt to obscure visibility within seconds, often leaving divers disoriented. Despite these risks, it remained a high traffic site for both training and exploration. The trouble began when three divers failed to resurface on schedule, prompting to call the Jackson County Sheriff's Office at 1.15 pm. Rescue divers were quickly mobilized. Upon entering the cave, a distressed female diver attempting to find her missing partner was found. After escorting her to safety, the rescue team re-entered the system under complete zero visibility conditions. By fuel alone, the missing diver was found and brought to the surface. Despite immediate CPR by medics, the diver was declared dead at the scene. A third diver from the group surfaced separately, though details remain unclear about their escape route. The victim's death sparked renewed concern over safety protocols, in high silt caves, in the hazards of losing visibility, during complex penetrations. In the aftermath, the local diving community honored the victim, while committing the extraordinary bravery of the rescuers. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like. Comment down below your thoughts on any of the cave deaths I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part 2 or more videos like this one. Thank you again, and goodbye.