---
video_title: "The Entire Life of Adolf Hitler Explained"
video_id: UyMx34Em-So
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UyMx34Em-So
video_date: 2025-06-16
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Early Life
  2:40 - Teenage Years
  5:14 - WWI Experience
  7:58 - Rise of Nazi Party
  10:58 - Rise to Power
  14:03 - WWII & Downfall
---
Adolf Hitler was born on April 20th, 1889 in a small Austrian town near the German border. He was the fourth of six children born to Aloy and Claraara Hitler. Of the six, only Adolf and his younger sister Paula survived into adulthood. Hitler's early years were shaped by his complex family dynamic, specifically his difficult relationship with his father. Aloy was very strict and worked as a customs official in which he demanded discipline and success from his children. He expected Adolf to

follow in his footsteps and pursue a career in the civil service, an idea that Adolf deeply resented. Claraara, by contrast, was gentle, affectionate, and deeply devoted to her son. Adolf adored his mother and remained emotionally close to her throughout her life. The contrast between his parents' personalities may have played a role in shaping his own with him having deep resentment towards authority, but also developing a need for loyalty and affection. During his early schooling and Linds, Hitler was an average student. While he performed well in

subjects he enjoyed, specifically art, he struggled with discipline and authority figures. His academic performance deteriorated over time and he eventually dropped out of high school without graduating. He often clashed with his teachers and showed little interest in subjects that didn't capture his imagination. His behavior was seen as rebellious and uncooperative, and he developed a reputation for being lazy and self-centered. From a young age, Hitler harbored dreams of becoming an artist. He admired German romanticism

and had a deep appreciation for architecture, painting, and classical music. Against his father's wishes, he set his sights on attending the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna. After his father died in 1903, Hitler's ambitions were no longer directly challenged at home, though he still had to gain his mother's support. In 1905 at age 16, he formally ended his education and set out to pursue his artistic goals. In 1907, with financial support from his mother, Hitler moved to Vienna to take the entrance exam for the Vienna Academy of Fine Arts. He failed the first exam and

his application was rejected due to his poor skill in drawing human figures despite some aptitude for architectural sketches. This rejection resulted in a turning point in his young life. He remained in Vienna for some time, continuing to work on his art in hopes of reapplying. Later that same year, his mother died of breast cancer at the age of 47 with her death devastating Hitler. He had stayed by her side during her illness and later described this period as one of the most painful times in his life. A Jewish doctor named Edward Block

had treated her and Hitler reportedly held him in high regard even years later after he developed deep anti-semitic views. By the end of 1907, Hitler was 18 years old, orphaned, a failed art student, and living in Vienna. This is where the seeds of resentment, disappointment, and alienation began to take root. Between 1908 and 1913, Hitler experienced a period of deep personal instability and social isolation that would later play a pivotal role in shaping his worldview. These years spent mostly in Vienna and later in Munich, were defined by hardship, homelessness, and the early formation of his ideological beliefs, specifically his anti-semitism, and intense German nationalism. After he was rejected from

the Vienna Academy of Fine Arts entrance exam for a second time, his dream of becoming a professional artist was shattered. Without a stable career path, he became increasingly withdrawn and resentful. Refusing to take on regular employment and severing ties with many in his family. From 1909 onward, Hitler's life in Vienna descended into poverty. He lived in flop houses, homeless shelters, and men's hosts, surviving on a small inheritance from his parents, and by painting postcards in small scenes to sell to tourists and shopkeepers. During these years, he

began to blame others, specifically Jews, Marxists, and bureaucrats, for his failures and for the social conditions he witnessed. Anti-semitism was not a new ideology in Vienna, and Hitler's exposure to the racial theories and far-right propaganda circulating at the time deeply influenced his developing ideology. It was in Vienna that Hitler first encountered the belief that Jews were not simply followers of a religion, but a separate and inferior race that threatened Aryan civilization. He began reading panger and ultraist newspapers. And these publications promoted ideas of German supremacy, anti-Marxism, and social Darwinism, concepts that would later become central to Nazi ideology.

Despite his extreme poverty and lack of formal education, Hitler developed a strong interest in politics, history, and German culture. During this time, he became obsessed with the perceived decline of the Austrohungrian Empire and its multicultural society, believing that the German people were being weakened by the presence and influence of Jews and other ethnic minorities. He saw Vienna's ethnic diversity as a threat to German purity and came to resent the empire's tolerance of what he viewed as inferior groups. Hitler remained in Vienna until 1913 when he moved to Munich, Germany. Unlike Austria, which he was deeply disillusioned by, he admired Germany, especially its strong military tradition and its cultural achievements. He

considered himself more German than Austrian and sought a future aligned with German ideals. Before leaving for Munich, he managed to avoid military service by undergoing a physical examination in Linds in early 1914 that declared him unfit. Once settled in Munich, Hitler worked sporadically as a painter and draft artist. However, his life would soon change with the outbreak of World War I in 1914, which offered him a sense of purpose and belonging he had never known. Hitler's experiences during World War I left a profound impact on his identity, worldview, and later political ambitions. When the war

broke out in August 1914, he applied to serve in the German army and was accepted. He was assigned to the Bavarian Reserve, Infantry Regiment 16. For Hitler, the war was not just a patriotic duty. It was a spiritual awakening. He later described it as the greatest and most unforgettable experience of his life. At last, he had

found a cause that gave his life meaning in a community in which he felt accepted. Hitler served primarily on the Western Front in France in Belgium. Unlike many of his fellow soldiers, he did not rise in rank beyond corporal, but he found stability in his role as a regimental messenger, a dangerous job that involved running communications between units under heavy fire. Despite the dangers, he seemed to thrive in the military environment. He was seen by his comrades as a quiet, solitary man, deeply devoted to the German cause. He

avoided close friendships and spent much of his free time reading and drawing. His commanding officers recognized his bravery and commitment, and he was awarded both the Iron Cross second class in 1914 and the Iron Cross First Class in 1918, in honor rarely given as someone of his rank. Hitler was also wounded twice during the war. The first time was in October 1916 during the Battle of the S when he was hit in the leg by shell fragments and sent to a hospital in Germany. After recovering, he returned to the front lines. The

second injury was more serious. In October 1918, just weeks before the war ended, Hiller was temporarily blinded in a British mustard gas attack. He was sent to a hospital in Peswalk where he remained when the war came to an end. The news of Germany's defeat in November 1918 was devastating to Hitler. Lying in a hospital bed, partially blind and isolated, he received word that Germany had surrendered. For Hitler, this was

more than just a military loss. It was a betrayal. He came to believe the stab in the back myth, the widely circulated but false notion that Germany's defeat had not been due to battlefield failure, but because of internal enemies such as Jews, Marxists, and disloyal politicians who had undermined the war effort from within. The humiliation of defeat and the collapse of the German Empire shattered Hitler's faith in the existing political order. He was furious at the Treaty of Versailles, which he viewed as a national humiliation that unfairly blamed Germany for the war and imposed severe penalties. He felt that the war

had given him purpose and forged his sense of identity as a proud German. Its sudden and traumatic end radicalized him. By the time Hitler was discharged from the hospital in late 1918, he was a man without a job, a family, or a formal education. But he had found something even more powerful. a cause. His

experiences in World War I convinced him that Germany needed a strong authoritarian leader to restore its honor and strength. The war had given him a mission, one that would eventually lead him to pursue political power with relentless determination. Between 1919 and 1929, Hitler transformed from a disillusioned war veteran into the leader of the dangerous Nazi party. After Germany's defeat in World War I, Hitler returned to Munich. He was still technically in the military in 1919 in which he was assigned to a position gathering intelligence on political groups in Munich. One of the

organizations he was sent to observe was the German Workers Party, a small right-wing nationalist group. He found himself drawn to their ideology and speaking style and soon joined the party himself. Hitler quickly rose through the ranks due to his powerful speaking skills, charismatic presence, and ability to attract attention. By 1920, he had helped shape the party's platform and rebranded it as the National Socialist German Workers Party, more commonly known as the Nazi Party. The new name was deliberately crafted to appeal to a broad base of dissatisfied Germans, including nationalists, anti-communist, and those resentful of the Treaty of Versailles. That same

year, the party unveiled its 25point program, which included extreme nationalism, anti-semitism, and anti-Marxist rhetoric along with calls to revoke the Versailles treaty and rebuild Germany's military strength. In 1921, Hitler officially became the leader or fearer of the Nazi party. He used mass rallies, street fights, propaganda, and speeches to build a devoted following. He also created the SA also known as the brown shirts a paramilitary wing of the Nazi party used to intimidate rivals and protect party events. As Germany suffered from economic crisis, hyperinflation and political instability in the early 1920s, Hitler's message of national renewal and vengeance gained traction specifically among the middle class and veterans. In November 1923, Hitler and

the Nazi party made their first major attempt to cease power through the beerhaw push in Munich. Inspired by Mussolini's march on Rome, Hitler attempted to overthrow the Bavarian government and launch a national revolution. The coup failed and Hitler was arrested and charged with treason. However, the trial became a national stage for him. He used it to denounce the Weimar Republic, promote his ideology, and present himself as a patriot. He was found guilty, but

received a lenient sentence of 5 years in prison, of which he served just over 8 months at Lansburg prison. While imprisoned, Hitler wrote Minecomf, which translates to my struggle, a political autobiography, and ideological manifesto. The book outlined his vision of a future Germany based on racial purity, authoritarian rule, and expansion through conquest, specifically in the East. It laid the groundwork for Nazi ideology and solidified Hitler's role as its figurehead. Upon his release from prison in late 1924, Hitler founded the Nazi party fractured and disorganized, he began to rebuild it, this time focusing on gaining power legally through elections and propaganda rather than violent revolution. Over the

next few years, he restructured the party into a more efficient and hierarchical organization. By 1929, the Nazi party was still relatively small on the national stage, but its infrastructure was strong and its message was spreading. The onset of the Great Depression would soon provide the final opportunity Hitler needed to gain mass support. Between 1930 and 1939, Hitler rose from the leader of a French political party to the absolute ruler of Germany. The global Great Depression devastated Germany's already fragile economy. Unemployment soared, inflation

returned, and faith in the Democratic Weimar Republic plummeted. In this climate of fear and instability, Hitler's Nazi party gained massive support by promising economic recovery, a return to national greatness and revenge for the Treaty of Versailles. In the 1930 Reich stag election, the Nazis became the second largest party. By 1932, they were the largest, although they still lacked a majority. Despite this success, Hitler did not immediately gain power. Germany's president, Paul

von Hindenburg, and conservative elites were wary of him. However, after several failed chancellorships, Hindenburg reluctantly appointed Hitler as Chancellor of Germany on January 30th, 1933, hoping to control him through traditional power structures. Instead, Hitler quickly outmaneuvered them. The Reichag fire in February 1933 gave Hitler the opportunity to claim that Germany was under threat from communists. Using this fear, he persuaded Hindenburg to issue the Reichag fire decree, which suspended civil liberties and allowed for the arrest of political opponents. Weeks

later, the Nazis pushed through the enabling act, giving Hitler dictatorial powers under the guise of emergency legislation. With this, Germany's democratic system was effectively dismantled and Hitler became a legal dictator. Hitler moved quickly to consolidate power. Political parties were banned, trade unions were dissolved, and descent was violently crushed by the Gestapo and the SS. After Hinnenberg's death later that year, Hitler merged the presidency with the chancellorship, declaring himself furer of Germany. Hitler's domestic policies

were aimed at total control. The Nazis implemented propaganda campaigns, youth indoctrination through the Hitler youth, and censorship of all media. They also targeted Jews, communists, and other minorities. In 1935, the Nermberg law stripped Jews of citizenship and banned intermarriage between Jews and non-Jews. Anti-semitism became state policy, not just rhetoric. Economically, Hitler

oversaw partial recovery through public works projects and strict state control of industry. Unemployment dropped significantly, bolstering his popularity. However, this recovery was unsustainable and heavily dependent on future territorial expansion and war. In foreign policy, Hitler systematically dismantled the postworld war I order. In 1933, he withdrew Germany from the League of Nations. In 1936, he

remilitarized the Rhineland, violating the Treaty of Versailles, while Western powers offered no military resistance. That same year, he aligned Germany with fascist Italy under Bonito Mussolini. Hitler's ambitions grew increasingly bold. In 1938, he orchestrated the annexation of Austria, claiming it as a part of a greater German Reich. By 1939, Hitler had annexed Czechoslovakia and signed a non-aggression pact with the Soviet Union, secretly agreeing to divide Poland between them. On September

1st, 1939, Hitler invaded Poland, prompting Britain and France to declare war on Germany. World War II had begun. From 1939 to 1945, Hitler led Nazi Germany through World War II, launching a devastating global conflict and orchestrating the Holocaust. The German military using blitzcree tactics which were swift coordinated attacks involving infantry, tanks and aircraft quickly overwhelmed Poland. By October, the country was partitioned between Germany and the Soviet Union. In the following

months, Hitler's forces conquered much of Western Europe. By mid 1940, Germany had invaded and defeated Denmark, Norway, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, and France. Hitler then turned his attention of Britain, launching the Battle of Britain, an air campaign intended to force British surrender. However, the British Royal Air Force successfully resisted, resulting in Hitler's first major defeat. In June 1941, Hitler broke the non-aggression pact with the Soviet Union and launched Operation Barbarosa, the largest military invasion in history. He aimed not just to defeat the

USSR, but to claim its land for German settlers and to destroy what he saw as the Jewish Bolevik threat. Despite early successes, the invasion ultimately failed to deliver a decisive victory, and the harsh Russian winter and Soviet resistance stalled the German advance. The war on the Eastern Front would become a long and brutal conflict defined by mass killings and horrific conditions. At the same time, Hitler was escalating his racial war against the Jews and other groups. The Nazi regime had already implemented laws stripping Jews of rights, but by 1941, the Nazis shifted to a policy of extermination.

Mobile killing units began the targeted mass shootings of Jews in occupied territories. Soon after, Hitler authorized the final solution, a plan to systematically exterminate all Jews in Europe. This genocide was carried out in a network of concentration and extermination camps, including Ashawitz, Trebinka, and Soabore. Jews were deported from across Europe by train, often under the guise of resettlement. Most were killed upon arrival in gas chambers, while others were worked or starved to death. Alongside 6 million

Jews, the Nazis also targeted gypsies, disabled individuals, Poles, Soviet prisoners of war, political dissident, and homosexuals, killing millions more. As the wars dragged on, Hitler refused to retreat or surrender, even as Germany began to suffer major losses. The turning point came at the Battle of Stalingrad in 1943, where an entire German army was defeated. This resulted in the beginning of a steady Allied advance. In 1944, D-Day saw the Allied forces land in Normandy, opening a western front. Meanwhile, the Soviets

pushed from the east. By 1945, Germany was collapsing on both sides. In his final months, Hitler became increasingly isolated, paranoid, and delusional. He moved into the furer bunker beneath Berlin. As Allied forces closed in, he continued to give unrealistic military orders, and blamed Germany's failures on traders, Jews, and his generals. As

Soviet troops entered Berlin in April 1945, Hiller refused to flee. On April 30th, Adolf Hitler took his own life alongside his wife Ava Brun, whom he had married just a day earlier. Their bodies were burned in accordance with his orders. A week later, on May 8th, 1945, Germany surrendered unconditionally, ending World War II in Europe. The final chapter of Hitler's life saw the realization of his most destructive ambitions, war, conquest, and genocide.

The war left over 70 million dead worldwide, and the Holocaust remains one of the darkest chapters in human history. A direct result of Hitler's fanatical ideology and totalitarian rule. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on anything I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see more like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.