---
video_title: "The Most Notorious Times Killers Got Away With Murder"
video_id: Fn7_l8CKVyg
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fn7_l8CKVyg
video_date: 2025-10-29T19:00:14+00:00
video_description: |
  If you’re ever injured in an accident, you can check out Morgan & Morgan. You can start your claim in just a click without having to leave your couch. To start your claim, visit: https://www.forthepeople.com/Jaydone
  
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Jack the Ripper
  1:33 - New Orleans Axeman
  3:11 - Cleveland Torso
  5:00 - Morgan & Morgan
  6:33 - Zodiac Killer
  8:44 - Alphabet Killings
  10:51 - Robert Durst
  12:56 - Mel Ignatow
  14:46 - O.J. Simpson
  16:55 - Robert Blake
  18:44 - Casey Anthony
  21:10 - Bone Collector
  23:31 - Israel Keyes
---
Jack the Ripper remains one of the most infamous and mysterious killers in history. Active in the White Chapel District of London in 1888, this unidentified killer brutally killed at least five women, all of whom were prostitutes. Each killing followed a similar pattern, with the victims' throat slit in their bodies mutilated and grew some ways. The level of precision suggested that the killer may have had medical or anatomical knowledge, which only deepened public fear and curiosity. What made Jack the Ripper so difficult to catch was not only his cunning, but also the lack of advanced forensic technology at the time. In the late 19th century, police work relied heavily on witness accounts in physical evidence like footprints or personal belongings. There was no DNA analysis or fingerprint system. The killer struck late at night, targeting vulnerable women and dark alleys, and vanished before anyone could spot him. Adding to the confusion where the hundreds of letters sent to the police in the press, some of which were signed Jack the Ripper, many believed that these letters were hoaxes, while others think they may have come from the real killer who was mocking the authorities. Despite numerous suspects over the years, including doctors, barbers, and even members of the royal family, no one was ever charged. The Ripper's deep understanding of the slums' geography allowed him to move on seen through narrow passageways, police incompetence and poor communication between different stations also helped him stay ahead. The investigation was poorly organized, evidence was mishandled, and the killer's identity was forever lost to time. Between 1918 and 1919, the city of New Orleans was gripped by fear as a mysterious figure, known as the Axeman terrorized its residents. His name came from his weapon of choice, and acts often taken from the victims' own homes. The Axeman's attacks typically occurred at night, targeting Italian-American grocers and their families. He would break into homes by chiseling out a panel in the back door, then a text sleeping victims with an axe before fleeing into the dark. One of the most disturbing aspects of the case was his apparent randomness. While many of his victims were of Italian descent, police could not determine any clear motive. Money and valuables were rarely taken, ruling out robbery. Some speculated that the killings were racially motivated, or that they were linked to organized crime, but there was never enough evidence to confirm either theory. The Axeman's most notorious moment came in March 1919, when a letter supposedly written by him was published in local newspapers. In it, he claimed to be a demon from hell, and threatened to kill again, unless the entire city played jazz music in their homes. That night, New Orleans came alive with music, as every bar and household filled the air with jazz. No one was killed that evening, which added an iri and theatrical layer to the legend. Despite several arrests and countless theories, the Axeman was never identified. The police struggled with inconsistent witness statements, in a lack of reliable forensic evidence. Some victims survived the attacks, but could only describe it all, shadowy figure dressed in black. The fear eventually subsided when the killing suddenly stopped in 1919, leaving the city and confusion. During the 1930s, the city of Cleveland, Ohio faced one of the most gruesome serial killer cases in American history. The unknown killer, later called the Cleveland Torso murderer, dismembered at least 12 victims between 1935 and 1938. The victims, many of them homeless or from the city's port neighborhoods, were found decapitated, often with their limbs removed in bodies left in public places, like Kingsbury Run, a run down area known for crime and poverty. The brutality of the killing shocked both the police and the public. The killer displayed surgical precision, removing heads and limbs cleanly, suggesting some medical knowledge. Many victims were never identified, making it harder for investigators to connect them or determine motives. Cleveland's safety director at the time, Ellie and Ness, famous for helping bring down Al Capone, personally took charge of the investigation. He ordered large-scale raids of shanty towns and questioned hundreds of people, but the killer always seemed one step ahead. Ness even burned down parts of Kingsbury Run to drive the killer out, yet the killings continued. One of the most significant suspects was a doctor, named Francis Swini, who had served in World War I, and reportedly suffered from mental illness. He failed a polygraph test and was later committed to a mental hospital, but there was not enough evidence to charge him. Ness strongly believed Swini was the killer, but because of legal technicalities and lack of proof, the case was never closed. The Cleveland torso killer exploited weaknesses in the criminal justice system, and the chaos of the Great Depression. Many of his victims had no family, no records, and no one to report them missing. This helped him continue his crimes without being caught. His last known victim was discovered in 1938, after which the killings mysteriously stopped. Now, before we continue, I have something that I need to tell you guys. When I was a kid, on the 4th of July of all days, I was hit by a car. I was in a car accident, and then I got hit by a car. Thankfully I recovered, but for my parents it was a nightmare. Especially because of the insurance companies, and then having to deal with the mountain of medical bills. And that's the reality for so many other people as well. Traditional personal injury claims are designed to wear you down. Insurance companies drag their feet, offer you pennies to what you deserve, and hope you'll just give up. That's why I wish my parents had known about Morgan and Morgan. There's a reason history remembers those who fought for justice. It's like there's a reason why Morgan and Morgan is America's largest injury law firm. And for over 35 years, they've been fighting for the people, not the insurance companies. Their results are insane. In Florida, one client was offered just $350,000. But Morgan and Morgan fought for them and got them over 12 million. In Pennsylvania, another client was awarded $26 million, which was 40 times higher than what the insurer wanted to pay. That's because when you hire Morgan and Morgan, it's like hiring a legal army. They've got over a thousand attorneys and 100 plus offices nationwide. And they've recovered over $25 billion for over 500,000 clients. And the best part, there are no upfront costs. Their fee is free unless they win. Submitting a claim is super easy. You can start less than a minute with no endless appointments, overwhelming paperwork or long waits. So if you're ever injured, don't settle for less and let the insurance companies win. You can just click the link in the description or scan the QR code on screen to get started with Morgan and Morgan today. The Zodiac Killers, one of the most famous unidentified criminals in American history. His killing spree began in Northern California. In 1968, and continued through 1969, though some experts believed his crimes may have stretched further. He is officially connected to five killings into attempted killings, yet he claimed in letters to have taken as many as 37 lives. What made this case unique was not only the brutality of his attacks, but also the way he turned killing into a terrifying game with law enforcement in the public. The Zodiac's most frightening weapon was not a gun or knife, but instead his words. He sent letters to major newspapers demanding they print his messages on the front page, or he would kill again. These letters included ciphers, some of which remained unsolved for decades. The first, known as the 408 cipher, was cracked by a couple who discovered it contained his chilling claim. I like killing people because it is so much fun. The cryptic symbols in Taunting Tone made him a media phenomenon and gave him the name Zodiac. Police investigated hundreds of suspects, including Arthur Lee Allen, who became a primary person of interest due to suspicious behavior and circumstantial evidence. However, handwriting fingerprints in later DNA analysis failed to link him conclusively to the crimes. Over time, other potential suspects like Gary Francis' post emerged, but again, none were definitively proven to be the killer. The Zodiac avoided capture through several key factors. He killed across multiple counties, making coordination between police departments difficult. At the time, there was no centralized database for fingerprints or DNA, and forensic science was limited. His letters and puzzles also distracted investigators with hoaxes and false leads by constantly manipulating the media. He controlled public attention and turned his identity into a mystery that outlived his crimes. Decades later, improved forensic testing and computer analysis have provided small breakthroughs, including partial DNA profiles from stamps and letters, yet despite all efforts, the Zodiac's true identity remained unconfirmed. The alphabet killings, also known as the double initial killings, refer to a series of unsolved child killings that shocked Rochester, New York between 1971 and 1973. The nickname came from the strange and chilling pattern behind the victim's names. Each girl had first and last initials that matched, and each was found dead in a town beginning with the same letter. This eerie coincidence made the crimes seem planned and ritualistic, and it turned the investigation into one of the most mysterious serial cases in American history. Police interviewed hundreds of people, checking for anyone with connections to all three victims, where the areas where their bodies were discovered. They collected forensic evidence, including fibers, semen samples, and fingerprints. However, in the early 1970s, DNA testing did not exist, and many samples could not be used to link anyone conclusively to the crimes. Witnesses described as suspicious vehicle in each case, often a light-colored car, but descriptions vary too much to point to one person. Investigators also struggled with jurisdictional barriers. Each body was found in a different town, handled by separate police departments with their own procedures. Communication gaps between them slowed progress, and evidence sharing was limited, public pressure grew rapidly, with media headlines amplifying the fear and feeling panic. Police set up roadblocks, distributed flyers, and offered rewards, but leads often led nowhere. Over the years, several suspects emerged. Among them was Kenneth Bianchi, one of the hillside stranglers, who lived in Rochester during the killings, though evidence never tied him to the crimes. Another was Joseph Nassau, a California killer convicted decades later for killing women with matching initials. Investigators examined whether he could have been in New York at the time, but there was no proof connecting him to the child killings. Hundreds of DNA tests on later suspects, including truck drivers and local residents, also failed to produce a match. The case remains unsolved, and families of the victims have waited over 50 years for justice. Robert Durst, a wealthy real estate heir, became one of the most famous figures in American criminal history because of his ability to repeatedly escape conviction, despite overwhelming suspicion. His name first drew national attention after the mysterious disappearance of his wife, Kathleen Durst in 1982. Kathleen was a medical student who reportedly wanted a divorce, but she vanished before she could leave him. Although many believe Robert was responsible, there was little physical evidence, and police failed to build a strong case. Kathleen's body was never found, leaving the investigation open for decades. In 2000, a renewed spotlight fell on Durst after his longtime friend, Susan Berman was found shot in her Los Angeles home. Berman was believed to know too much about Kathleen's disappearance, and many suspected Durst killed her to keep her silent. But before police could question him, Durst fled the state. While hiding in Galveston, Texas, he disguised himself as a mute woman. In 2001, he killed and dismembered his neighbor more as black. Durst claimed self-defense. And despite admitting to cutting up the body, the jury acquitted him of killing. This shocking verdict exposed major flaws in the justice system, where wealth and skilled lawyers allowed him to manipulate outcomes. For years, Durst remained free. Even appearing in the 2015 HBO documentary The Jinks, the series re-ignited public interest in his crimes. In a dramatic moment, while unaware that his microphone was still recording, Durst muttered to himself, what the hell did I do? Killed them all, of course. That recording became a key piece of evidence. After that year, Durst was arrested and charged with Susan Burman's killing. In 2021, he was finally convicted, and sentenced to life in prison. However, he died in early 2022, before facing trial for his wife's disappearance. For nearly four decades, Robert Durst avoided justice through wealth, lies in manipulation, making his story one of the most disturbing examples of privilege shielding a killer from accountability. While Ignito's case remained one of the most shocking failures of the American justice system, Ignito was a seemingly ordinary man, but in 1988, he killed his ex-girlfriend, Brenda Schaefer. The two had dated for several years before Brenda decided to end their relationship, describing Melis controlling an abusive. Shortly after their breakup, Brenda disappeared. Her car was found abandoned, and despite police suspicion falling on Ignito, there was no physical evidence linking him to her disappearance. For two years, investigators struggled to prove his guilt. Brenda's body could not be found, and witnesses were reluctant to come forward. Ignito appeared confident and even took a polygraph test, which he passed. Eventually, his former girlfriend, Mary Shore, testified that she helped him plan and carry out Brenda's killing. She described how they tortured Brenda, took photographs, and buried her body behind Ignito's former home. With the jury skeptical of Shore's credibility, and unconvinced by the lack of physical evidence, acquitted Ignito in 1991, the shocking twist came six months later, when new homeowners found a hidden air vent in Ignito's old house. Inside were undeveloped Rosa Films showing him torturing Brenda, exactly as Shore had described. There was also Brenda's jewelry, confirming the horrific crime. However, because Ignito had already been acquitted, the constitutional rule of double jeopardy protected him from being tried again for killing. He could only be prosecuted for perjury since he had lied under oath. He was sentenced to eight years for that charge, but the light punishment compared to his crime outraged the public. Years later, Ignito confessed in court to killing Brenda Schaeffer, stating he felt guilted shame. Still he never faced a killing sentence. He died in 2008 after a fall on his home. OJ Simpson was once celebrated as one of America's greatest football players, and later as a Hollywood actor. But in June 1994, his life took a dark turn when his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend Ronald Goldman, were found brutally stabbed to death outside Nicole's Los Angeles home. Almost immediately, suspicion fell on Simpson. What followed was one of the most publicized killing cases in American history. When the police tried to arrest him, Simpson fled in his white Ford Bronco, leading to a slow-speed car chase broadcast live to millions of viewers across the country. Eventually, he surrendered and was charged with two counts of killing. The trial that followed, which began in 1995, captivated the world. Simpson's defense team, they misleamed the Dream Team, consisted of some of the top lawyers in the country. Their strategy was to discredit the prosecution's evidence, and focus on police misconduct. A key turning point came when Simpson, tried on a pair of bloody gloves found at the crime scene. The gloves appeared too small for him, and one of his lawyers delivered the famous line. If it doesn't fit, you must equit. That single moment became symbolic of the defense's argument that the evidence had been tampered with. The case also took place during a time of great racial tension in Los Angeles. The defense used this to suggest that Simpson was a victim of racial bias by the police. The motive Mark Furman, one of the main investigators, was accused of racism and lying under oath, further damaging the prosecution's credibility. Prosecutors presented strong DNA evidence, linking Simpson to the killings. Blood from both victims was found in his car and at his home, but despite this, the defense created enough reasonable doubt to convince the jury that the evidence might have been mishandled or planted. After nearly nine months of trial, Simpson was found not guilty. The verdict divided the country, many believed he was guilty, but had benefited from wealth, fame and a brilliant legal defense. In 1997, however, a civil court found him liable for the deaths and ordered him to pay millions and damages to the victim's families. Robert Blake was once one of Hollywood's respected actors, but his name became infamous in 2001 when his wife, Bonnie Lee Beckley, was found shot dead in Blake's car outside a restaurant in Studio City, California, the case shocked the entertainment industry and the public alike. The killing occurred just moments after the couple had dinner at a local restaurant. Blake told police that he had gone back inside the restaurant to retrieve a gun he had left behind, and when he returned, Beckley had been shot. His story immediately raised suspicion, but investigators struggled to find solid evidence linking him to the crime. The prosecution's case was built largely on circumstantial evidence. They claimed Blake had planned the killing to free himself from an unhappy marriage, and they yet attempted to hire Hitman to kill Beckley. However, the supposed Hitman were unreliable witnesses, with criminal histories and inconsistent stories. The defense capitalized on this weakness, arguing that the prosecution's case was based on lies and speculation. Another major problem was the lack of physical evidence. The murder weapon could not be definitively linked to Blake, and no gunshot residue was found on his hands. The defense argued that the investigation was sloppy and filled with gaps. They also portrayed Blake as a man trapped in a toxic relationship, suggesting that someone else may have wanted Beckley dead, because she had a long history of manipulating wealthy men. Blake's common composed courtroom behavior also helped his image before the jury. His defense team skillfully dismantled the credibility of prosecution witnesses, emphasizing that there was no clear proof that Blake had pulled the trigger. In 2005, after a long and emotional trial, the jury found Robert Blake not guilty of killing. However, like O.J. Simpson, he was later found liable in a civil suit in order to pay millions to Beckley's family. Casey Anthony's case is one of the most infamous examples of a killing trial where the accused walked free, despite widespread belief in her guilt. It began in 2008 when Casey's two-year-old daughter, Kayleigh Anthony, was reported missing. Her disappearance went unnoticed by authorities for more than a month, because Casey lied to her family and police about Kayleigh's whereabouts. In December of that year, Kayleigh's skeletal remains were found in a wooden area near the Anthony home in Orlando, Florida. The discovery sparked outrage and intense public interest. The medical examiner ruled her death a homicide, but could not determine the exact cause. Prosecutors accused Casey of killing her daughter using chloroform, applying duct tape to suffocator, and then dumping her body in the woods. They built their case on circumstantial evidence. Investigators found a suspicious odor in Casey's car trunk, which some witnesses described as the smell of decomposition. Computer records showed searches for chloroform and neck breaking. The prosecution argued that Casey wanted to live a carefree life. Free from the responsibilities of motherhood, they portrayed her as a party-loving young woman who saw her daughter as a burden. Casey's defense team presented a different story. They claimed that Kayleigh had accidentally drowned in the family pool in that Casey's father. George Anthony helped cover it up. The defense attacked the reliability of the forensic evidence, pointing out inconsistencies in computer search data, and flaws in the state scientific analysis of the car trunk odor. They also questioned the credibility of the prosecution's expert witnesses. Several factors contributed to Casey's acquittal. The biggest issue was the lack of direct evidence. The prosecution could not prove how Kayleigh died or directly tie Casey to that. Without a clear cause of death, jurors struggled to conclude that it was murder rather than an accident that offense successfully created reasonable doubt, suggesting alternative explanations that fit the evidence just as well. Media attention also influenced the case heavily, creating an environment of public pressure that made the jury more cautious. In July 2011, Casey Anthony was found not guilty of first degree killing, aggravated child abuse and manslaughter. She was only convicted on four counts of lying to law enforcement and was released shortly afterward due to time served. Many viewed the verdict as a failure of the justice system, while others argued that the prosecution simply failed to meet the high legal burden of proof. In 2009, a woman walking her dog in Albuquerque, New Mexico discovered a human bone on a mesa near her home. Police excavation revealed the remains of 11 women and one unborn child buried across the desert landscape, the discovery shocked the nation and led to one of the most haunting unsolved killing cases in modern American history. The unknown killer became known as the West Mesa Bone Collector. Investigators determined that most of the victims had gone missing between 2001 and 2005. Many were Hispanic women in their 20s or 30s who were involved in sex worker struggling with addiction. Their vulnerable lifestyles and lack of strong family connections meant that some were never officially reported missing, which delayed any search efforts. When the remains were finally uncovered, most had been buried for years, leaving investigators with little forensic evidence to work with. Police faced enormous challenges from the start because the remains were decomposed and scattered, determining the cause of death was nearly impossible, weathering and soil erosion had destroyed most biological matter. DNA testing identified the victims, but it could not reveal when or how they died. The site itself covered several acres, complicating the process of mapping graves and linking them to specific timeframes. Detectives suspected that killer targeted women from Albuquerque's East Central Avenue area, a place known for prostitution and drug activity. Several persons of interest were investigated, including men with violent criminal histories and connections to the victims, but none were ever charged. One strong suspect died in 2006, leaving investigators without a chance to interrogate them. Police also considered the possibility that the crimes were linked to human trafficking or organized networks, but no solid leads emerged. Because many of the victims lived on the edge of society, their disappearances did not receive urgent attention. Investigative coordination was also difficult, as multiple agencies in jurisdictions were involved. With time working against them, much of the physical evidence had deteriorated beyond use. The West Mesa case remains open. With the Albuquerque Police Department continuing to seek new information, advances in forensic technology and public tips, occasionally bring renewed hope, but so far, the identity of the bone collector has never been discovered. Israel Keyes is one of the most methodical and chilling serial killers ever studied by the FBI. Unlike many killers who acted impulsively or leave obvious patterns, Keyes planned his crimes in extraordinary detail. He was arrested in 2012 for the abduction and killing of 18-year-old Samantha Kaynig and Anchorage Alaska. What investigators learned after his arrest revealed a far wider pattern of violence stretching across the United States. Keyes kidnapped Samantha from her workplace, a small coffee stand. He kept her captive for several days before killing her and disposing of her body in a frozen lake. During that time, he used her ATM card to withdraw money and even staged a fake ransom note to mislead investigators into thinking she was still alive. His common organized behavior confused police, who initially treated the case as a kidnapping. After his capture, Keyes confessed to multiple killings across different states. He told investigators that he would travel to distant cities, rent cars and use cash to avoid leaving trails. Before committing a crime, he buried quote-unquote killkits, filled with weapons, zip ties and tools in remote areas so that nothing could be traced back to him. This level of pre-planning made it almost impossible for police to connect him to the crimes. He also chose victims at random, reducing the likelihood of a personal link that could lead to his identification. Keyes' strategy of separating his daily life from his crimes allowed him to go undetected for years. He was a respected business owner, a father and a military veteran which made him seem ordinary to those around him. He avoided digital traces, used multiple aliases and limited communication with victims. Even after his arrest, investigators struggled to determine how many people he killed. The FBI estimates that he may have killed at least 11 people, though the true number could be higher. In December 2012, before he could be tried, Israel Keyes took his own life in his jail cell, cutting his wrist and strangling himself. His death ended the possibility of a complete accounting of his crimes. The FBI later released maps, writings, and recorded interviews in an attempt to identify his other victims. Israel Keyes proved how careful planning, mobility and patience can allow even the most dangerous individuals to escape justice for years. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure leave a like. Comment down below your thoughts on any of the cases I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part 2 or more videos like this one. Thank you again, and goodbye.