---
video_title: "The Most Tragic Plane Crashes Explained"
video_id: oSHvHHvRvHo
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oSHvHHvRvHo
video_date: 2025-08-20T19:00:56+00:00
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - 1956 Grand Canyon
  1:51 - 1960 NYC
  3:06 - Turkish Flight 981
  4:43 - Tenerife Airport
  6:27 - American Flight 191
  7:32 - Saudia Flight 163
  8:29 - Korean Flight 007
  10:11 - India Flight 182
  12:08 - Japan Flight 123
  13:56 - Iran Flight 655
  15:57 - 1996 Charkhi
  17:20 - Swissair Flight 111
  18:43 - Malaysia Flight 370
  20:31 - Malaysia Flight 17
  21:42 - Lion Flight 610
---
On June 30, 1956, two major airlines departed Los Angeles International Airport within minutes of each other. One was Transworld Airlines, Lockheed Super Constellation, heading to Kansas City. The other was United Airlines Douglas DC-7 bound for Chicago. Although their flight paths were set to cross, they had been assigned different altitudes to prevent conflict. However, both ended up at 21,000 feet as they flew over the Grand Canyon, setting the stage for one of the most infamous mid-air collisions in history. The DC-7's left wing struck the Constellation's tail, causing instant structural failure, in decompression. The Constellation fell into temple butte, while the DC-7 spiraled into chorebune. Both aircraft were destroyed on impact, killing all 128 people on board. The wreckage was scattered across rugged terrain, making recovery efforts extremely challenging. This disaster had a deep impact on the public. At the time, air travel was still building trust among passengers. In the incident proved that even large modern aircraft were vulnerable to tragic accidents. Investigations revealed that America's air traffic control, relied to heavily on visual navigation, with limited radar coverage over wide stretches of the country. The National Alcry led to many reforms. In 1957, the Federal Aviation Agency was created to oversee a complete modernization on the air traffic system. This included expanded radar coverage, more controlled airspace, and stricter altitude separation rules. Many of the systems and procedures we take for granted today were born from this accident. Every radar screen, every altitude assignment, in every controlled airway in the United States, has roots in the lessons learned over the Grand Canyon that summer morning. On December 16, 1960, New York City witnessed one of the most devastating aviation disasters in its history. A United Airlines DC-8, Flight A-26, was flying from Chicago to idol-wild airport, while a TWA Lockheed Constellation, Flight 266, was approaching La Guardia, poor weather conditions over the city brought fog and sleep, reducing visibility, and making precise navigation more difficult. At about one mile above the ground, the two aircraft collided. The TWA Constellation crashed on two Miller Army airfield on Staten Island. The United DC-8 continued briefly before crashing into the Park Sloan neighborhood in Brooklyn, igniting a massive fire that destroyed residential buildings in a church. The crash killed all 128 people aboard the two aircraft, as well as six people on the ground. Investigations determined that the United Flight had overshoted a signed airspace, possibly due to a navigational or procedural error. At the time, this became the deadliest aviation accident in United States history. The tragedy exposed weaknesses and communication between pilots and air traffic controllers, as well as the challenges of coordinating multiple busy airports and close proximity. On March 3, 1974, Turkish Airlines Flight 981, a McDonald Douglas DC-10, flying from Istanbul to London via Paris, Orley, suffered a catastrophic mid-flight failure that led to the deaths of all 346 people aboard. This included 335 passengers and 11 crew members, making it one of the deadliest single-aircraft disasters in aviation history. The flight took off from Orley Airport without apparent issues, but at about 11,000 feet, the aft-left cargo door failed. This caused explosive decompression in the lower deck. The rapid pressure change collapsed part of the cabin floor, severing essential control cables to the tail section. Six passengers were ejected from the aircraft, in the pilot's immediately lost most control authority. Within minutes, the DC-10 entered a steep uncontrolled descent and crashed into the Irmanonville Forests north of Paris. Investigators quickly discovered that the cargo door design had a known flaw. A similar incident had occurred two years earlier on American Airlines Flight 96, but because that flight landed safely, the issue was not fully addressed. The locking pins on Flight 981's door had been filed down during maintenance, reducing their strength. The visual inspection port was also poorly designed, making it difficult for crews to confirm whether the door was truly secure. The disaster prompted urgent reforms in aircraft design and maintenance standards. Cargo door locking systems were redesigned with stronger mechanisms, better inspection windows, and warning indicators in the cockpit. On March 27, 1977, the deadliest accident aviation history occurred at Los Rodeos Airport in Tenerife, part of Spain's Canary Islands. Two Boeing 747s, KLM Flight 4805, and Pan Am Flight 1736, collided on the main runway and heavy fog, the disaster claimed 583 lives. With only 61 people aboard the Pan Am aircraft surviving, that day began with a terror bombing at Grand Canaria Airport, forcing several incoming flights, including the 2747s to divert to the smaller Los Rodeos Airport. This caused severe congestion with aircraft parked on taxiways and forced a backtrack on the main runway. By the time the bomb threat cleared, thick fog had descended on the airport, reducing visibility to a few hundred feet. KLM 4805 was preparing for takeoff, while Pan Am 1736 was still taxing on the same runway toward its own departure points. Due to miscommunication between the KLM Captain, air traffic control, and the Pan Am crew, the KLM Captain believed he had received clearance to take off. In reality, controllers had only instructed him to stand by. As the KLM aircraft accelerated down the runway, the Pan Am crew spotted it through the fog and tried to turn off the runway, but it was too late. The two aircraft collided in a massive explosion that destroyed both planes. The disaster led to major reforms, including mandatory standardized radio-freezology, through adherence to explicit clearances, and widespread adoption of crew resource management training, which encourages all cockpit members to speak up if they did take danger. On May 25, 1979, American Airlines Flight 191, a McDonald Douglas DC-1010, was scheduled to fly from Chicago, O'Hare, International Airport to Los Angeles. Weather conditions were ideal, with clear skies and good visibility. The flight began its takeoff role on runway 32R at 3.02 PM local time. As the aircraft lifted off, the left engine and its mounting pilots separated from the wing, flipping over the top and falling to the runway. This violent attachment severed hydraulic lines and damaged the wing's leading edge. As a result, the outboard slats on the left wing retracted. This caused a sudden loss of lift on that side of the aircraft, creating a severe aerodynamic imbalance. Within seconds, the aircraft banked over 100 degrees to the left, nose down, and struck an open field near a trailer park. It exploded upon impact. All 271 passengers and crew aboard perished. Along with two individuals on the ground, this remains the deadliest aviation accident in United States history. On August 19, 1980, Saudi a Flight 163, a Lockheed L-1011, was on the final leg of a journey from Karachi to Jeddah, with a layover and a re-ad. Six minutes after takeoff from re-ad, climbing through 15,000 feet, the crew received a fire warning from the C-3 cargo compartment. The pilots decided to return immediately. They performed a safe landing and taxied off the runway onto a taxiway. However, evacuation did not begin right away. The engines continued running and all cabin doors remained closed. During these critical minutes, smoke and toxic fumes filled the cabin. The delay and evacuation sealed the fate of everyone on board. By the time the engines were shut down and doors were opened, 301 occupants had succumbed to smoke inhalation. The victims included 287 passengers and 14 crew members. No one survived. This accident remains the deadliest plane disaster in Saudi Arabian history. On September 1, 1983, Korean Airlines Flight 007, a Boeing 747-230B, was operating a scheduled passenger service from New York City to Seoul, with a planned layover in Anchorage, Alaska. After departing Anchorage, the aircraft began deviating from its intended route. This deviation took it to restricted Soviet airspace, near Minarin Island, west of Sakalin Island in the Sea of Japan. Soviet military radar detected the intrusion and classified the aircraft as a possible hostile target. A Suhoi Su-15 interceptor, piloted by Major Janati Asipovich, was dispatched to intercept. The pilot attempted visual identification, but was not reassured by the transponder's signals being transmitted. Warning shots were fired, but when unnoticed by the flight crew, the interceptor then launched air-to-air missiles, which struck the airliner. Although damaged, Flight 007 remained airborne for a short time before crashing into the sea, killing all 269 people including United States Congressman Lawrence McDonald. Initially, the Soviet Union denied any involvement, however, growing international pressure led to an emission that the aircraft had been shot down, accompanied by an unsubstantiated claim that it was on a spy mission. An investigation conducted by the International Civil Aviation Organization concluded that the most likely cause of the deviation was that the autopilot remained in heading mode, rather than a inertial navigation mode, which gradually pulled the aircraft off course. The tragedy significantly escalated cold war tensions and led to major changes in aviation policy. On June 23, 1985, Air India Flight 182, abowing 747-237B, was operating a scheduled service from Toronto to Bombay, which is now Mumbai, with intermediate stops in Montreal and London. Shortly after departing Montreal, the aircraft was carrying 307 passengers and 22 crew members, totaling 329 people on board. While in route over the Atlantic Ocean Southwest of Ireland, the aircraft suffered a sudden inflite explosion. Noticed stress signal was sent before the aircraft broke apart and fell into the ocean. Only 131 bodies were recovered. All 329 occupants were killed, making this the worst act of terror in Canadian history. Investigations revealed that the disaster resulted from a bomb placed in the aircraft's luggage compartment by seek extremists affiliated the Bapper Kalsa Group. The attack was part of a coordinated plan that included another bombing at Tokyo's Nareda Airport, which killed two baggage handlers when a separate device exploded prematurely. Only one person, Indurgit Singh Riyadh, a dual British Canadian citizen, was convicted. In 2003, pleaded guilty to manslaughter for constructing the bombs and was sentenced to five years in prison. In 2011, he was convicted of perjury for giving false testimony during the investigation. A public inquiry in 2010 revealed major intelligence and security failures in Canada, including poor coordination between agencies and missed opportunities to prevent the attack. The Canadian government later issued a formal apology to the victim's families. In June 2025, the 40th anniversary was marked by memorial ceremonies. At the Ahakista Memorial in Ireland, attended by Irish, Canadian, and Indian officials, the event featured moments of silent and cultural tributes, reflecting the lasting impact of the tragedy on multiple nations. On August 12, 1985, Japan Airlines Flight 123, a Boeing 747 SR-46, departed from Tokyo's Ha-Neda Airport, bound for Osaka, Itami Airport. A total of 524 people were on board, consisting of 509 passengers and 15 crew members. The flight was delayed by 12 minutes before taking off at 1812 local time. Many passengers were traveling to their hometowns for the Buddha's Bon holiday, while others were on business or leisure trips. 12 minutes after departure, a loud explosion occurred in the rear fuselage. Investigations later revealed that the aft pressure bulkhead had failed due to an improper repair following a tail strike incident seven years earlier. This failure caused explosive decompression in a loss of most hydraulic systems. The cabin pressure dropped and the vertical stabilizer suffered severe damage. The crew, despite overwhelming difficulties, kept the aircraft airborne for approximately 32 minutes. They attempted to return to Ha-Neda Airport, maintaining radio communication and declaring an emergency. However, the aircraft eventually crashed at high speed into Mt. Takamagahara, located about 100 kilometers from Tokyo, in Gunma Prefecture. The crash killed 520 people, including all crew members and 505 passengers, only 4 passengers survived. Many initial survivors died before rescue teams arrived due to a 14-hour delay in reaching the site. Following the tragedy, Japan Airlines faced significant public backlash. Passengers' numbers dropped, revenue declined. In the company's president resigned. The airline paid $7.6 million in compensation, but did not admit legal responsibility. On July 3, 1988, Iran Air Flight 655, an Airbus 8300-B2203, was scheduled to fly from Iran to Dubai, with a layover at Bandar Abbas International Airport. On board were 290 people, including 274 passengers and 16 crew members. While climbing through Iranian airspace over the Persian Gulf, near the straight-up Hormuz, the aircraft was detected by the USS Vincent's, a United States Navy-guided missile cruiser, commanded by Captain William C. Rogers III. The vessel was operating in a high-tension environment due to the ongoing Iran-Iraq word, in recent naval incidents in the area. The crew of the Vincent's misidentified the Airbus, as an Iranian F-14 fighter jet. Believing the aircraft was descending for an attack, they launched two missiles at 1024 AM. The aircraft was destroyed in midair, killing all on board, including many children. Initial reports claim the airliner had been outside its flight path in descending. However, recorded flight data showed that the aircraft was ascending, transmitting correct civilian signals, and traveling within a recognized commercial air corridor. The incident was the result of a combination of misinterpretation, heightened military alertness, and flawed decision-making. International reaction was swift. The United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 616 on July 20, 1988, condemning the incident, and urging stronger protection for civilian aviation. Iran filed a case against the United States at the International Court of Justice, alleging violations of international aviation agreements. In 1996, the United States agreed to pay $61.8 million in compensation to victims' families. The event remains a critical example of the dangers posed when military operations intersect with civilian air traffic, and it continues to influence discussions on rules of engagement and aviation safety. On November 12, 1996, India experienced its worst aviation disaster when two aircraft collided midair near the village of Charquay Dajri, approximately 100 km west of Delhi. The aircraft involved were Saudi a flight 763, a Boeing 747-168B, bound for Da'iran and Jedha carrying 312 people. In Kazakhstan Airlines Flight 1907, an Iliushan I-L76TD, arriving from Chimkant with 37 people on board. The collision killed all 349 individuals, making it the deadliest midair collision in history. The most severe aviation accident in India, and one of the worst in global aviation history, investigations revealed that the Khazakhru failed to maintain the altitude assigned by air traffic control. Contributing factors included the crew's limited proficiency in English, which resulted in communication errors, and deficiencies in crew resource management. At the time, aircraft in Indian airspace were not equipped with airborne collision of wooden systems, which could have prevented the incidents. The Charquay Dajri disaster stand as a pivotal event in aviation history, it demonstrated how a single lapse in altitude maintenance, compounded by communication barriers and outdated technology, can result in catastrophic loss of life. On September 2, 1998, Swiss Air Flight 111, in MD11, departed New York's JFK airport at 2017 Eastern Daylight Time, on route to Geneva, Switzerland. The aircraft carried 215 passengers and 14 crew members, less than an hour into the flight, while cruising over Nova Scotia, the crew detected an unusual odor in the cockpit. Initially suspecting a problem with the air conditioning system, they soon realized there was a fire above the cabin ceiling. The pilots declared an emergency, and prepared to divert to Halifax, beginning a field dump to meet landing weight requirements. However, the situation worsened rapidly, as the fire spread. Multiple systems began to fail, and communication with air traffic control was lost. At 2231 at Lennonk Daylight Time, the aircraft crashed into the Atlantic Ocean, near Peggy's Cove, Nova Scotia. All 229 individuals on board were killed. The investigation determined that the fire was fueled by flammable insulation materials combined with faulty wiring. The in-flight entertainment system was identified as a possible ignition source. The recovery operation was extensive, involving deep sea searches and costing over $57 million Canadian dollars. The wreckage and victim remains were carefully recovered, and memorial sites were established near Peggy's Cove. On March 8, 2014, Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, a Boeing 777 carrying 239 passengers and crew, departed Kuala Lumpur, bound for Beijing. The aircraft initially followed its planned route, but shortly after reaching cruising altitude, it disappeared from radar. Both the transponder and the aircraft communications addressing and reporting system, stop transmitting, cutting off normal contact with air traffic control, search efforts initially focused on the South China Sea, where the aircraft was less observed on civilian radar. However, analysis of satellite signals and military radar revealed that the plan had deviated from its route, turned westward, and then traveled south over the Indian Ocean before disappearing. A large multinational search operation was launched, led by Australia and later joined by private company Ocean Infinity in 2018. Despite covering vast areas of ocean and costing hundreds of millions of dollars, no main wreckage was located. Only fragments were found washed ashore along the western Indian Ocean. Approximately 30 debris pieces were recovered, with three confirmed to be from Flight 370. In 2018, a 495-page investigation report concluded that the aircraft's movement indicated deliberate manipulation of flight controls, but no responsible party could be identified. The disappearance of Flight 370 has generated numerous theories, including the idea that the pilot wanted to take their own life, hijacking, catastrophic mechanical failure, or sudden decompression. While there is speculation about the captain's mental state and personal life, no theory has been proven. The case remains one of aviation's greatest unsolved mysteries, with the main wreckage still undiscovered. On July 14, 2014, Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, a Boeing 777, was on a scheduled flight from Amsterdam, to Kuala Lumpur, with 283 passengers and 15 crew members. While flying over eastern Ukraine, the aircraft was destroyed mid-air. Investigations by the Dutch Security Board determined that the airliner had been struck by a missile. The missile exploded just above the left side of the cockpit, causing severe structural damage and instant decompression. The forward fuselage was destroyed, and the aircraft broke apart before crashing onto the ground. All 298 people on board were killed. A joint investigation team consisting of representatives from the Netherlands, Australia, Malaysia, Belgium, and Ukraine concluded that the missile system had been transported from Russia into separatist control territory in eastern Ukraine and was launched from that location. Following the attack, the missile system was returned to Russia. Criminal proceedings resulted in the conviction of three individuals, each sentenced to life imprisonment. One person was acquitted. The investigation and trial linked the attack to Russian-backed separatist forces. On October 29, 2018, Lion Air Flight 610, a Boeing 737 Max-8, departed Sokhart Nohada International Airport, in Jakarta for a domestic route, two-pong-call penangue, on board were 189 people, including 181 passengers and eight crew members. About 13 minutes after takeoff, the aircraft plunged into the Java Sea, killing everyone on board. The investigation, led by Indonesia's National Transportation Safety Committee, found that a malfunctioning angle of attack center provided incorrect data to the aircraft's maneuvering characteristics augmentation system. The crash prompted urgent safety measures. The United States Federal Aviation Administration, in Boeing issued advisories, on handling runway stabilizer conditions. Eventually, the global 737 Max fleet was grounded until software modifications were developed and approved. The lessons from this tragedy have influenced aircraft certification, pilot training, and maintenance protocols worldwide. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like. Comment down below your thoughts on any of the plane crashes I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part 2 or more videos like this one. Thank you again, and goodbye.