---
video_title: "The Most Terrifying Unsolved Mysteries Explained"
video_id: VVNhna29znI
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VVNhna29znI
video_date: 2025-08-01
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Catherine Cesnik
  2:04 - Alphabet Killings
  3:59 - Jeannette DePalma
  5:45 - Parkway Killings
  7:31 - Annette Sagers
  9:15 - Tara Calico
  10:47 - Kiplyn Davis
  12:05 - Chicago Strangler
  13:37 - Leah Roberts
  15:14 - Jason Jolkowski
  16:40 - Sneha Anne Philip
  18:04 - Terrance & Felpie
  19:47 - Kanika Powell
  21:21 - Watcher House
  22:52 - Tamla Horsford
---
Sister Katherine Sesnik, often remembered as Sister Kathy, was a young nun in high school teacher in Baltimore. She taught English in drama at Archbishop Kio High School, where she was deeply loved by her students for her compassion and intelligence. On the evening of November 7th, 1969, Sister Kathy left her apartment to run some errands. She planned to cash a paycheck, pick up some bakery buns, and buy a gift for her sister's upcoming engagement. However, she never returned home. Her

car was later found abandoned near her apartment with the keys missing, mud on the tires, and leaves scattered inside. There were no signs of a struggle. For nearly 2 months, her whereabouts remained unknown. On January 3rd, 1970, hunters discovered her body in a remote area of Lan's own Maryland. She had suffered a skull fracture and a fatal brain hemorrhage. At the time of her

death, she was only 26 years old. The case shocked the city, but police had few leads. In the 1990s, the case took a disturbing turn. Former students of the school came forward with serious abuse allegations against Father Joseph Mascll, the school's priest. One student said she had told sister Kathy about the abuse, and later, Father Mascll allegedly showed her Cathy's body to intimidate her into silence. These

claims suggested Kathy might have been killed for trying to protect her students. The 2017 Netflix documentary, The Keepers, revived public attention. It featured interviews with former students, law enforcement, and Cathy's sister. Investigators even dug up Mascll's body in 2017 to test for DNA. The results did not match evidence found at the crime scene, so no charges were filed. To this day, Sister Catherine

Sesnik's death remains unsolved. The case is still open, and many believe it is a tragic example of abuse, silent, and cover up. Decades later, the question still stands. Who killed Sister Kathy? And who has kept the truth hidden for so long? Between 1971 in 1973,

Rochester, New York was shaken by a disturbing pattern of child killings. Three young girls were abducted, sexually assaulted, and killed. What set these crimes apart was a chilling pattern. Each girl had first and last names starting with the same letter, and each body was found in a town that began with the same letter as their names. These eerie similarities gave rise to the name Alphabet Killings. The first

case was that of 10-year-old Carmen Cologne. She disappeared in November 1971 while running an errand for her grandmother. Her body was found near a highway in Churchville, roughly 15 mi from where she was last seen. She had been sexually assaulted and strangled. The second victim, Wanda Wakavic, was 11 years old. In April 1973, she vanished

on her way from a grocery store. Her body was discovered the next day in Webster. Like Carmen, she had been sexually assaulted and strangled. The final known victim was 11-year-old Michelle Menza. In November 1973, she went missing while walking home from school. 2 days later, her body was found

in Macedon. She had also been sexually assaulted and strangled. Each of the girls came from a poor or working-class family. All were alone when abducted. The pattern in their names in the dump sites made many believe that the killer had a specific message or ritual. This

led investigators to suspect a serial killer with a need for power, planning, and symbolic control. Several suspects were considered over the years. Kenneth Bianke, one of the infamous hillside stranglers, was questioned but eventually cleared. Joseph Naso, a California serial killer known for targeting women with matching initials, was also considered, but never linked by evidence. Despite public attention, and modern forensic advances, no arrests have ever been made. The strange name

pattern has kept the case alive in the public's imagination. In August 1972, 16-year-old Janette Christine Dealma left her home in Springfield Township, New Jersey, saying she was heading to a friend's house by train. She never arrived. When she failed to return home, her family reported her missing the next day. That call began one of New Jerseys most haunting cold cases. 6 weeks later,

a dog returned home carrying a decomposed human forearm. Police traced the remains to the top of a cliff inside Hudale Quarry, a site known by locals as the devil's teeth. Janette's body was found face down in a wooden area. There was no visible signs of blunt trauma, but the coroner suspected strangulation. Strangely, an abnormally high level of lead was found in her body, though no one could say why. The scene quickly

became the subject of rumors. Some reports claimed her body was placed in a coffin-shaped outline made of sticks. Others said there were crosses, pentagons, and even animal sacrifices nearby. Local pastors called it possible satanic cult activity. However, when crime scene photos were reviewed, none of these objects were visible. Police

denied any signs of ritual activity. Janette's case file was said to have been lost during Hurricane Floyd, but parts were later recovered. Books like Death on the Devil's Teeth and the Weird New Jersey magazine brought new theories, including possible suspects in a coverup. Still, no official conclusion was reached. A group called Justice for Janette Dealma continues to push for answers. They want her case declared a

homicide, her body dug up, and new DNA testing done. Serial killer Richard Cunningham once offered to discuss her case, but investigators ruled him out based on time and location. To this day, no one knows what really happened to Janette Dealma. From 1986 to 1989, Virginia's Colonial Parkway became the backdrop for a chilling series of killings. This 22mm scenic route, which connects Jamestown, Williamsburg, and Yorktown, is known for its natural beauty and historical landmarks. But

during those years, it was overshadowed by fear and death. The first victims were Kathleen Thomas and Rebecca Dowski. Kathleen was 27 years old and Rebecca was 21. Their bodies were found in Kathleen's car at a quiet overlook. They had been bound with rope, strangled, and had their throats cut. The car was

soaked in diesel fuel, possibly in an attempt to destroy evidence. In 1987, David Knobbling, aged 20, and 14-year-old Robin Edwards were found shot near the James River. Their vehicle had been left nearby with personal items still inside. Robin had also been sexually assaulted. In 1988, Cassandra Haley and Richard Call went missing after a college event. Their car was

found at another overlook, but their bodies were never recovered. They are presumed dead. In 1989, 18-year-old Anna Maria Phelps and 21-year-old Daniel Lure were found stabbed near Interstate 64. Their car was parked just a few miles away. Although the location was slightly outside the parkway, investigators believed the killing was connected. In

2024, investigators identified Alan Wilmer, Senior, as a suspect in two of the killings. He had died in 2017, but modern DNA testing linked him to multiple crime scenes. He was also connected to a separate 1989 killing in Hampton. Even with this breakthrough, most of the cases remain unsolved. The mystery of who committed these killings and why still cast a long shadow over the Colonial Parkway. In 1987, Karina

Malinoski vanished after an argument with her husband. Her locked car was found near the entrance of Mount Halley Plantation in South Carolina. She was never seen again. Almost a year later, her 11-year-old daughter, Annette Sagers, also disappeared in the same location. The details surrounding her case are just as disturbing as her mother's. On the morning of October 4th,

1988, Annette was last seen by witnesses waiting at the plantation's bus stop with her dog. This was the same spot where her mother had last been seen. When the school bus returned 20 minutes later, Annette and her dog were gone. The only thing left behind was a handwritten note found inside the bus shelter. It was addressed to her stepfather, Thomas Malinowski. It read,

"Dad, mom came back. I have to go with her. Give the boys lots of kisses and hugs and also you, too. Love, Annette." Experts confirm that Annette wrote the note, but it remains unclear if she did it voluntarily or under pressure.

Investigators believe neither she nor her mother left the plantation grounds. No one reported seeing them leave, and no trace was ever found. Thomas, the stepfather, had a documented history of abuse and gave inconsistent stories during questioning. He was never arrested, but authorities still consider him a person of interest. Years later, law enforcement worked with environmental experts to identify possible burial zones within the plantation based on terrain and soil patterns, but no remains were ever recovered. The disappearance of Karina

and Annette remain a chilling mystery. The note, the setting, and the silence all point to something deeply unsettling. Even after decades, the case continues to leave investigators in the local community grasping for answers. On September 20th, 1988, 19-year-old Tara Lee Calico left her home in Bellan, New Mexico for her daily bike ride along State Road 47. Since her own bicycle had a flat tire, she borrowed her mother's neon pink Huffy. Tara told her mother

she would be back by noon to play tennis, but she never returned. When she was still missing by 3 p.m., her mother reported her disappearance. Search teams later found pieces of Terra Sony Walkman and a cassette tape along the roadside.

Some believe she dropped them deliberately to mark her path. Witnesses saw her biking alone around 11:45 a.m. while others noticed a dirty light colored pickup truck with a camper shell following closely behind her. That small time frame remains one of the biggest clues in the case. Nearly a year later,

a disturbing Polaroid photo was discovered in a parking lot in Port St. Joe, Florida. It showed a young woman and a boy bound and gagged in the back of a van. Terara's family believed the woman strongly resembled her. They also pointed out a scar on the woman's leg that matched Terraas. Forensic analysts

disagreed. Scotland Yard believed it was Terara, but the Los Amalos National Laboratory said it was not. The FBI concluded the image was inconclusive. In 2013, a cold case task force reopened the investigation. In June 2023, authorities stated they had gathered enough evidence to potentially pursue prosecution. The names of several

persons of interest remained sealed by the court. Law enforcement believes the discovery of Terara's remains or her bicycle could help confirm the truth. On May 2nd, 1995, 15-year-old Kipllin Davis vanished during a regular school day in Spanish Fork, Utah. She had attended her morning driver's education class, and was seen eating lunch with her friends, but by fourth period, she was missing. She left behind everything in her locker, including her purse, makeup, dental retainer, and school books.

Though she lived just eight blocks from the school, she never made it home. At first, the case was treated as a runaway. That theory quickly faded as foul play became more likely. Several of her classmates were investigated, including Timmy Brent Olsen, Christopher Jeepson, David Leon, Scott Brunson, and Gary Blackmore. They claimed they were hanging stage lights that day, but their story clashed with accounts from choir students using the auditorium at the same time. Years later, Timmy Brent

Olsen plead guilty to manslaughter and obstruction of justice. He admitted to helping conceal Kiplan's body after a friend allegedly struck her with a rock. However, he refused to name the attacker or reveal where the body was hidden. Rumors still linger in Spanish Fort Canyon. Some claim Olsen once admitted to burying Kipan beneath nearby train tracks. Others recall him saying the

body was later moved to a canyon grave. Despite several convictions for perjury, Kiplan's remains were never found. Between 2001 and 2018, more than 50 women were found killed in Chicago under similar chilling circumstances. Most of the victims were black women between the ages of 18 and 58. Many had histories of sex work or substance abuse. Nearly all

were strangled or suffocated, partially or fully naked, and abandoned in alleyways, abandoned buildings, dumpsters, parks, or snow drifts. The repeated pattern raised serious fears that a serial killer might be behind the cases. In 2018, a nonprofit organization that uses data to find serial patterns flagged this disturbing trend. That same year, Chicago Police partnered with the FBI to launch a review task force. However, despite the shared characteristics, the Chicago Police Department stated there was no clear evidence linking all the killings to a single suspect. Public attention grew

after the release of The Hunt for the Chicago Strangler, a documentary series that aired in 2021 on Discovery Plus. It highlighted how racial bias and lack of media coverage allowed these killings to go largely unnoticed. Most of the killings took place in south and westside neighborhoods, areas often underserved by law enforcement. So far, only one of the cases has led to an arrest. In 2020, a suspect was charged with the killing of Diamond Turner. No

other cases have been solved or linked together. The thought that someone could have killed this many women over nearly two decades without consequences remains one of the most disturbing unsolved mysteries in modern American crime history. In March 2000, 23-year-old Leah Toby Roberts left Durham, North Carolina without telling anyone where she was going. She had recently suffered a series of personal losses, including the deaths of both parents in a serious car accident. Inspired by the writings of Jack Carowak, she set off on a solo road trip toward the Pacific Northwest, leaving behind a note for her roommate.

The note said that she was not depressed and that she needed to explore her life. She withdrew $3,000 in cash, packed her cat and belongings, and drove off in her white 1993 Jeep Cherokee. Her debit card was last used on March 13th at a gas station in Brooks, Oregon. 5 days later, her Jeep was discovered wrecked off a remote logging road near Mount Baker in Washington. The car had rolled down an embankment, but there were no signs of blood or injury. Blankets had been

placed over the broken windows, and her valuables, including cash, her passport, and her mother's diamond ring, were left untouched inside the vehicle. Investigators discovered that a wire under the hood had been cut, possibly to make the car accelerate without a driver. DNA from an unknown man and a fingerprint were found inside the vehicle. Witnesses later recalled seeing Leah at a restaurant in Bellingham, Washington speaking with two men. One of the men said she left with someone named Barry, a mechanic who became a person of interest, but was never located. Despite

multiple searches, no trace of Leah or her cat was ever found. Her family continues to search for answers. To this day, no one knows what really happened on that quiet road in the Washington mountains. Her case remains open and unsolved. On June 13th, 2001, 19-year-old Jason Jolkowski vanished without a trace while walking through his Omaha neighborhood. That morning,

Jason received a call from his job at Fazolei's asking him to come in early. Since he did not have a ride, he arranged to meet a co-orker at nearby Benson High School, just eight blocks from his home. He was last seen by a neighbor helping his younger brother bring trash cans inside around 10:45 a.m. Jason never arrived at the school.

By 11:30 a.m., his coworker called to ask where he was. He had disappeared during that short walk. Security cameras at the school showed no sign of him. He

did not collect his last paychecks. His bank account and cell phone showed no activity. His car, which was in the shop, remained untouched. Jason had no history of running away and the police only opened a full investigation days later. Every theory from abduction to foul play remains unproven. No physical

evidence or witnesses ever came forward. In response, his parents founded Project Jason, an organization to help families with missing loved ones. Their work led to Jason's Law, which established a statewide missing person's database in Nebraska. Despite the efforts of family and investigators, Jason's case remains cold more than two decades later. He was walking through a safe, familiar area in broad daylight and then nothing. His

sudden disappearance remains one of the most chilling and unexpected cases in the state's history. Dr. Anne Phillip was a 31-year-old physician who lived with her husband in Battery Park City, just two blocks from the World Trade Center on September 10th, 2001. She stayed home while her husband worked. That evening, she was seen on a department store camera buying clothes and personal items. These purchases in

the security footage are the last confirmed records of her. Her husband returned home that night to find she was not there. He assumed she was staying with friends. The next morning during the 9/11 attacks, he searched frantically for her across the city. When he finally got into their apartment, he found it undisturbed.

There were paw prints from their two cats in the dust, but no signs she had returned. Authorities at first believed she died in the World Trade Center collapse. Her name was added to the list of victims, but it was removed in 2004 due to a lack of evidence. Her family fought this decision. In 2008, a New York court officially recognized her as one of the 9/11 victims. However, police

records raised other theories. Sneha had recently faced personal and legal issues. Investigators suggested she may have gone missing for unrelated reasons or met with foul play. A woman matching her build was seen entering her building at 8:43 a.m. on September 11th, but the

footage is unclear. No remains or confirmed evidence have ever surfaced. Her case remains one of the most haunting unsolved mysteries of 9/11. In Naples, Florida, two men vanished just 3 months apart. Both were last seen with the same police officer. In October

2003, 23-year-old Felipe Santos, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico, was involved in a minor car crash on his way to work. Deputy Steven Caulkins responded and arrested Felipe for driving without a license, but Felipe never arrived at the county jail. Caulkins claimed he dropped him off at a nearby Circle K gas station. That was the last time anyone ever saw Felipe. His family called jails and hospitals, but there was no record of his arrest or booking. Then in January 2004,

27-year-old Terrence Williams disappeared. He was a father of four who had recently moved to Florida. A funeral home employee at a local cemetery saw Kalins pull Terrence over and put him in the back of his patrol car. The deputy later claimed he had car trouble and was dropped off at Circle K just like Felipe. But Terrence's car was found towed from the cemetery and his keys were left inside. Again, no arrest, no

paperwork, no booking. Both cases pointed to Deputy Caulkins. His stories changed, details did not match records, and he eventually stopped cooperating. He was fired for giving false information and failing to follow procedures. Still, no charges were ever filed. Actor Tyler Perry offered a large

reward for information, and civil rights attorney Ben Crump filed a wrongful death lawsuit. The case was dismissed due to a lack of evidence. Felipe has since been declared legally dead. Terrence remains missing. After two decades, the family still have no answers. What happened in the back of

that patrol car remains one of the most disturbing and unsolved mysteries in modern Florida history. Kenneka T. Powell was a 28-year-old military veteran working as a security contractor at John's Hopkins University's Applied Physics Laboratory in Maryland. Her job involved sensitive national security projects and she had top secret clearance. On August 23rd, 2008, a strange man knocked on her apartment door and claimed he was from the FBI. He

knew her name, but refused to show identification. Kenneka, being cautious, did not open the door. Instead, she called the police and made a formal report. In the days that followed, two more men came to her door on separate occasions. Each claimed to have a package for her, but neither had a delivery badge, a uniform, or a vehicle.

Kenneka again refused to open the door and reported both encounters. She became increasingly concerned and emailed her friends warning them about these strange visits and asking them to share her message in case anything happened to her. On August 28th around lunchtime, Ana was ambushed outside her apartment. A neighbor heard her scream followed by several gunshots. She had been shot multiple times and her wallet and keys were left beside her. Nothing was

stolen. Police ruled out robbery and believed the attack was targeted. Kenneka survived long enough to be rushed to the hospital, but died the next day. No one has been arrested. No weapon was found. The identity of the

men who visited her remains unknown. Because of her classified job and the strange behavior of the men who approached her, some believe her death could be linked to her work. Others believe she was stalked and set up. Her killing remains unsolved and her family is still searching for answers. In June 2014, Derek and Maria Baratis bought a beautiful six-bedroom house at 657 Boulevard in Westfield, New Jersey. But

just days after closing the sale, a letter arrived. It was addressed to the quote unquote new owner and came from someone who called themselves the watcher. This person claimed their family had been watching the house for generations and said they were now waiting for quote unquote young blood to move in. More letters followed. They described the broadest children in alarming detail, including their nicknames, ages, and routines. The

letters questioned who would sleep in which rooms, and whether the children would be safe, and the threats felt personal. The family became terrified. Despite spending a lot of money on the house, they never moved in. The Bratises reported the letters to police and even hired private detectives. Several neighbors were investigated. The

previous owners admitted they had also received one letter before moving out, but nothing ever came of it. No clear suspect was found and no one was ever arrested. In 2018, a detailed article in New York magazine brought public attention to the case. In 2022, Netflix released a dramatized series called The Watcher based loosely on the events. The show changed names and added fiction, but the fear behind the story was very real. The house was eventually sold in

2019 at a financial loss. No new letters have been reported since. Still, the case remains open. No one knows who the watcher is, why they targeted the house, or if they are still watching. On November 3rd, 2018, 40-year-old Tomla Horford attended an adult slumber party in [ __ ] Georgia. The gathering was

meant to celebrate one of the women's birthdays. All guests were women, and Tomla was the only black woman in attendance. She arrived late and brought breakfast items for her family, showing that she planned to return home early. The evening included food, games, alcohol, and Tamla occasionally stepping outside to smoke. Around 1:47 a.m., the

last known person to speak to her saw her heading out to the deck for a final cigarette. Surveillance footage showed the back door opening and closing between 1:47 and 1:57 a.m. After that, there were no more signs of movement. By 8:30 a.m., Tomlow was found face down in

the backyard, still in her pajamas. Her wrist was injured, and there were cuts and bruises visible on her body. The autopsy listed her blood alcohol level at 238 and also found traces of marijuana and a sedative in her system. Officials declared her death accidental, saying she likely fell from the 14t high balcony and suffered blunt force trauma. Tomla's family did not accept this conclusion. They pointed out injuries

including abrasions on her face, wrist, and legs, a slashing to her heart, and what they believed was spinal damage. The family also highlighted missing autopsy photographs, inconsistencies in witness statements, and errors in how the case was handled. Public interest grew quickly. A petition to reopen the case gained hundreds of thousands of signatures. Celebrities also called for justice. In 2020, the Georgia Bureau of

Investigation reopened the case, but later reaffirmed the original findings. No one has been charged. Although officials closed the investigation, many still believe the true cause of Tomla's death has never been fully explained. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on any of the unsolved mysteries I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part five or more videos like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.