---
video_title: "The Most Tragic Roller Coaster Deaths Explained"
video_id: KOksVy-SLzI
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KOksVy-SLzI
video_date: 2025-10-17T19:00:16+00:00
video_description: |
  If you’re ever injured in an accident, you can check out Morgan & Morgan. You can start your claim in just a click without having to leave your couch. To start your claim, visit: https://www.forthepeople.com/Jaydone
  
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Loop the Loop
  1:06 - Racing Coaster
  2:06 - Dixie Flyer
  3:20 - Big Dipper
  4:55 - Morgan & Morgan
  6:27 - Virginia Reel
  8:02 - Battersea Fair
  9:39 - Mindbender
  11:19 - Galaxy Land
  12:52 - Raging Bull
  14:20 - Fujin Raijin II
  15:55 - Batman Ride
  17:13 - Superman Ride
  18:28 - Quimera
  19:42 - Cobra
  20:44 - Jetline
---
In the early 1900s, amusement parks were experimenting with rides that could push the boundaries of what people thought was possible. One of the most ambitious designs of the era was the Loop the Loop and White City in Chicago, which opened in 1906. Designed by John A. Miller, a pioneer in roller coaster safety and engineering, the ride featured a vertical loop, a concept that had only recently begun to emerge in amusement parks. It was meant to thrill riders with a complete 360 degree loop, a radical departure from the gentle slopes and curves that were common at the time. Unfortunately, the Loop the Loop quickly became notorious for its danger. Contemporary reports are limited, but the rides suffered a fatal accident that brought public attention to the risks of vertical loops. Riders were subjected to intense forces in the rides early design, while innovative, did not provide adequate restraint or protection against extreme motion. The incident shook the park in the local community, leading to the immediate closure of the ride, White City never reopened the Loop the Loop and the accident became a cautionary tale in amusement park history. During the 1920s, Euclid Beach Park in Cleveland featured one of the most popular attractions of the time, the racing coaster. This ride was designed to pit two trains against each other in a head-to-head race, creating a sense of competition and excitement for riders. The concept was simple yet thrilling. Two coaster trains would leave the station simultaneously and follow parallel tracks, giving riders the adrenaline rush of speed and rivalry. Tragically, the racing coaster became the site of a fatal accident that highlighted the dangers of early roller coaster design. A young man who had recently graduated from high school was riding when he linked arms with a rider in the opposing train, an action that proved deadly. As the trains diverged on the track, his arm became caught and he was pulled violently from the seat. The force carried him along the ride's framework before he ultimately fell to his death. Restraints became more secure, safety inspections more frequent, and operators more vigilant about rider behavior. In the 1920s, Euclid Beach Park in Akron, Ohio was a bustling hub of leisure and entertainment. Families flocked there to enjoy rides, games, and the lively atmosphere that promised a break from everyday life. Among the attractions was the Dixie Flyer, a roller coaster that had quickly become a highlight of the park. It promised excitement, but in May of 1924, it became the focus of one of the park's darkest moments. On May 16th, Tragedy struck when 35-year-old Bessie Pollock, a local mother of two, boarded the Dixie Flyer expecting a thrilling ride. Instead, she fell from the coaster in front of horrified onlookers. Reports state that she was dragged nearly 200 feet before the train came to a stop, a scene that shook Akron and drew immediate attention from investigators. The accident raised urgent questions about the reliability of the ride, and whether mechanical failure played a central role. Officials investigating the incident concluded that safety mechanisms were either insufficient or malfunctioning. In an era when roller coaster technology was still developing, many rides relied on relatively simple lap bars, or even loose wrist strains that could not withstand sudden jolts or shifts in momentum. Krog Park in Omaha, Nebraska was one of the city's most cherished attractions. In the early 20th century, families and thrill seekers alike gathered there, with the big Dipper roller coaster serving as the main draw. On July 24th, 1930, however, the big Dipper became the sight of what is still remembered, as one of the deadliest amusement park accidents in the United States history. The disaster began with a mechanical failure that should have been preventable. A bolt securing a brake shoe on the coaster worked itself loose, causing the braking mechanism to fail. As the coaster cars gained speed, the situation spiraled out of control. Four cars filled with passengers, who moments earlier had been laughing and screaming in excitement, suddenly derailed. The train plunged nearly 35 feet, smashing into the ground below with devastating force. The aftermath was catastrophic. Four people lost their lives, and 17 others were badly injured. Many of them left with long-term consequences. Eyewitnesses described scenes of chaos and panic as rescue efforts began, with bystanders and park employees rushing to help pull survivors from the wreckage. Public outrage was swift. The Omaha City Council wasted no time in responding to the tragedy, passing an ordinance that banned roller coasters within city limits. The move reflected both the shock of the community, and a growing belief that such rides carried unacceptable risks, if safety could not be absolutely guaranteed. Although amusement parks would later return to Omaha, the big Dipper disaster left a permanent scar on the city's history. Now, before we continue, I have something that I need to tell you guys. When I was a kid, on the 4th of July of all days, I was hit by a car. Fireworks, barbecue, and then camp, a trip to the hospital. Thankfully, I recovered, but for my parents, it was a nightmare. Especially because of the insurance companies, and then having to deal with the mountain of medical bills. And that's the reality for so many other people as well. Traditional personal injury claims are designed to wear you down. Insurance companies drag their feet, offer you pennies to what you deserve, and hope you'll just give up. That's why I wish my parents had known about Morgan and Morgan. There's a reason history remembers those who fought for justice. Just like there's a reason why Morgan and Morgan is America's largest injury law firm. And for over 35 years, they've been fighting for the people, not the insurance companies. Their result turned insane. In Florida, one client was offered just $350,000. But Morgan and Morgan fought for them and got them over 12 million. In Pennsylvania, another client was awarded $26 million, which was 40 times higher than what the insurer wanted to pay. That's because when you hire Morgan and Morgan, it's like hiring a legal army. They've got over a thousand attorneys and a hundred plus offices nationwide. And they've recovered over $25 billion for over $500,000. And the best part, there are no upfront costs. Their fee is free unless they win. Submitting a claim is super easy. You can start less than a minute with no endless appointments, overwhelming paperwork or long waits. So if you're ever injured, don't settle for less and let the insurance companies win. You can just click the link in the description or scan the QR code on screen to get started with Morgan and Morgan today. Palisade's amusement park in Cliffside Park, New Jersey was one of the most iconic entertainment destinations on the East Coast, known for its spectacular views of the Hudson River in a wide range of attractions. The park drew massive crowds throughout the early and mid-20th century. Among its most distinctive rides was the Virginia Real, a spinning coaster that delighted riders with sharp turns in unpredictable motion. By 1944, it had become a signature part of the park's identity. That summer, the Virginia Real became the starting point for one of the most tragic events in the park's history. On August 13, 1944, a fire broke out within the ride structure. What began as a localized blaze, spread with alarming speed, fueled by the wooden framework that was common in coaster construction at the time. Within minutes, flames had engulfed the Virginia Real and spread into adjacent areas of the park, destroying roughly half of its attractions. The human toll was devastating. Six teenagers lost their lives in the fire, unable to escape the fast-moving flames. Another 125 people sustained injuries, many from smoke inhalation, burns or the chaos that erupted as thousands of parkgoers scrambled to get away. Eyewitness accounts described the fire as uncontrollable, with thick smoke filling the air, in panic spreading faster than the staff could respond. For Palisade's amusement park, the fire marked a turning point. Though the park would rebuild and continue operating for several decades, the incident prompted immediate reforms in safety practices. By the early 1970s, Battersea Fund Farron London was one of the capital's best-known amusement parks. Families came for the rides, the atmosphere, and the excitement that the park promised. The centerpiece was the Big Dipper, a wooden roller coaster that had been in operation for decades. On May 30, 1972, however, the ride's long history of thrills came to a tragic end. That evening, one of the coaster's trains was climbing a section of track when it suddenly disengaged from the lift chain. Instead of continuing up the incline, the cars rolled backward at high speed, the train slammed into another car waiting at the station, and then left the track altogether, smashing into the wooden supports. The crash was devastating, five children were killed instantly, and more than a dozen other passengers were seriously injured. Witnesses described scenes of chaos and disbelief as rescuers tried to reach the wreckage. The investigation that followed revealed disturbing details. Mechanical fault had been reported before, and maintenance procedures were inadequate. Operators had not carried out the kind of inspections that might have caught the failing safety system. The accident quickly became one of the worst amusement park disasters in British history, and made national headlines for weeks. The impact on Battersea Fund Far was immediate, visitors turned away in large numbers, and trust in the park's safety evaporated, despite attempts to continue operating. The shadow of the accident lingered. The big dipper was dismantled not long afterward, and the ferret self-shoot downed completely just two years later, in 1974. The minebinder at Galaxy Land, inside West Edmonton Mall in Canada, was marketed as a record breaker when it opened in 1985. At the time, it was the tallest indoor roller coaster in the world, and its twisting green track was the pride of the mall. The ride featured three dramatic loops, and pushed riders to speeds, approaching 97 km per hour, making it a thrill unlike anything most visitors had experienced. Just one year later, however, the minebinder would gain a reputation for tragedy. On June 14, 1986, a pack train was making its way through the coaster. Wind disaster struck, a wheel assembly on the fourth car of the train broke detaching completely. Without the critical support of its wheels, the car derelled in the middle of the ride. It moved swiftly and uncontrollably, throwing its passengers violently against the restraints. Before slamming into a concrete support beam, three passengers were ejected and killed instantly. A fourth rider survived, but suffered catastrophic injuries. Investigators determined that the crash was caused by both design flaws and failures and maintenance. The bolts that held the wheel assembly in place had either failed or were not properly checked, allowing the assembly to separate under stress. This mechanical weakness had not been caught in time, and the consequences were disastrous. The ride was shut down for more than a year, while engineers completely redesigned the trains. The new cars had fewer seats, stronger wheel assemblies, and additional restraints, including lap belts and shoulder harnesses. Maintenance protocols were overhauled, and inspection routines became far more rigorous. At the end of the 1990s, Gillian's Wonderland Pure In Ocean City, New Jersey, was known as a family-friendly park with gentle rides and seaside charm. To add more thrills, the park introduced the Wild Wonder. A small steel roller coaster manufactured by Zamperla, it was marketed as a junior coaster that offered just enough speed and sharp turns to give families a dose of excitement. But on August 28, 1999, what should have been a light-hearted ride became one of the most shocking tragedies in the park history. That evening, a car carrying four passengers stalled, partway up the track. Instead of moving forward, the car slipped backward uncontrollably. It raced down the incline and smashed into another car that was waiting in the loading station. The impact was brutal. A 39-year-old mother, and her eight-year-old daughter were thrown from the ride and killed instantly. Two others were injured one of them seriously. Witnesses described screams of panic and confusion as park workers scrambled to respond. The investigation into the crash uncovered serious flaws. The anti-rollback system, which is designed to prevent cars from sliding backward on the lift hill, had failed. Questions were also raised about whether the ride had been properly inspected and maintained. Regulators criticized both the manufacturer and the park for safety oversights, noting that the wild wonders design may not have been robust enough to handle such a failure. The accident had immediate consequences. The ride was close permanently, and lawsuits were filed against the park in the ride's maker. On May 3, 2003, a tragic incident unfolded at Six Flags Great America. In Gernie, Illinois, 11-year-old Erica Emmons from Gary, Indiana had just finished riding raging bull. A massive hypercoaster known for its towering drops in a tent airtime when she suddenly collapsed on the exit platform. She had been enjoying the ride with her on cousins, in which should have been an exciting day at the park, turned into a devastating moment for her family. Park staff rushed to help immediately. Several employees trained in CPR, attempted to resuscitate her until emergency medical crews arrived. Despite their efforts, Erica was pronounced dead shortly after being transported to a nearby hospital. The suddenness of the event shocked both her family and the park's guest, who had watched helplessly as the rescue unfolded. Initial reports suggested she may have choked on gum or candy during the ride. A coroner's report noted a bluish green substance lodged in her throat, which added to the speculation. However, a deeper investigation revealed that Erica had an undiagnosed heart condition, called cardiomegaly, meaning her heart was abnormally enlarged. This condition can trigger fatal arrhythmias under physical stress, and the intensity of the ride likely puts strain on her already vulnerable heart. Six Flags shaken by the tragedy introduced clear safety warnings after the incident, including notices advising against chewing gum or candy while riding. On May 5, 2007, Expo Lanano Soca became the site of one of Japan's most infamous roller coaster accidents. Fusion Ration 2, a spinning coaster designed to thrill riders with rapid twist in turns, suddenly derailed mid-ride, causing chaos that left one university student dead, and 19 others injured. The cause was a critical mechanical failure. Investigators found that an axle in the second car had snapped during the ride. This was not a random failure. The axle had been in service for 15 years, and had not been replaced or properly inspected, even though such parts are subject to enormous stress over time. When it finally gave way, the car derailed and slammed into a guardrail, throwing riders violently. The death of a 19-year-old female student made headlines across the nation. Initial reports said as many as 40 people were injured, though the confirmed number requiring hospital treatment was 31. Survivors described a scene of terror, with the train suddenly spinning out of control, and passengers screaming as the ride's normal rhythm turned catastrophic. It was later discovered that Expo Lan had skipped scheduled part-replacement in inspections, essentially allowing the ride to run on outdated equipment. Public outrage followed, and authorities immediately ordered similar coasters across Japan to shut down for emergency inspections. In the aftermath, Expo Lan's reputation never recovered. The part closed temporarily and reopened months later, but attendance plummeted. Eventually, it shut down permanently in 2009. On June 28, 2008, a shocking tragedy took place at six flags over Georgia. When 17-year-old Asia Ferguson was fatally struck by the Batman, the ride roller coaster, the ride itself was operating normally, but the accident occurred because Ferguson had entered a restricted area beneath the track. Reports indicated that it climbed over two six-foot fences, ignoring multiple warning signs, to retrieve a hat that had flown off during the ride. As the coaster sped through its course, Ferguson was struck in the head by one of the trains traveling at nearly 50 miles per hour. The impact killed him instantly. Witnesses recalled the horrifying moment in the confusion that followed, as ride operators and parkists tried to understand what had happened. Six flags officials emphasized that the area was clearly marked and fenced off, with signs explicitly warning guests not to enter. In fact, the restricted zone beneath the Batman the ride is particularly hazardous because of the coaster's design. The trains run close to the ground at high speed, and riders legs dangle freely from the inverted cars, leaving no margin for air if someone is standing in the path. As in 2002, a similar event happened at the same ride, when a park employee was struck and killed in the same restricted area. In July 2011, Daryen Lake Theme Park in New York faced one of its darkest days, when a war veteran named Sergeant James Hackemer lost his life. On the Superman ride of steel roller coaster, Hackemer was a double amputee, who had lost both his legs while serving in Iraq. Despite part policies that restricted riders with certain physical conditions from boarding, he was permitted on the coaster. This oversight set the stage for a tragedy that shocked the amusement park industry. As the ride sped through its course, witnesses reported that Hackemer was ejected during one of the steep drops. Some accounts suggested he had been reaching for his head that had blown off, but investigators later determined that the lack of properest strength for his condition played the central role. The safety bars were not designed to secure a rider without legs, meaning he could not be properly restrained during the intense airtime moments that defined hypercoasters like Superman, the New York State Department of Labor later confirmed that the accident resulted from operator air. The staff had failed to enforce the park's own rules that prohibited riders with certain disabilities from boarding. Hackemer's family filed a lawsuit against the park, which was eventually settled in 2013. On September 28, 2019, disaster struck in Mexico City, Ella Feria, Chipolta Pick Magico, when the Kimera roller coaster derailed mid-ride, the Steel Coaster, which had been relocated from a German park in the 1980s, had a long history of operation, but years of wear, and inadequate maintenance eventually caught up with it. On that day, one of the trains came loose from the track, causing it to partially derail. Two riders were thrown from the coaster and killed instantly, while several others sustained serious injuries. Images and videos taken by witnesses quickly circulated, showing the horridly derailed car came to rest awkwardly on the track. Early investigations revealed clear warning signs that had gone on addressed. Officials noted that the coaster had a history of mechanical issues, and had been temporarily shut down for inspections before. Unfortunately, not all concerns were resolved before it was reopened. Authorities wasted no time in responding. Within days, the Kimera was permanently shut down, and inspectors began evaluating safety standards across all of Mexico's amusement parks. Eventually, the park itself was forced to close permanently. In July 2022, Tivoli Freeheadin, a popular amusement park in Denmark, faced a devastating tragedy involving its cobra roller coaster. The ride was known for its inverted design that flipped riders upside down, but during one run, the rear car of the train detached from the track. A 14-year-old girl was killed instantly, while a young boy riding nearby was seriously injured. The horrifying incident stunned both the park and the wider amusement park community, specifically because it was not the first time cobra had made headlines for safety issues. Back in 2008, the same ride had suffered another serious malfunction when a front car came loose, injuring several passengers. After that, the park claimed to have repaired and reinforced the ride. Yet despite those assurances, the 2022 failure revealed, lingering vulnerabilities that had never been fully resolved. Investigators later confirmed that a mechanical failure in the rear car caused the detachment, raising questions about whether the coaster should have been operating at all. On June 25, 2023, Growna Lund, Sweden's oldest amusement park, was shaken by a deadly accident on its beloved jet-line roller coaster, the ride, which had thrilled guests since the 1980s, suffered a catastrophic malfunction when the front car derailed while carrying riders through a high-speed section of the track. A woman in her 30s was thrown to her death, while two other passengers sustained critical injuries. The incident forced the park to shut down immediately, as investigators sought to uncover what had gone wrong. The Swedish accident investigation authority later revealed that the problem lay in the coaster's support arms, which had recently been replaced. The new parts had not been manufactured or tested to the correct strength, and during the intense forces of the ride, they failed. For Growna Lund, the tragedy cut deeply. The jet-line had been one of its signature attractions for decades, a coaster cherished by generations of visitors. Following the accident, park officials announced that jet-line would never reopen. It was dismantled, and the park promised sweeping changes to its safety protocols. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like. Comment down below your thoughts on any of the roller coaster deaths I discussed in this video. And subscribe if you would like to see a part 2 or more videos like this one. Thank you again, and goodbye.