---
video_title: "The Most Infamous Celebrity Criminals Explained"
video_id: OIRxix3Uzjo
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OIRxix3Uzjo
video_date: 2025-06-22
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Robert Downey Jr
  1:21 - DMX
  2:41 - 50 Cent
  3:59 - Winona Ryder
  5:30 - Martha Stewart
  6:46 - Steve-O
  8:09 - Mel Gibson
  9:49 - Paris Hilton
  11:01 - Lindsay Lohan
  12:29 - Shia LaBeouf
  14:00 - Wesley Snipes
  15:14 - XXXTentacion
  16:41 - Kodak Black
  18:03 - Tory Lanez
  19:24 - Danny Masterson
---
Robert Downey Jr. was born on April 4th, 1965 in Manhattan, New York City. To filmmaker Robert Downey Senior and actress LCN, raised in a creative but unstable environment, Downey was introduced to drugs at an early age by his father, which had a significant impact on his later life. Despite his troubled upbringing, he showed a talent for acting early on and began appearing in films as a child. Downey became known for his charisma and versatility, quickly rising to Hollywood stardom.

However, by the mid 1990s, Downeyy's substance abuse issues worsened. Between 1996 and 2001, he was arrested multiple times for drugrelated offenses, including possession of heroin, cocaine, and an unloaded firearm. He was caught several times by police, often failing court-order drug test. His legal troubles led to short periods of being in jail and rehab. And in 1999, he was sentenced to 3 years in a California state prison after repeated parole violations. Public reaction to Downy's

downfall was initially mixed. Many saw it as a sad case of someone struggling with addiction, while others wrote off his career entirely. However, his eventual recovery and comeback reshaped his legacy. After completing courtmandated rehab and staying sober, Downey relaunched his career, most notably starring as Tony Stark in the Marvel Cinematic Universe starting in 2008. His transformation from troubled actor to box office icon redefined public perception. DMX, born Earl

Simmons on December 18th of 1970 in Mount Vernon, New York, had a childhood defined by poverty, abuse, and time in group homes, leading him to a life of crime and struggle from an early age. Despite these hardships, he discovered a passion for hip hop and began performing as a beatboxer and rapper in the early 1990s. His raw and aggressive style gained attention, and his debut album catapulted him into fame. Throughout his career, DMX faced a series of legal troubles, including charges for drug possession, animal cruelty, parole violations, tax evasion, and impersonating a federal agent. His arrest spanned from the late 1990s into the 2010s. In 2017, he was charged with

14 counts of tax fraud, accused of concealing millions in income to avoid paying $1.7 million in taxes. He plead guilty and was sentenced to one year in prison in 2018. Fans often express sympathy due to his troubled past and transparency about his struggles. His repeated arrest, however, damaged his career and reliability in the industry.

Despite this, DMX retained a loyal fan base and was seen by many as a tragic figure fighting internal demons. He died on April 9th, 2021 from a heart attack reportedly triggered by a drug overdose. He is now largely remembered as a talented but troubled artist whose authenticity left a major impact on hip hop. 50 Cent, born Curtis James Jackson III on July 6th, 1975 in Queens, New York, grew up in the South Jamaica neighborhood, an area plagued by crime and poverty. His mother was a drug dealer who died when he was just 8 years old, leaving him to be raised by his grandparents. Exposed to street life

early on, Jackson began dealing drugs at the age of 12 and was frequently in trouble with the law during his youth. He was arrested multiple times for drug possession and distribution before fully turning to music. 50 Cent rose to fame after surviving a near fatal shooting in 2000 in which he was struck by nine bullets. This incident combined with his mixed tapes and lyricism caught the attention of Eminem and Dr. Dre who signed him to Shady Aftermath Records.

His debut album was a massive success and he became known for his gangster persona, business skills, and aggressive delivery. Although 50 Cent's early life was filled with criminal activity, by the time he reached mainstream fame, most of his legal troubles were behind him. He was never convicted of any serious crimes as a celebrity, though he had numerous run-ins with the law. For instance, civil lawsuits and financial issues, including a high-profile bankruptcy filing in 2015. The public largely embraced 50 Cent's transformation from street hustler to beloved rap artist, as his criminal past added authenticity to his brand rather than diminishing his legacy. Winona

Ryder, born Winona Laura Horowitz on October 29th, 1971 in Winona, Minnesota, was raised in a household influenced by literature and art. Her family moved to California when she was a child, and she began studying acting at the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco. Ryder gained early fame in the late 1980s with standout roles in Beetlejuice, Heathers, and Edward Scissorhands. Known for her distinctive look and ability to portray complex characters, she became a defining actress of her generation and a key figure in 1990s Hollywood. Her career hit a major obstacle in December 2001 when she was arrested for shoplifting in Beverly Hills. She was caught stealing

over $5,000 worth of designer merchandise from Saks Fth Avenue, including handbags and hair accessories. Surveillance footage and the discovery of stolen items in her possession led to her arrest at the scene. This case garnered intense media coverage due to her fame and the contrast between her public persona and the nature of the crime. Writer's trial began in 2002 and lasted several weeks. She was convicted of felony grand theft and vandalism, but was acquitted of burglary. The court

sentenced her to 3 years of probation, 480 hours of community service, and ordered her to pay fines and restitution. Some viewed her actions as a symptom of emotional distress, while others saw it as a privileged celebrity misstep. Over time, however, Ryder made a successful comeback, most notably with her role in Stranger Things. As of 2025, she is a respected and beloved actress. Martha Stewart was born on August 3rd, 1941 in Jersey City, New Jersey. Her

upbringing was very structured, and she attended Barnard College, where she studied art and later began a career as a stock broker before shifting her focus to lifestyle branding. She gained national recognition in the 1980s and 90s through her books, magazines, and television programs, becoming synonymous with cooking and home decor. Her downfall began in 2001, where she sold nearly 4,000 shares of biotech company MClone Systems one day before its stock plummeted due to a negative FDA ruling. Authorities suspected insider trading as Stor had ties to Mlone CEO Samuel Waxel, who was under investigation. An investigation ensued and in 2003, Store was indicted on charges including conspiracy, obstruction of justice, and making false statements to federal investigators. The case lasted several

months and concluded in 2004 with her conviction on four felony counts, although she was never charged with insider trading itself. Sto was sentenced to 5 months in federal prison, 5 months of home confinement, and 2 years of probation. Many were shocked by her actions, while others viewed her prosecution as excessive. Her brand took a temporary hit, but Storillfully rehabilitated her image upon release. Steo, born Steven Gilchrist Glover on June 13th, 1974 in London, England, was raised in a multinational household due to his father's career with PepsiCo. He

spent part of his youth in Brazil, Venezuela, and the United States, eventually settling in Florida. Steo attended the Wringling Bros in Barnum and Bailey Clown College where he developed skills in physical comedy and stunt performance that would later define his career. He rose to fame in the early 2000s as a core cast member of Jackass, a hit MTV series known for dangerous, crude, and often outrageous stunts. Steo became known for his willingness to perform the most extreme and self-destructive acts, earning both fame and notoriety. Throughout the height of his fame, Steo struggled with substance abuse, which led to a number of legal problems. His most notable

criminal issues were tied to drug possession and public disturbances. In 2008, he was arrested for vandalism and cocaine possession after an erratic incident in his apartment building. He was quickly caught due to his own omissions in the presence of narcotics. Rather than a lengthy court case, Steo entered a plea deal and was sentenced to probation and rehabilitation. Public reaction to his arrest was more sympathetic than harsh, largely because his behavior was often seen as a symptom of addiction. Over time, Steo turned his

life around. He became sober in 2008 and has since spoken openly about his recovery, earning respect for his honesty and advocacy. Mel Gibson was born on January 3rd, 1956 in Pigsville, New York, and moved with his family to Australia at age 12. Raised in a devout Catholic household as the sixth of 11 children. Gibson studied acting at the National Institute of Dramatic Art in Sydney, he gained fame in the late 1970s and early 1980s with his breakout role in MadMax, becoming one of Hollywood's top actors. His transition into

directing proved even more successful with Braveheart, which won him Academy Awards for best director and best picture. Gibson's fall from grace began with a series of highly publicized events involving alcohol abuse, domestic disputes, and inflammatory remarks. In 2006, he was arrested for DUI in Malibu, California, during which he went on an anti-Semitic rant against the arresting officers. The incident made headlines and deeply damaged his reputation. He later apologized, but many in the public and Hollywood viewed it as a revelation of deeper prejudices. In 2010, Gibson

faced further controversy when recording surfaced of him yelling racist and misogynistic threats toward his then girlfriend. He was investigated for domestic violence and eventually plead no contest to a misdemeanor battery charged in 2011, receiving probation, counseling, and community service. Public reaction to Gibson's actions were largely negative, with many condemning his behavior and calling for his exclusion from the industry. His career suffered significantly with roles in directing opportunities drying up for years. However, he began a slow comeback in the mid2010s culminating in the critically acclaimed Hacksaw Ridge which earned Oscar nominations. As of 2025,

Gibson continues to work though his legacy remains controversial. Paris Hilton was born on February 17th, 1981 in New York City into the wealthy Hilton family, heirs to the Hilton Hotels empire. Raised in a life of luxury between Manhattan, Beverly Hills, and the Hamptons, Hilton attended elite private schools, which she later described as abusive. Despite her privileged background, Hilton sought fame for her own terms, first emerging in the early 2000s as a model. She gained widespread attention with the release of the reality TV show The Simple Life in 2003, which portrayed her as a glamorous but naive aerys navigating working-class life. Hilton

became known more for her party lifestyle and brand endorsements than any specific artistic talent. With that being said, in 2006 she was arrested for driving under the influence and in 2007 she was sentenced to 45 days in jail for violating probation by driving with a suspended license serving 23 days. Her arrest were widely covered by the media with many people mocking her. These legal issues caused some troubles for her reputation but didn't end her career. In later years, Hilton sought to rebrand herself, becoming a successful DJ and businesswoman. Her 2020

documentary shed light on her childhood trauma, earning renewed public empathy. Lindsay Lohan was born on July 2nd, 1986 in New York City and raised on Long Island. She began working as a child model at the age of three and quickly transitioned into acting. Her breakout role came in the 1998 Disney remake of The Parent Trap, where her dual performance earned widespread praise. As she matured, Lohan starred in many teen hits such as Freaky Friday and Mean Girls, making her one of the most recognizable young actresses of the early 2000s. However, as her fame grew,

so did her personal struggles. Lohan became known for her erratic behavior, frequent partying, and substance abuse. Her legal troubles began in 2007 when she was arrested twice for driving under the influence, once in May and again in July. Police also found cocaine in her possession, leading to multiple charges. She entered rehab several times but continued to violate probation terms, resulting in several court appearances in brief periods of being in jail. The

most notable conviction came in 2011 when she was sentenced to 120 days in jail in community service for a 2007 theft and repeated probation violations. Though she served a reduced sentence due to overcrowding, public reaction fluctuated between concern, ridicule, and sympathy. Her legal troubles overshadowed her acting career, causing a decline in roles and credibility in Hollywood. Despite years of scandal, Lohan remained in the public eye and was working to repair her image. She has since moved abroad, opened businesses, and returned to acting in smaller projects. Shia Labbuff was born on June

11th, 1986 in Los Angeles, California. Raised in a working-class family by parents who struggled with financial instability and addiction, Labbuff turned to performing at a young age, both as a creative outlet and a way to support his family. He gained fame as a teenager on the Disney Channel series Even Stevens, where his comedic talent earned him critical recognition in a daytime Emmy award. As he transitioned into adult roles, he starred in major films such as Transformers and Fury. Despite his early success, Labbuff became increasingly known for his erratic behavior and legal issues. His

criminal history includes multiple arrests, often related to public intoxication, disorderly conduct, and trespassing. Notable incidents include a 2014 arrest during a Broadway show for disruptive behavior, and a 2017 arrest in Georgia for public drunkenness during which he made racist remarks at police officers. These incidents led to court-ordered rehabilitation and probation, though most of his legal cases were resolved quickly and without jail time. More serious controversy arose in 2020 when Singer and former girlfriend FKA Twigs filed a civil lawsuit accusing Labbuff of sexual battery, assault, and emotional abuse. Although this was a civil rather than criminal case, it had significant consequences for his career. Labbuff has

taken steps toward accountability, entering rehab and speaking about his mental health. While he remains a polarizing figure, some view his recent reflections and artistic choices as efforts to reshape his legacy from troubled actor to one seeking redemption. Wesley Snipes was born on July 31st, 1962 in Orlando, Florida, and raised primarily in the Bronx, New York. He studied performing arts from a young age and attended the State University of New York before transferring to a Los Angeles acting school. Snipes rose to prominence in the late 1980s and early 1990s and eventually achieved international fame playing the vampire hunter in the Blade trilogy. However,

Snipes' career took a serious hit due to legal issues stemming from tax evasion. In 2006, he was indicted on charges of conspiring to defraud the US government and willfully failing to file federal income tax returns. Authorities alleged he had not filed returns for several years and owed millions back in Texas. The case went to trial in 2008 and while Snipes was acquitted of the most serious felony fraud charges, he was convicted of three misdemeanor counts of willful failure to file tax returns. In 2010, he began serving a three-year prison sentence and was released in 2013. The

conviction severely disrupted his career, sidelining him during his prime and diminishing his presence in major Hollywood projects. Since his release, Snipes has slowly re-entered the entertainment world with him recently returning to play Blade in the newest Deadpool movie. XXXTX Tentacion, born Jos Onfroy on January 23rd, 1998 in Plantation, Florida, had a troubled upbringing defined by violence and time in juvenile detention. Raised primarily by his grandmother, he struggled with behavioral issues from an early age, but found solace in music. He began uploading songs to Soundcloud in the mid2010s, gaining rapid attention for his raw, aggressive style that blended hip-hop, punk, and emo influences. While

rising to fame in 2016, he was arrested and charged with aggravated battery, false imprisonment, and witnessed tampering in connection to the alleged brutal assault of his then pregnant girlfriend. The case drew national attention, and deeply divided public opinion. Some fans defended him, citing his troubled past and promises of personal change, while others condemned the severity of the accusations. The trial was repeatedly delayed and unresolved at the time of his death. Despite, or perhaps because of his notoriety, Ex's music continued to perform well commercially. On June 18th,

2018, he was shot and killed in a robbery outside a motorcycle dealership in Deerfield Beach, Florida. He was only 20 years old. Four men were later arrested and convicted for his killing. His death intensified debates about separating art from the artist. While his criminal charges clouded his legacy, many fans and peers mourned him as a misunderstood evolving figure. Postumous

releases and charitable efforts by his estate have attempted to reshape public perception, portraying him as someone striving for redemption. Kodak Black, born Dyson Octave on June 11th, 1997 in Pmpo Beach, Florida, was raised in a low-income housing project by his Haitian immigrant mother. Surrounded by poverty and crime from a young age, Kodak turned to music as a means of escape, beginning to rap and record songs while still in middle school. He gained national attention in 2014 with the release of his mixtape, Project Baby. Kodak's career has been defined by frequent legal troubles. He has been

arrested multiple times on charges including robbery, battery, drug possession, and weapons offenses. One of the most serious crimes occurred in 2019 when he was sentenced to 46 months in federal prison for falsifying information on background checks to purchase firearms. Additionally, he faced a separate sexual assault charge from a 2016 incident in South Carolina, which resulted in a plea deal in 2021. He received 18 months of probation after pleading guilty to first-degree assault and battery. While many criticized his repeated run-ins with the law and troubling behavior, others sympathize with his upbringing and praise his musical talent. In early 2021, his

prison sentence was commuted by President Donald Trump during the final hours of his term. Still alive and continuing to release music, Kodak has made gestures toward personal reform, but remains a controversial figure. His legal issues have both hindered his mainstream appeal and cemented his image as a defiant street rooted rapper. Tory Lanes, born Dayar Peterson on July 27th, 1992 in Bmpton, Ontario, Canada, had a troubled upbringing defined by the death of his mother at a young age and frequent moves across North America. He turned to music in his teenage years as both an emotional outlet and a career pursuit, gaining recognition through mixtapz in the early 2010s. Lane built a

fan base with his blend of rap, R&B, and pop. By the mid-2010s, he achieved mainstream success. Lanes's criminal notoriety stems from a 2020 incident in which rapper Megan the Stallion accused him of shooting her in the foot following an argument after a party in Hollywood Hills. Initially, the case was surrounded by speculation and conflicting reports. Lanes denied the charges publicly and in his music.

However, he was eventually arrested and formally charged with felony assault with a semi-automatic firearm and carrying a loaded unregistered weapon in a vehicle. After a lengthy trial, Lanz was convicted in December 2022. In August 2023, he was sentenced to 10 years in prison. The case drew widespread media attention and divided the public. Many initially questioned Megan's account while others rallied behind her and called out misogyny.

Lanes maintained his innocence throughout the proceedings, further polarizing opinion. His conviction led to a significant fall from grace with his reputation in the mainstream music industry severely damaged. Danny Mastersonson was born on March 13th, 1976 in Long Island, New York. He began his career in entertainment as a child model and actor, appearing in commercials and small television roles before rising to fame in the late 1990s. Masterson became a household name through his role as Steven Hyde on the popular sitcom That7s Show. His

laid-back, sarcastic character made him a fan favorite, and he continued to work in television and film in the years following the show's end. However, Mastersonson's career unraveled due to serious criminal allegations. In 2017, amid the rise of the Me Too movement, multiple women accused him of forcing himself onto them in the early 2000s. During the height of his fame, all the victims were former members of the Church of Scientology, of which Mastersonson is a prominent member. The women alleged that both Mastersonson and the church attempted to silence them.

After a lengthy investigation, he was charged in 2020 with three counts of forcible non-consensual sex. The first trial in 2022 ended in a mistrial due to a hung jury. However, in a retrial in 2023, Masterson was convicted on two of the three charges. In September 2023, he was sentenced to 30 years to life in prison. Public reaction was intense with widespread condemnation of master sin and growing scrutiny of Scientology's alleged role in shielding him. His

conviction effectively ended his acting career and deeply stained his legacy. Thank you very much for watching this video and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on any of the celebrity criminals I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part three or more videos like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.