---
video_title: "Donald Trump’s Biggest Lies Explained"
video_id: mG_SG6T91fo
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mG_SG6T91fo
video_date: 2025-07-30
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Epstein Hoax
  2:10 - Stolen Election
  3:44 - E. Jean Carroll
  5:14 - COVID
  6:59 - Climate Change
  8:26 - No More Wars
  10:25 - Mexico Wall
  11:44 - Economy
  13:14 - Small Loan
  14:27 - Criminal Immigrants
  16:14 - Baby Executions
  17:41 - Immigrants Eating Pets
  19:08 - Obama US Citizen
  20:36 - Most Secure Border
  22:26 - Windmills Cancer
---
One of Donald Trump's big claims during his 2024 campaign was that he would release the Epstein files whenever he got into office. These files have long been a secret and they supposedly contain the names of many influential figures who took part in Jeffrey Epstein's sex trafficking island. But on July 15th, 2025, President Trump made a bold accusation. While speaking to reporters, he claimed that the Epstein files were made up by Comey, Obama, and Biden. He went further, calling the entire matter a hoax. Just one day later

on July 16th, he posted a truth social doubling down on the statement. In his words, "This is a completely fake story. The Epstein hoax is real, and I'll forever stand by that." By July 17th, media outlets and fact checkers had fully responded, labeling the claim as false. They noted that Jeffrey Epstein's criminal cases had been investigated under President George W. Bush and

re-examined under Trump's own administration. Neither Barack Obama nor Joe Biden had any involvement in initiating the charges or maintaining the files. Trump's attempt to dismiss the documents came shortly after they were unsealed by federal court order and made public. The files included flight logs and testimonies that painted a disturbing picture of Epstein's network and connections. Trump's name appeared in several parts of the documents, including in logs showing he had flown on Epstein's jet and attended functions at Mara Lago, where Epste was also present. Despite these entries, Trump

insisted the records were manufactured. By shifting the blame onto political rivals and the former FBI director, Trump reframed a decadesl long criminal investigation as an attempt to distract the people from matters that are truly important. He claims anyone who cares about the release of these files are idiots, including his own supporters, and that we should all just move on. These lies echoed his broader pattern of declaring any negative press as fake or corrupt, even when it came from within his own government. The facts, however, remain on record, and many suspect because of his behavior, he or others that are close to him might be a part of these files in a larger way, and he is doing a horrible job at trying to cover it up. After Donald Trump lost the 2020

presidential election to Joe Biden, he quickly pushed a claim that would change American politics for years. He said the election was stolen from him. According to Trump, massive voter fraud had taken place, especially in swing states like Georgia, Pennsylvania, and Arizona. He claimed that mail-in ballots were fake. He said voting machines were rigged. He

repeated these claims many times, even when his own officials said there was no evidence. Chris Krebs, who led the Department of Homeland Security Cyber Security Office, called the 2020 election the most secure in American history. After saying that, even former Attorney General Bill Barr, who was loyal to Trump, publicly said there was no widespread fraud. Dozens of judges also rejected Trump's lawsuits, saying they had no proof. Despite all of this, Trump kept repeating the lie. His words

sparked a movement. Many of his supporters refused to believe Biden won. On January 6th, 2021, this lie helped fuel a deadly attack on the US capital. People broke into the building, shouting that the election had been stolen. Even now, years later, Trump still says the 2020 election was unfair. This has

damaged trust in many American elections. It has caused some voters to question the whole system, and many politicians who support Trump have echoed the same false claims. So, while Trump may say he wants to protect democracy, this lie has done the opposite, it shook the country's trust in elections and pushed people to believe something that was never true. In June 2019, journalist and advice columnist Eugene Carol made a serious accusation against Donald Trump. She said he forced himself onto her in a dressing room at Burgdorf Goodman, a department store in New York City during the mid 1990s. Trump responded by

saying, "I've never met this person in my life." He also claimed that there was no evidence at all to support her story. That statement turned out to be false. A photograph taken in 1987 shows Trump standing next to Eugene Carol at an NBC party. Carol said they spoke for about 5 or 6 minutes that day. Trump later said

the photo was probably fake or created with artificial intelligence. However, experts confirmed the photo was real. Trump even admitted in court that he was the person in the image. In 2023, a jury found Trump civily liable for sexually abusing and defaming Carol. She was awarded $5 million in damages. In a

second trial that followed, she was awarded an additional $83 million for further defamatory statements Trump made after the first verdict. These rulings came after careful legal examination and confirmed that Carol's claims were credible under the law. Even after the rulings, Trump continued to deny ever meeting Carol. He described her as mentally unstable and repeatedly called the lawsuit a witch hunt. Yet, the courts did not agree. Trump's denial did

not hold up in the face of photo evidence, expert testimony, and two separate jury decisions. At the start of 2020, when CO 19 began spreading in the United States, President Donald Trump told the public that everything was under control. On January 22nd, he said on CNBC, "We have it totally under control. It's going to be just fine." He later claimed in February that the virus would disappear with the warm weather in April, calling it a miracle that would just happen on its own. These early

comments were misleading, especially as scientists and health experts were already warning about the seriousness of the virus. But Trump kept reporting false claims. On March 6, he said that anyone who wanted a CO 19 test could get one, even though there was a major shortage across the country. He also compared CO 19 to the flu and said the World Health Organization's 3.4% death rate was false, even though that number was backed by global data at the time.

Trump's statements continued to ignore the facts. On January 4th, he claimed that 99% of cases were totally harmless despite hospitals being overwhelmed and the virus causing long-term health damage in many survivors. Then on July 19th, he said the United States had one of the lowest CO 19 death rates in the world. In truth, America's death rate was among the highest, worse than many other developed countries. In September, audio recordings revealed that Trump knew how deadly the virus was as early as March. He admitted to journalist Bob

Woodward that he was playing it down so people would not panic. That decision cost the nation critical time and clarity. By downplaying the danger, Trump delayed action, misled the public, and weakened trust in science. The result was confusion, widespread illness, and thousands of preventable deaths. For many years, Donald Trump has repeatedly questioned the existence and urgency of climate change. In 2012, he

tweeted that the concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese to make US manufacturing non-competitive. This was not a one-off comment. Throughout and in between his presidency, he continued to suggest that climate change is exaggerated or outright false. He often pointed to cold weather events as supposed proof against global warming. During a winter storm in 2019, he tweeted, "What the hell is going on with global warming? Please

come back fast. We need you." These kinds of statements ignore the basic science of climate change, which explains that rising global tensurers can lead to more extreme and unpredictable weather patterns, not just heat waves. Trump's disbelief in climate science shaped major policy decisions. He pulled the United States out of the Paris climate agreement in 2017, arguing that the deal hurt American jobs. His

administration also rolled back more than 100 environmental regulations, including limits on carbon emissions from power plants and cars. Scientific consensus strongly supports that climate change is real and driven by human activity. Agencies like NASA, the EPA, and the United Nations have produced countless reports warning of its effects on sea levels, weather, agriculture, and health. Trump's repeated dismissal of these warnings not only misleads the public, but also delays urgent efforts to address one of the most pressing global challenges of our time. Donald Trump repeatedly claimed that when he became president again, there will be no more wars. In speeches and interviews,

he often said things like, "I'm the first president in 72 years that did not have any wars, and I got us out of every war." The message is simple. Trump wanted people to believe that he kept the country at peace and that further conflicts could be avoided under his leadership. However, this claim leaves out several key facts. While Trump did not officially declare a new war, the United States remained active in conflict zones throughout his presidency. American troops stayed in

Afghanistan, Iraq, and Syria. At the time, he approved air strikes and drone attacks in places like Yemen, Somalia, Libya, and Pakistan. Many of these decisions brought the US and Iran close to open conflict and sparked international concern. Additionally, wars did not end across the world during his term. According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, there were still armed conflicts in over 50 countries by the time Trump left office. These included long-running wars

in Syria, Yemen, and parts of Africa. Despite his message of peace, US forces continued to operate in those regions. During his time in office, at least 65 American service members died in hostile situations. Now, in mid 2025, as Trump is halfway through his first year of being president again, his promises of peace are being questioned more heavily. Independent fact checkers, defense analysts, and even some military officials pointed out that the US had expanded drone warfare and kept troops in combat zones. His statements, while

popular with his supporters, did not reflect the full scope of military actions under his leadership. Some of his actions recently with Iran have also worsened situations. In the end, Trump's no more wars claim fits more as a campaign slogan than a proven reality. The facts show that military involvement never truly ended. And rather than preventing wars, his administration carried out a quieter, more remote kind of warfare that remained hidden from public view. During his 2016 campaign,

Donald Trump repeatedly promised that Mexico would cover the cost of building a border wall. He said Mexico is going to pay for it 100% and kept repeating the claim even after becoming president. At first, he said Mexico would pay directly. Later, he shifted the story saying they would pay indirectly through trade or taxes. However, no such payment ever came. In 2017, Mexican President

Enrique Pinñto publicly declared that Mexico would not fund the wall. Trump still insisted they would, claiming the USMCA trade deal or a border tax would generate money. But fact checkers and economists explained that any added cost from those methods would fall on American businesses and consumers, not on Mexico itself. Despite the promise, the wall was paid for by the United States. Congress approved some funding and Trump even redirected money from military construction projects. None of

this came from Mexico. In fact, fact-checking organizations like Politact in fact check.org confirmed that no money, whether direct or indirect, ever came from Mexico. In the end, the idea that Mexico would pay for the wall never became reality. It was one of Trump's most repeated promises.

Yet, it remains one of his most obvious falsehoods. Throughout his presidency, Donald Trump has often said he built the greatest economy in the history of the world. He uses this line in campaign rallies, interviews, and social media to highlight what he sees as his strongest achievement. But when we break this down, the claim does not match the full economic record of his term. Before the CO 19 pandemic, the economy under Trump did see strong growth in some areas.

Unemployment reached a 50-year low, and the stock market saw major gains. However, most of this progress followed trends already in place. During the Obama administration, GDP growth under Trump averaged around 2.5% per year, which was significantly lower than Obama's final 3 years in office. In addition, wages were rising, but the growth rate was not unusually high.

Another part of this claim is that Trump's 2017 tax cuts sparked an economic boom. While these cuts did provide a short-term lift, they also added trillions to the national debt. Economic inequality also widened and corporate stock buyback soared. When CO 19 hit in 2020, the economy crashed. The unemployment rate rose to levels not seen since the Great Depression.

Although Trump cannot be blamed for the pandemic itself, the crisis exposed deep weaknesses, including lack of preparation and poor response coordination. While Trump's economy had bright spots, experts agree it was far from the greatest in history. Strong economies have existed before, and many key metrics under Trump were either average or inherited. Donald Trump often says he started his business empire with what he calls a small loan of a million dollars from his father, Fred Trump. He repeats this story to paint the image of a self-made billionaire. However,

detailed investigations show that this claim is misleading. In truth, Trump received far more than $1 million. According to New York Times, he benefited from over $413 million from his father's real estate empire. This included loans, salaries, trust fund payments, and inheritance. By the mid 1970s, Fred Trump had already given him over $14 million. And during the 1980s,

he received at least $60 million more in various loans and financial backing. Many of these loans were never fully repaid. Public records show that Trump borrowed $7.5 million through a highinterest loan and later gained over $9 million using inheritance. These weren't isolated gifts. They were part

of a structured and continuous transfer of wealth from Fred Trump to his son, including income from trust funds created by both Fred and Donald's grandmother. The story of a $1 million startup loan is far from the truth. It hides the reality of long-term financial support that played a major role in building the Trump brand. Donald Trump frequently claims that millions of criminal immigrants were entering the United States under Biden's administration, bringing violence and chaos. He asserts that the border is being overrun by people with criminal records and that communities are unsafe because of them. In reality, federal

arrest records show only a small fraction of migrants apprehended at the border have criminal convictions. For example, thousands have been arrested with criminal histories. But compared to the total number of migrants, often in the hundreds of thousands per year, the numbers do not support the idea of a mass influx of criminals. Independent analysts and criminal justice research centers consistently find that immigrants, including undocumented ones, are less likely to commit crimes than nativeorn citizens. Cities with large immigrant populations such as New York and Los Angeles have seen crime rates remain flat or even decline during periods of high migration. Sources like

reputable university centers and immigration research institutions confirmed that linking immigration to rising crime is misleading. Reports show that most migrants are detained for administrative violations, not for violent offenses, and that enforcement policies such as interior arrest focus on non-violent matters. While some individuals crossing the border may have had prior convictions in their home countries, the scale of that is far from the millions Trump cites, his statements distort reality by focusing on anecdotal arrest and ignoring broader data trends. By exaggerating criminal threats at the border, he has influenced policy, calling for stricter enforcement and mass deportations even when available data does not support the scale of danger he portrays. His message has fueled fear and prevented more measured fact-based discussion of immigration reform. Donald Trump has repeatedly

claimed that Democrats support executing babies after birth. He first said it in 2019 and brought it up again during the 2024 debate with Vice President Kla Harris. During that debate, Trump said, "Execution after birth, it is execution because the baby is no longer abortion." However, this statement is false. Killing a baby after birth is not legal anywhere in the United States. It is

classified as homicide and no state allows it under any circumstances. During the debate, ABC moderator Lindsay Davis directly corrected Trump. She said there is no state in this country where it is legal to kill a baby after it is born. This fact has been confirmed by legal experts, doctors, and independent fact checkers. So, where did this claim come from? It traces back to a 2019

interview with Virginia Governor Ralph Northam. In that interview, Northam discussed a case where a baby was born with fatal medical issues. He explained that the baby would be kept comfortable and doctors would follow the wishes of the parents. He never suggested killing the baby. Still, Trump and others twisted his words to promote the false idea of post-birth abortion. Medical

professionals have explained that these situations are rare and involve end of life care, not abortion. The goal is to provide comfort, not to end life. Trump's claim is not only false, but it also misrepresents paliotative care. It turns a tragic medical reality into political misinformation. At the September 10th, 2024 debate, Donald Trump claimed Haitian immigrants in Springfield, Ohio were eating cats and dogs. He said they're eating the pets of

the people that live there. This statement was completely false. Immediately after the debate, city officials and law enforcement in Springfield confirmed there were no reports of pets being harmed by immigrants. No missing animals had been reported. No crimes of this nature had taken place. The rumor actually started

in a private Facebook group. Someone falsely claimed that immigrants had stolen and butchered pets. That rumor was amplified by conservative figures like Senator JD Vance, Charlie Kirk, and Elon Musk. But the one video often shared as proof had nothing to do with immigrants in Springfield. It showed an American woman from Canton, Ohio, not a Haitian immigrant. She had no connection

to the events described in the claim. Fact checkers from Politact, AFP, Snopes, and others confirmed the claim was baseless. They investigated the video, reviewed police records, and found no evidence to support Trump's claim. Another rumor about geese being killed came from Columbus, not Springfield. Even in that case, no immigrant connection was proven. Experts

say this kind of rhetoric has a long racist history. Similar false claims have been made about Asian and African immigrant communities in the past. These lies encourage fear and discrimination. In this case, the pet eating claim was not just false. It was part of a broader pattern of using fear to target immigrant groups. Donald Trump played a

central role in spreading the false claim that Barack Obama was not born in the United States. This idea became known as the birther movement. Starting in 2011, Trump repeatedly questioned Obama's citizenship, calling his birth certificate a fraud and suggesting that his college records might show he was born in Kenya. Even after Obama released his long- form birth certificate in 2011, which clearly showed he was born in Hawaii, Trump continued to push the false narrative. Multiple fact checkers confirmed the document's authenticity, but Trump ignored them. In 2016, just

before the election, Trump briefly changed his position. He said President Barack Obama was born in the United States. Period. However, he offered no apology or explanation. Instead, he falsely claimed that Hillary Clinton's campaign had started the rumor, a statement that was widely debunked. Even

after this shift, Trump and members of his team continued to raise doubts in other ways. He questioned passport records and later used similar tactics against Kla Harris, wrongly suggesting she was also ineligible because of her parents' background. Every official record and independent review confirm that Obama was born in Hawaii. The courts, Hawaiian officials, and fact-checking organizations all back this up. Trump's actions did not reflect a search for truth, but a political effort that targeted the first black president's legitimacy by promoting this falsehood for years. He stirred public

distrust and used conspiracy to fuel political attention. Donald Trump often claimed that the United States had the most secure border in history during his first term as president. He repeatedly pointed to his administration's construction of the border wall and argue that his immigration policies successfully stopped illegal crossings. However, this statement overlooks important facts and paints an incomplete picture of what actually happened. It is true that hundreds of miles of border barrier were constructed during his time in office. According to US Customs and

Border Protection, around 458 miles of fencing were built by the end of his term, but only about 52 of those miles were newly constructed in places where no barriers existed before. The rest involved replacing older fencing with newer versions. In other words, the overall stretch of physical border coverage did not increase as dramatically as Trump claimed. Some people point to the low number of illegal border crossings in 2017, which was around 304,000, as proof that Trump's policies worked. This figure was the lowest since 1971, but that drop did not last. By 2019, illegal crossings had

surged again to more than 850,000. In 2020, Trump's final full year in office, apprehensions at the southern border were higher than any year under President Obama. This shows that the gains were temporary and not sustained throughout his term. Experts explain that border security depends on more than walls. It requires trained personnel, modern surveillance, legal processing systems, and international cooperation. While Trump focused on wall

construction, and headline numbers, he ignored the complex challenges that define real border security. So, the claim that Trump had the most secure border in history is not supported by the facts. He did expand fencing in some areas, but most of it replaced what was already there. The number of border crossings fluctuated heavily during his term, and experts agree that his approach favored slogans over substance. In April 2019, Donald Trump told a crowd at a National Republican Congressional Committee dinner that wind turbines cause cancer. His exact words were,

"They say the noise causes cancer." This claim spread quickly, especially because Trump had made negative comments about wind energy before, but there is no scientific evidence that supports his statement. Health experts quickly dismissed the claim. The American Cancer Society responded by saying they were unaware of any credible evidence linking wind turbine noise to cancer. Multiple studies have looked into the health effects of turbines and found that while the sound might disturb sleep or cause irritation in rare cases, it does not lead to cancer. A 2019 poll by Yale and

George Mason University further disproved the claim. It was conducted in Iowa, one of the largest producers of wind energy in the United States. The results showed that 84% of Ians did not believe the claim. Only 1% thought that turbine noise causes cancer. This suggests that people who live around windmills understand that the health risk Trump mentioned is not real. News

outlets and fact checkers also reviewed Trump's claim. All of them labeled it as false and unsupported by research. Trump's statement about windmills and cancer stands out as an example of misinformation. It highlights how false claims from powerful figures can spread confusion, especially on issues like renewable energy, where facts are critical for public trust. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on any of the Trump lies I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part two or more videos like this one. Thank you

again and goodbye.