---
video_title: "Every Japanese War Explained"
video_id: q0kBHGc-vH0
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q0kBHGc-vH0
video_date: 2025-07-25
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Civil War of Wa
  1:22 - Baekgang Battle
  3:52 - Genpei War
  5:46 - Mongol Invasions
  7:57 - Onin War
  9:55 - Imjin War
  12:30 - Boshin War
  14:26 - Satsuma Rebellion
  16:06 - First Sino Japan War
  17:58 - Russo Japanese War
  19:37 - Second Sino Japan War
  21:56 - World War II
  
  Song: Legionnaire
  Composer: Scott Buckley
  Website: https://youtube.com/user/musicbyscottb
  License: Creative Commons (BY 4.0) https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  Music powered by BreakingCopyright: https://breakingcopyright.com/
  
  Song: Phoenix
  Composer: Scott Buckley
  Website: https://youtube.com/user/musicbyscottb
  License: Free To Use YouTube license youtube-free
  Music powered by BreakingCopyright: https://breakingcopyright.com/
---
Long before Japan became a unified empire, it was a land of many small tribal communities known collectively as Wah. These were early agricultural societies that developed during the Yayoi period around 300 BC to 300 AD. By the 2n century, Chinese records observed over 100 distinct chieftdoms across the Japanese islands. These small groups often competed for fertile land and control of trade routes. As tensions rose, Japan entered one of its first large-scale internal conflicts, the Civil War of Wah. Although the details

remain partially speculative, historians believe the Civil War of Wah refers to a prolonged period of intertribal warfare that occurred between 150 and 180. Archaeological sites from this era show the construction of hilltop fortifications, the rise of warrior elites, and the presence of bronze weapons. These suggest that conflict was not isolated but widespread. Amid this political instability, one kingdom began to rise above the others. Yamatai.

According to Chinese historical sources, such as the records of the three kingdoms, a woman named Himiko eventually emerged as the ruler of Yamatai. She was both a shaman and a queen. Combining religious influence with political authority. Her ascent resulted in a turning point. She broadened into the chaos and unified about 30 chieftdoms under her rule. In

the mid7th century, the Yamato court of Japan had close diplomatic and cultural ties with Becky, one of the three kingdoms of Korea. These ties included royal intermarriage, shared Buddhism, and exchanges of technology and scholars. Becky played a key role in bringing Chinese script and religion to Japan. Because of this strong alliance, Yamato considered Becky's survival vital to its own regional influence. In 660, Becky was conquered by the Allied forces of Sila and Tang, China. This collapse

shocked the Yamato court. Becky loyalists fled to Japan, including Prince Buo, who became the figurehead of a Becky restoration movement. Japan agreed to support the cause, seeing it as both a moral obligation to an ally and a strategic effort to maintain a foothold on the Korean Peninsula. In 663, Yamato sent a large expeditionary force of 5,000 soldiers and over 400 ships to support Becky's forces in retaking their territory. Their key objective was to relieve the fortress at Churu and push back the Silotang coalition. This engagement took place at

the mouth of the GM River, known in Japan as the Battle of Hakasuki Noi or the Battle of Beckang. Japan's fleet outnumbered the Tang Navy, but the advantage was deceptive. The Tang and Sila forces were better trained in coordinated naval attacks. When Yamato forces launched repeated frontal assaults, they were met with disciplined resistance and eventually encircled. Over 400 Japanese ships were destroyed and thousands of troops were lost. It

was a catastrophic failure. Becky's restoration effort collapsed completely. Prince Pong fled and the remaining Becky nobles either surrendered or were absorbed into other kingdoms. For Japan, this was more than a military loss. It was a national humiliation. It ended

Yamato's ambitions on the Korean Peninsula and marked the beginning of a long period of isolation from continental warfare. In response to fears of invasion, Japan began constructing coastal defenses across Kyushu and nearby islands. Watchtowers, fortresses, and signal stations were built to guard against any possible retaliatory strike from the continent. The defeat also caused a major shift in domestic policy. Rather than attempt future invasions, the Yamato court turned inward and focused on adopting Chinese systems of governance. This led

to the Taika reforms which reorganized Japan's political structure, introduced land taxation and centralized imperial authority based on Tang models. The Jinpe war fought between 1180 and 1185 was a major turning point in Japanese history. It resulted in the end of aristocratic rule by the imperial court in Kyoto and the rise of military governance under the samurai. The war was a conflict between two powerful warrior clans, the Tyra and the Minamoto. Both families had imperial ancestry and long-standing rivalries over control of the court in the country. At the start of the conflict,

the Tyra clan held most of the political power in Kyoto. They had placed their own relatives in high government positions and even installed their grandson, Emperor Anttoku, on the throne. However, this dominance provoked resentment. In 1180, Prince Moihito and the retired Emperor Go Shiakawa called on the Minamoto clan to challenge the Tyra and restore balance. The early stages of the war saw several defeats for the Minamoto. But Minamoto no

Yoritomo operating from the eastern provinces gradually built a powerful network of samurai allies. He secured the loyalty of local land owners by promising autonomy and protection, creating a new military structure that stood apart from the old court system. Meanwhile, Minamoto no Yoshisuni, Yoritomo's half brother, played a key military role. The naval battle of Yoshima in 1185 forced the Tyra to retreat and the final confrontation at the battle of Dan Noura saw the Tyra fleet decisively defeated. Many highranking Tyra nobles and Emperor Anttoku perished by drowning, ending the clan's control over the Imperial line.

The aftermath of the Jinpe war reshaped Japan. In 1192, Yoritoma was appointed Shogun by the emperor, officially creating the Kamakura Shogunid. This marked the beginning of samurailed rule where real political power rested in the hands of military leaders rather than the imperial court. It also signaled the start of Japan's feudal era with regional warlords gaining influence under a central military authority. In the 13th century, Japan faced a historic threat from one of the largest empires the world had ever seen. The Mongol

Empire led by Kubla Khan had already conquered much of Asia including China and Korea. Now it turned its attention to Japan. In the 1260s and early 1270s, Kubla Khan sent envoys to Japan demanding submission. The Kamakura Shogun refused. From Japan's perspective, this was not only a political challenge, but a matter of national dignity and sovereignty. The

rejection led to the first Mongol invasion attempt in 1274. A fleet of around 600 ships carrying more than 20,000 troops from China, Korea, and Mongolia landed on the island of Kyushu. They attacked the Tsushima and Iki Islands before reaching the Hakata Bay. Japanese samurai forces, though brave, were caught off guard. Mongol tactics, such as coordinated infantry charges and explosive projectiles, were unfamiliar to Japanese warriors who favored one-on-one combat. The Mongols had the

upper hand initially. However, a powerful typhoon struck unexpectedly, destroying many Mongol ships and forcing a retreat. The Japanese believed this storm was a divine wind or kamicazi sent by the gods to protect them. Fearing another invasion, Japan fortified its coast. The Kamakura shogunate ordered the construction of defensive walls stretching across Hakoda Bay and improved local military readiness. These

preparations proved critical. In 1281, the Mongols launched a second invasion, this time even larger, with over 100,000 soldiers and a thousand ships. Despite early successes and landing forces, the Mongols struggled to break through the Japanese coastal defenses. After weeks of stalemate, another massive typhoon struck. The storm destroyed much of the Mongol fleet. Tens of thousands of

invaders died and the survivors retreated. Japan was saved again. Although victorious, the invasions placed a heavy burden on Japan. The military preparations had drained the Shogun Age treasury. Samurai who fought in defense of the homeland received no land rewards since there was no territory gained. The lack of

compensation led to dissatisfaction among the warrior class, weakening the Kamakura government over time. The Onin War, which lasted from 1467 to 1477, is remembered in Japanese history as the civil conflict that destroyed Kyoto and dismantled central political authority. Though it began as a dispute over the Shogun successor, the war quickly escalated into a widespread struggle among powerful military families. At the time, Japan was under rule of the Ashikaga Shogunate headquartered in Kyoto. Shogun Ashiaga Yoshim Masa had no son, so he named his brother Ashikaga Yoshimi as his heir. However, when Yoshi

Masa later had a son, he changed his mind and wanted the boy to succeed him. This succession conflict split the court in the country into rival factions. The Hosakawa clan supported Yoshimi while the Yamina clan backed Yoshimasa's infant son. Tensions boiled over in 1467 when both clans brought armies into Kyoto. Fighting soon broke out in the capital. From Japan's point of view,

this war exposed the weakness of the shogunate. Rather than keeping peace among its vassels, the government became a passive observer as battles raged across Kyoto. Noble estates, temples, and residences were burned. By the time the war ended, much of the capital was reduced to ash. The destruction forced thousands to flee, and Kyoto, once the heart of Japanese culture and governance, never fully recovered its former glory during this period.

Although the war officially ended in 1477, no true victor emerged. Both Hosokawa and Yamana leaders died before the fighting stopped and the shogunate failed to reassert control. Instead, local military governors known as daimo began to rule their territories independently. These warlords built up private armies, fortified castles, and ignored the authority of the central government. This power shift marked the beginning of the singu period or waring states era in which dozens of regional lords competed for dominance. Japan's

political structure fractured into semi-autonomous domains and military conflict became a constant reality. By the end of the 16th century, Japan had been unified under Taoati Hideoshi. With internal peace largely secured by 1590, Hideos Yoshi turned his attention outward. His ambition was not limited to Korea, but extended to the conquest of Ming China. Because Korea is in the middle of Japan and China, it was seen as the necessary corridor for this expansion. In 1592, Hide Yoshi launched

what became known in Japan as the Bunroku campaign, the first phase of the Mjen War. From Japan's point of view, the initial invasion was a demonstration of military strength and national pride. Over 150,000 troops landed on the Korean Peninsula, quickly capturing key cities, including Busousan, Seoul, and Pyongyang. Japanese armies advanced rapidly using well-coordinated infantry tactics and superior firearms, especially the Arquabis, which had been recently adopted and mass-produced following European contact. However, the speed of the advance soon created logistical problems. Japanese forces

relied heavily on long supply lines stretching back to the sea. Korean resistance fighters began targeting these routes, and Admiral Yi Sun's navy disrupted Japan's maritime supply chain. His victory at Ako in 1592, and other naval engagements dealt significant blows to Japan's ability to reinforce its troops on land. In 1593, Ming China entered the war in support of Korea. Chinese reinforcements combined with continued Korean resistance reversed Japan's early gains. A temporary truce

was arranged, but negotiations failed and hostilities resumed in 1597 with the Kicho campaign. This second invasion was less successful. Japan again took some territory, but failed to advance significantly. Admiral Yei's surprise victory at the Battle of Mongyang destroyed much of the Japanese fleet and further isolated their land forces. By 1598, Hideoshi had fallen ill and died shortly after. Without his leadership,

Japan's military command agreed to withdraw. The war ended with no lasting territorial gain. From Japan's perspective, the campaign was a costly failure. Tens of thousands of soldiers died, resources were drained, and political divisions began to emerge among military commanders. Domestically, the war weakened the Toyotomy regime and directly contributed to its fall. After

Hideayoshi's death, rival generals vied for control, culminating in the battle of Seeki Gajara in 1600 where Tokugawa Yasu emerged victorious. This led to the establishment of the Tokugawa Shogunate and a new era of political stability and isolation. The Bosshian war fought between 1868 and 1869 was a pivotal moment in Japanese history. It marked the final collapse of the Tokugawa shogunate in the beginning of the Maji restoration. By the mid-9th century, Japan had been isolated under Tokugawa rule for over two centuries. However,

growing dissatisfaction with the shogunate handling of foreign relations, specifically after the arrival of Western powers like the United States in 1853, stirred unrest. Many domains, especially Satsuma and Chosu, believed that the emperor should be restored to power and that Japan should modernize to resist Western influence. In early 1868, fighting broke out near Kyoto at the Battle of Toba Fushimi. Although the Tokugawa forces were numerically superior, the Imperial Allian troops had modern rifles, artillery, and better coordination, the Imperial side quickly gained the upper hand. Several domains that had initially supported the Shogunate switch sides, recognizing that the balance of power had shifted. The

fall of Edeto, the Tokugawa capital, followed soon after. Rather than continue the conflict in a devastated city, Tokugawa Yoshobu surrendered peacefully and withdrew from political life. His restraint helped prevent further civilian casualties and damage to the capital, which was later renamed Tokyo under the new imperial government. Despite this major loss, some loyalists continued to resist in the north. They eventually regrouped in Hokkaido and declared the short-lived as a republic.

Imperial forces responded quickly and defeated them at the battle of Hakaday in 1869. This marked the end of the war. The consequences of the Bianin war were transformative for Japan. The Tokugawa system of feudal domains and hereditary samurai privilege was dismantled. In its place, the Maji government introduced a centralized bureaucracy, a national army, and a new tax system. These

changes were essential to Japan's rapid modernization in the decades that followed. The Satsuma Rebellion of 1877 was the last and most significant armed resistance by Japan's samurai class against the centralizing reforms of the Maji government. Following the Maji restoration of 1868, samurai salaries were eliminated and a national army was formed. These reforms angered many samurai who felt dishonored and marginalized, especially in the former domain of Satsuma. Once a powerful contributor to the overthrow of the Tokugawa shogunate, Satsuma became very discontented. Saigo Takamorei, a

respected samurai leader and a once senior figure in the Maji government, resigned in protest against these reforms. Though he did not initially call for war, his presence in Satsuma made him a natural figurehead for the movement. In early 1877, after the central government tried to disarm Satsumo's private militarymies, hostilities broke out. Saigo's forces, around 20,000 strong, marched north toward Kumamoto Castle. The siege of Kumamoto was the rebellion's first major battle. However, the government's new

army held firm. Modern rifles, artillery, and organized supply lines gave the Imperial Army a decisive advantage. At the Battle of Tabaru Zaka in March, 90,000 Imperial troops defeated 15,000 samurai. In one of the most intense engagements of the rebellion, Saigo's forces began a slow retreat back to Satsuma. By September, the rebellion reached its final stage.

At the Battle of Shiioryama, only about 500 of Saigo's men remained. They were surrounded by 30,000 government troops. Equipped with modern weaponry, Saigo was wounded and died shortly after, likely by taking his own life. With his death, the rebellion collapsed. The first SinoJapanese war fought between 1894 and 1895 resulted in Japan's emergence as a modern military and political power in East Asia. Korea had long been a Chinese

tributary state, but Japan saw it as a vital strategic interest as unrest spread in Korea during the Donggh peasant rebellion in 1894. Both China and Japan sent troops to stabilize the region. However, Japan viewed China's military deployment as a violation of an earlier agreement and as a challenge to its influence. Japan quickly seized this moment, occupying Seoul and framing its involvement as a mission to protect Korean independence. War was declared in August 1894. Japan's modernized army

equipped with Western rifles, artillery, and naval vessels outclassed the Chinese military, which still relied heavily on outdated systems. The Japanese military scored several major victories. On land, they pushed Chinese forces out of Korea and invaded Manuria in the Shandong Peninsula. At sea, the Japanese Navy destroyed China's Bayong Fleet in the Battle of the Yalu River, gaining naval supremacy. In April 1895, China was forced to sign the Treaty of Shimanoski.

This agreement reorganized Korea as an independent nation, though it effectively fell under Japanese influence. China also seated Taiwan. the Pescadoras Islands and the Liao Dong Peninsula to Japan while agreeing to pay a large sum of money. These gains were seen as a major diplomatic and military triumph for Japan. However, Japan's victory was quickly undercut by the triple intervention where Russia, France, and Germany pressured Japan to return the Liao Dong Peninsula to China.

Though Japan complied, the loss triggered widespread frustration among its people and leadership. This event fueled further military investment and strengthened Japan's desire to be taken seriously by Western powers. The RussoJapanese War of 1904 to 1905 was a defining moment in Japan's rise as a global power. In February 1904, Japan launched a surprise attack on the Russian fleet at Port Arthur. This preemptive strike gave Japan an early naval advantage and set the tone for the rest of the war. The Japanese army

quickly landed troops in Korea and pushed into Manuria. The Battle of the Yalu River was Japan's first major land victory and showed that its modernized army could defeat a European force. The most decisive land battle came at Muckden in early 1905 where over 600,000 troops fought in one of the largest land battles of the time. Japan emerged victorious, forcing Russian forces into retreat. However, the most symbolic victory came at sea. At the Battle of

Tsushima in May 1905, the Japanese Navy under Admiral Togo annihilated the Russian Baltic Fleet. This was the first time in modern history that an Asian power had defeated a European Empire in a large-scale war, particularly at sea. The war ended with the Treaty of Portsmouth, brokered by US President Theodore Roosevelt. Japan gained control over Korea, the lease of Port Arthur, and the South Manurian Railway. It also received the southern half of Sackalene Island. However, Japan did not receive

any financial gains which caused unrest and riots among the Japanese public. Many had expected more tangible rewards for the sacrifice and cost of war. Still, for Japan, the war was a diplomatic and military breakthrough. It proved that a modern Asian nation could defeat a western empire, which shifted global perceptions of power. Japan's victory increased its influence in Asia and led to the full annexation of Korea in 1910. The second SinoJapanese War,

which lasted from 1937 to 1945, was Japan's most extensive military campaign before and during World War II. The Japanese government believed that controlling China would secure access to raw materials, labor, and land necessary to support its expanding industrial and military ambitions. The war began with the Marco Polo Bridge incident in July 1937, where a clash between Chinese and Japanese troops near Beijing escalated into full-scale combat. Japanese leaders saw this as a chance to break China's resistance and solidify Japan's presence on the mainland. Within months, Japan launched massive offensives into northern China, Shanghai, and Nanjing.

Although Japanese forces captured these key cities quickly, the expected collapse of Chinese resistance never occurred. One of the darkest moments of the conflict come with the capture of Nanjing in December 1937. During a six-week occupation, Japanese troops committed large-scale atrocities, including mass killings and sexual violence. Known as the Nanjing Massacre, this event drew international condemnation and remains a source of historical controversy. It also intensified anti-Japanese sentiment in China and globally. Japan underestimated

the strength of Chinese resistance. Despite political divisions, Chinese nationalist and communist forces formed a temporary alliance known as the Second United Front. They adopted guerilla tactics that challenged Japan's conventional military superiority. Japan found itself trapped in a war of attrition across a vast, hostile countryside that stretched its supply lines and strained its economy. To sustain the conflict, Japan passed the state general mobilization law in 1938, which gave the government sweeping control over industry, labor, and media.

Wartime propaganda frame the invasion as a mission to liberate Asia from Western imperialism. Though this rhetoric masked the harsh reality of occupation as the war dragged on, Japan's strategic position worsened. The prolonged campaign in China drained resources, slowed economic growth, and created tensions with Western powers. By the time Japan surrendered in 1945, it had spent eight years in China without achieving its goals instead of securing influence and resources. The war left Japan isolated and economically devastated. Japan's role in World War II

was shaped by decades of industrialization, territorial ambition, and growing resistance to Western influence in Asia. By 1940, Japan had already occupied Manuria in parts of China. Facing resource shortages due to sanctions by the United States and other powers. Japan sought to secure self-sufficiency by controlling Southeast Asia. The idea was to create what it called the Greater East Asia for prosperity sphere, a regional block led by Japan free from Western colonization.

In September 1940, Japan signed the tripartite pact with Germany and fascist Italy. Shortly afterward, Japan invaded French Indo-China. These moves were strategic, aimed at accessing raw materials like oil and rubber, but they provoked stronger US sanctions. When oil supplies were cut off completely in 1941, Japan saw war as unavoidable. The surprise attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7th, 1941 was intended to the US Pacific Fleet, giving Japan free reign to conquer territories across Southeast Asia. In the first

month of the war, Japan achieved rapid victories. Its military took over the Philippines, British Malaya, Singapore, the Dutch East Indies, and numerous Pacific islands. These early campaigns boosted Japanese morale and were portrayed domestically as liberating Asia from Western imperialism. However, the occupations were often harsh with forced labor, resource extraction, and widespread civilians suffering, undermining Japan's claim of Asian unity. Japan's turning point came in 1942 at the Battle of Midway. The loss

of four aircraft carriers resulted in the beginning of Japan's strategic decline. The United States with its immense industrial power shifted to offensive operations. Battles in places like Guadal Canal, Ioima, and Okinawa pushed Japan closer to its homeland and revealed the limits of its military capacity. At home, Japan had already adopted a wartime economy. Under the state general mobilization law of 1938, citizens were subjected to rationing, censorship, and constant air raids. As

Allied bombings intensified, major cities were destroyed and morale began to collapse. The final blow came in August 1945. After the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, combined with the Soviet invasion of Manuria, Japan surrendered unconditionally on August 15th. For Japan, the war ended in total defeat. Its empire dissolved. Its cities

lay in ruins and its military was dismantled. Yet out of this devastation came a new national path centered on pacifism, reconstruction, and economic growth. The lessons of World War II reshaped Japan's identity, turning it from an imperial power into a peaceful industrial democracy. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you enjoyed, make sure to leave a like. Comment down below your thoughts on anything I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see more videos like this one. Thank you again

and goodbye.