---
video_title: "The Most Notorious Assassins Explained"
video_id: HRTdoWjhxnI
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HRTdoWjhxnI
video_date: 2025-07-23
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Marcus Junius Brutus
  2:15 - Charlotte Corday
  4:10 - John Wilkes Booth
  6:33 - Leon Czolgosz
  6:36 - Gavrilo Princip
  10:36 - Nathuram Godse
  12:52 - Lee Harvey Oswald
  15:09 - Sirhan Sirhan
  16:56 - John Hinckley Jr.
  19:05 - Mehmet Ali Agca
  21:18 - Yigal Amir
  23:27 - Thomas Crooks
---
Marcus Junius Brutus is known primarily for his role in the assassination of Julius Caesar. Brutus was born into a prominent Roman family and raised with deep republican ideals. His mother Cervilia was a mistress of Caesar and his uncle was Kato the Younger, a staunch defender of the Roman Republic, though he had previously fought against Caesar during the civil war. Brutus was later pardoned by Caesar and even given political office, which made his eventual betrayal all the more shocking. In 44 BC, Caesar declared himself dictator for life, a move that alarmed many senators who feared the collapse of the republic in the rise of monarchy.

Brutus, influenced by a stoic philosophy and loyalty to republican values, was persuaded to join a conspiracy to eliminate Caesar. Alongside him were key figures such as gas casinus, Desimus Brutus, and more than 50 other senators. They called themselves the liberators and believed they were acting in the best interest of Rome. On the eyides of March, which took place on March 15th, 44 BC, the conspirators carried out their plan. They ambushed Caesar at a Senate meeting held at the theater of Pompy. Caesar was stabbed 23

times. According to some historical accounts, he initially resisted but gave up when he saw Brutus among the attackers. The phrase at tub brute, which means you too brutus, became legendary, though it may have been a later dramatization rather than something Caesar actually said. The conspirators had hoped that Caesar's death would be welcomed by the Roman people and that the republic would be restored. Instead, the assassination threw Rome into chaos. Public opinion

quickly turned against the assassins, especially after Mark Anony's powerful funeral speech. The conspirators fled Rome and eventually regrouped in the eastern provinces. In 42 BC, Brutus and Casas met the forces of Mark Anthony and Octavian in the Battle of Filipe. Cas took his own life after mistakenly believing that Brutus had been defeated. A few weeks later, after suffering a crushing defeat, Brutus also took his own life. Their deaths marked the end of

the Republican resistance and paved the way for the Roman Empire under Octavian. Charlotte Corde born on July 27th 1768 belonged to a minor Norman nobility. She was educated in a convent school in Khan where she was introduced to enlightenment ideas and developed sympathies for the moderate jerd in faction during the French Revolution. The Gerandons supported constitutional rule and resisted the extremism of the radical jackabins led by Jean Paul Merritt. Merritt was one of the most forceful voices of the revolution.

Through his newspaper, he called for severe actions against so-called enemies of the republic. Corde viewed him as a dangerous instigator, specifically blaming him for the September massacre of 1792 in which thousands were killed by revolutionary mobs. She believed that assassinating Merritt would calm the revolution and prevent further bloodshed. On July 9th, 1793, she traveled from Khan to Paris. She booked a room at Hotel de Providence and bought a kitchen knife measuring about 5 in.

She spent her time writing a political manifesto titled address to the French people who love law and peace outlining her reasons for targeting Merritt. Her initial plan was to kill him at the national convention. But Merritt's worsening skin condition had left him confined to his bathtub at home. On the evening of July 13th, 1793, Corde visited Merritt's apartment, claiming she had information about a Gerandon uprising in Khan. She convinced Merritt to let her in. While he was taking notes

on the supposed plot, Corde pulled out her knife and stabbed him once in the chest. His final words reportedly were, "Help me, my dear friend." before he collapsed and died. Corde made no attempt to escape and was arrested on the spot. At her trial, she calmly admitted to the killing and defended her actions, stating, "I killed one man to save 100,000." On July 17th, 1793, she

was executed by guillotine at the Plastic Grieve. John Wils Booth was born on May 10th, 1838 in Maryland into a family of acclaimed actors. His father, Junius Brutes Booth, and brother, Edwin Booth, were both celebrated on the American stage. John followed their path in theater, but nurtured a deep passion for politics, specifically in support of the southern cause. He despised abolitionists, viewed slavery as justified, and even stood with militia forces during the execution of John Brown in 1859. Booth's theatrical career

flourished in the 1860s. He became known for his energetic performances in major cities across the East. Ironically, President Abraham Lincoln once attended one of his performances in 1863 at Ford's Theater, but Booth held deep content for Lincoln, whom he saw as a tyrant destroying the South. Lincoln's re-election at the fall of Richmond in early 1865, radicalized Booth further. Initially, he conspired to kidnap Lincoln and use him as leverage to negotiate the release of Confederate prisoners. But when that plan failed,

Booth turned to assassination. He believed Lincoln's death would inspire southern resurgence. On April 14th, 1865, just 5 days after General Lee's surrender, Lincoln attended the play Our American Cousin at Ford's Theater. Booth knew the layout well and used that familiarity to access the president's box at around 10:15 p.m. He shot Lincoln

in the back of the head with a small pistol. He then stabbed Major Henry Wthbone, who tried to stop him, leapt to the stage, broke his leg during the fall, and shouted thus always to tyrants. Booth escaped into the night and fled with accomplice David Herald. They were aided along the way by Confederate sympathizers. A doctor named Samuel Mud treated Booth's broken leg, unknowingly helping a wanted fugitive.

The manhunt lasted 12 days. On April 26th, Union troops cornered Booth and Harold in a tobacco barn near Port Royal, Virginia. Harold surrendered. Booth refused. The barn was set on fire and Booth was shot either by a soldier or by his own hand. He died hours later.

Booth was only 26. His act did not revive the Confederacy. It shocked the nation and accelerated reconstruction. Four of his co-conspirators were tried and executed. Booth became the first person in American history to assassinate a sitting president. Leon

Cholgosh was born in 1873 to Polish American parents in Michigan and grew up in a working-class environment. He worked in factories from a young age and experienced firsthand the hardships of industrial labor. Over time, he became disillusioned with capitalist systems and turned toward anarchist ideology. He was especially influenced by the writings and speeches of anarchists like Emma Goldman whose words deepened his belief that the US government oppressed the working class. By 1901, Schulgosh had come to see President William McKinley as a symbol of everything he opposed. He believed McKinley served the

interest of the wealthy elite and was an enemy of poor laborers like himself. Motivated by these convictions, he planned an assassination. On September 6th, 1901, President McKinley was attending the Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo, New York. At the Temple of Music, he stood in a reception line, greeting members of the public. Scholosh joined the line, concealing a revolver under a handkerchief wrapped around his right hand. As McKinley reached out to

shake hands, Schulgosh fired two shots at close range. The first bullet deflected off a button on McKinley's coat. The second struck him in the abdomen, piercing his stomach and lodging deep inside. Before a third shot could be fired, bystander James Benjamin Park, a large African-Amean man, tackled Cholgosh and restrained him with the help of guards. McKinley was rushed to a nearby hospital on the exposition grounds. Initially, the president

appeared stable and early signs suggested recovery. However, infection set in within days. On September 14th, 8 days after the shooting, McKinley died from gang green in his internal organs. Schulgosh confessed immediately and insisted he acted alone. He said he targeted McKinley because he believed the president oppressed the people. His

trial began just over 2 weeks later. He refused legal representation, offered no defense, and was convicted in under an hour. On October 29th, 1901, Leon Schulgosh was executed in the electric chair. Gabrielo princip was born in 1894 to a poor Bosnian Serb family. Raised in hardship, he moved to Sievo as a teenager to attend school where he was exposed to radical political ideas.

Influenced by nationalist groups like Young Bosnia and later the secretive Black Hand, Princeip grew committed to the cause of South Slav unification and the removal of Austrohungarian influence from the Balkans. By 1914, he had become part of a plot to assassinate Archduke France Ferdinand, heir to the Austrohungrian throne. The Archduke planned a visit to Sievo on June 28th, a date symbolically tied to Serbian national memory. Princeip and six other conspirators positioned themselves along the motorcade route. Each man carried a pistol, a bomb, and a dose of cyanide in case of capture. The first assassination

attempt failed. Netalka Cababrian Novik threw a bomb at the Archduke's vehicle, but it bounced off and exploded beneath the following car, injuring several passengers. As panic spread and the Archduke was rushed away, Prince believed the attempt had failed. Later that morning, by a twist of fate, the Archduke's car took a wrong turn onto France Joseph Street. It came to a stop just a few feet from the cafe where Prince had gone to regroup. Recognizing

his opportunity, he approached the car, drew his pistol, and fired two shots. The first bullet struck France Ferdan in the neck. The second hit his wife Sophie in the abdomen. Both were mortally wounded and died minutes later while still in the vehicle. According to witnesses, Fron Fernadan's last words were spoken to his wife. Sophie, do not

die. Stay alive for our children. Friendship was immediately arrested. Too young to receive the death penalty, he was sentenced to 20 years in prison. He was held in harsh conditions, developed tuberculosis, and died in April 1918 after having an arm amputated. Though

just 19, Prince's actions triggered a series of alliances and ultimatums that led directly to the outbreak of World War I. Natham Vanayia Gods was born on May 19th, 1910 in Baramadi in the Bombay presidency of British India. Raised in a devout Brahman family, he was influenced early by Hindu nationalist ideology. God idolized VD Savarar, a key figure in the Hinduva movement which called for Hindu political unity and oppression to secular nationalism. Over time, God grew increasingly resentful of what he believed was Gandhi's appeasement of Muslims during and after partition. His

anger escalated when Gandhi began a fast in January 1948 demanding the Indian government transfer 55 crore rupees to the newly founded Pakistan. Gods and his co-conspirators saw this as a betrayal of Hindus especially given the ongoing violence against Hindus in Pakistan. To them Gandhi had become more than just a political figure. He had become in their words an obstacle to Hindu resurgence and national strength. God had already made two attempts on Gandhi's life in 1944. Both failed and Gandhi refused to

press charges, but in January 1948, a more serious plan was put in motion. God along with others acquired a pistol. They tracked Gandhi's daily routine and waited for the right moment. On January 30th, 1948, Gandhi was walking toward a multiffaith prayer meeting. As he approached the prayer grounds, God moved through the small crowd and confronted him face to face. Without hesitation, he

fired three bullets into Gandhi's chest at close range. Gandhi collapsed, reportedly whispering the words, "Hey, Ram!" as he fell. American diplomat Herbert Reiner Jr., who was present, immediately restrained God. The crowd

erupted in panic and sorrow. Gandhi was carried inside where he died within minutes. Gods was arrested on the spot. During his trial, he refused legal defense and gave a lengthy statement explaining his motivations. He claimed he acted out of patriotic duty, not personal hatred. On February 10th, 1949,

he was found guilty of killing and conspiracy and was sentenced to death. Despite appeals for mercy from some members of Gandhi's own family, the government upheld the sentence. God was executed by hanging on November 15th, 1949. Lee Harvey Oswald was born on October 18th, 1939 in New Orleans, Louisiana. Raised in a fractured home, he bounced between cities with his mother and brothers. He dropped out of

high school and joined the US Marines in 1956, where he qualified as a marksman. His behavior was often erratic and he developed strong political views. Disillusioned with American society, he defected to the Soviet Union in 1959. Denied permanent citizenship, he returned to the United States in 1962 with his Russian wife, Marina, and their daughter. By 1963, Oswald was living in Dallas and expressing open support for communist causes. He became increasingly

frustrated with the US government and believed drastic action was needed to reshape its political course. That belief would culminate in one of the most shocking events in American history. On November 22nd, 1963, President John F. Kennedy visited Dallas as part of a political tour. He rode in an open top limousine through Daily Plaza, accompanied by Texas Governor John Connelly and their wives. At 12:30

p.m., three shots rang out from the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository where Oswald was working. The first shot missed. The second struck Kennedy in the upper back, exited through his throat, and injured Governor Connelly. The third and fatal shot

struck Kennedy in the head. Oswald left the building within minutes. He was later confronted by Dallas police officer JD Tippet in the Oakliff neighborhood. Oswald shot Tippet multiple times and fled. He was found shortly after in a nearby movie theater where he was arrested with a revolver in his possession. Oswald was charged with

the killings of both Kennedy and Tippet. During police interrogation, he denied responsibility claiming I am just a psy. On November 24th, while being transferred from police headquarters, Oswald was shot and fatally wounded by nightclub owner Jack Ruby. The killing was broadcast live on national television. A government investigation known as the Warren Commission concluded in 1964 that Oswald acted alone. They

determined that he fired three shots within approximately 8 seconds using a bolt-action rifle he had previously ordered by mail. Though some believe there was a second shooter or larger conspiracy, no definitive evidence has surfaced to disprove the commission's findings. Siron Bashara Saran was born in 1944 in Jerusalem under the British mandate of Palestine. Raised in a Christian Arab family, he witnessed political unrest and religious tension from an early age. His family later immigrated to the United States and settled in California. As he grew older,

Siron developed strong anti-Zionist beliefs, specifically after the 1967 6-day war. He was deeply angered by American support for Israel and became especially hostile towards Senator Robert F. Kennedy, who publicly supported military aid to the Israeli government. Robert F. Kennedy was the younger brother of President John F.

Kennedy. At the time of his assassination in 1968, he was a US senator from New York and a leading Democratic candidate for the presidency. His death came nearly 5 years after his brothers under very different circumstances. On June 5th, 1968, Robert F. Kennedy had just delivered a speech celebrating his victory in the California Democratic primary. As he

exited through the kitchen pantry of the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles, Siron waited with the concealed revolver. At close range, Siron fired several shots. Kennedy was struck three times, once in the back and twice behind the right ear. Five others were wounded but survived. Kennedy collapsed and was rushed to Good Samaritan Hospital. Despite surgery, he

died the next day. Siron was immediately apprehended at the scene by bystanders. A notebook found in his home included repeated entries stating RFK must die, written days before the shooting. Siron was tried for firstdegree killing and convicted in 1969. Though originally sentenced to death, his punishment was reduced to life imprisonment when California abolished the death penalty in 1972.

He remains in prison today. John Waro Hinckley Jr. was born on May 29th, 1955 in Oklahoma. Raised in a privileged family in Texas, Hinckley struggled with mental health problems from a young age. He drifted between colleges and isolated himself from society, developing deep psychological instability. In the late

1970s, he became obsessed with the film Taxi Driver, specifically the character played by Robert Dairo, who attempts to assassinate a presidential candidate. Hinckley projected that narrative onto his own life and developed a fixation on actress Jodie Foster, who had played a young prostitute in the film. Convinced that dramatic action would win her attention, he began plotting an assassination. Hinckley initially stalked President Jimmy Carter, but was arrested on a weapons charge in 1980 before he could act. When Ronald Reagan was elected, Hinckley shifted his focus.

By early 1981, he had developed a plan to kill the president in order to impress Foster, whom he had also been harassing through letters and phone calls. On March 30th, 1981, President Ronald Reagan was delivering a speech at the Washington Hilton Hotel. As Reagan exited through a side entrance toward his limousine, Hinckley, standing in the crowd, pulled out a revolver and fired six shots in rapid succession. The gunfire wounded three men. Press Secretary James Brady was shot in the head and left permanently disabled. One

bullet ricocheted off the presidential limousine and struck President Reagan under his left arm, puncturing a lung and narrowly missing his heart. Despite the injury, Reagan remained conscious and was rushed to George Washington University Hospital. He underwent surgery and recovered fully after 12 days. Hinckley was immediately subdued and arrested at the scene. At his 1982 trial, his defense team argued that he suffered from severe mental illness. The

jury found him not guilty by reason of insanity. The verdict stated public outrage and led to major reforms in the use of insanity defense in the United States. Hinckley spent more than three decades in psychiatric care. He was released under supervision in 2016 and granted full freedom in 2022. Now living quietly in Virginia, he has expressed remorse and taken up painting and music.

Mimtt Ali Aka was born on January 9th, 1958 in Turkey to a poor family. By his teenage years, he was already entangled in petty crime and gang activity. His ideological journey took a radical turn when he became involved with the far-right Turkish ultra-ist group known as the Greywolves. Before becoming internationally notorious, Ekka had already committed a political killing. In 1979, he assassinated journalist Abdi Apekchi in Istanbul. He was arrested but

later escaped from prison with the help of his nationalist allies. He then fled Turkey, reportedly traveling through Iran in Bulgaria, where he allegedly made connections that would shape his next target. On May 13th, 1981, Aka traveled to Vatican City and positioned himself in St. Peter Square where Pope John Paul II was conducting his regular Wednesday general audience. At this point in his life, Aka had become increasingly unstable. He believed he

was chosen to act out a prophetic mission. As the Pope passed through the crowd in an open vehicle, Aka pulled out a semi-automatic pistol and fired four shots. Two of the bullets struck the Pope, one in the abdomen and another in the left hand. Two bystanders, an American and a Jamaican woman, were also injured. Despite the panic, several members of the crowd subdued Aka and he was immediately arrested by Vatican security. Pope John Paul II was rushed

to Jamelly Hospital where he underwent 5 hours of emergency surgery. He later credited the Virgin Mary with saving his life. In July 1981, Aka stood trial in Italy. He claimed he acted alone, but his motivations remained inconsistent. He at times framed his actions in political terms, at other times religious. Some of his claims pointed to

involvement by Bulgarian or Soviet intelligence which led to years of speculation about a cold war conspiracy. However, no solid evidence confirmed this. In an act of forgiveness, Pope John Paul II visited Aka in prison in 1983 and personally forgave him. At the Pope's request, Akco was pardoned by the Italian government in 2000 and extradited to Turkey to serve his remaining sentence for the earlier killing. He was released in 2010. Yel

Amir was born on May 31st, 1970 in Israel into a Yemenite Jewish family. He was raised in a religious Zionist community and studied Jewish law. While pursuing a law degree, Amir also engaged deeply with religious studies, specifically those rooted in extreme interpretations of alaka. He became increasingly radicalized during the early 1990s, especially after the signing of the Oslo Accords, which were intended to promote peace between Israel and the Palestinians. Amir viewed the agreement as a betrayal of the Jewish claim to the land of Israel, specifically the West Bank. Central to

Amir's justification for violence was his belief in the concept of an ancient Jewish legal principle, which when misapplied suggests that one may preemptively kill someone believed to be endangering Jewish lives. He applied this rationale to Prime Minister Yitak Rabin, believing that Rabin's efforts toward peace endangered the nation. On November 4th, 1995, Rabin addressed a massive peace rally in Tel Aviv's King of Israel Square. The event celebrated the progress of the peace process and drew tens of thousands of supporters. As Rabine left the stage and began walking toward his car, Amir waited nearby with the loaded semi-automatic pistol. At

approximately 9:45 p.m., Amir approached the prime minister from behind and fired three shots. Two bullets struck Rabin in the back, damaging his lungs and spleen. A third bullet lightly injured one of Rabin's bodyguards. Rabin was rushed to

Ichilav Hospital but died less than an hour later due to massive internal bleeding. Amir was immediately subdued by security officers and arrested. He confessed to the assassination without remorse and openly cited religious duty as his motive. Further investigation revealed that Amir had attempted to kill Robin on three previous occasions but failed each time. His trial began in early 1996. Though Amir claimed he

intended only to paralyze Rabin, the court rejected his defense. He was convicted of killing, conspiracy, and illegal possession of a firearm, he received a life sentence, plus additional years for related charges. Israeli law now prohibits his release under any future pardon. Thomas Matthew Krooks was born on September 20th, 2003 in Pennsylvania. He graduated from high school in 2022 and later earned an associate degree in engineering science.

Krooks was largely described as a quiet, withdrawn individual. Though he maintained a clean legal record, people around him noted signs of isolation and mental health struggles in the months leading up to the attack. By July 2024, Brooks had begun to display disturbing behavior. He had searched for information related to political assassinations, including the shootings of John F. Kennedy. He also researched

how to build explosives and purchased parts to assemble a high-powered AR-15 style rifle. In addition to the weapon, he constructed explosive devices and stored them in his home and car. He left no manifesto or direct explanation of motive. On July 13th, 2024, President Donald Trump was holding a campaign rally in Butler, Pennsylvania. Crooks positioned himself on the rooftop of a nearby building overlooking the stage.

As Trump spoke to the crowd, Crooks opened fire, discharging eight rounds toward the podium. One bullet grazed Trump's right ear, slightly injuring him. Three audience members were struck. Among them was a firefighter who was killed while shielding his family. Two others were critically wounded. Within

12 seconds of the first shot, a Secret Service sniper returned fire and fatally shot Krooks. Another officer had also fired, striking Krooks's weapon and disabling it. Krooks was confirmed dead on the rooftop. The attempt on Trump's life was the most serious assassination attempt on a US political figure since Ronald Reagan in 1981. In the aftermath, Secret Service director Kimberly Cheetel resigned due to criticism over lapses in security. Thomas Matthew Krooks left

behind no clear political statement. Thank you very much for watching this video and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like. Comment down below your thoughts on anything I discussed in this video and subscribe if you would like to see a part two or more videos like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.