---
video_title: "The Most Notorious Pirates Explained"
video_id: dM9jWbPIy-A
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dM9jWbPIy-A
video_date: 2025-10-01T19:00:47+00:00
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Blackbeard
  1:55 - Black Bart
  3:54 - Charles Vane
  5:39 - Anne Bonny
  7:06 - Mary Read
  8:31 - Edward Low
  10:40 - Ching Shih
  12:57 - Stede Bonnet
  14:53 - Francis Lolonois
  17:03 - Henry Every
  19:01 - Jean Lafitte
  20:46 - Henry Morgan
  
  Song: Legionnaire
  Composer: Scott Buckley
  Website: https://youtube.com/user/musicbyscottb
  License: Creative Commons (BY 4.0) https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
  Music powered by BreakingCopyright: https://breakingcopyright.com/
  
  Song: Phoenix
  Composer: Scott Buckley
  Website: https://youtube.com/user/musicbyscottb
  License: Free To Use YouTube license youtube-free
  Music powered by BreakingCopyright: https://breakingcopyright.com/
---
Blackbeard was the nickname of Edward Teach, a pirate who became the most feared figure on the Atlantic Ocean, and in the Caribbean during the early 1700s, his reputation came from the tear he inspired, and the way he used that tear to get whatever he wanted. Instead of constantly killing people, Blackbeard understood that fear was a weapon on its own. By creating an image of unstoppable cruelty, he could make people surrender their ships and valuables without a fight. One of the most shocking acts linked to Blackbeard was the blockade of Charleston, South Carolina, in May 1718. For almost a full week, his fleet trapped ships entering the harbor, seized vessels, and took hostages. Among these hostages were citizens and sailors, whose lives he threatened, unless the colonial leaders gave him medical supplies. This was not just piracy at sea, but a deliberate act of terror against an entire city. Blackbeard was also known to tie slow burning fuses into his long, Blackbeard so that smoke curled around his face and pedal. Many sailors gave up immediately because they believed he was more monster than human. His cruelty extended even to his own men. After running his powerful flagship, Queen Andrew Venge, a ground near North Carolina, he abandoned some of his crew. This practice, called marooning, meant leaving men stranded on a coast or island, with no food or way home. Many died, were captured, or starved where they were left. Blackbeard's reign ended in November 1718. At Oakirk Koch Inlet, when Lieutenant Robert Maynard of Virginia led a surprise attack. The fight was bloody, and Blackbeard received multiple gunshot wounds and deep cuts before finally dying. His head was taken and hung on Maynard's ship, as proof of his death. Blackbeard's methods were built on fear, intimidation, and spectacle. By kidnapping people, threatening entire communities, and abandoning his men, he created a name that still stands today as the image of pure terror at sea. Bartholomew Roberts, better known as Blackbeard, was one of the most dangerous and destructive pirates in history. Unlike others who rated a few ships, Roberts went after hundreds. He was active during the Golden Age of Piracy, and earned his reputation by attacking fleets across the Atlantic and African coast. Roberts captured more than 400 ships in just a few years. These ranged from small merchant vessels to large armed ships. His ability to take so many prizes made him the most successful pirate of his time, but his cruelty showed in the way he dealt with opposition. If a ship fought back, Roberts made example of the people on board. On one occasion, he captured the governor of a French colony and hanged him from the yard arm of the mast. A yard arm is the horizontal spar across a ship's mast. Hanging a man there meant the execution was visible to sailors at sea, into people watching from the shore. It was not just a punishment, but a message meant to strike fear into everyone who might think of resisting him. Roberts also enthrased strict rules on his crew and punished anyone who broke them. He demanded loyalty and discipline, but his punishment could be brutal. His men feared him, as much as the ships he attacked. His combination of order and violence allowed him to command large groups of pirates and keep them under control. His downfall came at the Battle of Cape Lopez in 1722 when the British Navy attacked his fleet. Roberts was killed in the fight, and many of his men were captured. The captured pirates faced terrible consequences. Dozens were hanged in public executions, while others, including freed or captured sailors who had sailed with him, were either forced into slavery or pressed into harsh labor. The authorities wanted to make an example of them, just as Roberts had made examples of his enemies. What made Roberts especially notorious was the sheer scale destruction he caused. His attacks disrupted trade routes, indevastated communities across oceans. He did not just take riches from ships, he left fear and ruin wherever he went. Charles Vane was one of the most violent and unpredictable pirates of the early 1700s. He operated mostly in the Caribbean, between 1716 and 1719. In unlike many pirates who wanted riches in a way out, Vane seemed to enjoy cruelty and betrayal as much as the gold itself. During this time, the king of England offered pirates a royal pardon, but Vane refused it. He chose instead to keep raiding and destroying ships. This decision set him apart as someone who would not stop until captured or killed. Vane would attack surrendered ships and punish their crews even though they had already given up. For many, that was a shocking act of betrayal, since pirates usually gave mercy if a ship did not resist. Vane broke that code. Reports tell of him torturing officers by hanging, beating, or even burning them while others were subjected to live matches shoving near their eyes or mouths. These punishments were not only cruel, they were meant to terrify future victims so badly that resistance seemed pointless. He was also unreliable and often turning into his own men. At times, he would keep treasure for himself, ignoring agreements to divide the loot fairly. His violent temper made him difficult to work with. If something went wrong, such as a failed raid, he would lash out at both enemies and allies. In 1718, Vane commanded a fleet of pirate ships, but his poor leadership soon caused rebellion. After refusing to fight a French warship, his crew declared him a coward and removed him as captain. He was cast out only with a small boat. Eventually, after a storm left him stranded, he was recognized by a former acquaintance who handed him over to the authorities in Jamaica. Vane was tried and hanged in 1721. His body was then displayed publicly as a warning to others. And Vane was one of the most infamous female pirates in history. Born around 1698 in Ireland, she later moved with her family to the American colonies, possibly South Carolina. From an early age, she gained a reputation for having a fiery temper. Stories tell of her stabbing a servant girl during an argument and beating a man who tried to assault her. She married a small-time pirate named James Bonnie, but their marriage quickly fell apart. James worked with authorities, and turned in other pirates to earn rewards, and despised this, and soon left him for John Calico Jack Rackham. A pirate captain, she joined his crew, something almost unheard of for women at the time. On board, Ann brood herself as much a pirate as any man. She dressed as a man at times, though some sources say the crew already knew she was a woman. Either way, she fought in battles, raided ships, and joined in on drinking and gambling. Survivors on pirate attacks reported that she was ruthless, in that her temper made her especially frightening during raids. Her pirate career ended in 1720, when Rackham's ship was captured by the authorities in Jamaica. Many of the crew were executed, but Ann avoided immediate hanging by claiming she was pregnant. At the time, executions were delayed if a woman was carrying a child. After this, Ann's fate becomes a mystery. Some records suggest she was eventually released or escaped. Others claimed she returned to her family and lived quietly. Whatever the truth, her name and derse. Mary Reed remains one of the most fascinating figures of the Golden Age of Piracy, not only because she was a woman in a world dominated by men, but also because of the ferocity she displayed in her career at sea. Born in the late 17th century, she grew up disguised as a boy, so her mother could claim financial support after the death of her husband. This early deception set the stage for the way she would navigate her life, crossing social and gender boundaries at every turn. Mary's toughness became evident when she served in the British military disguised as a man. Her skills and combat was recognized, but when her identity as a woman was eventually revealed, she shifted paths again. By the early 1700s, she joined pirate crews. While still presenting herself as male, which allowed her to fight and plunder without restriction, when she later became part of John Calico Jack Rackham's crew, she revealed her true gender to Ann Bonnie, and the two became close allies. In 1720, when Rackham's ship was attacked by authorities in Jamaica, most of the men were too drunk to fight, but Mary and Ann were reported to have fought fiercely, determined to resist capture until the end. When they were eventually taken prisoner, Mary also claimed to be pregnant, which delayed her hanging. Mary read story came to an abrupt end in prison, where she died of illness, possibly related to complications from childbirth. Though her career was short, she left behind a legacy that challenged the image of piracy as exclusively male. Edward Lowe, often referred to as Ned Lowe, is remembered as one of the most violent and ruthless pirates of the Golden Age. Born in London around 1690, he came from a poor background and lived a life of crime, before ever setting foot on a pirate ship. He initially traveled to the New World and worked as a sailor, but soon turned a piracy, whereas cruelty made him infamous. Lowe commanded a fleet that terrorized ships across the Atlantic and the Caribbean. While most pirates were brutal, Lowe's cruelty stood out. He not only robbed and killed, he appeared to enjoy causing suffering. Victims of his raid recalled his unpredictable and sadistic behavior. When capturing ships, he often showed no mercy, regardless of whether his enemies resisted or surrendered. One notorious story describes him tying a captured ship's cook to the mass before setting the entire vessel on fire. Lowe mocked the man, saying he was a greasy fellow who would fry well. On another occasion, he hung two friars from the four mass of his ship, anyone who expressed grief at the sight of their deaths was tortured as punishment. These acts of cruelty were not isolated, but part of a long pattern of terror. Lowe also mutilated captives in horrifying ways. Some victims had their ears cut off, while others endured even worse. One Portuguese captain reportedly had his lips sliced off, broiled and forced back into his mouth while still alive. His crew members were also slaughtered after being tortured. In addition to this brutality, Lowe was cunning. He used false flags from different nations to disguise ships, tricking unsuspecting vessels into letting him approach without fear. Once close enough, he revealed his true identity and attacked swiftly. This combination of deception and terror spread fear wherever he sailed. Lowe's cruelty eventually turned his own crew against him. In 1723, after a failed encounter with a British warship, his reputation for savagery caused divisions. Some of his men deserted, while others were captured and executed, reports differ on what became of Lowe himself. Some accounts claimed he was marooned by his crew, while others suggest he was captured and hanged. Regardless of his final fate, his legacy and terror is one of the most vicious pirates in history. Qing Shi, also known as Zheng Yi Cao, is remembered as one of the most powerful and feared pirate commanders in history. Born around 1775, in Guangdong, China, she began her life in poverty but rose to command a fleet so vast that no western pirate could match it. Her story began when she married Zheng Yi a pirate captain. When he died suddenly, she took control of his fleet and through determination and intelligence, expanded it into what became known as the Red Flag Fleet. At its peak, her force was extraordinary in size. Different records give different numbers, but historians generally agree that she commanded hundreds of ships, possibly close to a thousand, in tens of thousands of pirates. Some estimates range from 20,000 to 80,000 men under her rule. This gave her an overwhelming advantage over naval forces that tried to stop her, including the Qing Dynasty Navy and European merchant ships. She could block it ports, raid towns, and dominate trade routes across the South China Sea. What made Cheng Shi's rule so effective was not only her massive fleet, but also her strict code of conduct. Pirates under her command were expected to follow rules or face brutal punishment. Anyone caught stealing from the fleet, deserting, or disobeying orders could face death. Lesser crimes might result in flogging her force labor, but Syria's disobedient was often punished by execution. Her iron grip over her forces kept discipline in a way few pirate leaders ever managed. The Red Flag Fleet captured merchant ships, looted valuable cargo, and often destroyed what they did not need. They assaulted coastal villages, leaving destruction in their wake. Their overwhelming numbers made them nearly impossible to resist, and many naval encounters ended in devastating losses for those who opposed her. Cheng Shi also proved herself a capable negotiator. She forged deals with local officials, and accepted bribes in exchange for temporary peace. But her greatest political move came in 1810, when she negotiated a surrender to the Qing authorities. Instead of facing execution, she secured a pardon for herself and many of her crew. Remarkably, she was allowed to keep her wealth in some ships. After her retirement, she opened a gambling house, and lived out her life in comfort, dying peacefully in 1844. Stayed Bonnet is often remembered as the gentleman pirate because of his unusual path to piracy. Unlike most pirates, who rose from a life at sea, Bonnet was born into privilege around 1688 in Barbados. He inherited wealth from his family and owned a plantation, but his life of comfort left him restless. In 1717, he made the surprising decision to become a pirate. He purchased and outfitted his own ship, which he called the revenge, and hired a crew of about 70 men. Bonnet's lack of naval experience quickly became obvious. While most pirate leaders gained respect by rising through the ranks of sailors, he had no such background. His wealthy origins set him apart and made him on popular with seasoned semen. He also chose to pay his crew wages instead of the traditional pirate system of dividing plunder. This broke the pirate code of equality and caused tension among his men. Many did not respect his authority, and his inexperienced lead to repeated mistakes at sea. Despite his weaknesses, Bonnet's crew carried out violent raids. Along the American coastline in the Caribbean, they plundered merchant ships, burned captured vessels, and spread fear among traitors. In 1717, Bonnet met the infamous pirate Blackbeard, recognizing Bonnet's lack of ability. Blackbeard took control of a ship and crew. For a time, Bonnet sailed under Blackbeard's command, participating in raids that terrorized shipping routes. When he tried to return to independent command, his problems continued. In 1718, Bonnet and his crew became trapped at the Cape Fear River. There, they faced a battle against Colonel William Red's forces from South Carolina after hours of fighting Bonnet surrendered. He briefly escaped prison but was recaptured, and brought back for trial in Charlestown, the court found him guilty of piracy. And on December 10, 1718, he was hanged along with many of his men. His body, like those of his crew, was displayed publicly as a warning to others. Francois Lullinet, whose real name was John David now, was a French pirate active during the mid-1600s. He earned the title of the flail of the Spanish because of his reputation for cruelty towards Spanish ships, towns, and people. His actions were not simply aimed at profit, but were often carried out to spread terror. Around the age of 15, he was sold into slavery on the island of Martinique. The labor was grueling, and as a servant, he had no right to freedom. This early experience of abuse shaped him into someone hearted by suffering. After he eventually earned his freedom, he joined a group of Buccaneers on the island of his Benilla. Buccaneers were a category of pirates who mainly targeted Spanish possessions in the Caribbean. One of his most infamous acts was the raid. On the Spanish town of Marraquibo, located in present-day Venezuela, Lullinet led his men in an assault that bypassed the town's defenses. Once inside, he unleashed devastation. People were tortured to reveal hidden treasures, and many were executed regardless of innocence. Contemporary accounts described how he treated human life as expendable. Another example of his brutality was how he handled captives. He was known to torture officers, execute civilians, and mutilate bodies to frighten others into compliance. One story tells of him surviving a shipwreck by covering himself with the blood of his dead crewmates, in lying motionless among their corpses to avoid detection. Afterward, he hunted down the Spaniard to attack them. He slaughtered nearly the entire enemy crew, but spared one survivor, deliberately letting that one person go, so that stories of his ruthlessness would spread further. Lullinet's end is surrendered by conflicting accounts, but most agree it was violent. Around 1668 or 1669, he was reportedly captured by indigenous people. Near the Daring Region, some stories claim he was killed in Itan by them, which might be a legend, yet it reflects the horror associated with his name. Francois Lullinet's legacy rests, not just on the ship he alluded or townsy rated, but on the torture, executions, and calculated cruelty that made him one of the most feared figures in the history of piracy. Henry Every, sometimes written as Avery, was an English pirate whose brief career left a major mark on world history. He became notorious during the late 1600s, specifically for one raid that shocked both Europe and Asia. His actions were so infamous that he was later called the Arch-Pirate. His most significant act took place in 1695 when he commanded a ship, the fancy, as part of a small fleet that targeted the Mughal ship, John's I-Sawai. This vessel belonged to the powerful Mughal Empire, and was returning from the pilgrimage to Mecca. The John's I-Sawai was armed and carried a large number of passengers, including many pilgrims, along with a meant amount of treasure in the form of gold, silver, and jewels. Every and his men attacked with ferocity. They disabled the ship, overpowered its defenses, and then captured it. Reports say that passengers were killed during the raid, and that survivors were tortured in order to surrender valuables. The most disturbing allegations concern the treatment of women on board, on temporary accounts, though sometimes inconsistent, described cases of forced non-consensual sex, and abused by every's crew. The loot taken from this raid was extraordinary. The treasure captured was valued at hundreds of thousands of pounds, a staggering sum at the time. This single act disrupted trade and caused a major diplomatic crisis. News of the attack traveled quickly, and outraged grew across both India and England. The Mughal Emperor, Oang Zeb, was furious, in the East India Company faced severe political pressure to find and punish the men responsible. Government responded with large rewards for the capture of every in his crew. Some of his men were eventually arrested, tried and executed, every himself however escaped. He disappeared from the historical record after the raid. His treasure was never fully recovered, and his fate remains uncertain. Some legends claim he lived comfortably under a false identity, while others suggest he died poor and forgotten. Jain Lafitte was a pirate and smuggler who became infamous in the late 1700s, in early 1800s, mainly around the Gulf of Mexico and Louisiana. Along with his brother Pierre, Lafitte ran smuggling operations that moved goods secretly into New Orleans, smuggling men avoiding official ports and taxes, so governments lost money while Lafitte and his men became rich. But his crimes went further than trade. Lafitte was deeply involved in the slave trade. He often captured slave ships, then resold the enslaved people. Sometimes he pretended to hand the ships over to the authorities for a reward, but he would also turn around and sell the enslaved people through loopholes in the law. This practice added to the suffering of many, making him a key figure in the continuation of slavery in the region. Lafitte sometimes helped the United States, most famously during the War of 1812, when he provided intelligence and fighters at the Battle of New Orleans. But this act of loyalty did not erase the fact that he often attacked American informed ships for personal profit. His base at Berataria Bay became a haven for stolen goods, contraband and slave trading. His methods showed his cunning and deceit. He used bribery to gain protection, hit illegal goods in warehouses, and sometimes listed fake cargo descriptions, two full customs officers. Goods labeled as legal often had illegal and valuable cargo in his own way. These tricks helped him stay ahead of authorities and keep his empire alive. In 1821, Lafitte was forced out of his stronghold in Galveston, Texas. Rather than surrender, he burned his base, destroyed property, and left suddenly with lute and men. After this, he disappeared from reliable records. Some stories claim he lived under a false name, or died quietly, but no one knows for sure. Henry Morgan was a Welsh privateer, who became one of the most notorious figures of the 1600s. A private tear was a pyre given legal permission by a government to attack enemy ships during wartime. Morgan worked for England, targeting Spanish ships and settlements in the Americas. While some of his raids were technically legal, many of his actions crossed into open cruelty and excess. One of his most infamous campaigns was the Panama expedition of 1670. Morgan led an army that marched across the the esthmis of Panama and captured the city of Panama. His men luded churches, destroyed homes, and said much of the city on fire. Many civilians were killed or left homeless. Though the English crown tried to frame this as an act of war, much of the violent targeted ordinary people that were not soldiers. Another famous attack was the raid on Porto Bello. This was a Spanish town that held treasure and wealth. Morgan stormed the settlement, seized enormous riches, and forced civilians into ransom arrangements. The attack shocked Spanish authorities because of the skill of destruction and plunder. The wealth stolen from Porto Bello alone made Morgan one of the richest privateers of his time. Porto bought Morgan's cruelty spread quickly. Some claimed that he ordered monks and nuns to be used as shields during his attacks. Though Morgan later sued writers who made these claims, arguing they exaggerated or lied, the story's reinforces reputation for ruthless methods. Morgan also had a habit of exploiting slow communication between Europe and the Americas. When peace treaties were signed between England and Spain, Morgan sometimes continued raiding, knowing that Spanish settlements would not yet be aware of the new agreements. Despite his cruelty, Morgan was celebrated in England. He was knighted and later became lieutenant governor of Jamaica, overseeing the very island, from which he once launched raids. His ability to turn piracy into political power shows how violence, looting, and exploitation could be rewarded if it served national interest. Thank you very much for watching this video and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on any of the pirates I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part two or more videos like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.