---
video_title: "Every Layer of the Christian Afterlife Explained"
video_id: m0asRHzsYvY
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m0asRHzsYvY
video_date: 2025-06-01
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Heaven
  3:00 - Purgatory
  6:23 - Limbo
  8:56 - Hell
  12:32 - Lake of Fire
  14:43 - Sheol
---
Heaven within Christian theology is the eternal realm of God where the souls of the righteous reside in perfect communion with him after death. It is depicted as a place or state of unparalleled peace, joy, and holiness. Free from suffering, pain, and sin. It serves as the ultimate reward for those who have accepted God's grace through faith in Jesus Christ. The concept of heaven has evolved significantly over time from its earliest biblical roots to modern interpretations, incorporating theological reflection, cultural influences, and personal spiritual experiences. The roots of the Christian

concept of heaven can be traced back to ancient Jewish beliefs. Early Hebrew thought did not focus much on the afterlife. Instead, Shaw, a shadowy realm of the dead, was the dominant view. However, by the time of the second temple period between 517 BC to 70 AD, Jewish thought began to include the idea of resurrection and judgment, especially among the Pharisees. These ideas laid the groundwork for Christian esquetology. Jesus's teachings in the

New Testament frequently refer to the kingdom of heaven or kingdom of God. While these phrases often describe God's reign on earth, they also point to an eternal state where God's will is fully realized and his followers are rewarded. The early church fathers influenced by both Jewish tradition and Grecoman philosophical ideas began to describe heaven in more defined terms. By the second and third centuries, Christian thinkers like Augustine developed the notion of heaven as a spiritual realm where the soul experiences the beatotific vision or direct knowledge and presence of God. Augustine emphasized that his vision is the ultimate joy and purpose of human existence. and he described heaven as a

state of perfect love and communion with God rather than a physical location. The book of Revelation, the last book of the New Testament, offers a vivid symbolic depiction of heaven as the new Jerusalem, a radiant city of golden jewels with no more death or sorrow. In the Middle Ages, the image of heaven became more structured. Medieval Christianity often portrayed heaven in hierarchical terms with different degrees or rewards based on one's actions. The Protestant Reformation in the 16th century brought significant changes to the understanding of how one enters heaven. Reformers like Martin

Luther and John Calvin rejected the Catholic emphasis on sacraments and good works, asserting instead that salvation and entrance to heaven come solely by God's grace through faith. While Catholics continue to teach that heaven is accessible through God's grace, Protestants emphasized a more direct relationship between the believer and God. In modern Christianity, views on heaven have diversified. Many Christians still affirm the traditional belief in a post-mortem eternal heaven where the faithful live with God. However, modern theology often places less emphasis on a literal spatial heaven and more on a relation or spiritual interpretation.

Whether seen as a celestial realm, a renewed creation, or a spiritual union, heaven remains the hope that anchors Christian faith in the face of mortality and suffering. Purgatory in Christian theology, specifically within Roman Catholic tradition, is understood as an intermediate state after death where the souls of the faithful undergo purification before entering heaven. It is not a place of eternal punishment like hell, but rather a temporary state where individuals are cleansed of the remaining effects of sin. The idea is rooted in the belief that while a person may die in a state of grace with God, they may still have imperfections or attachments to sin that need to be purged before they can enter the full presence of God. This process known as purggation allows for the soul to be made holy enough to reside in heaven.

The concept of purgatory was not fully developed in the earliest stages of Christianity, but has its seeds in both Jewish and early Christian thought. In the second book of Mcabes, which is considered canonical by Catholics but not by most Protestants, prayers are offered for the dead so that they may be released from their sins. This implies a belief in an intermediate state where such prayers are beneficial. Early Christian writers mention the idea of a post-death purification process, though not all were in agreement on the specifics. By the third and fourth centuries, beliefs in some form of purification after death was becoming more common, especially as Christians developed a deeper theology around judgment in the soul's journey toward God. The formal doctrine of purgatory

began to take shape more clearly in the Middle Ages. By the 12th and 13th centuries, theologians like St. Thomas Aquinas and St. Augustine provided systematic explanations for the existence and nature of purgatory. Aquinus described it as a place of temporal punishment for those who die in God's grace but are not yet free from all stains of sin. Augustine emphasized

the importance of prayers in masses for the dead which became a key feature of Catholic practice. The second council of lions in 1274 and later the council of Florence in 1439 officially affirmed the doctrine and the council of Trent between 1545 to 1563 codified it further in response to Protestant Reformation challenges. In the Catholic view, those who enter purgatory are assured of eventual entrance into heaven. They are not damned but rather saved souls undergoing the final process of sanctification. The purification involves suffering, often described metaphorically as a cleansing fire, though this is not considered the same as the fire of hell. The suffering is

believed to be both physical and spiritual, arising from the pain of being separated from God and the soul's awareness of its imperfections. Mortal sins that have been forgiven through confession may still carry temporal penalties, and these must be satisfied either in life or after death in purgatory. During the Protestant Reformation, the doctrine of purgatory became one of the most contested aspects of Catholic belief. Reformers like Martin Luther rejected it outright, arguing that it lacked a clear biblical basis and undermine the sufficiency of Christ's atonement. In modern Catholicism, the understanding of purgatory has shifted slightly in tone, if not in doctrine. Purgatory is now

viewed more as a necessary and loving stage in the soul's journey toward full union with God rather than a punitive measure. Some also interpret it less as a place and more as a condition or state of being. The focus has moved from fear of punishment to a deeper appreciation for God's justice and compassion. Purgatory is not a second chance at salvation, but a merciful step for those already saved to be made completely holy. Limbo refers to a speculative afterlife realm distinct from heaven, hell, and purgatory. It has been used to

explain the fate of certain souls, specifically unbaptized infants and righteous individuals who live before the time of Christ who though not condemned by personal sin are not admitted into heaven due to original sin or the absence of salvation through Christ. Limbo is a theological hypothesis developed to address difficult questions about divine justice and mercy. The idea of limbo began to take form in the early centuries of Christianity as theologians grappled with the fate of those who though no fall of their own died without the possibility of baptism or knowledge of Christ. Early church followers such as Augustine addressed the issue of unbaptized infants where he claimed that even infants who die without baptism are subject to damnation due to original sin although their punishment would be the mildest of all. As theological thinking developed during the medieval period, the concept of limbo became more clearly defined, two types of limbo were proposed. The limbo of the fathers,

which referred to those who died before Christ, and the limbo of infants, referring to infants that passed away who were not baptized. The limbo of the fathers was thought to be a temporary place where those had to await for Christ's redemptive death and resurrection to be granted entrance into heaven. The limbo of infants, by contrast, was thought to be a permanent state. Aquinus and other theologians taught that unbaptized infants who died without personal sin would not suffer in hell, as they had committed no actual wrongdoing. However, because they still bore the stain of original sin, they could not enter heaven. Instead, they

would exist in a state of natural happiness, free of suffering, but also without the beatotific vision of God. This view attempted to preserve both the necessity of baptism for salvation and the justice of a merciful God who would not subject innocent children to torment. Over the centuries, the concept of limbo became widely accepted in Catholic theological and popular understanding. Though it was never formally defined, in modern times, especially following the second Vatican council in 1962, the Catholic Church has moved away from the concept of limbo, emphasizing instead the hope in God's mercy. The 1992 Catechism of the Catholic Church does not mention limbo, but instead entrust unbaptized infants to the mercy of God, stating that the church does not know with certainty what happens to them, but encourages hope in their salvation. Though never an

official doctrine and not widely believed in modern times, limbo held considerable influence in Catholic thought for many centuries. Hell is traditionally understood as the final and eternal state of separation from God for those who die in mortal sin. It is often portrayed as a realm of punishment, darkness, and torment where souls suffer as a consequence of the rejection of God's grace. While interpretations of hell have varied over the centuries, the core idea has remained. Hell is the state or place reserved for those who by their own free will choose to remain apart from God.

The origins of the Christian concept of hell can be traced back to Jewish thought during the second temple period. Early Hebrew scriptures refer to Schol, a shadowy neutral home of the dead rather than a place of punishment. However, by the time of later Jewish writings, a more dualistic afterlife had begun to emerge. Jenna, a term that originally referred to a valley outside of Jerusalem, where child sacrifices and later garbage burning occurred, began to symbolize a place of divine punishment. This imagery and terminology carried over into the New Testament where Jesus frequently refers to Jihenna as a warning to those who persist in sin and rebellion against God. In the teachings

of Jesus, hell is described with vivid metaphors, outer darkness, unquenchable fire, and a place where there will be weeping and nashing of teeth. These images convey suffering, loss, and separation. While Jesus's teachings emphasize love, mercy, and forgiveness, they also highlight the reality of judgment and the consequences of moral choices. The early church fathers develop those themes further. Thinkers such as Augustine affirmed the eternal nature of hell and described it as the just punishment for those who die without repentance. Augustine in

particular stressed that hell is not just about physical torment, but more profoundly about the soul's loss of the beatotific vision. Throughout the Middle Ages, the imagery and theology of hell became more elaborate. Influenced by scripture, hell was often envisioned as a fiery underworld where devils tormented the damned. Medieval writers like Dante Aligiri portrayed hell in vivid detail in works such as the Inferno, presenting a structured layered realm in which sinners suffer according to the severity and nature of their sins. The Protestant Reformation in the 16th century reaffirmed belief in hell, but challenged certain aspects of its medieval depiction. Reformers such as

Martin Luther and John Calvin emphasized that salvation comes through faith alone and rejected practices like indulgences. While they upheld the existence of hell, they focused more on its theological necessity as the counterpart to divine grace rather than its physical or imaginative depictions. In modern times, interpretations of hell have continued to evolve. Some Christian theologians maintain the traditional view of hell as eternal conscious torment for the wicked. Others, however, have proposed alternative understandings.

Annihilationism, for example, holds that the souls of the wicked are ultimately destroyed rather than eternally tormented. This view emphasizes God's justice, but avoids the moral difficulties of eternal suffering. Contemporary Catholic teaching affirms the reality of hell, but stresses that it is a freely chosen separation from God. The church teaches that God desires all to be saved, but respects human freedom, even when that freedom results in eternal loss. Theologically, what occurs in hell is not only punishment, but also the full realization of a soul's rejection of God. The suffering

is both self-inflicted and divine, resulting from the eternal consequences of one's choices. In this view, hell is not a place God sends people out of vengeance, but the inevitable outcome of a will that refuses communion with the source of all goodness in life. Whether understood literally, metaphorically, or conditionally, hell remains an important aspect of Christian esquetology. The lake of fire is a powerful and vivid image found in Christian esquetology, most notably in the book of Revelation, and it is often associated with the final and eternal punishment of evil. Unlike hell, the lake of fire represents the ultimate destination for Satan, his followers, and the damned. It is

described as a place of unending torment and total separation from God, symbolizing divine wrath, justice, and the irreversible consequence of rebellion against God. The idea of the lake of fire emerges most explicitly in the New Testament. The book of Revelation states that the final destination is reserved for the devil, the beast, the false prophet, and all those who are not redeemed. It is significant that death in Hades themselves are also cast into the lake of fire, suggesting that it will result in the end of all forms of evil, death, and rebellion against God. The lake of fire is not merely a place of the dead, but a symbol of the second death, a complete and eternal annihilation or torment, depending on the interpretation. In early Christianity,

the lake of fire was generally understood as a literal place of torment. Church fathers described it as a real and terrifying punishment for the wicked, reinforcing the moral seriousness of Christian life and the importance of salvation. During the Middle Ages, the lake of fire was sometimes equated with hell or viewed as the final phase of hell following the last judgment. Dante's Inferno and other theological works did not explicitly name the lake of fire, but conveyed similar imagery, eternal flames, tormenting demons, and the irreversible fate of the damned. The concept continued to reinforce the idea that sin, especially unrepented sin, would result in eternal punishment. In modern

times, interpretations of the lake of fire have diversified. Traditional views still hold that is a literal place of eternal conscious torment. Alternative interpretations, however, have gained traction among theologians and some Christian denominations. Annihilationism states that the lake of fire does not signify eternal torment, but rather the total destruction of the soul. In this understanding, the second death is literal. The soul ceases to exist rather

than suffer forever. Regardless of interpretation, the lake of fire highlights the seriousness of moral choice and the ultimate consequences of rejecting God. Schaw is one of the oldest concepts in the Judeo-Christian understanding of the afterlife, originating in ancient Hebrew thought and evolving throughout biblical history. In the Old Testament, Schul is depicted as the realm of the dead, a shadowy subterranean place where all souls go after death regardless of moral standing. It is not a place of reward or punishment, but a neutral zone characterized by silence, darkness, and forgetfulness. The word shaw appears

more than 60 times in the Hebrew scriptures and reflects an early Israelite worldview in which death was seen as the final and the inevitable end of life. Schul emerged in the context of ancient Neareastern cultures where similar ideas of an underworld existed. Like the Mesopotamian Arcala or the Greek Hades, Shaw was believed to be the final resting place of all the dead. both righteous and wicked. The Hebrew understanding, however, was relatively minimalistic and did not elaborate on the conditions within Shaw. It was often

associated with terms such as the pit, the grave, or the depths of the earth. In books such as Job, Psalms, and Ecclesiastes, Schul is portrayed as a gloomy and joyless place. As Jewish theology developed, beliefs about Shaw began to change. Influenced by Persian and Henistic ideas and by evolving interpretations of divine justice, some Jewish thinkers began to imagine a more differentiated afterlife. Texts like the book of Daniel introduced the idea of resurrection and the separation of the righteous and the wicked after death. By

the time of Jesus in the early Christian movement, Schaw had largely been replaced by more distinct concepts of heaven and hell. In the Greek New Testament, the word Hades is often used as a translation of Schaw, though it began to carry new connotations. In some cases, Hades retained its neutral or temporary character as the home of the dead, but in others, it became associated with punishment. In early Christian theology, Schaw was reinterpreted through the lens of Christ's death and resurrection. According to traditional belief, Jesus descended into the realm of the dead between his crucifixion and resurrection. This descent is mentioned

in the apostles creed and implies that Jesus proclaimed victory over death and liberated the righteous souls who had been waiting for redemption. These souls such as Abraham and Moses had been in the bosom of Abraham. A more positive section of Schaw believed to be reserved for the faithful. Over time, Schaw is a theological term fell out of common usage within Christianity. It was gradually replaced by clearer doctrines of heaven, hell, and purgatory. Schul is

now viewed more as a historical and literary concept rather than a literal place with this concept directly influencing the ideas of the Christian afterlife. Without Schul, the ideas of heaven and hell would have never come into fruition. Thank you very much for watching this video and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on any of the layers I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you'd like to see more videos like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.