---
video_title: "The Worst Punishments in History Explained"
video_id: Q6M1l9iNIto
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q6M1l9iNIto
video_date: 2025-11-19T20:00:32+00:00
video_description: |
  If you’re ever injured in an accident, you can check out Morgan & Morgan. You can start your claim in just a click without having to leave your couch. To start your claim, visit: https://www.forthepeople.com/Jaydone
  
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Sawing Isaiah
  0:48 - Mithridates Scaphism
  1:54 - Ashurnasirpal II Flaying
  2:48 - Perillos Brazen Bull
  3:58 - Crucifixion
  5:01 - Morgan & Morgan
  6:33 - Nero Rat Torture
  7:23 - Bartholomew Flaying
  8:25 - Sawing Simon
  9:11 - Erasmus Disembowled
  10:01 - Guy Fawkes
  11:59 - François Ravaillac
  13:32 - Robert Damiens
  15:18 - Fan Jihai Lingchi
  16:05 - Unit 731
  17:50 - Khmer Rouge
---
The sawing of Saint Isaiah appears in early Jewish and Christian writings. This ancient text describes how the prophet Isaiah was executed during the reign of King Manasseh of Judah, who ruled in the 7th century BC. According to the story, Manasseh had turned away from the worship of God and encouraged idle worship in Jerusalem. Isaiah, who spoke against these practices, became a target for persecution. In the account, Isaiah is said to have been captured, placed inside the hollow of a tree, or tied within a wooden trunk, and then sawed in two. The description of his death is graphic and symbolic. It portrays the prophet as suffering for his faith, and for refusing to compromise his message, even under extreme pressure from the king. One of the most horrifying punishments recorded in ancient history is escapism, also called the Boats. King Arta Zerxes II of Persia once ordered this form of execution for a man known as Mithredate. Mithredate had accidentally killed the king's brother during a rebellion, and though he initially received praise for it, he later bragged too openly about the act. Affended by his arrogance, Arta Zerxes ordered him to die. In escapism, the condemned person was placed between two hollowed out wooden boats, or tree trunks, with only the head, hands, and feet exposed. The executioners then forced fed the victim large amounts of milk and honey, until they became sick and could no longer resist. After that, more honey was smeared on the exposed parts of the body to attract insects. The boats were left floating in a stagnant pond or swamp, where flies, worms, and other insects slowly consumed the victim's flesh over many days. Death came through dehydration, infection, and sheer agony. King Asher Naseer Paul II, who ruled the Assyrian Empire from around 883 to 859 BC, was known for both his impressive conquest and his terrifying methods of enforcing order. His empire covered much of Mesopotamia, and his capital Nimrod became a center of power in architecture, yet it was also a place associated with fear, as Assyrian rulers frequently used extreme punishment to display authority. Among Asher Naseer Paul's favorite punishment was flame, the act of removing the skin of a living person. He wrote that he flayed many of the rebels, sometimes hanging their skins on city walls as a warning to others. These words were not hidden, but proudly displayed on monuments. The practice served as psychological warfare, spreading fear across regions that might resist Assyrian domination. Perilose was an Athenian craftsman who designed a new method of execution, that he believed would please tyrants. He presented his creation to Filaris, the ruler of a crocus in Sicily, sometime around the 6th century BC. Perilose's invention was a hollow bronze statue shaped like a bowl. Inside the statue was enough space to fit a person, once the condemned was locked inside. A fire would be lit beneath it, heating the metal until it glowed hot red. The person inside would be slowly roasted at death. Their screams echoing through a system of pipes that were designed to distort the sound into something that resembled the bellowing of an actual bowl. The story goes that Filaris ordered Perilose himself to be the first test subject. After demonstrating how the mechanism worked, the tyrant reportedly locked him inside to see if the device performed as promised. When the screams began to fill the air, Filaris was said to have been so impressed and disgusted at once that he removed Perilose before death only to have him executed afterward. In 71 BC, after nearly two years of bloody rebellion, Rome finally crushed the slave uprising lead by the Gladiator Spartacus. When Spartacus fell in battle, the Roman general Marcus Crassus decided to make an unforgettable statement. 6,000 captured rebels were crucified, along the Appian Way, the main road that connected Rome to southern Italy. Crucifixion was typically reserved for slaves, pirates, and the lowest criminals. The victims' arms were tied or nailed to a wooden cross, and death could take hours or even days. The pain was not only physical, but also deeply psychological, since Crucifixion was performed in public places to strip the condemned of dignity. The Crucifixion stretched for miles, turning the road into a corridor of suffering. For days, travelers passing by would see the bodies of Spartacus as men hanging in agony, as a warning to anyone who dared arise against Rome again. Now, before we continue, I have something that I need to tell you guys. When I was a kid, on the 4th of July of all days, I was hit by a car, fireworks, barbecue, and then camped. A trip to the hospital, thankfully I recovered, but for my parents it was a nightmare, especially because of the insurance companies and then having to deal with the mountain of medical bills. And that's the reality for so many other people as well. Traditional personal injury claims are designed to wear you down. Insurance companies drag their feet, offer you pennies to what you deserve, and hope you'll just give up. That's why I wish my parents had known about Morgan and Morgan. There's a reason history remembers those who fought for justice. Just like there's a reason why Morgan and Morgan is America's largest injury law firm. And for over 35 years, they've been fighting for the people, not the insurance companies. Their result turned insane. In Florida, one client was offered just $350,000, but Morgan and Morgan fought for them and got them over 12 million. In Pennsylvania, another client was awarded $26 million, which was 40 times higher than what the insurer wanted to pay. That's because when you hire Morgan and Morgan, it's like hiring a legal army. They've got over a thousand attorneys and a hundred plus offices nationwide, and they've recovered over $25 billion for over 500,000 clients. And the best part, there are no upfront costs. Their fee is free unless they win. Submitting a claim is super easy. You can start in less than a minute with no endless appointments, overwhelming paperwork or long waits. So if you're ever injured, don't settle for less and let the insurance companies win. You can just click the link in the description or scan the QR code on screen to get started with Morgan and Morgan today. Emperor Nero, who ruled Rome from 54 to 68, was a cruel paranoid antirinical leader who often ordered executions of perceived rivals, including his own mother and wife. Among the many disturbing accounts tied to Nero's cruelty is his use of Rattorcher, the technique involved trapping a rat in a metal container placed against a victim's bare body, then heating the container's exterior. As the temperature rose, the panic rat, desperate to escape, would burrow into the victim's flesh, causing unimaginable agony. Because of his chaotic, corrupt and unstable governance, he was eventually overthrown during a rebellion. Nero fled Rome and took his own life in 68, leaving behind a legacy full of madness and pure evil. Saint Bartholomew, one of the 12 apostles of Jesus, is remembered not only for his missionary work, but also for one of the most horrifying martyrdom stories in Christian history. According to most accounts, Bartholomew traveled to regions such as India, Mesopotamia, and Armenia to spread Christianity. In Armenia, his teachings in reported miracles, converted many people, including the King's brother, this angered local religious leaders, who saw as influence as a threat to their authority and beliefs. They ordered his arrest and decided to make an example of him through torture. He was reportedly flayed alive, meaning his skin was stripped from his body while he was still conscious. After during this unbearable pain, he was either crucified or beheaded, depending on the version of the legend, his suffering made him a symbol of faith and courage. Over time, Christian R. began to represent him, holding his own skin or a knife, which became his identifying attribute. Simon the Zealot was believed to have been a part of a Jewish resistance group, but after the supposed resurrection of Jesus Christ, he reportedly became a follower of Christianity and carried the Christian message to distant lands, including Persia and possibly Armenia, whereas preaching drew both converts and hostility. Simon was reportedly captured by local authorities who wanted to stop his growing influence, refusing to renounce his faith. He was condemned to death by being sawed in half. Some accounts say he was cut vertically from head to foot, while others claim the executioner saw him horizontally through the middle of his body. The image of being split apart was meant to show both physical agony and complete separation from worldly life. Saint Erasmus a formulae, often known as Saint Elmo, was an early Christian bishop who lived in southern Italy during the Roman persecutions. Under Emperor Diocletian, despite threats and repeated arrest, he refused to abandon his faith or stop preaching. Erasmus was subjected to various tortures before his death. He was first beaten with leaded and imprisoned in darkness. Later he was coated with boiling oil, resin, sulfur and lead. Next, his tortures mixed molten metals and forced him to swallow them before his final torture. He was dragged through the streets while tied to a horse's tail. After continuing to stay faithful, his tortures cut open his abdomen and slowly wound his intestines around a windlass, which ultimately killed him. Guy Fox is remembered for his role in the 1605 gunpowder plot. This was a failed plan by a group of English Catholics who wanted to assassinate King James I and blow up the House of Lords to end Protestant rule. Fox was found guarding barrels of gunpowder, hidden beneath Parliament. When soldiers discovered him, he was immediately arrested and taken for questioning. After his capture, Guy Fox was tortured on the orders of King James. Records showed that he was stretched on the rack in the Tower of London until he confessed the details of the plot. The English government wanted to make an example of the conspirators, and so they were sentenced to the most severe punishment for treason at the time. To be hanged, drawn and quartered, this punishment was designed to humiliate and cause maximum pain, while serving as a public warning to anyone who dared to betray the crown. The execution was carried out in stages. First, the condemned man was tied to a wooden panel and dragged through the streets by a horse from the prison to the place of execution. This part of the process, called drawing, symbolized being pulled away from society. At the gallows, the prisoner was hanged by the neck until he was nearly dead but not completely. He was then cut down. His abdomen slid open and his internal organs removed and burned before his eyes. His head was then cut off and his body divided into four parts. Each piece was displayed in different parts of England as a warning against treason. On January 31, 1606, Guy Fox and his fellow conspirators were executed in this manner. However, Fox avoided much of the suffering by jumping from the gallows and breaking his neck, dying instantly. Despite this, his body was still mutilated and distributed as the law required. France's Suas Revilic was a French man who assassinated King Henry IV of France in 1610. On May 14th of that year, as the king's carriage was passing through the streets of Paris, Revilic approached and stabbed him to death. Revilic was captured immediately and imprisoned. He claimed that he acted alone and that his motive came from a religious conviction, believing the king was betraying the Catholic faith. However, authorities suspected a wider conspiracy and tortured Revilic to extract information. Even after enduring severe pain, he maintained that no one else had helped him. When found guilty, he was sentenced to be drawn and courted by horses. The traditional French punishment for regicide, on May 27th, 1610, a massive crowd gathered to watch in Paris. Before the final execution, Revilic was subjected to additional public torture. His flesh was torn with pincers, boiling oil and molten lead were poured onto his wounds. And then his limbs were tied to four horses. The horses were driven in four different directions, each pulling on a rope tied to an arm or a leg. At first, the horses were unable to tear his body apart, so executioners used knives to help sever the joints. The horrifying spectacle lasted for nearly an hour. Finally, when his body was dismembered, the remains were burned and the ashes were scattered to prevent any relics or memorials from being kept. Robert François Damiennes was a French domestic servant who became infamous for his attempt to assassinate King Louis XV of France. On January 5th, 1757, Damiennes approached the king in the courtyard of the Palace of Versailles and stabbed him in the chest with a small knife. The wound was not fatal, but it caused national panic. Damiennes was arrested immediately, and during interrogation, he was tortured to extract information about possible accomplices. His flesh was burned with hot irons, and molten substances were poured on his wounds. Despite the agony, he maintained that he acted alone, claiming his goal was to draw attention to corruption within the clergy, rather than to kill the king. The court found him guilty of high treason. On March 28th, 1757, in front of a large crowd in Paris, Damiennes was taken to a wooden scaffold for his punishment. He was first tortured with retot pensors, and his hand, the one that held the knife, was burned with sulfur. Afterward, molten lead, oil and wax were poured into his wounds. Then came the final act, following the initial tortures, his hands and feet were cut off. Each imputation was carried out methodically, often requiring repeated blows due to the resistance of flesh and bone. Ultimately, his body was divided into four parts, all of which were burned in separate fires. Damiennes' execution was intended to be as slow and painful as possible, emphasizing the gravity of attempting to harm the king. It reportedly took him over two hours from to die completely. Fondja Hai was a Chinese man whose death became one of the last, and most infamous cases of Ling Qi and recorded history. He was convicted of killing his master. A crime that under imperial law was considered one of the greatest offenses. On the day of his execution, Fondja was subjected to Ling Qi in Beijing. The condemned man was bound to a wooden frame, as the executioner systematically sliced away portions of flesh over an extended period before ultimately killing him. Historical records and photographs taken by a French officer circulated in the West, which shocked many people around the world. With that being said, this style of execution was long-raired by this time in China, and it's the last reported case of it happening. Unit 731 was a covert biological and chemical warfare research division of the Imperial Japanese Army during World War II. It was founded in the late 1930s and operated mainly in Harbin, a city in occupied Manchuria. Under the command of General Shiroishi, what appeared to be a medical research facility was in truth one of the most horrifying sites of human experimentation in history. The unit's goal was to develop biological weapons and to understand how diseases could be used as tools of war. Prisoners referred to as logs by the scientists, included Chinese civilians, prisoners of war, Koreans, Russians, and sometimes Western captives. The experiments were carried out without anesthesia or ethical consideration. Victims were infected with deadly diseases like anthrax, plague, cholera, and typhoid, many were vivisected alive so that researchers could observe how the infection spread inside the body. Others were exposed to extreme cold to study frostbite, at limbs frozen and amputated, or were injected with various toxins to test their effects. Unit 731 also conducted field tests to see how effective biological weapons could be. In some cases, planes dropped bombs containing plague-infected fleas over villages, causing outbreaks that killed tens of thousands of people. Prisoners were also used to test weapons, such as flame throwers, grenades, and chemical gases. It is believed the experiment resulted in the deaths of several thousand people directly, while far more died from resulting epidemics. Toulsling Prison, known by its codename S21, was one of the most notorious torture centers of the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia. Operating between 1975 and 1979, it was a converted high school where thousands of people were imprisoned, interrogated, and killed under the orders of Polplot's brutal government. The Khmer Rouge sought to eliminate anyone suspected of being an enemy of the revolution, and S21 became a key instrument of this terror. Those brought to Toulsling were accused of crimes against the regime, often without evidence. The prisoners included government officials, intellectuals, soldiers, teachers, and even members of the Khmer Rouge, who were accused of betrayal. Once inside, they were photographed, documented, and shackled in small cells. Interrogation soon followed, designed to extract confessions of sabotage or espionage. Torture methods included beatings, electrocution, waterboarding and starvation. Some victims were forced to name friends and relatives, who were then also arrested and brought to the prison. The goal of these interrogations was not truth but total control. Prisoners were made to confess to imaginary crimes, before being sent to execution fields. Toulsling had an estimated 14,000 detainees, and only about a dozen survived. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like. Comment down below your thoughts on any of the punishments I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part two or more videos like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.