---
video_title: "The Most Notorious Mass Shooters Explained"
video_id: e-rZl0icHuQ
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e-rZl0icHuQ
video_date: 2025-08-15
video_description: |
  Part 2: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zzAMHJ0OlaY
  
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Whitman
  1:27 - Bryant
  3:07 - Eric & Dylan
  4:39 - Cho
  6:43 - Hasan
  8:09 - Breivik
  9:58 - Holmes
  11:21 - Lanza
  12:58 - Rodger
  14:55 - Roof
  16:41 - Mateen
  18:22 - Paddock
  19:46 - Cruz
  21:37 - Tarrant
  23:26 - Ramos
---
Charles Joseph Whitman was born on June 24th, 1941 in Lakew Worth, Florida. From an early age, he showed signs of high intelligence. By the age of 12, he had earned the rank of Eagle Scout, and at six, his IQ was measured at 139. These achievements suggested a bright future. However, his home life was far from ideal. His father was known for being

authoritarian and physically abusive, placing relentless pressure on his childhood. Whitman served honorably in the United States Marine Corps before enrolling at the University of Texas at Austin. To others, his life appeared stable. This changed on August 1st, 1966. That morning, he killed his mother and his wife in their homes. Later that day,

armed with several firearms, he climbed to the 28th floor observation deck of the university's tower. From that vantage point, he began shooting at people below. The attack lasted about 90 minutes. By the end, 17 people were killed, including one victim who died decades later from injuries sustained that day, and 31 others were wounded. Police officers eventually stormed the deck and killed him. An autopsy revealed

a brain tumor pressing against his amygdala, the part of the brain linked to emotion and aggression. This finding raised questions about whether the tumor had influenced his behavior or if his actions stemmed from personal issues alone. The Texas Tower shooting was one of the first mass shootings in modern American history. Martin Bryant was born on May 7th, 1967 in Tasmania, Australia. From childhood, his behavior raised concerns. Teachers described him as

distant, unemotional, and disruptive. He performed poorly in school, struggled to connect with peers, and displayed cruelty toward animals. These tendencies were accompanied by destructive acts such as breaking toys and damaging property. A psychological evaluation later placed his IQ at about 66, marking him as borderline intellectually disabled and noted traits consistent with conduct disorder and developmental delays. However, he was not diagnosed with schizophrenia. On April 28th, 1996,

Bryant carried out the deadliest mass shooting in Australian history. His attack began at a bed and breakfast before continuing at the Port Arthur historic site, a popular tourist destination. Over the course of the rampage, he killed 35 people and injured more than 20 others. Two of the victims were known to him, but most were strangers visiting the area. Authorities struggled to determine his motive. Some

investigators suggested he may have been driven by a desire for attention or revenge, but no clear explanation was ever confirmed. Regardless, the scale and brutality of the massacre horrified the nation. The Port Arthur massacre prompted sweeping changes to Australia's gun laws. Within months, the government implemented strict firearm regulations, including a massive buyback program that removed hundreds of thousands of guns from circulation. Bryant was tried and convicted, receiving multiple life sentences without the possibility of parole. He continues to serve his

sentence in prison. Eric David Harris was born on April 9th, 1981 in Witchah, Kansas. His family eventually moved to Littleton, Colorado, where his father served as a United States Air Force transport pilot. Dylan Bennett Klebold was born on September 11th, 1981 in Lakewood, Colorado. He was considered academically gifted, entered a special program for advanced students and became involved in the school's audiovisisual club and video production work. The two

met in middle school and developed a close friendship. They shared a fascination with violent video games like Dune. Enjoyed listening to German industrial music and experimented with building small explosives. On April 20th, 1999, Harris and Clebalt carried out one of the most infamous school shootings in history. At Coline High School in Littleton, their original plan relied on large propane bombs placed in the cafeteria in the parking lot intended to kill hundreds. When the

bombs failed to explode, they moved through the school of firearms, killing 13 people and wounding 21 others. They ultimately died by taking their own lives inside the building. Investigations found the attack was not spontaneous. Eric Harris displayed traits often linked to psychopathy, showing calculated aggression and a desire to cause harm. Dylan Klebold suffered from deep depression and persistent thoughts of taking his own life. The Coline massacre forced schools

nationwide to rethink security, lockdown drills, and threat assessment. Its cultural impact continues more than two decades later. Si Cho was born on January 18th, 1984 in Assan, South Korea. At the age of 8, he moved with his family to the United States, settling in Centerville, Virginia. His parents operated a dry cleaning business and were devoted Christians, though Cho later rejected their faith. During his

school years, Cho was a shy child and struggled socially. In middle school, he was diagnosed with selective mutism, a condition that made it difficult for him to speak in certain situations, as well as major depressive disorder. These diagnoses led to placement in special education for emotional disturbance, excusing him from oral presentations, and providing speech therapy. He was frequently bullied and became isolated. At one point, he wrote an assignment praising the Coline shooters and expressing interest in repeating their actions, which triggered psychiatric intervention. In 2005, while studying

English at Virginia Tech, his creative writing became alarmingly violent and disturbing. Female students complained about stalking behavior on two occasions. Mental health professionals determined that he was depressed and posed a danger to himself. Yet, he was released from custody with orders for outpatient treatment. It remains unclear if he ever attended these sessions. On

April 16th, 2007, Cho carried out the deadliest school shooting in United States history. He first killed two people in a dormatory, then mailed a package to NBC News containing photographs, videos, and an 1800word manifesto. He proceeded to Norris Hall, chain the doors, and began shooting in classrooms. Armed with a 9mm Glock and a 22 caliber Walther P22, he killed 30 students and faculty before taking his own life as police closed in. The Virginia Tech massacre led to sweeping changes in campus security protocols, emergency alert systems, mental health reporting laws, and background check procedures. Its impact continues to

influence how institutions address the warning signs of potential violence. Nidal Malik Hassan was born on September 8th, 1970 in Arlington, Virginia. He trained as a physician and joined the United States Army Medical Corps, becoming a psychiatrist. He worked at several military medical facilities where colleagues noted his social isolation and raised concerns about his behavior well before the events that made him infamous. On November 5th, 2009, Hassan entered the Soldier Readiness Processing Center at Fort Hood, Texas. The center was used to

prevent soldiers for deployment. Armed with a handgun fitted with laser sights, he opened fire on soldiers and civilians. 13 people were killed and more than 30 were wounded in a matter of minutes. Hassan was eventually stopped when responding officers shot him, causing spinal injuries that left him permanently paralyzed from the waist down. Investigations revealed that Hassan had been in contact with known extremist clerics and had visited radical websites. He exchanged messages

discussing violent jihad which were flagged by authorities. Though these warnings did not lead to intervention, analysts have since debated whether his actions were primarily the result of ideological radicalization, personal grievances, or mental strain from his work with traumatized soldiers. Hassan was tried by court marshall in 2013. He represented himself during the trial, admitting to the shootings and stating his loyalty to extremist causes. He was eventually sentenced to death. Anders

bearing Bryik was born on February 13th, 1979 in Oslo, Norway. He grew up harboring strong political beliefs and over time developed an extreme right-wing ideology that opposed immigration, multiculturalism, and Islam. In the years before his crimes, he meticulously planned an attack to advance his political goals. He wrote a lengthy manifesto detailing his beliefs which he posted online just before his actions. On July 22nd, 2011, Bravik launched two coordinated attacks. The

first was a van bomb detonated in the government quarter of Oslo, killing eight people and injuring many others. He then traveled to Utoya Island where the Labor Party youth wing was holding a summer camp. Disguised as a police officer, he moved through the island over the course of more than an hour, shooting participants. 69 people, many of them teenagers, were killed on the island, bringing the total death toll to 77. Hundreds more suffered physical or psychological injuries. Brivik used a

homemade info bomb in the first attack, and a combination of rifles and pistols in the second. Following his arrest, psychiatric evaluations produced differing conclusions. One report diagnosed him as psychotic while another concluded he had a personality disorder but was mentally competent. The court ruled that he was sane at the time of the attacks. In 2012, Bryik was found guilty of acts of terror in mass killing. He was sentenced to Norway's

maximum penalty of 21 years of preventive detention with the possibility of indefinite extensions if he is deemed a continuing danger. The attacks prompted a period of national mourning in Norway and led to major reviews of police readiness, counterterror measures, and programs to counter radicalization. James Egan Holmes was born on December 13th, 1987 in San Diego, California. He was raised in a stable family environment. His father was a scientist in the field of mathematics and statistics while his mother worked as a nurse. From an early

age, Holmes performed well academically. He graduated from the University of California with high honors in neuroscience. During his time in graduate school, Holmes began to withdraw from peers and exhibit signs of mental distress, eventually leaving the program before completion. On July 20th, 2012, Holmes committed one of the most infamous mass shootings in modern United States history. He attacked a crowded movie theater in Aurora, Colorado during a midnight screening about Batman film.

He was armed with multiple firearms and wore tactical gear. Before leaving his apartment, he set up a series of explosive devices as traps. Inside the theater, Holmes opened fire, killing 12 people and injuring 70 others. The attack caused widespread shock and grief across the nation. During his trial, Holmes entered a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity. Psychiatric

evaluations confirmed he suffered from mental illness, but the court determined he was legally responsible for his actions. In 2015, after a lengthy trial and testimony from survivors, Holmes was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole. Adam Peter Lonza was born on April 22nd, 1992 and lived with his mother, Nancy Lansza, in New Town, Connecticut. He was known for being socially isolated from a young age. While he received some mental health treatment during adolescence, by his later teenage years, he refused further help and spent increasing amounts of time alone engaged in computer activities. Investigators later

discovered that he had developed a strong interest in mass shootings and violent content online. On December 14th, 2012, Lonza began his day by shooting and killing his mother at their home. He then drove to Sandy Hook Elementary School, forced entry into the building, and carried out one of the deadliest school shootings in United States history. Armed with firearms that his mother legally owned, Lansza killed 20 children between 6 and 7 years old, along with six adult staff members. He then took his own life before police could apprehend him. The official

investigation revealed that Lonza had spent years collecting information about violent acts. His digital files included videos, news reports, and writings about previous mass killings. While no single motive was confirmed, the evidence indicated deep emotional disturbance and a fixation on mass violence. Authorities also documented how his access to unsecured firearms played a role in enabling the attack. The Sandy Hook tragedy prompted an intense national conversation about firearm safety, school security, and access to mental health services. Across the country,

schools adopted new lockdown procedures and emergency response plans. Elliot Oliver Robertson Roger was born on July 24th, 1991 in London, England. He spent his early years in a privileged environment before moving with his family to California. Roger attended Santa Barbara City College, but struggled both academically and socially, friends and family noted his isolation, intense resentment towards women, and difficulties forming relationships. Over time, these frustrations deepened into obsessive anger and severe mental health concerns.

On May 23rd, 2014, Roger carried out a meticulously planned attack in Isa Vista near the University of California. He began by stabbing to death his roommates George Chin and Chang Yuan Hong along with their friend Wan Wong inside his apartment. He then drove to a nearby sorority house, shooting two women and injuring another. Continuing his attack, Roger fired at pedestrians and cyclists and used his vehicle to hit people. In total, six victims were killed and 14 others were injured before he died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Before

the attack, Roger uploaded a YouTube video titled Retribution and distributed a lengthy manifesto titled My Twisted World. In these, he described his hatred of women for rejecting him, his disdain for men who were sexually active, and his belief in his own superiority, referring to himself as the supreme gentleman. His writings and videos revealed clear alignment with online incel ideology. Psychological analyses conducted after the tragedy suggested. Roger exhibited both psychopathic and psychotic traits. A welfare check by

police shortly before the attack failed to reveal the extent of his plans because he presented himself as polite and cooperative. This case is frequently cited in discussions about misogynistic extremism, mental health intervention, and the radicalizing effects of online subcultures. Dylan Storm Roof was born on April 3rd, 1994 in Colombia, South Carolina. He developed extremist white supremacist beliefs, drawing heavily from racist propaganda found online. He created a website called The Last Rhdesian, where he posted photographs of himself with Confederate symbols and detailed his racial ideology. ROF

expressed a clear desire to provoke a race war in the United States. On June 17th, 2015, ROF entered the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina. The church is one of the oldest African-American congregations in the south and holds deep historical significance. After joining a Bible study session, roof opened fire, killing nine African-American worshippers, including pastor and state senator Clementa Pinkney and injuring a 10th person. He spared one survivor so they could recount the events, later admitting that his motive was to incite racial violence. Roof had no formal affiliation

with extremist groups, but his radicalization was fueled by online propaganda and personal obsession. Psychological assessment after his arrest described him as having a high IQ, mild to moderate autism, severe social anxiety, and possible psychotic symptoms. Despite this, he was found legally sane at the time of the attack. In December 2016, ROF was convicted of 33 federal charges, including hate crimes resulting in death. The following month, he was sentenced to death in federal courts. In April 2017, he

pleaded guilty to state charges in exchange for a sentence of nine consecutive life terms without parole. ROF's crime remains one of the most infamous racially motivated mass shootings in American history. Omar Mir Sadi Matin was born on November 16th, 1986 in Queens, New York to Afghan-American parents. He later moved to Florida where he studied criminal justice technology and worked as a security guard for the private security company G4S. In 2011, he applied to become a Florida state trooper. Matine

drew the attention of federal authorities in 2013 and 2014 after making comments that suggested possible extremist sympathies. Although he was interviewed twice by the FBI, no charges were filed and he was able to keep his job. On June 12th, 2016, Matine carried out the attack on Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida. Armed with a semi-automatic Sig Sour MCX rifle and a Glock 17 pistol, he opened fire during Latin night at the club, killing 49 people and injuring 53 more. The attack lasted several hours and ended when Matine was shot and killed by law enforcement during a final exchange of gunfire. At the time, it was the

deadliest mass shooting in United States history and the most severe act of violence targeting the LGBTQ plus community. During the incident, Matin made several phone calls to police negotiators during which he pledged allegiance to the Islamic State group and cited US military actions in the Middle East as his motive. While some initially speculated that the attack was motivated by anti-gay bias, investigators found no credible evidence that Maten had visited gay venues or used gay dating apps. The tragedy prompted renewed national discussions on domestic acts of terror, radicalization, gun control, and the need for stronger preventive measures. Steven Craig Paddock was born on April 9th, 1953 in Clinton, Iowa. He was the son of

Benjamin Paddock, a convicted bank robber who escaped prison and became one of the FBI's most wanted fugitives. Steven Paddock, however, grew up largely removed from his father's criminal activities. He pursued higher education, worked as an accountant, and became a real estate investor in highstakes gambler. Over the years, he lived in multiple states, including Nevada, Florida, and Texas. On the night of October 1st, 2017, Haddock executed the deadliest mass shooting by a lone gunman in modern United States history. From

his suite on the 32nd floor of the Mandandalay Bay Resort in Casino in Las Vegas, he opened fire on a crowd attending the Route 91 Harvest Music Festival. Over the course of approximately 11 minutes, he fired more than a,000 rounds, killing 60 people and injuring nearly 900 others. He then took his own life before police could apprehend him. Investigations revealed that Paddock had spent months preparing for the attack. He amassed a large arsenal of firearms. He also set up

surveillance cameras outside his suite to monitor law enforcement movements. Despite extensive investigative work, the FBI concluded that no clear motive could be determined. It was suggested that he sought infamy and was driven by a desire to cause mass destruction. Nicholas Jacob Cruz was born on September 24th, 1998 in Margate, Florida, and was adopted shortly after birth by Roger and Linda Cruz. His adoptive father passed away in 2004, and his adoptive mother died in November 2017, leaving him without parental support only months before the tragic events that would make him infamous.

Cruz attended Marjgery Stoneman Douglas High School, but was expelled due to disciplinary problems. Reports indicate that he exhibited behavioral issues from an early age, even in preschool. On social media, Crew shared alarming posts that included obsessions with past mass shootings, disturbing imagery, and expressions of extremist and hateful views. Despite these warning signs, he was involved in the schools, Junior Reserve Officers Training Corps program, and even received awards for academic performance. Before the shooting, Cruz legally purchased firearms and worked at a Dollar Tree store. On February 14th,

2018, Cruz returned to his former high school armed with a semi-automatic rifle. He opened fire, killing 14 students and three staff members and injuring 17 more. The attack became one of the deadliest school shootings in United States history. Cruz was arrested shortly afterward without incident. He faced 34 charges and in October 2021, he pleaded guilty to all counts. A divided

jury in 2022 chose life imprisonment over the death penalty, resulting in 34 consecutive life terms without the possibility of parole. Many victims families expressed disappointment at the absence of a death sentence. In 2024, as part of a civil settlement, Cruz agreed that his brain would be donated to scientific research after his death to help study the causes of violent behavior. He is also prohibited from profiting in any way from his crimes. Brenton Harrison Tarant was born on October 27th, 1990 in Grafton, New South Wales, Australia. He attended Grafton

High School and worked as a personal trainer after graduation. While his early life appeared unremarkable, his family endured difficulties, including his parents' separation and reports of abuse following that period. Over time, he developed admiration for far-right extremists, specifically Norwegian mass killer Anders bearing Brivik. On March 15th, 2019, Tarant carried out an act of terror in Christ Church, New Zealand, targeting two mosques during his Friday prayers. His first target was the Alnor Mosque where he opened fire on worshippers. He then drove to the

Lynwood Islamic Center and continued his attack. In total, 51 people were killed and 40 others were wounded. Shockingly, Tarant live streamed part of the massacre, which was later widely circulated online. Prior to the attack, Tarant had shared extreme white supremacist and anti-immigrant rhetoric online. His writings expressed the intent to inspire further acts of violence worldwide. The act prompted

outrage and condemnation from leaders in communities across the globe. Tarant was charged with 51 counts of killing, 40 counts of attempted killing, and one charge of engaging in an act of terror. In March 2020, he pleaded guilty to all charges. Later that year, he was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole, making him the first person in New Zealand to receive such a sentence. His actions had significant political and social consequences. New Zealand swiftly

reformed its gun laws, banning most semi-automatic firearms. The country also took steps to strengthen counterterror measures and online content regulations to prevent the spread of extremist propaganda. Salvador Ramos was born on March 16th, 2003 and grew up in Uvaldi, Texas, where he lived with his mother. Before the attack, he shared alarming messages and photographs on social media, some showing weapons and others hinting at violent intentions. He had shown a fascination with previous mass shootings. After

turning 18, Ramos legally purchased two AR-15 style rifles, one on May 17th, 2022, and another on May 20th. He also bought 1,600 rounds of ammunition in a device known as a Hellfire Trigger, which can increase the rate of fire on a rifle. 10 days before the shooting, he sent an Instagram message saying 10 more days when asked about his plans. On May 24th, 2022, Ramos shot his grandmother, seriously wounding her before driving to Rob Elementary School. He crashed his truck near the campus, climbed a fence, and entered the school carrying one of his rifles. Wearing a tactical vest and

backpack, he went into a fourth grade classroom, and began shooting. He fired around 160 rounds, killing 19 students and two teachers and injuring several others. Law enforcement officers from multiple agencies arrived quickly with nearly 400 responders in total, but a delayed entry into the classroom became one of the most criticized aspects of the incident. Despite hearing shots and receiving 911 calls from children inside, officers waited in the hallway for over an hour before a tactical team breached the door. Members of a border patrol tactical unit entered and fatally shot Ramos. Investigations by state and

federal agencies highlighted serious failures in communication, leadership, and urgency during the response. The tragedy sparked intense debate about firearm access, school safety measures, mental health resources, and online threat monitoring. For the Uvaldi community, the wounds remain deep as the search for accountability and change continues. Thank you very much for watching this video and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on any of the mass shooters I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part two or more videos like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.