---
video_title: "The Most Influential People in History"
video_id: NlIntxMJ-P8
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NlIntxMJ-P8
video_date: 2025-10-24T19:00:24+00:00
video_description: |
  If you’re ever injured in an accident, you can check out Morgan & Morgan. You can start your claim in just a click without having to leave your couch. To start your claim, visit: https://www.forthepeople.com/Jaydone
  
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Buddha
  1:25 - Confucius
  2:48 - Plato
  4:12 - Aristotle
  5:33 - Morgan & Morgan
  7:06 - Alexander the Great
  8:53 - Julius Caesar
  10:50 - Jesus Christ
  12:25 - Muhammad
  14:13 - Genghis Khan
  15:38 - Gutenberg
  17:00 - Isaac Newton
  18:05 - Charles Darwin
  19:29 - Karl Marx
  21:17 - Albert Einstein
  22:55 - Gandhi
---
Siddhartha Gautama, who later became known as the Buddha, was born around the 6th century BC, in Lombini, which is now present day Nepal. He was a prince who grew up surrounded by comfort and luxury, but he was deeply moved when he saw sickness, old age, and death outside the palace for the first time. These experiences made him question the nature of life and suffering. Leaving his royal life behind, Siddhartha began a long spiritual search to understand why people suffer and how they could be free from it. He studied with teachers, practiced meditation, and lived as a hermit. After years of struggle, he sat under a boditri and bodhgaya India, where he meditated until he gained enlightenment. From that moment, he became known as the Buddha, which means the Enlightened One. He spent the rest of his life teaching the four noble truths, and the eightfold path, which explained the nature of suffering, and how to overcome it through wisdom, ethical living, and mental discipline. The Buddha rejected the idea of social class and taught that anyone, regardless of background, could reach enlightenment through effort and compassion. His teaching spread widely through Asia, shaping cultures and inspiring philosophies in countries like India, China, Japan, and Thailand. Today, Buddhism continues to influence millions around the world, not just as a religion, but as a philosophy of peace, mindfulness, and self-awareness. Confucius, born in 551 BC, in the Chinese state of Lu was a teacher, philosopher, and political thinker, whose ideas deeply shaped Chinese society, in government for more than 2,000 years. His real name was Kong Chu, and he grew up in a time of political instability in moral decay. He believed that society could only prosper if people practice kindness, respect, and honesty in both public and private life. Confucius traveled across China, teaching rulers and ordinary people about the importance of virtue, education, and moral duty. He emphasized five key relationships. Ruler and subject, a father and son, husband and wife, elder and younger brother, and friend and friend. Each relationship, he believed, carried responsibilities that helped maintain harmony and society. He also believed that a good leader should rule by example, not by fear, and that moral character was more important than wealth or power. Although Confucius never gained great power during his lifetime, his teachings became the foundation of Confucianism. A philosophy that influenced China's education system, family structure, and political ethics for centuries. His ideas even shaped the behavior of emperors and scholars across East Asia. His vision of a balanced moral and respectful society continues to inspire discussions about leadership, education, and good governance to this day. Plato, one of the greatest philosophers in history, was born around 427 BC in Athens, Greece. A student of Socrates in the Teacher of Aristotle, Plato built upon his mentor's ideas to form a lasting society of thought that shaped Western philosophy. After witnessing the execution of Socrates, Plato became disillusioned with politics, in turn toward philosophy as a way to find truth and justice. He founded the Academy on Athens, one of the first known universities where students studied philosophy, mathematics, and science. Plato's writings were presented as dialogues, often featuring Socrates as a main character, works. Plato explored deep questions about knowledge, reality, ethics, and the human soul. One of his most famous ideas is the theory of forms, which suggests that everything in the physical world is a shadow of a perfect and unchanging reality. He believed that truth and goodness could only be found through reason, not through the senses. Plato's influence extended far beyond his lifetime. His ideas helped shape Christian theology, political thought, and modern education. The Academy he founded lasted for nearly 900 years, influencing countless scholars and thinkers. Through his search for truth and justice, Plato gave humanity a timeless framework for questioning the world, and understanding the nature of reality and morality. Aristotle, born in 384 BC, Instagira Greece, was one of the most brilliant minds in history. He studied under Plato at the Academy on Athens, and later became a teacher to Alexander the Great. Unlike Plato, who focused on abstract ideas, Aristotle believed that knowledge should come from direct observation and experience. He studied almost every subject imaginable, including biology, physics, logic, ethics, and politics. His approach to learning laid the foundation for scientific inquiry. Aristotle believed that everything in nature had a purpose, and understanding that purpose was key to understanding life itself. He also believed that humans were naturally social, and that the purpose of the state was to help people live good lives. Aristotle also developed formal logic, creating systems for reasoning that influence mathematics, science, and philosophy for centuries. His scientific writings, though limited by the knowledge of his time, remained the standard for over a thousand years. Medieval scholars, including those in the Islamic Golden Age, and later in Europe, studied and expanded on his works. Aristotle's influence can be seen in almost every field of modern study, from ethics to natural science. His belief that reason and observation are the keys to understanding the world, continues to guide human thought today. Now, before we continue, I have something that I need to tell you guys. When I was a kid, on the 4th of July of all days, I was hit by a car, fireworks, barbecue, and then camp a trip to the hospital. Thankfully, I recovered, but for my parents, it was a nightmare, especially because of the insurance companies, and then having to deal with the mountain of medical bills. And that's the reality for so many other people as well. Traditional personal injury claims are designed to wear you down. Insurance companies drag their feet, offer you pennies to what you deserve, and hope you'll just give up. That's why I wish my parents had known about Morgan and Morgan. There's a reason history remembers those who fought for justice. Just like there's a reason why Morgan and Morgan is America's largest entry law firm. And for over 35 years, they've been fighting for the people, not the insurance companies. Their result turned insane. In Florida, one client was offered just $350,000, but Morgan and Morgan fought for them and got them over 12 million. In Pennsylvania, another client was awarded $26 million, which was 40 times higher than what the insurer wanted to pay. That's because when you hire Morgan and Morgan, it's like hiring a legal army. They've got over a thousand attorneys in a hundred plus offices nationwide, and they've recovered over $25 billion for over 500,000 clients. And the best part? There are no upfront costs. Their fee is free unless they win, so admitting a claim is super easy. You can start less than a minute with no endless appointments, overwhelming paperwork or long waits. So if you're ever injured, don't settle for less and let the insurance companies win. You can just click the link in the description or scan the QR code on screen to get started with Morgan and Morgan today. Alexander the Great, born in 356 BC in Macedonia, was one of history's most powerful and influential military leaders. He was the son of King Philip II, who had already built a strong and disciplined army. When Alexander became king at just 20 years old, he inherited not only his father's kingdom, but also his ambition to expand it far beyond Greece. Alexander studied under Aristotle, who inspired his love for knowledge, culture and leadership. At a young age, he showed great courage and intelligence in battle. Once he became king, Alexander began a long series of military campaigns that took him across Asia Minor, Egypt, Persia, and even into parts of India. In just 12 years, he created one of the largest empires the world had ever seen. He was a brilliant strategist who understood how to adapt to different terrains and cultures, but Alexander was not only a conqueror. He wanted to unite his empire under a shared culture. This dream gave birth to Hellenism. The blinning of Greek and local customs ideas and arts, he encouraged his soldiers to marry women from the regions they conquered and built cities to spread Greek learning. One of the most famous of these cities is Alexandria on Egypt, which became a center for knowledge and trade. Alexander respected many of the local traditions he encountered. He often wore Persian clothes and included local leaders in his administration to maintain peace across his empire. His ambition also pushed his army to exhaustion. In 323 BC, at the age of 32, Alexander died suddenly in Babylon. His empire quickly divided among his generals, but his impact remained. His leadership, vision, and cultural influence shaped the ancient world and inspired empires that came after him, including Rome. Julius Caesar, born in 100 BC, was one of the most famous leaders in Roman history. He was a skilled general, a clever politician and a gifted writer. His ambition and leadership transformed the Roman Republic into what later became the Roman Empire. Caesar rose through the ranks of Roman politics, forming powerful alliances. One of his greatest political moves was creating the first triumvirate in alliance with two other influential men, Pompey and Crasseus. Together, they controlled much of Rome's politics. However, Caesar's fame and influence continued to grow after a successful military campaign in Gaul, which is now modern day France and Belgium. His victories made him incredibly popular with the Roman people and his soldiers, but they also made the Senate fearful of his power. In 49 BC, Caesar made a daring decision. He crossed the Rubicon River with his army and acted as a declaration of war against the Senate. This led to a civil war, which Caesar eventually won. Afterward, he declared himself dictator of Rome. As ruler, he introduced many reforms that improved Roman life. He changed the calendar, creating the Julian calendar, that influenced the one we still use today. He gave land to veterans, expanded citizenship, and supported public works projects to help ordinary Romans. Despite his reforms, many senators worried he was becoming too powerful. On March 15, 44 BC, known as the Ides of March, Julius Caesar was assassinated inside the Senate. His death shock Roman caused more civil wars. Eventually, his adopted heir, Octavian rose to power as Emperor Augustus, marking the start of the Roman Empire. Julius Caesar's name became a symbol of authority. Later rulers used his name as a title, giving rise to words like Kaiser in Germany, and Saren Russia. His writings and leadership continued to influence politics and military studies today. Jesus Christ was born in Bethlehem, around Ford BC, and grew up in Nazareth. In the region of Galilee, Christians believe Jesus is the son of God, sent to save humanity from sin, and bring people closer to God. Jesus began his public ministry around the age of 30 He traveled across towns and villages teaching people about love, forgiveness, and faith in God. He used parables, which are short stories with moral or spiritual lessons, to teach about the kingdom of God. His most famous teachings include the Sermon on the Mount, where he encouraged kindness, humility, and compassion. Christians believe that he performed miracles that amazed the people around him. It is said he healed the sick, gave sites of the blind, fed thousands with only a small amount of food, calmed storms, and even raised the dead. These acts combine with his teachings, inspired great devotion among his followers, but also brought conflict with religious authorities who saw him as a threat. Eventually, Jesus was arrested, tried and sentenced the death by crucifixion. Under the Roman governor, Pontius Pilate, Christians believe his death was a sacrifice for the forgiveness of sins. In that three days later, he rose from the dead. This event, known as the resurrection, is the foundation of the Christian faith. After his resurrection, his followers spread his message across the world, his life and teaching shaped Western civilization, influencing moral values, art, philosophy, and law. Today, over two billion people follow his teachings, and his message of love, mercy, and hope continues to inspire humanity. Muhammad, born in Mecca around 570, is the founder of Islam and is considered the final prophet in the line of Abraham, Moses, and Jesus. Muslims believe he was chosen by God to deliver the final message to humanity, which is recorded in the Quran, the Holy Book of Islam. Muhammad grew up in orphan and worked as a merchant, earning a reputation for honesty and kindness. At the age of 40, while meditating in a cave near Mecca, it is said he received his first revelation through the angel Gabriel. This moment marked the beginning of his prophetic mission. Over the next 23 years, it is believed that Muhammad received a series of revelations that guided his followers in matters of faith, justice, and daily life. He preached the belief in one God, called Allah, and rejected the idol worship that was common in Mecca. His message called for compassion, fairness, charity, and equality among all people. However, many Meccan leaders opposed him, because his teachings challenged their power and traditions. Facing growing persecution, Muhammad and his followers migrated to Medina in 622. This journey, known as the Hijrah, marks the beginning of the Islamic calendar. In Medina, Muhammad became both a religious and political leader. He united different tribes under the principles of Islam and built a strong peaceful community over time. He and his followers returned to Mecca, where he peacefully took control of the city. He dedicated the Kaaba, which had once been filled with idols to the worship of God. Muhammad's leadership transformed Arabia. His teaching spread quickly after his death in 632, shaping civilizations across Africa, Asia, and Europe. Today, Islam is one of the world's largest religions. In Muhammad's life, remains an example of faith, humility, and justice for millions of believers. Genghis Khan, born as Timu-jen, around 1162 in Mongolia, rose from a harsh and nomadic life to become one of the most powerful, and feared conquerors in history. From a young age, he faced deep struggles, including his father's death and his families of Ben-A-Mit by their tribe. These experiences shaped his strength, leadership, and determination, through courage and intelligence. He united the scattered Mongol clans under one banner, and introduced a disciplined military system that was years ahead of its time. Genghis Khan built an empire that stretched from China to Europe, the largest continuous land empire ever recorded. His armies moved with incredible speed and coordination, using advanced strategies, deception, and psychological warfare to win battles. He rewarded loyalty, and punished betrayal harshly. Yet, he also promoted merit over birthright. He encouraged trade across his empire, reopening and protecting the Silk Road, which connected Asia and Europe in a new era of cultural and economic exchange. Although his conquest were brutal, Genghis Khan's rule brought order and law to previously divided regions. He introduced a legal code known as the Yasa, encouraged literacy, and allowed freedom of religion across his territories. He died in 1227, but his descendants carried on his legacy, shaping history through the Mongol Empire's long influence on global culture, trade, and politics. Johannes Gutenberg, born around 1400 in mind's Germany, changed the world forever with his invention of the movable type printing press. Before Gutenberg, books were copied by hand, a slow and expensive process limited mostly to the church and elite scholars. Gutenberg's innovation allowed text to be reproduced quickly and accurately, revolutionizing the spread of knowledge across Europe. His most famous creation, the Gutenberg Bible, printed around 1455, was the first major book produced using this technology, it demonstrated not only his craftsmanship, but also the potential of mass communication. The printing press transformed Europe's intellectual landscape. It allowed ideas from the Renaissance, reformation, in scientific revolution to spread faster than ever before, breaking the monopoly of knowledge held by the powerful few. Gutenberg faced financial challenges and even lost control of his press at one point, but his invention survived and spread rapidly. Within decades, printing presses appeared in cities across Europe, fueling literacy and education. His work made books affordable, preserved languages, and helped ordinary people access information once reserved for scholars. Gutenberg's press has often considered the beginning of the modern information age, setting the stage for centuries of progress and science are in human thought. Isaac Newton, born in 1643, in Wollsthorbe England, is one of the greatest scientists of all time. His discoveries in physics, mathematics, and astronomy changed how humans understood the universe. As a young man studying at Cambridge University, Newton developed the three laws of motion in the Universal Law of Gravitation, which explained how everything in the cosmos moves from falling apples to orbiting planets. Newton also made groundbreaking contributions to mathematics by developing calculus. In optics, he proved that white light is made up of many colors, which he demonstrated using a glass prism. His major work, The Principia, published in 1687, remains one of the most important scientific books ever written. Newton was also deeply interested in alchemy and theology, believing that science and faith could exist side by side. His ideas laid the foundation for classical physics, and influenced countless scientists who came after him. His law stood as the backbone of physics for many centuries, and his genius shaped modern science in our understanding of the natural world. Charles Darwin, born in 1809 in Schruhe's Berry, England, forever changed how humanity understands life. He grew up fascinated by nature, collecting plants and animals as a child. In 1831, he joined the voyage of the HMS Beagle, a journey that took him around the world for five years. During his travels, Darwin observed many different species, especially those in the Galapagos Islands, where he noticed that animals of the same species vary depending on their environment. These observations led him to develop his theory of evolution through natural selection, which he published in 1859 in his famous book, On the Origin of Species. His theory suggested that all living things share common ancestors, and that species adapt and change over time to survive in their surroundings. The idea was revolutionary and controversial, as it challenged traditional beliefs about creation. Darwin's research reshaped biology, genetics, and even philosophy. His work encouraged people to see life as an evolving process, rather than a fixed creation, though Darwin was criticized by some religious groups. His ideas gained strong scientific support and became the foundation of modern evolutionary biology. He spent his later years continuing research and writing more scientific books. Darwin's curiosity encouraged to question the world around him, opened a new chapter in human understanding of life itself. Karl Heinrich Marx was born on May 5, 1818, in Trier, Prussia, which is now part of Germany. His father was a lawyer who valued enlightenment ideas, and his family had Jewish roots. Marx studied law and philosophy at the universities of Bonn and Berlin, but his real interest lay in understanding how society, history, and economics work together. Over time, his studies and experiences shaped him into one of the most influential social thinkers in history. Marx is best known for writing the Communist Manifesto, with Friedrich Engels in 1848, and his monumental work, Das Capital. In the Communist Manifesto, Marx described history as a continuous struggle between social classes. He argued that the working class was being exploited by the ruling capitalist class. He believed this conflict would eventually lead to a revolution that would create a classless society. In Das Capital, Marx examined how capitalism functions. He explained how workers produce value through their labor, but capitalists take most of that value as profit. Marx believed this imbalance created cycles of economic crisis and inequality. He saw capitalism as a system that would ultimately collapse under its contradictions and give rise to socialism and eventually communism. Although Marx faced many hardships, including exile and poverty, he continued writing and developing his theories. He spent much of his later life in London, where he researched economics and history while collaborating with Engels. Marx died on March 14, 1883, but his ideas lived on. His writings have influenced revolutions, political movements, and feels like sociology, political science, and economics. Whether viewed as a visionary or a controversial figure, Marx changed the way people understand power, labor, and society. Albert Einstein was born on March 14, 1879, in all in the German Empire. As a child, he was curious in love mathematics and science. He often questioned how things worked, and was fascinated by light time in the universe. His curiosity and independent thinking helped him develop ideas that would completely change modern physics. Einstein's greatest contribution was the theory of relativity, which included both the special theory and the general theory. In 1905, his special theory of relativity introduced the idea that the laws of physics are the same for all observers moving at constant speed. This theory also presented the famous equation, E equals MC squared, which shows that mass and energy are connected a few years later. His general theory of relativity explained that gravity is not a force pulling objects together, but rather the bending of space and time caused by massive objects like stars and planets. He also made major contributions to quantum theory, his explanation of the photoelectric effect, which showed how light can behave as particles, earned him the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1921. This discovery later helped in the development of solar panels and other modern technologies. Einstein was not only a scientist, but also a strong voice for peace, civil rights, and human equality. He spent his later years in the United States, teaching and advocating for global cooperation. By the time he died in 1955, Einstein had become one of the most recognized and admired figures in the world. His ideas continued to shape modern physics, and his name remains a symbol of intelligence and creativity. Mahatma Gandhi was born on October 2, 1869, in poorbinder, India. He grew up in a religious family that valued honesty, simplicity, and respect for all faiths. After studying law and London, he moved to South Africa to practice, where he faced racial discrimination. Those experiences awakened his desire to fight injustice, but he chose to do so through peaceful means rather than violence. While in South Africa, Gandhi developed the philosophy of holding onto truth. It was based on non-violence, love and moral strength. He led campaigns for civil rights, and equal treatment for the Indian community there. When he returned to India, he applied the same methods in the fight for India's independence from British rule. Gandhi led many peaceful protest, boycotts and marches, encouraging Indians to reject British goods and laws. One of his most famous acts was the salt march of 1930, where he and thousands of followers walked over 200 miles to make their own salt and defiance of British taxes. His approach inspired millions to join the independence movement without resorting to violence. He believed in simple living, self-sufficiency, and respect for truth and humanity. Gandhi wore plain clothes, made of hand-spun fabric, and promoted unity among Hindus, Muslims and other communities. Despite being imprisoned several times, his influence continued to grow both in India and around the world. On January 30, 1948, Gandhi was assassinated by a Hindu extremist. His death was a tragedy that deeply affected the world. Albert Einstein once said that future generations would scarcely believe that such a man had ever walked the earth. Gandhi's teachers inspired many global leaders, and remained a lasting symbol of peace, truth and justice. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on any of the influential people I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part two or more videos like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.