---
video_title: "The Most Powerful Intelligence Agencies Explained"
video_id: -BEpu6WazcY
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-BEpu6WazcY
video_date: 2025-12-26T08:00:00+00:00
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - FBI
  1:54 - MI6
  3:24 - Gestapo
  5:09 - OSS
  6:26 - CIA
  8:09 - ISI
  9:53 - Mossad
  11:26 - Stasi
  13:38 - NSA
  15:26 - BND
  16:42 - RAW
  18:05 - DGSE
  19:59 - MSS
  21:40 - SVR
  23:16 - FSB
---
The Federal Bureau of Investigation holds National Authority inside the United States while also maintaining intelligence influence abroad. It was established in the early 20th century during a time when crime was evolving beyond state borders. Criminals no longer operated only in small towns, organized crime networks moved across states and used new technologies such as cars, telephones, and later, financial systems that made local police forces unable to keep up. The FBI created standardized training, a national record system, and a fingerprint database, which instantly placed it ahead of other agencies. The creation of an advanced forensic laboratory allowed investigators to solve difficult crimes with scientific evidence rather than witness testimony alone. The FBI rose to major prominence during the era of gangs and bank robbers in the 1930s. It later became crucial during the Cold War period by tracking spies and protecting secrets related to national defense. It handled major espionage cases where confidential information was stolen for foreign governments, which showed the level of trust the nation placed in the FBI after the attacks of September 11. The FBI shifted massively toward counter-terror. It began preventing threats, monitoring extremist groups, and stopping organized domestic plots before they happened. What makes the FBI so powerful is the combination of legal reach, technology, national jurisdiction, and the ability to operate long-term investigations using specialized teams. It works with cyber agents who track online crime, intelligence analysts who study threats, and evidence experts who reconstruct crimes through science. The FBI influences security decisions inside the United States, and often works as the lead coordinator when a threat involves multiple agencies. The secret intelligence service of the United Kingdom, known commonly as MI6, focuses specifically on foreign intelligence collection that influences military planning and international diplomacy. It was formed in the early 20th century during rising global tension when nations began realizing that information could determine the outcome of wars before battles even started. MI6 developed impressive skill in recruiting human sources overseas, training case officers to blend discreetly into other countries, and building networks capable of gathering information that could not be captured through traditional means. During the Second World MI6 supported resistance fighters, sabotaged enemy infrastructure, and passed intelligence that helped allied forces anticipate movements and strategies. It influenced increased through partnerships with the United States and other English-speaking allies which formed what is known as the Five Eyes Intelligence Alliance. This gave MI6 access not only to its own human sources, but also to shared signals and surveillance intelligence that strengthened its global reach. The agency also contributed during the Cold War by uncovering plans, monitoring nuclear development, and tracking espionage networks. Even when Adverse series placed heavy surveillance on foreign diplomats and agents, MI6 used careful planning and patient recruitment to maintain an intelligence presence. The Gestapo was seen as powerful not because of national protection, but because it became an instrument of fear and unquestioned authority within Nazi Germany and its occupied territories. The organization operated as a secret state police force with the purpose of identifying anyone considered an enemy of the regime. It arrested individuals without trial, interrogated suspects, using harsh and unlawful methods, and transferred countless people to concentration camps. The Gestapo did not need court approval to act. This absence of legal restraint removed every form of civilian protection, which allowed the agency to control the population through intimidation. The Gestapo developed broad networks of informants, which meant ordinary citizens lived in fear that neighbors, co-workers, or even family members could report them. The organization tracked political opponents, journalist religious figures, and entire communities. Its role was central in enforcing racial persecution, Jewish families, political dissidents, and minority groups were monitored, detained and deported under its direction. The coordination between the Gestapo, the SS, and the camp systems allowed mass imprisonment and killings to occur as part of state policy. The agency used documentation, record keeping, and organized files to classify citizens as threats. This transformed government surveillance from a small-scale practice into a national system of control. The Gestapo showed how information could be weaponized to destroy rights, and how fear could silence resistance without the need for large numbers of officers. It functioned as the backbone of an authoritarian regime that reshaped society. The Office of Strategic Services was powerful during its short existence because it introduced a new style of intelligence and special operations. During the Second World War, before its creation, the United States lacked a centralized agency focused on gathering foreign intelligence, supporting resistance groups, or conducting covert missions. The OSS filled this gap by sending officers overseas to gather information directly from the field, and to train local fighters who opposed access forces. Its approach was creative, flexible, and unconventional, which made it effective in areas where traditional armies struggled. OSS teams carried out sabotage, supported underground movements, secured supply routes, and conducted psychological operations that weaken enemy morale. They organized networks behind enemy lines in Europe, North Africa, and Asia, and provided intelligence that helped commanders, plan invasions, and true movements. The agency also developed a research and analysis branched that studied logistics, production, political structures, and geography to give leaders insights that shaped decisions. This combination of field action and intellectual analysis made the OSS influential beyond its size. The Central Intelligence Agency of the United States was formed in 1947. Its creation announced a new way for the United States to handle global security, especially after the end of World War II. When new tensions started to grow, the CIA works to gather foreign intelligence, analyze global threats, and provide American leaders with information that can shape military diplomatic and economic decisions. This intelligence plays a major role in preventing surprise attacks, tracking global crises, and understanding the actions of foreign governments. One major source of the CIA's strength is its wide network across the world. The agency uses human intelligence, which depends on informant and undercover officers, and technical intelligence, which uses satellites, communication, and reception in advanced surveillance systems. The CIA does not only collect information, it can also carry out covert actions when ordered by the United States government. These secret programs can change political events in other countries while keeping the involvement of the United States hidden from public view. During the Cold War, the CIA played an active role in several operations. It supported the 1953 coup in Iran, and influenced events in Guatemala in 1954. These examples show that the CIA had the ability to affect foreign policies and leadership choices without deploying an army. At the same time, the agency pushed forward technological progress by helping develop surveillance satellites that allowed the United States to monitor distant regions and track nuclear activities. Intelligence gathered through these programs shaped major negotiations and conflict decisions. The Inter-Services Intelligence of Pakistan is the country's most important military intelligence agency. Created in 1948 after the formation of Pakistan, its main objective is to protect national security by collecting information about possible threats at home and abroad. The ISI became responsible for analyzing this intelligence, and giving the armed forces guidance during military operations. Its connection to Pakistan's military leadership explains a large part of its authority and influence. The ISI conducts human intelligence operations, counterintelligence missions, and cooperation with foreign allies. It also has a long history of involvement in covert operations, meant to influence events without public recognition. The agency has had deep involvement in Afghanistan and other territories. It has also been described as a powerful organization whose activity shaped politics and balance of power in the region. Because the ISI is directly connected to the Pakistani military, it receives strong institutional support and access to decision-making. This position allows it to influence national policy in ways that other organizations cannot easily match. At the same time, this close bond limits civilian oversight and creates debates about transparency. Intelligence work often takes place secretly, so the agency's actions are sometimes known only through investigations, reports or diplomatic disagreements. Supporters of the ISI see it as a protective shield for Pakistan, especially given regional conflicts in the long history of tension with India. Its critics believe some strategies have created long-term risks by empowering groups that later became uncontrollable or dangerous for stability. Most sad is Israel's foreign intelligence agency, and one of the best known secret services worldwide. It is responsible for gathering intelligence outside Israel, preventing threats, and conducting covert operations that protect national security. Most sad reports directly to the Prime Minister, which allows decisions to be made quickly, and with limited public involvement. This direct link to leadership gives Most sad significant authority during urgent situations. Most sad is recognized for its bold and precise operations. One of the most famous examples is the capture of Adolf Eichmann in Argentina at 1960, a key figure responsible for organizing the Holocaust. The mission showed Most sad's ability to track individuals across continents and perform complex operations quickly. After the attack on Israeli athletes during the Munich Olympic Games in 1972, Most sad carried out operations targeting individuals believed responsible. These missions revealed how Most sad could act beyond its borders to defend Israeli citizens. The agency uses highly trained officers, careful planning, and global networks. Most sad teams often operate in small groups that must enter locations undetected, gather information, or perform direct action. Technical support such as communication systems, and surveillance tools increases the agency's effectiveness. Most sad also works with other countries when interest align. The secrecy surrounding many of its operations adds to its reputation. The Stasi, officially known as the Ministry for State Security, served as the most powerful intelligence and secret police organization. Inside East Germany from 1950 until 1990, it was created after the Second World War when Germany became divided between the Democratic West and the Socialist East. The Stasi's primary mission was to protect the ruling Socialist Unity Party by identifying, controlling, and eliminating any form of political opposition. The organization combined the roles of internal security, secret surveillance, border control, foreign intelligence, and psychological manipulation. What made the Stasi stand out was the skill of its reach inside everyday life. The agency recruited thousands of official employees, but it's influenced a group because it also relied heavily on ordinary citizens who acted as informants, teachers, neighbors, co-workers, and even family members could secretly report on one another. This created a climate of constant fear because people never knew who might be listening to their conversations. The Stasi kept detailed files on millions of people, recording private conversations, letters, phone calls, friendships, and political opinions. The Stasi developed advanced techniques for infiltration, psychological disruption, and control. They did not only use force or imprisonment, the Stasi preferred to destroy a person's life quietly by damaging careers, relationships, or mental stability. This method allowed the agency to break resistance without creating public martyrs. The Stasi also operated outside East Germany, gathering intelligence across Europe, especially in West Germany. Their foreign intelligence branch became skilled at stealing technology, influencing political movements, and gathering military information. After the fall of the Berlin Wall and reunification of Germany, many citizens were shocked to learn the level of surveillance conducted against them. People gained access to their files, and discovered betrayals by friends, colleagues, and even family members. These revelations created emotional and legal consequences that continued long after the agency collapsed. The National Security Agency, widely known as the NSA, was established after the Second World War when communications technology became essential to national defense. The NSA specializes in signals intelligence. That means it gathers information by monitoring electronic communication such as radio, telephone calls, satellite transmissions, and internet data. It also plays a major role in protecting the United States, from foreign cyber attacks by securing military and government computer systems. The NSA grew powerful because it mastered technology at the highest level, as global communication expanded through cables, satellites, and later digital platforms. The NSA adapted to H.A.R.A. The agency built listening stations, monitored international communications networks, and formed intelligence partnerships with several allied countries. This allowed the United States government to observe foreign actions in real time. The agency also developed cryptography, which involves protecting communication by creating complex codes, and cryptanalysis, which focuses on breaking the codes of others. Public attention increased dramatically, in the 21st century when information became digital and global. The agency's ability to collect large volumes of data, raised debates about privacy, national security, and the boundaries of government power. Some argued this capability was necessary to prevent acts of terror and anticipate attacks, while others feared the loss of civilian privacy. The NSA supports military operations by tracking threats, identifying networks, and preventing cyber sabotage. It also provides intelligence that shapes diplomacy, trade decisions, and global strategy. The Federal Intelligence Service, known widely as the BND, serves as the Foreign Intelligence Agency of Germany. It was formed during the Cold War, when Germany needed reliable information about foreign governments, military strength, and political changes that could affect the safety of the nation. The BND collects data through signals intelligence, human sources, diplomatic relationships, and technical operations. Its mission is to warn the government about threats, support national security, and provide strategic insight. The BND operates mainly outside Germany. Its analyst monitor global conflicts, track extremist organizations, and observe international political developments. It also assists law enforcement efforts related to organized crime and acts of terror. The service exchanges intelligence with allied countries, and participate in joint operations that have grown more important in modern times. Cooperation is a core strength of the BND, allowing Germany access to information it could not gather alone. The agency has maintained technical capabilities, and surveillance and data analysis. It can intercept communications, monitor metadata, and follow digital activity linked to international threats. The research and analysis wing, known as RAW, is the main foreign intelligence agency of India, and was established in the late 1960s. It was created during a period of regional tension, when India faced conflicts, border disputes, and shifting alliances in Asia. RAW was formed to gather foreign intelligence, prevent threats, influence strategic outcomes, and provide the Indian government with reliable information about events in other countries. RAW focuses on South Asia and surrounding regions, making it a central tool of Indian foreign policy. It uses human intelligence, electronic monitoring, partnerships with other countries, and long-term strategic planning. The agency became known for its role during the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971, where provided assistance that influenced the outcome of the conflict. RAW continued to develop its capacity to conduct discrete operations, monitor extremist groups, and track activities that could affect India's security. The agency also works to counter acts of terror. It monitors groups that operate across borders, gather information related to threats, and collaborates with military and diplomatic units to prevent attacks. RAW maintains a network of relationships with international intelligence organizations, which improves its access to knowledge and resources. The Directorate General for External Security, commonly called DGSE, serves as the primary foreign intelligence agency of France. It was created in 1982, although its roots reached earlier, through the merger of military and intelligence branches that operated throughout the Cold War. The DGSE works under the French Ministry of Armed Forces, and its central mission is to protect France and to finit's national interests beyond its borders, through intelligence gathering, over it operations, cyber activities, and strategic analysis. DGSE is regarded as powerful, because it focuses heavily on both human intelligence and technological intelligence. It employs field agents around the world who gather confidential information through diplomatic channels, undercover identities, and trusted networks. The agency has advanced cyber capabilities, which allows it to intercept communications, monitor digital traffic, and protect France from foreign cyber attacks. It also holds authority to plan and carry out special operations, when the French government gives approval. A notable example of DGSE intervention is its role encounter terror operations in the Middle East and Africa. France has faced multiple threats linked to extremist organizations, and DGSE has contributed to preventing plant attacks by tracking financing networks, identifying radical cells, and sharing intelligence with allied countries. Another example is its involvement in monitoring nuclear programs in other countries. DGSE analysts produce security reports that influence national policy decisions regarding diplomatic agreements and sanctions. The agency is respected for combining military, cyber, and intelligence coordination within a single structure, which allows faster decision and more direct communication with French leaders. The Ministry of State Security, known as MSS, serves as the main intelligence and security organization of China, formed in 1983, MSS handles counterintelligence, foreign intelligence, political security, and protection of Chinese national interests. Its role combines functions that many countries divide into multiple agencies. MSS performs external espionage, similar to foreign intelligence services, while also conducting internal security similar to a domestic protection service. MSS is viewed as powerful due to its broad authority. It monitors political stability within China, and gathers information from abroad that influences military, economic, and diplomatic decisions. MSS has strong influence in cyber security and digital surveillance. It is widely known for monitoring online communications, social media behavior, and digital platforms for potential security threats or activities, considered harmful to state interest. A notable example of MSS operations is involvement in economic and industrial intelligence. There have been global accusations that MSS has targeted foreign companies in scientific institutions to acquire technology and patents. These efforts are believed to support China's rapid advancement in fields such as artificial intelligence, telecommunications, aerospace and renewable energy. MSS also focuses on counter-espionage within China. It identifies foreign agents, provincial external influence campaigns, and manages investigations against individuals' organizations, suspected of sharing classified information. The SVR, known as the Foreign Intelligence Service of Russia, is responsible for espionage and intelligence gathering outside Russia. It was established in 1991 after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, inheriting the foreign intelligence responsibilities that previously belonged to the KGB. SVR focuses on political information, military analysis, international negotiations, and economic intelligence. It reports directly to the president of Russia. SVR is considered powerful because it maintains a vast network of operatives and confidential contacts across many countries. It also continues to benefit from traditions and training developed during the Soviet period. SVR collects long-term intelligence that influences Russia's foreign policy decisions. The agency targets global governments, defense ministries, scientific research groups, media organizations, and international corporations. A known example of SVR activity involves deep-cover agents, often called illegal operatives, who live under false identities for many years. These individuals gather information quietly, build relationships, and gain access to environments where traditional intelligence officers would be noticed easily. This method was revealed in well-publicized cases, where individuals in Western countries were accused of working secretly for Russia. The agency plays a key role in negotiations by providing Russian leaders with analysis that predicts foreign responses and vulnerabilities. The Federal Security Service of Russia, known as FSB, serves as the main domestic security agency of the Russian Federation. It was created in 1995, as the direct successor to much of the internal security structure of the former KGB. FSB focuses mainly on internal operations, and intelligence tied to national protection inside Russian territory. FSB holds authority over counter-terror, border security, counterintelligence, organized crime investigation, cyber security, and protection of political institutions. The agency is regarded as powerful because of its significant legal authority, extensive personnel network, and close influence on Russian leadership. FSB investigates threats to government stability, monitors extremist groups, and manages counter-espionage by identifying foreign agents within the country. A notable example of FSB involvement is its operations against separatists and extremist movements. It has also played a major role in conflicts, where groups saw autonomy or challenged Moscow's authority. FSB also performs counter-terror operations by tracking suspects, intercepting communications, and preventing planned attacks. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure to like it. Comment down below your thoughts on any of the intelligence agencies I discuss in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see part 2 or more videos like this one. Thank you again, and goodbye.