---
video_title: "The Most Notorious Torture Methods in History"
video_id: oj49yXERB5E
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oj49yXERB5E
video_date: 2025-09-17T19:00:58+00:00
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Flaying
  1:26 - Crucifixion
  3:00 - Scaphism
  4:09 - Brazen Bull
  5:00 - The Rack
  6:11 - Lingchi
  7:34 - Breaking Wheel
  8:38 - Judas Cradle
  9:42 - Thumbscrew
  10:40 - Pear of Anguish
  11:41 - Iron Maiden
  12:43 - The Boot
  14:01 - Head Crusher
  15:19 - Strappado
  17:00 - Heretics Fork
---
Flaying, the act of removing the skin from a living person, is one of the most notorious torture methods in human history. Its roots can be traced as far back as the ancient Assyrian Empire, in the 9th century BC, where it was not only a punishment, but also a brutal display of dominance meant to instill fear among conquered peoples. Over time, the methods spread to other civilizations, including the Persians and later medieval Europe, cementing its place as a symbol of cruelty and suffering. The process itself was deliberately slow and designed to inflict unimaginable agony. Victims were bound, often to a post or table, and executioners used sharp blades to peel away the skin layer by layer. Typically, the flaying began at the limbs before moving toward the torso, ensuring the person remained alive for as long as possible. The exposed flesh caused unbearable pain, rapid blood loss, and often death through shock or infection. Beyond the physical torment, there was the added psychological horror, of seeing one's body methodically destroyed. Historically, flaying was employed as a punishment for traders, rebels, or enemies of the state. A Syrian king sometimes had the skins of their victims nailed to city walls as warnings. While later accounts for medieval Europe describe its use in extreme cases of treason. The gruesome act was not only about punishment, but about instilling terror and reinforcing authority, ensuring that defiance came at the highest cost imaginable. Crucifixion is perhaps the most infamous execution method of the ancient world, remembered for its brutality and public spectacle. Although its roots can be traced to earlier civilizations, such as the Assyrians and Persians, it was the Romans who perfected crucifixion as the ultimate form of torture and deterrence. The earliest record dates to 519 BC, when King Darius I of Persia, Crucified 3,000 political enemies in Babylon, and later examples appear among the Greeks, Carthaginians, and Salucid rulers. By the time of the Roman Empire, Crucifixion had become a well-established punishment reserved for the most despised criminals, traders, and rebels. The process was designed to maximize both suffering and humiliation. Victims were typically beaten beforehand, and then they were forced to carry the heavy wooden crossbeam to the side of execution, shamed further by parading through the streets. Once there, the condemned were stripped naked, and nailed through the wrist and feet to the wooden structure. The positioning of the body made breathing agonizing, as the victim had to push up on pierced feet just to inhale. Each movement intensified the pain, while the rough wood tore into the victim's backs. Death came slowly, often after days of agony, most commonly from asphyxiation as the victim lost the strength to lift themselves for air. To haste and death, executioners might break the legs, preventing further attempts at breathing. Crucifixion continued until the 4th century, when Emperor Constantine abolished it. Its legacy, however, endures as a symbol of ultimate suffering, most famously in the execution of Jesus Christ. Scafism is believed to have begun around 500 BC, and it is credited to the ancient Persians. The word comes from the Greek scape, meaning Bollar Grave. While some historians argue whether it was truly practiced or exaggerated by later writers, its sheer brutality made it infamous. The method involved tipping a victim between two hollowed out logs or boats, with only the head, arms and legs protruding. The prisoner was force-fed milk and honey, until they developed violent diarrhea, which would pull inside the wooden enclosure. Their exposed skin was then coated with more milk and honey, attracting swarm of flies, wasps and vermin. Over the course of days, sometimes weeks, the victims flesh was eaten away by insects, while infection spread inside the body. The psychological torment of being devoured alive was as horrific as the physical pain itself. By later centuries, the method faded into obscurity, partly because of doubts about its practicality, and the lack of independent records. Today, scaphism survives more in legend than fact, often appearing in dark historical writings in modern horror discussions as a candidate for the worst way to die. The brazen bull, also known as the Sicilian bull, emerged in ancient Greece. It was a allegedly invented by parallels of Athens. In the 6th century BC, as a gruesome new execution device, the bull itself was a hollow bronze statue with a door on its side, large enough to fit a person. Once the condemned was locked inside, a fire was set beneath the structure, gradually heating the metal until the victim was roasted alive. The design supposedly featured an acoustic system of tubes that distorted the victim's screams into the bellowing of a bowl, while smokin' steam poured from its nostrils. To observers, the bull appeared to come alive, transforming a human execution into a horrifying performance. By the later centuries, the brazen bull disappeared from use, likely due to its impracticality in the rise of other forms of execution. The rack is one of the most infamous tortured devices of medieval and early modern Europe, though its origins reach back to ancient Greece. It consisted of a large wooden frame with rollers at each end, to which a victim's wrists and ankles were pound. By turning a ratchet, the ropes were chained tightened, gradually pulling the body in opposite directions. The process was slow and deliberate. As the rollers turned, the victims joined stretched until they dislocated, and in several cases, muscles and ligaments tore completely. Chronicleers described bone snapping, tissue tearing, and bodies left permanently crippled even if the victim survived. To intensify the ordeal, interrogators sometimes applied fire, hot holes, or sharp implements during the stretching, ensuring that both physical agony and psychological tear broke the prisoner's resistance. The rack was used widely across Europe, in Rome, it was employed to extract confessions or information, and in England it gained the nickname, the Duke of Exeter's daughter, after its introduction to the Tower of London in the 15th century. Victims included religious martyrs and conspirators, its symbolic weight was intense, representing the absolute authority of state and church over the body. Lin Chi, often translated as death by a thousand cuts or slow slicing, was a form of execution practiced in China, from around the 10th century until its abolition in 1905. Also used in Vietnam and Korea, it became one of the most infamous punishment of the Chinese imperial legal system, symbolizing both cruelty and state power. The process involved tying the condemned to a wooden frame in a public space, where the executioner systematically sliced away portions of flesh. Cut would begin on the arms, chest and legs, before escalating to dismemberment and eventually decapitation or fatal stab to the heart. Depending on the sentence and whether brides were paid, death could come quickly or after many incisions. Beyond physical torment, Lin Chi carried deep psychological and spiritual consequences. As mutilation meant the body was no longer hole for the afterlife. Historically, Lin Chi was reserved for crimes such as treason, the killing of a parent, or the killing of a master. Impers is also wielded as a tool of fear, sometimes extending punishment to relatives of the accused. Public executions reinforced imperial authority, warning society of the consequences of betrayal or rebellion. By the late Qing dynasty, reformist officials condemned the practice as barbaric and incompatible with modern governance. It was formally abolished in 1905. The breaking wheel, also known as the execution wheel or Catherine's wheel, emerged in Europe during the early Middle Ages and became one of the most infamous forms of capital punishment, closely tied to the Holy Roman Empire, and later France and Germany. It was remembered for its brutality in public display. The process was gruesome, a large wooden wheel often taken from carts and reinforced with iron was the central instrument. The condemned person was bound to a scaffold where the executioner systematically shattered their limbs, usually beginning with the legs. Sharp timbers were sometimes placed beneath joints to ensure maximum damage. Once broken, the victim's body was woven between the spokes of the wheel, were tied upon it, and then raised on a pole for all to see. Some were granted a merciful coup de gras, which was death by a swift blow to the neck or chest, while others lingered in agony for hours or even days. Historically, the breaking wheel was used against killers, traders and highwaymen. The practice declined in the 19th century, abolished across Europe as legal systems modernized. The Judas Cradle was a medieval torture device that emerged in Europe during the late Middle Ages, specifically in Italy and Spain. Associated most often with the Spanish Inquisition, it became infamous for its blend of physical agony and psychological humiliation, symbolizing the extremes of punishment used to enforce obedience and extract confessions. The device itself was deceptively simple, a wooden or metal period mounted on a stand. The victim, stripped of clothing, was hoisted and lowered so that the point of the pyramid pressed into the most sensitive parts of the body, weights were sometimes tied to the ankles to intensify the pain. The slow process could last for hours or even days, inflicting excruciating suffering while minimizing immediate death. Beyond the physical torment, the humiliation of public exposure added another layer of cruelty. Historically, it was employed by inquisitors, local rulers, and even civic authorities against those accused of heresy, treason, or moral offenses. Though records are scarce, its reputation as endured is one of the most dehumanizing punishment of its time. The thumb screw, sometimes called the devil's handshake, was a notorious tortured device that appeared in early modern Europe, with records placing its use as early as the 16th century. Most often associated with inquisitions in which trials, it became infamous for its deceptive simplicity, small and design, but capable of inflicting excruciating pain. The device worked like a miniature vice, a victim's thumbs, fingers, or toes were placed between two metal bars, which were tightened by a screw mechanism. As the screw turned, bones cracked and nails splintered. In some cases, sharp studs were added to pierce the flesh. While the most common design crushed a single digit, larger variants could torment both hands or all ten toes at once. The pain was immediate, yet the method rarely caused death, making it ideal for forcing confessions or compliance. By the 18th century, shifting legal attitudes in the decline of judicial torture led to its disappearance. The pair of anguish, also called the choke pair or mouth pair, is one of the most infamous yet disputed torture devices, attributed to early modern Europe, particularly the 16th and 17th centuries. The device itself was small but menacing, a metal body shaped like a pair, divided into several spoon-like segments. When a screw or key was turned, the leafs expanded outward, accounts claimed that it could be inserted into the mouth, rectum, or vagina, where the expanding mechanism would stretch tissue painfully, gagging or mutilating the victim. Even if exaggerated, the very design symbolized invasive torment, combining physical agony with humiliation. Atributions of its use vary. Some sources suggest robbers in 17th century France used it as a gag to silence victims. While later stories tied it to inquisitions, or punishment for blasphemers or adulterers, yet no contemporary records confirmed judicial use. And some scholars argue that many surviving pairs may have been repurposed tools. The iron maiden is the most iconic torture device associated with the so-called dark ages, yet its reputation is built more on myth than on fact. A allegedly invented in medieval Europe, it is described as a tall iron cabinet with a hanged door, in an interior lined with spikes. Victims would be shut inside, impaled on the sharp points without being killed immediately, left to suffer in prolonged agony. However, no reliable records exist of its use before the 19th century. The supposed process was both horrifying and theatrical. A prisoner would be forced into the upright coffin-like structure, unable to move. As the door closed, spikes pierced the body at carefully chosen angles, deep enough to cause immense pain but not kill instantly. Victims were said to bleed slowly or suffocate in darkness, combining physical torment with overwhelming psychological tear. Although legend's claim inquisitors in medieval judges, employed the iron maiden against heretics or criminals, historians now believe the device never truly serves such a role. The boot was a grimly tangible device that emerged across Europe as early as the Middle Ages, and persisted into the early modern era, known in variations such as the Spanish boot or buskin. It became infamous for its ruthless efficiency, and crushing the bones of the leg and foot. Different cultures devised their own adaptations, but the underlying purpose was always the same, to extract confessions, or to punish through unbearable agony. At its simplest, the boot consisted of wooden or iron castings fitted around a victim's lower leg. Once secured, wedges were hammered between the casting and flesh, slowly increasing pressure until the bone splintered. Some models used spike iron plates to puncture skin, while others employed boiling water, oil, or even molten lead poured into metal boots to destroy tissue. The psychological torment was as severe as the physical, the anticipation of each wedge being struck, or liquid poured prolonged the victim's dread, authorities ranging from the Spanish Inquisition to Scottish courts employed the boot, specifically in cases of heresy, treason, or witchcraft. Its brutality served not only to break the will of individuals, but also to symbolize state power and instill fear among communities. The boot declined with the enlightenment in the gradual rejection of judicial torture, in the 18th century. The head crusher emerged in late medieval Europe as one of the most feared and grotesque tortured devices of Aterra. Though its precise origins remain uncertain, it became particularly associated with the Spanish Inquisition, in various European and Quisitorial courts, where it symbolized the absolute power of authorities to silence dissenters and instill terror. The device itself was deceptively simple yet horrifyingly effective. A metal plate was positioned beneath the victim's jaw, while a cap secured the skull from above. A screw mechanism slowly forced the two components together, crushing the jaw, teeth, and facial bones. The process was agonizingly gradual, designed to maximize suffering, victims often in girage-shattered jaws, dislocated facial muscles, and protruding eyes before death finally arrived. To intensify the torment, some torturous tapped on the iron cap with hammers, or used versions fitted with small containers to catch the victim's eyes once forced from their sockets. Even when not taken to its lethal conclusion, survivors were left permanently disfigured and broken. The head crusher was primarily used against those accused of heresy, treason, or witchcraft, beyond punishment. It served as a brutal spectacle of control, meant to terrify onlookers, into obedience. The Shrapato, also known as Korda or the Torment of the Rope, first appeared in medieval Europe and quickly became a hallmark of Inquisitorial and Judicial torture, most commonly associated with the Spanish Inquisition and Italian courts. It gained infamy for its ability to cause immense pain without leaving external scars, making it a favorite tool of regimes that wanted confessions, but not visible evidence of brutality. The method was simple yet devastating. The victims' hands were tied tightly behind the back, and a rope attached to the wrist were passed over a beam, polear hook. The victim was then hoisted into the air, suspending their body weight from their bound arms. This unnatural strain often dislocated the shoulders, tore ligaments, and caused nerve damage. Variants such as squashation added further cruelty by dropping the victim and halting the fall at the rope, producing violent jerks that shatter joints. In some versions, weights were tied to the ankles, amplifying the tearing force on both upper and lower limbs. Survivors frequently suffered paralysis, chronic pain, or permanent deformity. The Shrapato was inflicted upon heretics, political prisoners, and alleged conspirators. Its effectiveness lay not only in physical torment, but in its psychological terror. Victims could hear their own joints pop and feel their body slowly giving away, making resistance nearly impossible. Although legal reforms of the enlightenment gradually outlawed such practices, Shrapato persisted into modern times, resurfacing during the Vietnam War, and even in recent human rights violations. Today, it survives as a grim symbol of state oppression. The heretics fork emerged in late medieval Europe, most often tied to the Inquisition during the 15th and 16th centuries. Unlike larger execution devices, it was small, almost deceptively simple, yet its cruelty earned at a dark reputation. Designed not to kill quickly, but to torment through endurance, the fork symbolized the authority of church and state, in silencing descent. The device itself was a metal rod, fitted with two sets of sharpened prongs pointing in opposite directions. Strap around the victim's neck with leather bindings, one set of prongs pressed beneath the chin, while the other dug into the chest or throat just below the jawline. The victim could neither look down nor tilt the head upward, without stabbing themselves deeper. Even the smallest movement, nodding, swallowing, or attempting to rest, became an exercise in pain. To hide in its psychological torment, victims were sometimes forced to wear the fork for hours or even days, kept awake by the constant threat of self-inflicted injury. The heretics fork was typically used against those accused of blasphemy, witchcraft or heresy. Its true power was symbolic, its silent speech, an imposed force stillness, turning the body into its own prison. Inquisitors favored it as a tool of intimidation, demonstrating that resistant to or doubt would be met with humiliation as well as suffering. By the 17th century, the device began to disappear, gradually replaced by other instruments of punishment, and a slow shift toward more regulated systems of law. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure you leave a like. Comment down below your thoughts on any of the torture methods I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part 2 or more videos like this one. Thank you again, and goodbye.