---
video_title: "The Most Deadly Assassins in History"
video_id: TQ2rImgS7G8
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TQ2rImgS7G8
video_date: 2025-11-05T20:00:32+00:00
video_description: |
  If you’re ever injured in an accident, you can check out Morgan & Morgan. You can start your claim in just a click without having to leave your couch. To start your claim, visit: https://www.forthepeople.com/Jaydone
  
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Tyrannicides
  1:26 - Cassius
  2:44 - Ravaillac
  4:24 - John Felton
  5:41 - Morgan & Morgan
  7:13 - Hryniewiecki
  8:37 - Charles Guiteau
  9:56 - Sante Caserio
  11:39 - Gaetano Bresci
  13:16 - James Earl Ray
  15:17 - The Iceman
  16:42 - Carlos the Jackal
  18:32 - Yamagami
  20:08 - Anders Breivik
  22:05 - Luigi Mangione
  23:40 - Tyler Robinson
---
In 514 BC, Athens was under the rule of the Pysus Stratid Tyrant, Hippius, and Hipparchus, Harmodeus, and Aristogetan, two Aristocratic lovers, became famous for killing Hipparchus. Their actions were driven by a personal grievance. Hipparchus had tried to seduce Harmodeus, and when Harmodeus rejected him, Hipparchus insulted Harmodeus' sister. This insult pushed the two men to plan the assassination on the tyrant. The plot was scheduled for the Panethanetic Festival, a major public event, during which citizens were allowed to carry weapons. Despite careful planning, the conspirators acted earlier than intended, because of friendly greeting from Hipparchus, unexpectedly disrupted the plan. Harmodeus, an Aristogetan attacked, successfully killing Hipparchus. Harmodeus was killed immediately during the attack, while Aristogetan was captured, tortured, and executed shortly after. Even though their plan to kill both tyrants failed, their act had far-reaching consequences. The assassination inspired resistance against the ruling family, ultimately leading to the overthrow of the Pysus Stratid Tyrant in 510 BC. Harmodeus and Aristogetan were celebrated as heroes of democracy and Athens. Their courage was immortalized through statues, and their story became a symbol of the struggle against oppression. Daes Cassius' Laungenus, born around 86 BC, was a Roman senator in general who became one of the leading conspirators in the assassination of Julius Caesar in 44 BC. Cassius was a committed supporter of the Roman Republic, and he feared that Caesar's increasing power threatened its survival. Cassius began planning Caesar's assassination with Marcus Junia's Brutus, who was thought to be Caesar's illegitimate son. They were joined by other senators who shared the belief that killing Caesar would restore the Republic and prevent a monarchy. The conspirators carefully coordinated their plan to strike during a Senate meeting on the Iads of March, 15th, 44 BC. On that day, Caesar was surrounded by the Senators, and Cassius was among those who stabbed him to death. The assassination was intended to protect the Republic, but instead it triggered a chain of events that led to civil war. Caesar's supporters fought against the conspirators, and ultimately, Caesar's adopted heir Octavian emerged as the ruler establishing the Roman Empire. Cassius' actions are remembered as both heroic and tragic. He sought to defend Republican ideals, but unintentionally caused the collapse of the Republic he wanted to save. France's Suarez-Vilac was a French Catholic zealot, born in 1578, in Angulim. He became deeply influenced by his religious beliefs, and came to view King Henry the Forrest's policies as a betrayal of the Catholic faith. Henry the Forth had pursued reconciliation between Catholics and Protestants in France, and Revilac considered these actions a threat to divine order. He believed he was commanded to act and remove what he saw as a danger to the church. In 1609, Revilac claimed to have received a vision, instructing him to persuade King Henry the Forth to convert the Huguenots French Protestants to Catholicism. Between 1609 and May 1610, he made three trips to Paris to present his vision to the King. The King's decision to invade the Spanish Netherlands convinced Revilac that Henry was preparing a war against the Pope. Determined to prevent this, he decided to assassinate the King. On May 14, 1610, Revilac waited on a street in Paris. When Henry's carriage was stocked by traffic, he seized the opportunity climbed in, and stabbed the King to death. Revilac was quickly seized by authorities, and taken to the Conciergery to prevent a mob attack. During interrogation, he was tortured repeatedly to reveal accomplices, but insisted he acted alone. Questions about how he knew the King's route led to speculation about possible involvement of others later historians debated whether Revilac had collaborators. Some saw him as an evil fanatic while others described him as a freedom fighter against tyranny. John Felton was born in England in 1596 and became a naval officer in the English fleet. He grew deeply frustrated with George Villiers, the Duke of Buckingham, who he believed mismanaged military affairs and caused suffering among English sailors. Felton concluded that Buckingham's removal would benefit the nation and felt compelled to act. On August 23, 1628, Felton approached Buckingham at the Greyhound pub in Portmouth. He carried a concealed knife and attacked without warning, stabbing the Duke in the heart. Buckingham attempted to defend himself and cried out that he had been attacked, but he died from the injuries soon afterward. Felton was immediately captured and brought to trial. At trial, Felton was found guilty of killing, incentenced a death. He was executed by hanging, and his body was later quartered. The assassination caused a major political reaction across England. Some people considered Felton a martyr who had rid the country of a corrupt leader while others viewed him as a dangerous fanatic. The event exposed deep social and political divisions in England. Felton's act highlighted both the personal grievances of individuals within military service and the broader discontent with political leadership. Now, before we continue, I have something that I need to tell you guys. When I was a kid, on the 4th of July of all days, I was hit by a car. Fireworks, barbecue, and then camped. A trip to the hospital. Thankfully, I recovered, but for my parents, it was a nightmare. Especially because of the insurance companies and then having a deal with the mountain of medical bills. And that's the reality for so many other people as well. Traditional personal injury claims are designed to wear you down. Insurance companies drag their feet, offer you pennies to what you deserve, and hope you'll just give up. That's why I wish my parents had known about Morgan and Morgan. There's a reason history remembers those who fought for justice. Just like there's a reason why Morgan and Morgan is America's largest injury law firm. And for over 35 years, they've been fighting for the people, not the insurance companies. Their results are insane. In Florida, one client was offered just $350,000. But Morgan and Morgan fought for them and got them over $12 million. In Pennsylvania, another client was awarded $26 million. Which was 40 times higher than what the insurer wanted to pay. That's because when you hire Morgan and Morgan, it's like hiring a legal army. They've got over a thousand attorneys and a hundred plus offices nationwide. And they've recovered over $25 billion for over $500,000 clients. And the best part, there are no upfront costs. Their fee is free unless they win. Submitting a claim is super easy. You can start less than a minute with no endless appointments, overwhelming paperwork or long waits. So if you're ever injured, don't settle for less and let the insurance companies win. You can just click the link in the description or scan the QR code on screen to get started with Morgan and Morgan today. Rina Vysky was a Polish revolutionary, born in 1856 in Kalanovka, which was part of the Russian Empire at the time. He grew up in a family of Polish nobility and later studied mathematics at the St. Petersburg Technological Institute. By 1880, Rina Vysky had become involved in revolutionary activities, distributing propaganda among students and workers. He joined People's Will, a radical group determined to overthrow the Russian monarchy through violent means. On March 13, 1881, Rina Vysky played a key role in the assassination of Sare Alexander II. The plan involved multiple attackers positioned along the Sars route. The first is Saelin, Nikolai Rysekov, threw a bomb that damaged the Sars carriage, causing Alexander II to exit the vehicle. Rina Vysky then threw a second bomb that fatally wounded the Sare. The explosion also injured Rina Vysky and he died later that same day from his injuries. The assassination reflected the People's Will's belief that violent action could spark political change. While the attack successfully killed Alexander II, it did not bring about revolution. Instead, the succeeding Sare, Alexander III, strengthened autocratic measures, imposing strict government controls, and surveillance to prevent future attacks. Charles Julius Gito was born on September 8, 1841, in Freport, Illinois. His early life was difficult, defined by the death of his mother, and strict control by his father, who was a banker and local politician. Gito showed erratic behavior throughout his life, and struggled in career such as journalism and law before turning to politics. In the 1888 presidential election, Gito supported James A. Garfield, and believed his efforts had been crucial to Garfield's victory. Convinced he deserved a government position as a reward, he repeatedly petitioned the administration for a diplomatic post, but his request were denied. Feeling slighted and delusional, Gito decided to assassinate the president. On July 2, 1881, Gito shot President Garfield at the Baltimore and Potomac, railroad station in Washington, D.C. Garfield suffered severe injuries and died on September 19, 1881, from infections related to the gunshot wounds. Gito was arrested immediately and claimed he had acted on divine orders. During his trial, Gito's lawyers argued that he was insane, but the jury thought him guilty of killing. He was sentenced to death and executed by hanging on June 30, 1882. Santé Geronimo Casarillo was an Italian anarchist, born on September 8, 1873, in Maddo, Visconti, Italy. Growing up in a working class family, he became involved in anarchist movements at a young age, drawn to ideas of social equality, and resistance against government oppression. By 1894, Casarillo was living in France, a country facing growing tension between anarchist groups and authorities. His views were shaped by the recent executions of anarchists, as well as the passage of repressive French laws aimed at curbing anarchist activity. On June 24, 1894, Casarillo attended a public event. In Leone, where president Saddie Carno was present, armed with a dagger, Casarillo approached the president and stabbed him in the abdomen. President Cardo later died from his injuries that same night. Casarillo was quickly captured by the crowd and handed over to the authorities. During his trial, Casarillo openly admitted to carrying out the assassination. He explained that he had acted in retaliation for the repression of anarchist and the harsh laws targeting them. His motives were rooted in his belief that violent action was necessary to resist injustice. The court found him guilty of killing, and he was sentenced to death. On August 16, 1894, Casarillo was executed by the guillotine in Leone. The assassination of President Cardo had far-reaching political consequences in France. It intensified the government crackdown on anarchist movements, leading to stricter policing and legal measures against those considered radicals. Guy Tano Bresci was an Italian anarchist, born on November 11, 1869. In Prado, Italy, he grew up in a working-class family and worked as a silk weaver. Early in life, Bresci became involved in anarchist groups influenced by the extreme poverty in social inequalities faced by workers in Italy. The harsh government responds to protests, particularly the Bava Bacari's massacre of 1898 in Milan, where military forces killed demonstrators deeply affected him and fueled his sense of moral outrage. In 1900, Bresci moved the United States where he continued his involvement in anarchist circles. Learning about the Bava Bacari's massacre, he decided to return to Italy with the goal of avenging the deaths of innocent civilians. Bresci believed King Umberto the first bore responsibility for the military actions that led to the massacre. On July 29, 1900, Bresci attended a public event in Manza where King Umberto the first was present. As the king was leaving, Bresci approached and fired several shots, fatally wounding him. Authorities immediately captured Bresci during interrogation. He stated that he acted alone, motivated by outrage at government brutality. Bresci was tried for killing and sentenced to life imprisonment on the island of Santos de Fano. On May 22, 1901, he was found dead in his cell. A fissure port's claim he took his own life, but some historians suggest foul play may have been involved. James Earl Ray was born on March 10, 1928 in Alton, Illinois. He grew up in a troubled and poor environment which contributed to his early criminal behavior. As a young man, he joined the US Army during World War II, but was dishonorably discharged. Over the years, Ray committed several crimes, including burglary and armed robbery, resulting in multiple prison sentences. In 1967, Ray escaped from the Missouri State Penitentiary and fled to Canada, eventually traveling to London. In early 1968, he returned to the United States and began planning the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. A leading civil rights activist who fought for racial equality. On April 4, 1968, Ray carried out his plan. He shot Dr. King while he stood on the balcony. Of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee, Dr. King was killed instantly. Ray was arrested in London on June 8, 1968. In extra-dited to the United States, on March 10, 1969, he pleaded guilty to the killing of Dr. King and received a sentence of 99 years in prison. Soon after, Ray claimed he had been coerced into pleading guilty and alleged that a wider conspiracy had been involved in the assassination. Despite these claims, no definitive evidence of a conspiracy was produced. In 1999, a civil trial concluded that Dr. King's death involved the conspiracy and that Ray was part of it, but the US Department of Justice maintained that Ray acted alone. During his imprisonment, Ray remained in the public eye, with discussions about the circumstances of Dr. King's killing continuing for decades. He died on April 23, 1998, from complications related to kidney disease. The assassination of Dr. King sparked widespread riots across the United States and influenced changes in civil rights legislation. Richard Leonard Kuklinski, nicknamed the Iceman, was born on April 11, 1935, in Jersey City, New Jersey. He grew up in an abusive household which shaped his violent tendencies from a young age. Kuklinski claimed that he committed his first killing when he was just 14 years old. As he grew older, he became involved in criminal activities, such as burglary and distributing illegal adult content. Kuklinski's criminal career escalated when he became an enforcer for mafia families. He gained a reputation for being extremely methodical and merciless. He often used cyanide and other lethal substances to kill his victims and froze bodies to obscure the time of death. This practice earned him the nickname the Iceman, and it made it difficult for authorities to track his crimes. In 1986, after an 18-month undercover investigation, Kuklinski was arrested and charged with multiple killings. He was convicted of five killings and sentenced to four consecutive live terms in prison. While in prison, he gave interviews to writers and criminologists, claiming to have killed between 100 and 200 people, experts however, remained skeptical about the total number of killings he claimed. Kuklinski died in prison on March 5, 2006, from heart failure. Illy Tramira Sanchez, better known as Carlos the Jackal, was born on October 12, 1949. In Micheleina, Venezuela, his family was politically active and he was named after Vladimir Linnon, showing the early influence of leftist ideas. In the 1960s, he moved to London and then to Moscow, where he studied at Patrice, Lumeumba University, a school known for attracting foreign students with socialist and communist beliefs. After being expelled in 1970, he joined the popular front for the liberation of Palestine, which marked the beginning of his involvement in international acts of terror. Carlos became notorious in the 1970s and 80s for orchestrating violent and highly visible attacks. In 1975, he led a raid on the organization of the petroleum exporting countries headquarters in Vienna taking 60 hostages, three people were killed and Carlos negotiated his escape through a dramatic hostage exchange. This operation cemented his reputation as a skilled and ruthless assassin. He carried out numerous bombings and targeted assassinations across Europe, focusing on French and Israeli interests. In the 1980s, his attacks in France killed 11 people and injured over 150. His actions were politically motivated, aiming to promote Marxist Linnonist ideologies and challenge Western powers. After years as a fugitive, Carlos was captured in Sudan in 1994 and extradited a France. In 1997, he received a life sentence for killing a French informant and two French counterintelligence officers. Later trials added further life sentences for his involvement in the French bombings of the 1980s. Tetsuya Yamagami was born on September 10, 1980 in Mie prefecture, Japan. He grew up in a family running a construction business, but the family faced financial difficulties because Yamagami's mother became heavily involved with the Unification Church, also known as the Moonies. She donated large amounts of money to the church, which caused severe financial strain and resentment within the family. These issues combined with Yamagami's older brother taking his own life in 2015 contributed to his growing anger and sense of injustice. Yamagami served in the Japan Self-Defense Forces from 2002 to 2005, but after leaving, he struggled to find steady work. He lived a life defined by hardship and isolation, growing increasingly fixated on the Unification Church, which he blamed for his family suffering. On July 8, 2022, Yamagami carried out a highly shocking political assassination. He attacked former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe during a campaign speech in Nara, Japan. Using a homemade firearm, he shot Abe killing him. Yamagami explained to the authorities that he targeted Abe because he believed the former Prime Minister was connected to the Unification Church, which he held responsible for his family's financial ruin. Following the assassination, Yamagami was immediately arrested at the scene. The first court hearing for the incident is scheduled for October 28, 2025, where it is likely he will at least receive a life sentence. Anders Bering-Brivic was born on February 13, 1979, in Oslo, Norway. He grew up in a family defined by early separation from his father and a difficult relationship with his mother. Brivic's early life showed signs of social isolation and a growing interest in far-right ideologies. At the age of 16, he was arrested for graffiti, signaling an early rebellious streak. Later, he joined the anti-immigration progress party and chaired its youth organization Invest Oslo in 2002. He developed an interest in firearms, joining a gun club in 2005. Brivic eventually left the progress party in 2006. A company he founded was declared bankrupt, and by 2009, he had no declared income, holding assets worth approximately 390,000 Norwegian Crohners, or about 72,000 US dollars. On July 22, 2011, Brivic carried out a coordinated attack in Norway. He first detonated a 2,100-pound bomb in the government quarter of Oslo, killing eight people. He then traveled to Utoil Island, where he opened fire at a worker's youth league camp, killing 69 people, most of them teenagers. His attacks were motivated by opposition to Islam in concern over immigration, which he believed threatened European culture. In 2012, Brivic was convicted of mass killing and acts of terror, in sentence to 21 years in prison, with the possibility of extinction if he remained a threat to society. Psychiatric evaluations concluded that he had narcissistic and anti-social personality disorders, but was not psychotic at the time of the attacks. Sent as incarceration, Brivic has filed unsuccessful lawsuits against the Norwegian government, claiming that solitary confinement violates his human rights. Luigi Nicholas Mangione was born on May 6, 1998, in Towson, Maryland. He grew up in a family with a background in construction and attended the University of Pennsylvania, where he earned degrees in computer science and engineering. Mangione worked as a data engineer in California before his arrest in December 2024. He allegedly assassinated United Health Care CEO Brian Thompson outside a New York City hotel. A note found on Mangione stated, it had to be done, indicating a possible ideological motive. Following his arrest, Mangione faced multiple state and federal charges, including killing, weapons possession, and interstate stalking. Prosecutors sought the death penalty because of the premeditated nature of the crime and its potential to create fear. Reports indicated that Mangione adapted to life and pretrial custody, working as an orderly within the facility. His case drew significant public attention, with some individuals expressing support through letters in online platforms. In September 2025, a New York judge dismissed two tear-related charges against Mangione due to insufficient legal grounds, but allowed the killing charge to proceed. His defense team continues to challenge the charges, and the legal proceedings remain ongoing. The case has raised discussions about visual anti-ism, corporate responsibility, and the influence of social media, in shaping public opinion about criminal cases. Tyler Robinson, a 22-year-old from St. George, Utah, is the main suspect in the assassination of conservative activist, Charlie Kirk. The shooting took place on September 10, 2025, during a turning point USA event at Utah Valley University. Kirk was addressing a crowd of nearly 3,000 people when he was fatally shot in the neck. Robinson was arrested 33 hours later after an extensive manhunt. He faces multiple charges, including aggravated killing, and felony discharge of a firearm causing serious bodily injury. Following the shooting, Robinson allegedly sent messages to friends on the social platform Discord, taking responsibility for his actions. In these messages, he reportedly explained that the attack was motivated by his perception of Kirk, promoting hate and divisiveness. These communications have been cited as evidence of premeditation and ideological motivation, showing that the act was planned rather than spontaneous. Prosecutors have announced their intention to seek the death penalty, highlighting the severity of the crime in its legal implications, in Utah's capital punishment The assassination of Charlie Kirk has prompted a national conversation about political rhetoric, ideological extremism, and public safety, media outlets, politicians, and advocacy groups have weighed in, analyzing how inflammatory discourse may contribute to violent acts. As the investigation and legal proceedings continue, Robinson's case remains a prominent example of the intersection between political activism, ideology, and criminal behavior in contemporary America. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure you leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on any of the assassins I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part 3 or more videos like this one. Thank you again, and goodbye.