---
video_title: "The Most Wanted Criminals Explained"
video_id: thshqCUIUn8
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=thshqCUIUn8
video_date: 2026-08-20
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Dawood Ibrahim
  1:13 - Joseph Kony
  2:33 - Semion Mogilevich
  3:57 - Osama bin Laden
  5:07 - El Chapo
  6:24 - Rafael Quintero
  7:40 - Whitey Bulger
  8:58 - Pablo Escobar
  10:17 - Matteo Denaro
  11:40 - Ratko Mladić
---
Dawood Ibrahim is one of the world's longest-running fugitives, wanted by India for more than three decades. Born in 1955 in Maharashtra to a police constable, he grew up in an ordinary household but drifted into street crime as a teenager, gradually building one of the world's most powerful criminal organizations, D-Company. His notoriety exploded after the 1993 Bombay bombings, a series of coordinated blasts that tore through India's financial capital, killing 257 people and injuring more than 700 others. Indian investigators accused Ibrahim of financing and coordinating the attacks with help from terrorist groups. He has denied involvement, but India named him a top fugitive, while the United States and United Nations later labeled him a global terrorist over his alleged ties to organized crime and transnational terrorism. Authorities believe he has

lived under protection in Pakistan for years, though Pakistan denies this. His network of false identities, financial resources, and powerful connections has kept him beyond reach, and India has spent decades pursuing his extradition without a single success. Rewards for his capture have piled up over time. India has offered around 2.5 million rupees, while the United States has offered up to 25 million dollars. To

this day, Dawood Ibrahim remains one of the few major international fugitives never captured. Joseph Kony became one of the world's most wanted men as leader of the Lord's Resistance Army, a rebel group that terrorized Uganda before spreading into South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and the Central African Republic. Born around 1961 in northern Uganda, he claimed to be a spiritual leader blending Christianity, local beliefs, and his own visions. Though his movement became known less for religion than for extreme violence against civilians. The LRA was infamous for massacres, mutilations, kidnappings, sexual slavery, and forcing children into its ranks. Tens of

thousands of children were abducted and made into soldiers, porters, or forced wives for commanders. Many forced to kill their own relatives or neighbors to prevent escape. Entire villages were attacked, burned, and looted, displacing hundreds of thousands of people across Central Africa. In 2005, the International Criminal Court charged Kony with war crimes and crimes against humanity, including murder, enslavement, forced non-consensual sex, sexual slavery, and forced enlistment of children, making him one of the court's first fugitives. The United States later offered a $5 million reward for his capture. Kony has evaded arrest for more

than two decades by moving through remote forests that cross several national borders. Military operations, including a failed 2024 raid by Russian mercenaries in the Central African Republic greatly weakened the LRA, but Kony escaped every time. He remains a fugitive to this day, having left thousands dead and generations scarred. Semion Mogilevich is widely regarded as one of the most powerful organized crime figures in modern history. Born in Kiev in 1946, he built a criminal network that investigators say spanned Europe, Russia, Israel, and North America.

Unlike many mob bosses, he avoided public attention and preferred to control operations from behind the scenes, earning him the nickname The Brainy Don. Authorities link his organization to a wide range of crimes, including securities fraud, money laundering, racketeering, extortion, arms trafficking, and large-scale tax evasion. The FBI alleges he directed a sophisticated stock fraud scheme that cheated thousands of investors out of more than $150 million by using fake companies, false financial records, and misleading information to inflate stock prices. Mogilevich was indicted in the United States in 2002 on charges including racketeering, securities fraud, wire fraud, and money laundering. In 2009, he joined the FBI's 10 Most Wanted list after investigators concluded he headed a criminal enterprise operating in more than 20 countries. The reward for his capture,

once just $100,000, rose to $5 million in 2022. He has largely avoided prosecution because he is believed to live in Russia, where extradition to the United States is highly unlikely. In 2015, the FBI removed him from its 10 Most Wanted list, not because he was caught, but because his likely location was known and he no no met the list criteria. He remains wanted by US authorities and one of history's most elusive organized crime figures. Osama bin Laden became history's most wanted terrorist as founder of Al-Qaeda. Born

in Saudi Arabia in 1957 into a wealthy construction family, he joined Islamist fighters during the Soviet-Afghan War in the 1980s before transforming Al-Qaeda into a global terrorist network in the years that followed. He landed on the FBI's 10 most wanted list in 1999 for his alleged role in the 1998 bombings of US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, which killed more than 200 people and injured thousands. After the September 11th, 2001 attacks killed nearly 3,000 people in the United States, he became the world's most wanted man with a $25 million reward on his head, one of the largest ever offered for a fugitive. Bin Laden evaded capture for nearly a decade by relying on trusted couriers, avoiding electronic communication, frequently changing locations, and hiding in remote parts of Afghanistan and Pakistan. Intelligence agencies eventually traced one of his couriers to a heavily fortified compound in Pakistan. On May

2nd, 2011, US Navy SEALs carried out a covert raid known as Operation Neptune Spear. Bin Laden was killed during the operation, ending one of the largest international manhunt in history. Though Al-Qaeda continued operating under new leadership in the years that followed. Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzmán became one of the world's most wanted men as long-time leader of the Sinaloa Cartel, one of the largest drug trafficking organizations ever built. Born into poverty in rural Mexico in 1957, he built an international network that moved enormous of cocaine, heroin, methamphetamine, and marijuana into the United States and beyond using violence to eliminate rivals and corruption to protect his smuggling routes. The United

States first offered a $5 million reward for his capture in 2004. After a second prison escape in 2015, that reward was renewed while Mexico separately offered close to $4 million of its own, bringing the combined bounty into the millions. Guzmán was first arrested in 1993, but escaped a maximum security prison in 2001, reportedly hidden inside a laundry cart, and stayed free for nearly 13 years using safe houses, tunnels, and corrupt officials. Recaptured in 2014, he escaped again in 2015 through a mile-long tunnel dug straight into his prison cell, cementing his reputation as one of history's most infamous fugitives. His freedom ended in January 2016, when Mexican marines tracked him to the city of Los Mochis. Extradited to

the United States, he was convicted on multiple counts, including running a continuing criminal enterprise, and sentenced to life plus 30 years. Now serving a sentence in America's highest security federal prison. Rafael Caro Quintero became one of the world's most wanted men as a founding leader of Mexico's Guadalajara Cartel. Born in 1952 to a poor farming family in Sinaloa, he entered drug trafficking while still young, and helped build the cartel into one of the largest criminal organizations in Mexico, supplying huge amounts of marijuana, heroin, and cocaine to the United States. His reputation turned infamous after the 1985 kidnapping, torture, and murder of DEA agent Enrique "Kiki" Camarena, allegedly ordered after Camarena's investigations caused the cartel millions of dollars in seized drugs. He

was also linked to the killings of two American tourists mistaken for DEA agents. Caro Quintero fled to Costa Rica, but was captured later in 1985 and returned to Mexico, where he received a 40-year sentence. In 2013, a court unexpectedly ordered his release over a legal technicality, and within days, he vanished again. In 2018, the FBI placed him on its 10 Most Wanted List, with a reward of up to $20 million, one of the largest ever offered for a drug trafficker. He evaded capture for nearly 9 years by hiding in remote areas of Mexico and relying on criminal networks for protection. Mexican forces

finally captured him in July 2022, and he was extradited to the United States in February 2025 to face drug trafficking and murder charges tied to Camarena's killing. James "Whitey" Bulger became one of the FBI's most wanted fugitives for spending decades leading Boston's violent Winter Hill gang through murder, extortion, drug trafficking, illegal gambling, and racketeering. Born in Massachusetts in 1929, he grew up in a poor neighborhood before joining street gangs and rose to become one of the most feared crime bosses in the country by the 1970s and '80s. Authorities accused him of ordering or taking part in numerous killings while using violence and intimidation to eliminate rivals and silence witnesses. A secret relationship with corrupt FBI agent John Connolly gave him inside information on investigations, helping him avoid arrest while targeting rival organizations. One

of the biggest corruption scandals in FBI history, Bulger fled Boston in 1994 after learning federal authorities were preparing to arrest him and stayed on the run for 16 years, joining the FBI's 10 Most Wanted list in 1999 with a $2 million award. He hid under false identities with his long-time companion Catherine Greig, avoiding attention rather than continuing his criminal empire openly. In 2011, an FBI media campaign focused on Greig led to a tip that found both of them in Santa Monica, California. Bulger was convicted of racketeering and multiple killings, receiving two life sentences. In October 2018, just 6 years in, he was beaten to death by fellow inmates hours after a prison transfer. Pablo Escobar became

one of history's most wanted criminals by turning the Medellín Cartel into the world's largest cocaine trafficking organization through terrorism, murder, and corruption on an unprecedented scale. Born near Medellín, Colombia in 1949, he moved from small-time crime into drug trafficking during the 1970s. And as American demand for cocaine exploded, his cartel came to control much of the global trade, earning billions of dollars a year. Escobar ran his empire on a strategy known as silver or lead. Officials were bribed if they cooperated and assassinated if they refused. His organization bombed,

kidnapped, and assassinated its way through Colombia, killing thousands, including the 1989 bombing of Avianca Flight 203 that killed more than 100 people after the killing of presidential candidate Luis Carlos Galán. The bounty on his head grew alongside his notoriety, with Colombia's reward climbing from around $1 million to more than $3 million, and the United States adding $2 million more, a combined $6.2 million, one of the largest rewards ever offered for a single fugitive at the time. After escaping his self-built prison, La Catedral, in 1992, Escobar stayed free for more than a year, using loyal bodyguards and safe houses. While a specialized police unit called the Search Bloc hunted him, on December 2nd, 1993, Colombian forces tracked a phone call to Medellín and killed him during a rooftop gun battle, ending the Medellín Cartel's reign. Matteo Messina Denaro

became one of Europe's most wanted criminals as head of the Sicilian Mafia, Cosa Nostra, spending decades allegedly directing killings, bombings, and extortion while staying free. Born in Sicily in 1962 and introduced to Mafia life by his father, himself a powerful Mafia figure, investigators believe he was already involved in violent crimes by his 20s. Prosecutors linked him to bomb attacks in Florence, Milan, and Rome during the early 1990s that killed civilians and damaged historic cultural sites, and to the kidnapping and killing of 12-year-old Giuseppe Di Matteo, held captive for more than 2 years and killed after his father became a government witness, a crime that shocked Italy. Denaro disappeared in 1993 and stayed hidden for almost 30 years, continuing to influence Mafia operations through trusted intermediaries, coded messages, and a network of loyal supporters. While Italian authorities repeatedly froze hundreds of millions of euros in assets connected to him, Italy placed a reward of roughly $1.6 million on his capture,

making him the country's highest priority fugitive. In January 2023, investigators finally found him at a private medical clinic in Palermo, where he had been receiving cancer treatment under a false name, the same illness that ultimately gave him away. Sentenced to multiple life terms for killing and terrorism, he never lived to serve them. Eight months later, on September 25th, 2023, Denaro died in a prison hospital from the colon cancer he had spent years hiding. Ratko Mladić became one of the world's most wanted fugitives as military commander of Bosnian and Serb forces during the Bosnian War. Born in

1942 in what was then Yugoslavia, he built a career in the Yugoslav People's Army before becoming commander of the Army of Republika Srpska in 1992. Prosecutors accused Mladić of directing campaigns of ethnic cleansing, the long siege of Sarajevo, and the 1995 Srebrenica massacre, where more than 8,000 Bosniak Muslim men and boys were killed after the town fell to Bosnian Serb forces, an act later ruled genocide by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Mladić denied many of the allegations against him. In 1995, the tribunal indicted him on charges including genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes, making him one of the world's most wanted fugitives. The United States offered up to $5 million for his capture, while Serbia's own government dramatically raised its reward from around $1.4

million to as much as $14 million by 2010 as international pressure mounted. Mladić remained on the run for about 16 years, protected for much of that time by military contacts, nationalist supporters, and former security networks, whose protection weakened as international pressure grew. In May 2011, Serbian authorities arrested him in a relative's village home after receiving intelligence about his location. He was convicted of genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes at the International Criminal Tribunal and sentenced to life in prison. Thank you very much for watching this video, and if you learned something, make sure you leave a like. Comment down below

your thoughts on any of the most wanted criminals I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part two or more videos like this one. Thank you again, and goodbye.