---
video_title: "The Most Evil Terrorists Explained"
video_id: 4pwLsHGOrL8
channel_name: "Jaydone History"
channel_id: UC-q-_DVLrAfmVApgnJTIa9A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4pwLsHGOrL8
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  » Twitch » https://www.twitch.tv/jaydonelive
  » Twitter » https://twitter.com/imjaydone
  » Discord » https://discord.gg/kFS5mCH7fz
  
  0:00 - Ayman Al-Zawahiri
  1:31 - Khalid Sheikh Mohammed
  2:51 - Timothy McVeigh
  4:12 - Brenton Tarrant
  5:20 - Anders Bhering Breivik
  6:34 - Mullah Omar
  7:50 - George Habash
  9:18 - Hafiz Saeed
---
Aean al- Zawari was born in Egypt in 1951 to a respected family of doctors, scholars, and religious leaders. Studied medicine at Cairo University and worked as a surgeon. Despite this promising career, he joined extremist politics as a teenager, helping form a secret organization around age 15 that aimed to overthrow Egypt's government and install an Islamist state. He rose to becoming a leading figure in Egyptian Islamic jihad, which believed violence necessary for political change. After President Anoir Sadat's 1981 assassination, Egypt arrested hundreds of suspected militants, including Zawari, who was imprisoned for illegal weapons possession, though not convicted of the assassination itself. He later claimed

torture in prison deepen his extremism. After his release, Zawari traveled across the Middle East and South Asia, developing a close relationship with Osama bin Laden. His organization was linked to the 1995 bombing of the Egyptian embassy in Islamabad, which killed 16 people. In 1998, he joined bin Laden in declaring that attacks against American military personnel and civilians worldwide were justified. Egyptian Islamic Jihad eventually merged into al-Qaeda, making Zawari bin Laden's deputy, chief adviser, and leading ideological spokesman. US authorities

accused him of helping organize both the 1998 embassy bombings and the September 11th attacks. After bin Laden's death in 2011, Zawari became al-Qaeda's leader, struggling to maintain unity as the Islamic State rose, but continued releasing recorded messages urging supporters to attack. A US drone strike killed him on a balcony in Kabul, [music] Afghanistan on July 31st, 2022. Khaled Shik Muhammad was born in Kuwait around 1964 to 1965 to a Pakistani belug family. He studied mechanical engineering in the United States, graduating in 1986 before traveling to Afghanistan and joining antis-siet militants, deepening his involvement in extremism. He entered terrorist planning

through his nephew Ramsey Ysef, organizer of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. Together, they developed Operation Bojinka in the Philippines, a plot to bomb multiple aircraft over the Pacific, where a 1994 test bomb killed one passenger on Philippine Airlines Flight 434 before police uncovered the larger plot. In the mid 1990s, Muhammad proposed to Osama bin Laden the idea of using hijacked planes as weapons against US buildings. Al-Qaeda adopted and expanded the plan into the September 11th, 2001 attacks. Prosecutors say Muhammad helped select targets, chosen prepare hijackers, and arrange logistics. He has also been linked to

other plots and the killing of journalist Daniel Pearl, though some evidence against him came from torture. Pakistani forces working with the CIA captured Muhammad and Rawal Pendi on March 1st, 2003. The CIA held him in secret facilities, waterboarding him at least 183 times before transferring him to Guatano Bay in 2006. He still awaits completed trial, a proposed plea deal was later cancelled and as of 2026, his case remains in pre-trial proceedings. Timothy McVey became the face of one of the deadliest acts of domestic terrorism in American history. A former US Army

soldier and Gulf War veteran, McVey grew increasingly consumed by anti-government beliefs after leaving the military. He was especially enraged by federal actions at Ruby Ridge in 1992 and the deadly siege near Waco, Texas in 1993. In his mind, these incidents were proof that the federal government had become tyrannical. On April 19th, 1995, exactly 2 years after the Waco siege ended, McVey carried out his response. He parked a rented truck packed with explosives outside the Alfred P. Mora

Federal Building in Oklahoma City and detonated it. The blast tore through the building and surrounding area, killing 168 people, including 19 children, and injuring hundreds more. A daycare center inside the building made the skill of the tragedy even more horrifying. McVey hoped the attack would ignite a wider rebellion against the government. Instead, it horrified the country and led to one of the largest investigations in FBI history. His escape was

remarkably short-lived. A state trooper stopped him less than 2 hours after the bombing for driving without a license plate and arrested him on weapon charges. Investigators soon connected him to the bombing. McVey was convicted in federal court in 1997 and sentenced to death. He showed little public remorse for the victims. On June 11th,

2001, he was executed by lethal injection at the federal prison in Terrao, Indiana. Brenton Tarant carried out an attack that permanently changed New Zealand and Australian-born white supremacist. Tarant spent years absorbing racist, anti-Muslim, and anti-immigration ideas, much of it through online extremist spaces. He embraced conspiracy theories claiming that white populations were being deliberately replaced by immigrants and Muslims. Those beliefs eventually became the justification he used for mass killing. On March 15th, 2019, during

Friday prayers, Herren attacked two mosques in Christ Church. Al-Normos in the Lynwood Islamic Center, he killed 51 people and attempted to kill dozens more. The victims ranged from children to elderly worshippers and came from many different countries. Tarant also live streamed part of the attack online, deliberately turning the killings into propaganda intended to spread fear and inspire other extremists. That digital element made the attack especially disturbing. Copies of the footage and

his manifesto spread rapidly before technology companies and authorities could contain them. Taran was arrested shortly after the attacks. He later pleaded guilty to 51 counts of killing, 40 counts of attempted killing, and one charge of engaging in a terror act. In August 2020, he was sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. the first sentence of its kind in New Zealand. Anders bearing Bravik

carried out the deadliest terror attack in Norway's modern history. A Norwegian far-right extremist, Bravik became obsessed with anti-Muslim, anti-immigration, and anti-multicultural ideas. He believed that European societies were being destroyed from within and that political leaders who supported multiculturalism were responsible. Rather than simply expressing those views, he spent years preparing to turn them into violence. On July 22nd, 2011, Bravik first detonated a bomb in Oslo's government district, killing eight people and causing enormous damage. He then traveled to

Utoya, an island where the youth wing of Norway's Labor Party was holding its annual summer camp. Disguised as a police officer, he gained access to the island and opened fire on the young people gathered there. By the time police stopped him, 69 people had been killed on Utopia, combined with the Oslo bombing. 77 people lost their lives that day. Many of the victims were teenagers.

The attack stunned Norway and became one of Europe's most notorious examples of far-right terrorism. Bravik surrendered to police and later admitted carrying out the attacks. Although he attempted to portray the killings as politically necessary, a Norwegian court rejected that justification. In 2012, he was found criminally responsible and sentenced to 21 years of preventive detention, a sentence that can be extended repeatedly if he continues to be considered dangerous. Mah Muhammad Omar founded the Taliban in 1994 and built the regime that ruled much of Afghanistan from the mid 1990s until 2001. Under his leadership, Afghanistan

became one of the world's most repressive states and a sanctuary for militant groups including al-Qaeda. Omar emerged during the chaos that followed the Soviet withdrawal in Afghanistan civil war. In 1994, he helped organize the Taliban, a movement made up largely of religious students and former fighters. The group promised order after years of war, but the system it imposed was brutally authoritarian. After capturing Kabul in 1996, the Taliban enforced severe restrictions on daily life. Women and girls were largely

excluded from education and employment. Public punishments became common and cultural and religious freedoms were heavily restricted. Omar rarely appeared publicly and his authority was enormous. The Taliban proclaimed him commander of the faithful, making him the movement's supreme religious and political leader. His government also allowed Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda to remain in Afghanistan. After the September 11th,

2001 attacks, the Taliban refused demands to surrender bin Laden. The result was the American le invasion of Afghanistan in October 2001. The Taliban government collapsed within weeks, but Omar escaped while the movement eventually reorganized into an insurgency. His death in 2013 remained publicly undisclosed until 2015. George Hepish was one of the most influential figures in the early history of modern Palestinian militancy. Unlike many

leaders on this list, he was originally trained as a physician. Born in LA in mandatory Palestine, he and his family were displaced during the 1948 Arab-Israeli war, an experience that profoundly shaped his politics. Over time, Habash moved from Arab nationalism toward revolutionary arms struggle. In 1967, he helped found the Popular Front for the liberation of Palestine or PFLP and became its first secretary general. The organization combined Palestinian nationalism with Marxist Linist politics and argued that armed struggle was necessary to defeat Israel. Under

Habash's leadership, the PFLP became notorious internationally for aircraft hijackings and other attacks designed to force the Palestinian issue into global headlines. The most famous came during the Dawson's field hijackings in September 1970 when PFLP members seized several international airlines. Postages were held while the group demanded the release of imprisoned militants and several empty aircraft were later destroyed in front of television cameras. The crisis helped intensify the confrontation between Palestinian armed groups and Jordan's government during the period known as Black September. Habasha eventually publicly rejected aircraft hijacking as a tactic, but he never abandoned his support for arms struggle against Israel. He also

strongly opposed political compromises that he believed surrendered Palestinian claims, including the Oslo peace process in the 1990s. He stepped down as PFLP leader in 2000 and died in Aman Jordan in 2008. Hafi Muhammad Sed is one of the most prominent figures with Lashkari Taiba the Pakistan-based militant organization blamed for some of the deadliest attacks in India. Sed helped found the group in the late 1980s and became its best known leader in public face. Lashkari Taiba originally focused heavily on the conflict over Kashmir but its ideology and operations eventually extended far beyond the disrupted territory. The event most closely

associated with the organization is the November 2008 Mumbai attacks. 10 gunmen attack multiple locations across the city including hotels, a railway station and a Jewish center. Over several days 166 people were killed. Indian authorities blamed Lashkari Taiba for planning and directing the assault and the United States and United Nations also identified the group as responsible. Sad himself has denied involvement in the Mumbai attacks and the legal history surrounding direct responsibility has been publicly contentious. What is not disputed

internationally is his senior role in Lashkari Taiba and Jamaayu Dawa. The United Nations placed Sed on its sanctions list. While the United States designated him a terrorist and offered a multi-million dollar reward for information leading to justice. For years, Sed remained unusually visible, appearing at public rallies in Pakistan despite international pressure. Pakistani authorities later prosecuted him in multiple terrorism financing cases. According to the United Nations

sanctions record, he is currently in Pakistani custody serving a lengthy prison sentence resulting from those convictions. Thank you very much for watching this video and if you learned something, make sure to leave a like, comment down below your thoughts on any of the terrorists I discussed in this video, and subscribe if you would like to see a part three or more videos like this one. Thank you again and goodbye.