---
video_title: "Anthropic Claude Opus 4.6 vs OpenAI GPT-5.3-Codex: The AI \"big game”"
video_id: C6PZwrsaii0
channel_name: "IBM Technology"
channel_id: UCKWaEZ-_VweaEx1j62do_vQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C6PZwrsaii0
video_date: 2026-02-06T22:05:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Explore the podcast→ https://ibm.biz/BdpXRZ 
  
  Read more about the Anthropic vs OpenAI showdown → https://ibm.biz/BdpEkv  
  
  The games begin early in the AI space. In this special episode of Mixture of Experts, guest host Aili McConnon is joined by Chris Hay and Mihai Criveti to break down yesterday's back-to-back bombshells: Anthropic's Claude Opus 4.6 and OpenAI's GPT-5.3-Codex, released within an hour of each other. Our experts dissect both models. Which one actually performs better for coding tasks? Then, we unpack what these releases reveal about the intensifying battle for enterprise AI. Finally, Chris and Mihai share their real-world workflows—why use one model when you can leverage both? Plus, we discuss the vibe shift: multi-agent workflows aren't coming; they're already here. 
  
  00:00 – Introduction 
  00:14 – Claude Opus 4.6 and GPT-5.3-Codex releases 
  02:49 – Model comparison 
  06:00 – Battle for enterprise AI 
  10:03– Multi-agent workflows 
  
  The opinions expressed in this podcast are solely those of the participants and do not necessarily reflect the views of IBM or any other organization or entity. 
  
  #enterpriseai #aiagents #developertools #enterpriseai #gpt #claudeopus
---
It is great to see the AI Super Bowl play out just before the real Super Bowl uh takes place over the weekend. And and I don't think that timing is unrelated. Um I'm still team Claude. Welcome to our emergency episode of Mixture of Experts. Each week, brings together a crew of the brilliant AI experts to analyze what's happening in the industry. I'm Aili McConnon and I'll be

your host for today as we talk about the hottest back-to-back model releases from anthropic and open AI right now and what it actually means for users. I'm joined today by two experts, Chris Hay, Distinguished Engineer and Mihai Criveti, Distinguished Engineer for agentic AI. In case you missed it yesterday, of course, after we wrapped our regularly scheduled mixture of experts recording, Anthropic and then OpenAI rolled out major updates to their flagship Frontier models, GPT 5.3 Codex and Claude Opus 4.6, both appearing within an hour of each other.

And this came on the heels of a very public debate earlier between the co-founders of Anthropic, the Amodei siblings, and Sam Altman and OpenAI CEO. and it was all around the topic of whether agents and LLMs should include ads. Mihai, uh I'm gonna start with you. We had a chance to catch up a bit yesterday actually amidst all of these models dropping. Um and I want to get your initial impressions about the the release of both of these models and how much of this is marketing versus, you know, groundbreaking technological advancements. I'm just grateful that

they were able to reconcile their differences and announce this joint release at the same time. It was wonderful that I could test both Opus 4.6 and the new GPT 5.3 model at the same time. So that was an amazing release within one hour of each other. Um I don't know how they're able to train

their models so they can release them at the same time, but that's really good for the industry. Um this my initial impression really is that there's a certain element to marketing here which is the correlation of the releases. The fact that they always need to one up each other. It might be even in the public's interest because you get access to these models earlier. It just makes me wonder if they're not skipping a stage of testing when making these announcements or if they're not having these models prepared ahead of time to just announce when their competition is going to release something. That's interesting that it's sort of moving beyond kind of engineering

timelines alone. And I want to Chris, I know you're a big fan of Claude and um have you had the chance to play with both rider models and what were your thoughts uh on on these releases? Well, I like Mihai. It it is great to see the AI Super Bowl play out just before the real Super Bowl uh takes place over the weekend. And and I don't think that timing is unrelated. Um

I'm still team Claude. You know, I actually to be fair I think Codex I was playing with that uh today and earlier. I think it is getting so much better and I think there's some really interesting things that they've done in the codeex app which I think kind of kind of falls on from what you're seeing with Claude Code as well but but um they are sort of starting to move away from the terminal though the terminal is a really important thing I think with the release of Codex app I think they are starting to bring together this uh push towards multi-agents and you will have seen in the announcement uh with Claude Code again they're pushing towards more towards these kind of multi-agent environments and parallelism. So I think I think that's interesting. Um having played with both models I mean I don't care what the benchmarks say. You'll hear me say

this multiple times and and the reality is uh the benchmarks that that Codexes went for which in GP53 is the uh uh terminal bench and I understand that because they want to push towards the agentic coding element and focus on that but the reality is I still find that Claude Code and and the new Opus 4.6 is my go-to model in this case. I just find it it's a little bit more friendly. The planning and reasoning capabilities of 4.6 really seem to have um amped up in this release and I can really see that and I feel that it's better whereas whereas I think Codex maybe better in the terminal bench and I understand that h and even I think they they've went with the the the suite pro and I understand that but it it's just the the the workflow isn't quite there for me right so I get a lot of feedback coming back from Claude Code you look at the output of this you know what a new feature that I want tell me about road maps whereas Codex and and a lot of people are going to be going ah you're prompting this wrong and and you just you have to prompt your way around it that's true but it kind of tends to focus on more of the deep technical areas and the edge cases which I think is useful but uh yeah it just leads me towards uh still I think 4.6 is the superior model, but I I do appreciate how much better it is. And actually,

I'm starting to find a workflow where I'm putting both of them in at the same time, which is um Codex fo clean up this for me uh and Opus go uh work on the higher reasoning tasks for me. That's interesting that that um you're able to use both and you know I'm sure many other users often you know are using a mix of models and you know the um I'm interested in you know beyond the features and the these you know the benchmarks and you know the kind of public discourse around pitting one company against another. What do you think Mihai? I'll turn to you these releases um say about you know what a uh companies across the ecosystem are laser focused on in 2026 kind of bigger picture. I think one thing I want to highlight is the Claude plugin for PowerPoint which uses Opus 4.6

to generate PowerPoint slides. First I'm annoyed because I've built an MCP server for PowerPoint with context forge and it's one of my go-to demos. So, I've done a demo of that I think two days ago and now I'm using their um PowerPoint plugin and I go damn it, it's better. I It's better even as even with the MCP server, it does a better job of generating rich PowerPoint slides. That's an interesting aspect. Second, it also shows who are the consumers they're trying to tailor their model

towards. I can see that Claude is starting to tailor their models more and more and more towards enterprise consumers and the enterprise segment. Yes, OpenAI is trying to reach into the same segment with their new agent AI um stack. I don't quite see it resonate as well as what we see with um the Anthropic models and the Anthropic offerings. Maybe it's because of the focus. Anthropic has

always been focused on safety, on trust, on enterprise availability, while OpenAI has kind of waffled a bit. Maybe they're going to do something to make their models more user friendly to a specific target of consumers. Maybe they're going to focus on the enterprise segment. Maybe they're going to introduce ads in their model. So, we're going to see how this plays out over the next couple of months. I I would want to build on that, Mihai. I think until yesterday's release

I would have agreed with you but I think with the release of the Codex app I think they are going after that enterprise space and I think and it's a little bit of a weird one because I don't think they've quite marketing distinguished themselves between Codex as a developer tool the CLI version versus Codex the app version but if I look at the Codex app it clearly is their first toe in the water to competing against Claude CoWork there because if we look at what's in the app, it's a desktop app similar um to CoWork in that sense. Um it's got the automations as part of it. It's got the traditional chat interface where you can have threads and you can have agents go off and uh perform uh you know tasks in parallel. Um it's got the ability to have projects and hook that up there. So it's still developer focused there but with the introduction of the automations and the scheduling of tasks etc and being able to hook up to uh different connectors and and I can tell you right now the connectors on that marketplace which is which is effectively skills right are not developer focused um skills in that sense they are more business automation. So,

I think this is the start of a kind of sneaky I'm going to do this in the Codex space. I'm going to sort of say it's more for developers UI, but I think that's going to evolve into uh their equivalent CoWork. The messaging is a bit all over the place. If you look at Anthropic, it's always been safety and enterprise segment. So, it's not necessarily a question of capability.

It's how well this capability is going to resonate and build trust within the enterprise segment and how it's also going to compete with the likes of Microsoft who are seen as the safe way of consuming open AI models from an enterprise perspective. So it almost seems like they are now overlapping with the messaging that comes from Microsoft. So I'm wondering what the dynamics are going to be there. I'm very fascinated by this sort of intensification of the the battle for enterprise AI that you're you know both hashing out and it feels to me it sort of almost signals and I'd be interested whether this resonates with you kind of a net vibe shift that you know suddenly people can really feel that AI is coming it's you know changing their moment to moment lives it's changing you know both at home and at work you know do you think this is yeah are we at a tipping point in terms of uh a vibe shift do you think I think we are at a vibe shift I think it's happened pretty early this year. You know, 2025 was really the story of agents as as uh as as we talked about last year. Um I think we are moving into this multi-agent world and this um you know

super agent world. I mean I I call it at the end of year episode that we're all going to have these uh loads of agents interacting with each other and we're going to be multi-agents kick them off etc. and we have these dashboards this doing this. We we are already there and it's February. So um I think this is just going to extend much for further throughout the year. I think enterprise

you can't ignore because the reality is you got to make the money and therefore Anthropic Mihai's been correct right which is that Anthropic's traditionally focused on the enterprise but but you can't let that market go. So I think open AI is coming for that. They're seeing the impact that things like CoWork and Claude Code has had on that and and really they want to be playing in that space as well. And how about you Mihai? Do you see this sort of a a vibe shift in terms of kind of adoption and it almost you know feeling more real uh you know developers of course have been in the trenches you know but uh for the even the broader public as they can code themselves or you know do everything them uh with the help of AI agents. I I believe so. So up to now it's taken tremendous

effort and prompt engineering and expertise to build any kind of application or to build any kind of you know even a PowerPoint deck or material with agents and AI and it required folks who understood an MCP and tools and all these other kind of things. I can see that today you can go off and install a plugin off a marketplace or you can just consume it as a regular user and taking advantage of these things out of the box. I also think that for the power users, combining these two models and capabilities is going to give you tremendous results. Just like Chris said, I'm using Claude as my main developer. I'm using Codex as my main reviewer. Codex is amazing

at reviews. It's going to find every single bug. It's going to find every single security issue. It's going to give you very crisp feedback. Not the most userfriendly. It's very hard to get

it to say more than five words. and use friendly language, but it's going to find those things. So, the workflow that combines cla code with Codex is something that I've been doing for for some time to get the most value out of it. I wasn't able to find a place for Gemini outside of research. So maybe I'd like to see more come from the likes of Google in this space to have uh a more competitive offering in the software development space. But I don't think we can ignore Google either. They have

tremendous models. They have good um data. I just don't think the tooling they wrapped around it is competitive yet. I think they've missed something on the tooling. So I think a lot of the battle on the enterprise market segment is going to be in terms of tooling and integration and safety and trust and governance and observability and monitoring and providing an end to end integrated platform. The models are going to come and go. They're going to become better over time.

But is the ecosystem play going to win out in the long term? We'll certainly be following the story and touch base with Tim and the rest of the crew on next week's episode. And for today, that's all that we have time for. Chris and Mihai, thank you for hopping on on short notice. And thank you to all you listeners. If you enjoy this special episode, please check us out on Apple, Spotify,

and other places that podcasts are shared. And we'll see you next week for Mixture of Experts.