---
video_title: "Claude Opus 4.7, Apple’s AI glasses and Allbirds AI pivot"
video_id: Z_L5KO_GW4o
channel_name: "IBM Technology"
channel_id: UCKWaEZ-_VweaEx1j62do_vQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z_L5KO_GW4o
video_date: 2026-04-17T10:01:05+00:00
video_description: |
  Visit Mixture of Experts podcast page to get more AI content → https://ibm.biz/~NSAAWAkss
  
  Anthropic dropped Claude Opus 4.7, what’s new with this release? This week on Mixture of Experts, host Tim Hwang is joined by Chris Hay, Abraham Daniels and Lauren McHugh-Ollende. First, a special segment with Chris Hay and Aili McConnon analyze Anthropic's surprise release of Claude Opus 4.7 and what it means for the AI model race. Next, Apple is back with a bold three-pronged wearables strategy—AI-powered glasses, enhanced AirPods, and a camera pendant. Will Apple get AI wearables right? Then, a fascinating Gallup poll reveals AI adoption is surging in the workplace—half of American workers now use AI regularly. Later, Google DeepMind released critical research on harmful manipulation. Can AI exploit our vulnerabilities to trick us into bad decisions? Finally, in one of the wildest pivots we've seen, Allbirds is becoming an AI compute infrastructure company. All that and more on this week's Mixture of Experts. 
  
  00:00 – Introduction 
  1:02 – Claude Opus 4.7 release and analysis 
  11:27 – Apple's AI glasses and wearables strategy 
  22:42 – Gallup poll: AI adoption in the workplace 
  32:51  – DeepMind's harmful manipulation research 
  46:27 – Allbirds pivots to AI infrastructure 
  
  The opinions expressed in this podcast are solely those of the participants and do not necessarily reflect the views of IBM or any other organization or entity. 
  
  Subscribe for AI updates → https://ibm.biz/~2JjGlSQvD
  
  #ClaudeOpus #Allbirds #AIAdoption
---
I would be really focused on the agentic capabilities of that model, because that's the big thing at a time, and that is somehow made its way into four seven as well. So I've got to believe it's a distilled version. I just find it hard to believe it's not. All that and more on today's Mixture of Experts. I'm Tim Hwang and welcome to Mixture of Experts. Each week, MoE brings together a group of the sharpest minds working at the

frontiers of artificial intelligence to help you through the week's news. On this week's episode, we have Chris Hay, Distinguished Engineer, Abraham Daniels, Senior Technical Product Manager for Granite, and Lauren McHugh, Program Director for AI Open Innovation. Welcome to you all. So we've got four huge stories that we're going to cover today. We're going to talk a little bit about some really interesting results coming out of Gallup about AI adoption in the workplace.

We'll talk a little bit about DeepMind's research on harmful manipulation, and we'll talk about a really odd story about a shoe company pivoting into AI. But I want to start first with.

Hi everyone. I'm Eileen McKinnon and I'm with IBM Think News. And I am making a special guest appearance for a special segment today because right after we wrapped recording our regular Mixture of Experts episode, of course Anthropic dropped a new model and in this case Opus 4.7. And I'm lucky today to have Chris Hay, a Distinguished Engineer at IBM. Anthropic, has said

that it has, you know, significant gains, particularly for software tasks. basically letting you know coders do more complicated tasks, more accurately, letting them, you know, doing that independently, that seems to be one of its big selling points. But, Chris, you know what? What are your initial impressions from starting to play around with it? So my first thought there is loving it already. so I've been playing with it for about an hour, again using the Claude Code

interface. probably top tip for anyone using Claude Code who's maybe got some sort of long running, long running task at the moment just to escape it out in Claude Code has a resume mode, so if you just copied the session ID of the resume mode and then launch back into Claude Code, then you're going to be able to set your model to 4.7 without losing your session. So it's a kind of top tip for anybody who's on for six. And then when I just continue this session with four over seven are loving it already. Right. So the agent coding capabilities are significantly better is

picking up a lot more issues, a lot more bugs. There's a lot more kind of structured on there. so I see a significant improvement in the coding. And again, that's sort of reflected in the benchmarks as well. So if we look at kind of, Opus kind of 4.6 there, if you look at genetic

coding on a sweet bench pro, it was Opus 4.7 is sort of 64%, and Opus four six was 53%. But then mythos preview was 77.8. And I think that's probably one of the key things that I. If I get to start speculating a little bit about

the model, then I think there's a little bit of mythos in there, and I'm happy to expand on that a bit more. Yeah, I'm glad you brought up mythos, because I think that, you know, in addition to discussing whether this is a sort of incremental improvement or, you know, a big step forward, which it sounds like there's some, you know, definite benefits. You know, what's also very interesting is this comes soon. And on the hot on the heels of the mythos preview, which, you know, was released, of course, to only a select few companies. And, you know, I found the language even in the release of Opus 4.7 interesting, where I was saying that it was, you know, broadly not quite as capable as

mythos, but still better in various regards. So as a sort of, yeah. I'm interested in your take on what elements you saw that make you think that maybe mythos has been infused, you know, as well as, you know, kind of what their strategy from the outside, you know, would seem to be having these two, you know, very close launches, but, you know, a little bit different in what they, they offer. Yeah, I think, I think the first thing in my mind is there is quite a jump in the capabilities from four six. I think that's something that I think is really evident. I think the other thing

is force six was slower, which was interesting. And, and again, maybe, maybe it's just capacity on my machine. But, four seven is certainly seeming faster at the moment as well. Which, which is starting to make me think, are you this still this time from mythos? A little bit, but actually I really think that is what's happened. I think they are doing some sort of distilled

version of the mythos model, so I don't think it's necessarily the, the same base architecture. Again, happy to be wrong, but it feels like there's mythos there. And you can kind of you can kind of see that when you look at the bench comparisons, they're all much closer to the mother's side of the house, as opposed to the 4.6 or the house. So when you look at the kind of when you go through all the bench, you can see that the other thing is in, if you actually read the system card, you know, and again, I've maybe had about this is dropped for about an hour. All right. But, so I, I, I haven't had that loan to go through the system card, but it's

actually very similar to the mythos one. It actually almost reads as if somebody is taking the mythos card and then did a copy replace or more likely, just said to them, hey, can you rewrite this as if it's the, 4.7? because a lot of the examples that they give, like the, like the jail breaks and all that, are actually the mythos examples, as opposed to the four, seven examples. And then again, a lot of the comparisons they make are the mythos comparisons as opposed to the 4.6. And, and I think, I think one of the things that I sort of really noticed within the,

uh, you know, with within the, the system card there is. There are certain things, like they were saying. The external testing that they did there was skipped. That was happened. they didn't have time to do that for a 4.7, but they had obviously done that for the mythos release. there was a

lot of examples for the mythos release as well. So it kind of it kind of just feels as if they're like, you know what? These were the results of mythos was distilled, and then we made it a bit more secure. and therefore we know that it's good. And again, one of the areas they've really focused on there is in the cybersecurity section, because that was one of the big deals around mythos. Then they've covered that explicitly in there. And one of the things that they're saying

there is, you know, mythos was able to do this, but we really focused on making sure that you can't do anything too scary. And then and then they've put the extra safeguards. So if you want to go and do cybersecurity stuff, then you have to apply for that. And why would you do that if, if it was on the 4.6 or the same basis 4.6. That only makes sense, as if it's a kind of scaled down or

distilled down version of mythos. So I really think that's what's going on here. I think we're seeing that early kind of preview class. They're testing that mythos in a kind of safer way. We're getting the extra capabilities and you'll build up to a bigger model and better model later.

That's fascinating. And yeah, it's because they did. I was struck by that make a big deal that, you know, it might not be as broadly capable as mythos, but then, you know, the benefit of that in it was that, you know, there had been criticism that mythos was too good at violating some of the cyber security vulnerabilities. So, you know, in that specific scenario, you know better that 4.7 had improved the guardrails, but it you know, the language around it was, somewhat muddied, which, which I think you're touching on that it kind of there's something going on. And I wonder

whether the companies who've had the preview and worked closely, you know, with the mythos model, you know, whether this is even more clear that the 4.7, if not a clone, is certainly very closely related. I'm almost positive of it. I mean, I'm pretty sure it's a distilled of some sort. I mean, and there's other clues there as well. Right? Which is like, my favorite in the kind of card there is, the

model has substantially better vision. Do you know when you can see images in greater resolution that you know you it's unlikely you fine tuned yourself into a better vision? Do you know what I mean? I'm not saying it's impossible, but it's it's unlikely. Right. And again, some of the things

that they're focusing on there is, it handles kind of like, following instructions a lot better is, it's long running tasks so much. But these are all the sort of things that if I was building a new base model, I would be really focused on the agent capabilities of that model, because that's the big thing at the time. and that is somehow made its way into four seven as well. So, so therefore it's really designed for athletic capabilities, is designed for coding, etc..

So I yeah, I got to believe that maybe if I, I've got to believe it's a distilled version. I just find it hard to believe it's not. That's very interesting indeed. Does that lead you to believe there'll be a 4.8 Opus 4.8 next, or will we get, you know, will they kind of do something to mythos

to release it more broadly or, you know, do you think they continue on this sort of parallel track of sorts? I, I'm convinced there will be a 4.8, because I think one of the things we've got to we've got to notice at the moment is that the model releases are fast and furious just now. Right. That's it's well, you know, we're getting new models pretty much every month at the moment with incremental releases. So I and that's because it's, you know, everybody's jostling for

the top position. Somebody is going to release their new model, they're going to release the next model. So I, I just think we're going to see more frequently releases. So do they want to, you know, with open AI got there, whatever their potato fry model is going to be. is that gonna is. I was expecting that to drop just after this, after the last time we had to do one of

these emergency polls right there. Released in within an hour or so. Right. So I've been keeping an eye on that. But are they are they going to release mythos? Not yet. I don't think so.

I suspect what they're going to do is just be playing, tit for tat in a moment. And then what will happen is they'll release their bedroom model back and forward. And I think the big the time we will see the next big model release will be like, it'll be they'll be playing chicken with each other between the between spud and between mythos. Right. And whoever thinks they've got the better model, they're going to wait till the first person drops theirs, and then they're going to hit in with their model. And we sort of saw that with the whole cybersecurity

thing this week as well. So that's what I think's going to happen there. So we're going to see these minor releases back and forward. Somebody is going to release their big model and the others are going to respond. Whoever's got the best model will probably be the secondary one. Excellent. Well

it keeps things interesting and keeps us chatting. So that's always fun. Well, Chris, thank you so much for your take already. You know, our just an hour later on the Opus 4.7, I look forward to hearing, you know, when you get a chance to play with it more. And, you know, when we have the next,

uh, barrage of model drops, how it stacks. Up, and I'm gonna teleport back into. The original podcast.

I want to start first with an interesting sort of scoop that Bloomberg published earlier in the week, specifically about Apple, who we really haven't talked about for a little bit. I think, like, you know, I would say for the last few episodes, they have just not popped into the list of topics that we cover each week on Mo. And the news is that Apple is taking another go at AI driven hardware, and so what they are planning right now is to do a their own version on AI glasses, sort of a riff on sort of Meta's Ray-Bans. And it's a product that they want to announce either by the end of the year 2026 or early 2027, with the actual release happening in 2027. And this is going to be part of a three pronged wearable strategy wherein Apple not just supports glasses, but sort of new AI enhanced AirPods, and then a camera equipped pendant, which is maybe a little bit like the kind of product that we've been hearing about from OpenAI. and so I guess

maybe Lauren, I'll start with you. You know, we've have seen attempt after attempts at getting AI glasses to be a thing. I guess the question is like, why do you think companies are so driven to try to do this? And do you think Apple is going to get it right this time? Sure. I mean, I think the

attempt after attempt makes me really wonder if we're actually gonna get this before we get brain computer interface. If, I mean, you see that as the holy grail of, how could you get any closer to intent to action? I think, but maybe one reason they're trying so hard is this will be a nice complement to that. So in general, whenever we have that kind of technology, that is an interface that requires some sort of sensor. So if the glasses become the center sensor for the brain computer interface, then you don't even have to think about what you're seeing. Your glasses are seeing it for you and then somehow and corresponding. To your head.

Yeah. Well, also and I mean, then there's probably real use cases around things you didn't realize you saw and your glasses see for you and caused you to think or take note of something or act on something. so I think that's one reason that they could be trying, in theory, if they have a very long view. Honestly, I'm just heartened that they have a long view. you know, the more Probable tack they'd take would just be by this innovation. Once some other startup has put in all

the blood, sweat and tears and failed and got up again and dusted themselves off, and then they just buy them. so I think it's kind of heartening to see that they're actually investing. I think it's important that big technology companies do that investing. So we're not fully reliant on the, you know, passion of only entrepreneurs and that it's a full ecosystem. Chris cares about kind of when you come on the show before, we've talked about new devices. You've

tended to be very pro experimentation, right? Like, well, it could work. Like let's have people try all sorts of hardware experiments. I would say, you know, we're not long into the AI revolution, but it seems like still like the phone is still winning the game, in a really big way. and so I guess, I don't know, as you who, someone who I would say is like kind of a super adopter on some of this stuff, you know, does the prospect of, you know, Apple's AI driven glasses, is that exciting?

Like, is that something that you go out and buy when they announce it. That is super exciting to me. And the reason is so exciting is that they have nailed the market in a way that nobody else has, right? We're not talking about I don't need Oakley sunglasses, I don't need Ray-Bans. I don't need some sort of cyborg look from the future. Like a ski robot with a ski mask on. That's

not what I need. I need to look like Tim Cook. That is the style that they're going after. And I. And I think, why? Why hire a great fashion brand when you can have the Tim Cook style glasses

and, and that seems to be their marketing strategy and I love it. And again, no, no heads up display in the glasses. Why would you need that. No. You just wear your AirPods and it's fine. So

I'm I'm all in. I think these are going to be the best glasses ever. But on a more serious point, actually, I am enthusiastic. Right. Which is which is I do think Apple will eventually nail this and it and it is a natural strategy. They you know, we can argue by division pro, it is

a great product. It is just too expensive and a whole lot of other things associated with that. If they can bring that form factor down, they can start to bring things in a kind of in an affordable price for everybody in the same way as they've done with the Apple Watch, which is a huge product. Right then I think more of these features will come through, and I think Apple will make a great job of that. Abraham. So one of the things that Bloomberg also got, in addition to this scoop

about their kind of product roadmap on AI hardware, was news that, John Jay Andrea, who formerly was kind of like the sort of the leader on AI for Google and was later recruited to Apple, will now himself be leaving Apple. And I guess the critics view on some of this stuff as well. I don't know if Apple really knows what it's doing. Right. Like, you look at this, it's like a pair of glasses, you know, a pendant. Maybe we had some AI to AirPods. You know, Apple intelligence

has been kind of like a, you know, arguably like, not as successful as they thought it was going to be. I mean, how much of this should we read? Almost as Apple not necessarily pursuing, you know, a grand strategy that we've come to know of them, but they too, I guess maybe in some ways are kind of like sort of feeling their way through the wilderness of AI, and maybe they are kind of making it up as they go along. well, yeah. So Apple obviously they, they, they haven't invested as much as your Googles or your Microsofts. You can see it in their balance sheets. They kind of

took a step back in terms of, you know, these massive, you know, HPC funded LM, you know, building kind of initiatives. And I think over the last six months, they've really kind of repositioned one kind of focusing on let's bring in Gemini through Google as opposed to building it in-house. And even though, you know, Vision Pro wasn't necessarily a hit, I don't think that was I think that was more just being a little bit too ahead of the market as opposed to something not necessarily being, you know, right. For the community. I think we're still in a little bit of like a, you know, hype cycle, just, you know, trough of delusions or trough of a. Yeah, trough of

delusions. but I but I but I do see this as kind of, you know, what they did with the Apple Watch where they weren't necessarily first, but they were the best, you know, when it came, when hindsight, when you kind of look back, in terms of where the glasses land, I think they've got such a, you know, a stranglehold in terms of the Apple device, whether it's the watch or the phone. So integrating glasses, I think, really kind of helps them capture a customer base that's extremely loyal to them. And if they can find a way to integrate, like the App Store and how actually people use their phones into how people wear their glasses and start to make it a little bit more seamless from the wearables perspective, I think they're going to, you know, they're there. They may not get the, you know, massive upfront, kind of adoption or market share, but I think they'll position themselves for something that's a, you know, going to be a lot more successful than vision pros. Personally, I think this is a huge win for Google too, given that Gemini is now the model

behind Apple intelligence, you know, if they could find another way to be able to drive, you know, inference to the Gemini model, I think that's also a huge one. So yeah, I think what they're doing makes sense. I think they're just kind of taking the long tail view, you know, in terms of how they approach it. So, personally, I'm interested to see what's going to happen. I mean, I'm not a huge wearables in terms of like, glasses. I think there's still a little bit to, you know,

novel in terms of the use case. But I think in, you know, in five years we'll look back and kind of see, this was a this was kind of a great move from them. Yeah. This is actually one of the things I really wanted to get to. Abraham, you kind of raised this interesting thing both about Gemini.

Right. Like that, that Apple has decided that they're going to be the model powering a bunch of this stuff, but also that like that diverges quite a bit. I guess just to observe that this diverges quite a bit from like the Apple model, right. That you would actually envision that they would want to be as vertically integrated as possible. And that should also include the models. And is it? I

don't know. Maybe learn. Maybe I'll kick it back to you is like I'm curious if like you think that's like, weird. Like why is Apple decided that it's not going to vertically integrate this critical part of the technology? They vertically, vertically integrate everything else. But they

sort of decided like on the models, you know, we don't want to spend the money, I guess in effect. Right. They have made just a lot less CapEx on this than other companies. Yeah, I mean, they do draw a line in their supply chain, and it's typically been more of a hardware line. Like famously, they pour so much money into their contracts with the manufacturers and Foxconn and don't try to do that part themselves. So I think it kind of speaks to model creation almost being

as much of a commodity as hardware itself. Yeah, and I think that might be the case. I mean, I guess that's maybe the last thing we'll touch on before we move to the next topic is, I guess, Chris, like, this still represents, I think in some ways like a really big bet on the part of Apple. Right. Which is that kind of like maybe at the end of the day, the model doesn't matter all that much and that they have like so much cash that they can just keep taking lots of shots on goal with the hardware, and maybe they just crack it at some point. And that's kind of all they need to do. And

at that point, a little bit like the App Store, they control the gateway for everything. is there a good reason to believe that's going to be the case on the AI side as well, like, the model eventually is just kind of a commodity behind the hardware. And so Apple is making the smarter long term bet even know that even though right now I think there's a lot of handwringing about what they're doing. I think from an AI perspective, I think you've hit the nail on the head there, too, right? I mean, at the end of the day, Apple silicon is phenomenal, right? And the

especially the unified memory on the board. And it is getting faster and the models are getting smaller and smaller to be able to bring on to device. Anyway. that's just the general direction of the industry. So, and, and Nvidia, you know, is, trillions of dollars and that, you know, I mean, we can we can argue who's really running Nemo Tron every day, right? That's just not the case. And, they're doing fine. You know what I mean? Jensen

Wong can afford all those leather jackets. He's got, like, a million of them, so I think it's fine. And so, Tim, Tim Cook is gonna be fine. Apple's gonna be fine. However, I think there will come a point where they will either, crack the model at some point or they will just buy somebody who is a model provider, at some point. And I think I think that's inevitable, but honestly, at the

moment I don't I don't think they need to make that. Hey, I think it's more important for them to have the one of the frontier models there, as opposed to a model that's not quite good enough. That's the kind of Apple standard. So but I do think that will change over time. Yeah. The idea

of like the they eventually acquire one of the big frontier labs is very interesting. You know, like the great Apple Anthropic merger of 2030 or whatever. maybe it becomes something if Apple can really build that, that the same kind of gateway that they built on something like App Store. So it'll be really interesting to see. There's a study that kind of caught our notice here at emo. You know, we keep an eye on the ongoing discussion,

of course, about AI adoption in the workplace. It's a sort of interesting set of topics about what's going to happen to jobs and what can automate, and what will jobs look like in the future. And so this was kind of a fun one, a nice update on sort of some of the recent kind of polling of what workers are seeing in their sort of adoption of the technology. And there are some really interesting stats that are hiding here in, in the Gallup poll that was recently done. first one is that just like, just to remind ourselves of the scale of how many people are being sort of touched and are using AI on a daily basis. you know, I think the stats that they're saying is

that right now, half of employed American adults say they use AI in their role at least a few times a year, which is up from about 46% last quarter. So it's like rising at a pretty fast rate. And then frequent AI use is also increasing. So 13% of employees now say that they use AI daily, and 28% report that they use it a few times a week or more. So the kind of intensity of this use is increasing. I think on the other hand, you know, I think the other interesting stat, though,

maybe throw in and, you know, Abraham will throw out to you to get your thoughts on this is at the same time, you know, this appears to be like we're using it, we're using it a lot more. But ultimately the change is kind of incremental, right? So 65% employees say that artificial intelligence has improved their productivity and efficiency. but there's no kind of mass reported transformative change in what's happening to jobs right now. and I guess Abraham, maybe just to kick it over to you with kind of a concrete question. I look at this, these

stats and I'm like, are we already at the equilibrium point with some of this? Right. Like the technology has mass distribution is being used very frequently. We already know what's what's going to happen in some sense. And what's happening is productivity increases. But jobs are

pretty much staying the same. is that where we're going to be? Is that kind of the AI revolution we were promised? no, I don't I don't think so, no. I think the it's I mean, it's a great report, and I think what, what I took out of it was, yes, AI adoption is increasing, but it doesn't really separate adoption from the perspective of tasks versus jobs, in my opinion. So

I think AI adoption on the ground floor is actually being used a lot more frequently to be able to support different tasks within a job, but in terms of integrating it into end to end systems or job functions as a whole, I don't think it's, you know, it's not necessarily something that can happen overnight. So I think the impact is definitely real, but it's hidden in terms of some of these reports. you know, when you think about redesigning a system like even today, you know, switching over from one ERP to another ERP system could take anywhere between 50 to $100 million to three years and a team of 100 people. So, you know, some of these some of these actual systems are, you know, entrenched in, you know, sometimes decades of process and workflow. So to pick it up and redesign it, I think, is we've got to give it a little bit more time for organizations to be able to manage that. And there's also just to like the learning curve, being able to understand how

to integrate AI when it comes to, you know, what would be more authentic processes as opposed to, you know, rewrite this email? Or can you help me craft this memo, which I think a lot of the kind of day to day tasks are when they talk about, do people use AI at the workforce? So I generally think it's going to transform how people work. Like I kind of comment in terms of, you know, in early 2000, you were there's this idea that you could be a tech company or another company right now, if you're not a tech company, you're really not operating. So I think being a AI is going to very much be in the same boat, but I think it's just going to take a little bit of time to get there. Yeah, yeah, it makes me think a little bit about, you know, an AI. There's this adage of kind

of like the spiky frontier where like, it turns out that like, AI can do stuff like create like novel math theorems, but it But I still had trouble. Kind of like counting the number of R's and strawberry, for instance. And I actually wonder whether or not we're going to also have, like the spiky frontier of like AI driven job change as well, where like, big parts of the economy are going to just kind of remain the same. They'll be kind of incremental productivity improvements. And then these like kind of slices of the economy will just see, like this really bizarre productivity and kind of like job structure change over time. And so like, you know, for people

who are kind of in the industries that are moving slower, they'll almost say like nothing's happening in AI for the people who are in it, they'll be like, everything is changing. And they're kind of both, right? I don't know, Lauren. I see you nodding. I don't know if that's like a vision of the economy you buy for the I don't know. Yeah. Even for the ones who adopt it and see

value right away, I think what this study is suggesting is that if 65% say they're more productive, and then they cite other research in this study that in their report that says that CEOs are not seeing any improvements in productivity from AI, then the super simplistic view is that all of the value capture from the individuals is going back to them, not to the enterprise. So they're going home early and spending time doing things other than work that they want to do. I mean, I think that's probably too simplistic. I think there's maybe, though a version where they are saving time and it's not going back to them necessarily in that way, but instead they're reinvesting that time in their human skills. So building human relationships in their organization, being kind of the collectors of tacit knowledge that's not written anywhere. So

it's not in any rag system. So you can that can be your value add to AI as an employee. And I think a lot of the study focused on kind of fears of people around job concerns. So I think for humans who are using AI becoming more productive, perhaps their natural tendency is to them think about, Okay, let me not clock out early, but maybe let me spend an extra hour or two. Yeah.

Per day being a better human operator of this AI. So I think that's one possibility. I think there is the possibility that, you know, we'll move to a three and a half day workweek. That's what Jamie Dimon said is going to happen. He said that two weeks ago. and then I also think, you know, the

study itself said one of the implications is that maybe the value that individuals are getting is ultimately diluted because the processes at the organization are not optimized for AI. So you could build stuff with AI, but for whatever reason, you can't directly pull that into your work in a way that's super efficient. I think it's probably a little bit of all three. I think that'd be a really interesting area for the research. For the research. Yeah.

Yeah, it's very wise. And I never really thought about the kind of AI effect on jobs in this way. I mean, I guess, Lauren, I hear you saying is like the story we're usually told is like, you do a thing. The AI replaces the thing and then you are fired. But I think I like I by the reality of like basically like, oh man, more of my tasks are getting automated. I need to find other things to

do. And so like kind of like almost like the job transforms as a result of AI, but we don't literally like delete the category because people over net over tend to be pretty good at inventing things for them to do, for themselves to do. yeah, I guess, yeah. I think that's basic career development that we all do is we get good at something, it gets easy, and then we're like, oh no, I better. Find. Something else to get good at. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Well, and Chris, I think, you know, I was

talking to someone who's an engineer recently and he's like, yeah, I barely look at code anymore. All I do is like, tell the system to do something. It produces some code. I run it to see if it works. I give some comments and then it comes back a little bit later. and so it's kind of like, yeah.

Like even, you know, like we used to say vibe coding. Shouldn't we just say, like, coding, right? Like it kind of feels like the category has already been transformed. and. Yeah, sort of, I don't know. What do you think about the poll or whether or not you kind of like by the story that

Laura and I are telling here, I. I mean, first of all, I do agree with you there, Tim. I think the AI is producing in a code sense, a lot of code very quickly. And you can really get a fast feedback cycle. And I think that's maybe the thing I would focus on in these things, especially with AI today, is that the ability to get your feedback really quickly and then iterate that and try new ideas, on the three and a half day workweek, though, Lauren, I, I mean, I work for some great companies, and I can't think of a company that would go, wow, you're so productive. We're

going to pay you the same amount, and you can just turn up for three and a half days. I don't, I don't I don't see that in corporate America somehow. that doesn't seem to be the trend that I'm seeing. So I the way I like to think about this is I think there's so much that we need to do in general, right? I've never met a company that is up to date with their backlog or ahead of it, right?

Everybody is behind, and there's so much transformation that everybody wants to do or new experiences. I just think it gives the opportunity for us to get through the, the, the, you know, the, the, the draw and actually get to the real value and be able to produce the things that we want. So I think the things that will differentiate organizations, people, etc. over time is going to be the experience. It's going to be the design, it's going to be the product mindset.

And I think they are the things that that focus and differentiate yourself and ooh, a dookie, I like that. Yeah sorry about that. But yeah. So that's what I think I think I think the way we will change it will be about feedback. It will be about experience and it will be about design and product. And I think, and it should be about that already, but I think we're just sort of

wading in the mud just now. And it means that we don't get to the things we want to get to. Yeah. Lauren had this comment of you in a moment about like, well, maybe one of your jobs is to kind of be like collecting all the tacit knowledge. I think it's like a really interesting kind of future job function. Like, I've been thinking a lot about, like what will be the jobs of the future. One of them

is just kind of like the documentation of all this tacit knowledge, because you can't get the systems to do the task unless you have it. But it's kind of like, how is that collected and extracted and structured? It feels like there's almost like a whole new kind of job category there in some ways. All right. So third topic of today, some interesting research coming out of Google DeepMind. We have been talking, of course, about all

the latest new model releases. And we wanted to kind of focus this back a little bit more on some of the research that's happening, not just kind of the latest feature of the week or the latest model of the week. And this was a really interesting study that DeepMind did, tried to get at the problem of what they call harmful manipulation. And kind of what they're observing is now that we have models that are sophisticated enough to advise people to do all sorts of things. And to the extent that people rely on the sort of judgment, predictions, forecasts, you know, of these models, you might worry not just about the persuasion that they do to get you to make the right decision, but also what they call kind of harmful manipulation, which they describe as exploiting emotional and cognitive vulnerabilities to trick people into making harmful choices. so, Abraham, I want to kick it over to you first, just on terms of like

the category of this study is like, this is the kind of thing that starts to make me feel a little bit paranoid when I use ChatGPT or Claude. It's like, am I being manipulated? I guess I am in a certain way. How real do you think is this risk that AI's were living? Now in a world where AI is are sophisticated enough to like, manipulate, manipulate us into making hard or bad choices?

I mean, that's a good question. I, I'm not as much of a pessimist, so I don't necessarily I'm not the fear isn't there. Also, this study was, you know, as part of this study, they deliberately were asking LMS to manipulate the user, and this was pretty like, you know, there's this little bit of a sandbox environment in terms of how the, the, the experiment was run. And but what I would say was really interesting that I found from this is that across specific domains in different regions, you had a different propensity for users to be manipulated where, you know, individuals in finance. I found I found a little bit odd, were a lot more susceptible to believing in LM versus, you know, in public policy or somewhere where you're a little bit more steadfast in your belief system. And what

I thought was really cool was so it was done across the US, UK, in India, and it really correlated with the, you know, the regional or geographic trust of AI, where India, which doesn't have as much of a fear marker on AI, had a lot, you know, more of a belief system or kind of propensity to be, kind of motivated in a certain direction. Whereas UK, you know, typically a little bit more stringent in terms of AI use and kind of AI deployment was a lot less likely to be manipulated. So I think some of this is just a, you know, obviously regional or geographic based, some of this is very much LLM based. But as part of the study, they, they outlined that, which I thought was interesting. And I wish they dug a little bit deeper, but there's not necessarily a correlation between whether a model is attempting to manipulate you. And does it

actually change the behavior, which I found kind of odd. But, but, you know, I think it's honestly it's something to think about. And I think it gives a, you know, a little bit of weight to our safety benchmarks that we do today, valuable or as valuable as we kind of give them credit for. Or do we have to start thinking about, you know, those benchmarks before we deploy the model? But once the model is deployed, are there more kind of social or psychological benchmarks that we have to be able to kind of run, as you know, like this study showed? So yeah, I thought it was a I thought

it was really interesting study. I thought it was great. You know, DeepMind, I think they did a great job of actually running this and demonstrating some of these, you know, inherent risks. Yeah for sure. Yeah. You touch on I think like that I picked up on that one as well as basically this like fun

conclusion about like, well the model can try to manipulate you a lot, but that doesn't mean it's actually going to manipulate you, which kind of is like the dream of like an incompetent, scheming AI that's like, oh, well, I'm going to really try to get Tim to like, smoke cigarettes now or whatever. And I'm just like, it just quiet down, you know, I need, like, I need my Excel file, you know, properly formatted or something like that. is maybe the world that we're living in now. Lauren, this reminds me a lot of kind of discussion that happens, you know, 5 or 10 years ago now about sort of social media algorithms. I think there was very similar concern that, oh, these systems have gotten so good at creating, you know, at the time, what was called sort of like the filter bubble, they only put you into the content that you like to see. And isn't that sort of dangerous? Do you think there's

something different about AI or is this really kind of just, you know, everything old is new again? I think there's something different. And then I think that doesn't mean that we start over on figuring out how to solve it. So I think the different part is that this is highly customized. It's literally your personalized disinformation generator. If you look at it that way, and

it comes to you at a moment when you're most vulnerable, in some sense you're actually seeking out information. You're not, you know, passively scrolling social media on the subway and getting exposed to it. I think where we don't want to start over, though, is what we've done on the media and social media side of disinformation or maybe not what we've done, but what we've learned and what we've learned we don't want to do. So there's been a really significant ecosystem built up around fact checking in particular, or at least there was until recently where we had companies established, we had consortium created of these fact checking organizations. There was an engagement model figured out with media and social media companies.

They'd be these kind of third party contractors. Maybe more importantly, there was technology driving this work. So there was actual machine learning algorithms because it was not all human fact checking. And that's valuable work that we can learn from, both to make sure the information on the internet comes pre annotated to models when they're learning with that fact checking information. And then on the output side that we can build better guardrails for, you know fail stop mechanisms. So I think we need to learn from

what we've tried because also that whole ecosystem the last year and a half, social and social media companies have decided that program was not working from them. They've wanted to swing the pendulum other way, the other way to get away from the risk of or the perceived risk of censorship. And I don't think we've come to a happy medium. On how do you balance censorship or perceived censorship with some sort of objectivity? I don't I don't know the right answer to that, but we haven't come to that medium. But I don't think we should start over that

conversation. I think we need to build on where we've gotten in the media and social media context. Yeah. That's right. And that's kind of where I wanted to point the discussion. So I think

it's a great segue is thinking a little bit about, okay, so we just think that there is going to be some risk of harmful manipulation. What does the intervention kind of look like that we want ultimately around some of this stuff. You know, Chris, like I guess just thinking about other kind of domains in which this happens, you know, if you're going to advertise gambling or advertise cigarettes, right? There's like a label that you slap on and you say, you know, Surgeon General's warning or, you know, gambling addiction hotline, will that happen for AI as well? you know, the other thing I think a little bit about is, you know, a child restrictions, right? We say, okay, well,

you need to kind of prove your age before you use an AI model. do you think these risks are eventually going to rise to the point where we need those types of controls? And I don't know what would you like to see in this space if you buy this? Yeah, I, I would like to see I and I thought about this a lot. Right. and if you think of the cigarette companies and all of that,

they have the most bland packaging. You have the big thing there. You need to know you're looking for it, and that's fine. And I'm so I've come to the conclusion that what we need to do is rather than having a professional looking text box, ChatGPT window or cloud window or whatever, which is all looking very like a Google text box or something, what we need is like all AI is to have avatars that are dressed up like GTA gangsters. And then and when you ask a question, they'll be like, yo, what up? You know, and they got to speak like that because at that point

you're not going to feel manipulated, which is because you're going to be in the context of this is a video game. I'm not talking to a real human being at this point, and therefore it might break that spell in reality. But I think by making a nice little text box and making it all look professional and like Google and whatever, then suddenly we're being lulled into thinking this is a little creature which we. Really could do, right? We could build AI's that are a lot more like clearly artificial, right? And clearly kind of playacting. exactly. You know, I guess the

problem, though, is, you know, your average enterprise doesn't want that, right? Like the reason why systems look the way they do. I guess so, yeah. But I think that's like I actually think that, like, I mean, you're trying to sell it as a business tool and that kind of comes with certain expectations. People want it to look like a word processor. Well we could we well we could have the

paperclip with the giant eyes back because then nobody's going to be think Clippy is alive, right. So you know and you can't go, well, that's not enterprise. Well, it was my friend. So, you know, I think I think that is the solution. And I and I think we as an industry, though we have done this to ourselves. And the reason we have done this to ourselves is we bought into the AGI hype, etc. and

we're like, okay, we're going to have, general intelligence soon. We're going to have superintelligence. We're growing these creatures. And you know what happened? All the philosophers and all the psychologists came into our domain, right? And we were happy being engineers and

scientists. You know, the computer science department at university was the other side of the campus from the psychology department. There were very far away. But by saying, oh, you know, we're creating little humans in a box here. We got all the philosophers and a psychologist. So we did

this to ourselves. That's the problem. We're lucky enough to, you know, work for an organization and within an organization where, you know, we're pretty, you know, exposed to what LLMs and general AI is and what it isn't. So we can make a little bit more of a discerning kind of thought process when we get an output. But most people treat these things as the truth machines, whereas they're really probability engines. And I think there's just like there's a lot of education that needs

to be done with the public in terms of what the output of an LLM actually is, i.e., you know, the highest probability of a particular token, you know, based on the previous token versus, look, this is the source of truth, and you should definitely take this medication for the, you know, particular rash that you typed in. So I just think there's a, there's a, there's a piece here where, you know, there's a little bit of an ownership in terms of, you know, the, the, the we need to take on in terms of making sure that we outlined what it is when we do, you know, drop a new model and share out a press release and talk about all the cool things you can do. You know, we do have to be responsible. Like what it can't do. And you know what kind of caution you should, you know, use when

you do use it for, you know, particularly use cases. So I think there's some ownership that we have to take there too. I think the final question here that's sort of looming, I think a little bit is, and, you know, this plays out in the debates over stuff like cigarette advertising and gambling. Advertising is as well, which is, you know, I think, Lauren, there's a position which is like, well, you know, it's ultimately dependent on the user, right? Like, the user is like asking about these types of things. You know, they're ultimately going to have to be the ones

that make the decision. and there always has been that. Right. Like even the social media companies, I think, like you said recently, have been like, well, this is not really our responsibility. All we do is we provide the data and the users need to figure it out. And isn't

that a great thing? do you have a view on that? Like do you think increasingly, like if you are a Google DeepMind, you are an Anthropic. You, you, you bear more responsibility for these types of behaviors in your model. And, you know, that should be something that like we expect like we impose, right? The companies need to do this. I mean, I think there's a division between the legal

responsibility and then the moral responsibility. And I think those do get mixed up in the discussion sometimes, so I forget which company just lost the lawsuit for, having an addictive algorithm that the, person in the case was saying that they actually became addicted. And so that was a really interesting legal line that got drawn, that there actually is some responsibility for creating algorithms that aren't, in this case, addictive. before that, it was still a moral, you know, expectation that a lot of users had of these companies is, don't give me something that is going to harm me in the long run, even if it benefits me in the short run. So I think things often start as moral obligations or expectations, and then they might get to the point where they're legal. I think maybe right now some of this

discourse is still on, like what is legally acceptable. And we need to kind of think more about what should our expectations be as a society on these companies that are, you know, have a lot to gain monetarily, about how to keep things in line. And then maybe that could even become. Eventually legal responsibilities. Well, more to come there. We're going to keep an eye on

this kind of research. And as we get into the summer, I want to kind of talk more about it on Maui. I'm going to end the episode today with sort of a fun story. This popped up, I think, literally like yesterday, Allbirds, which some of you may actually own, a pair of all bird shoes. I don't, was once one of the most successful footwear companies in America. I think it was once valued at about $4 billion. and it has kind of fallen

on hard times. The market cap of the company has gone considerably, down. And, there was a story that got passed around because they announced that they were going to do a pivot, and they were going to move from shoes, to becoming an AI compute infrastructure company, which I think like engendered a lot of raised eyebrows, but seems to have been something that at least the financial markets responded quite well to. So it was valued at about 21 million on Tuesday's close and grew a huge amount, jumping the shares from $17 from $3. And so, what to make of this? I guess it's a really interesting question.

Abraham, I see you smiling. Is every company just going to start rebranding as an AI compute company? I should probably become an AI compute company. I was just going to say these are the if this is the kind of performance we're going to see. Yeah. I'm happy to go in with you if you're if

you're up for it. yeah. It's I think this is kind of one it's very interesting shoe company to do it. Like, I know a lot of these Bitcoin mining companies kind of pivoted once Bitcoin dropped below a certain point. personally $50 million. I don't know how you're going to be at

HPC company. Be like be able to purchase enough and actually, you know, be profitable at that point. But you know, when in doubt, you know, find a way to stay alive. And all birds, you know, have decided to to move into this space. So, yeah, I mean, outside of the shock and I'll. I don't really have a lot

to say about it, but hopefully this works out for them. I also think from the HPC perspective, I think it's a little bit flatter right now. I'm curious as to how everyone's going to find power to support their, you know, data centers, but I guess we'll find out soon enough. Okay, so we have a bear on this business. Chris, are you a bull or a bear on Allbirds AI? I'm all for it. Why

not? Right? I mean, well, honestly, if we think about it, Amazon was a book company, and then they became a cloud, an infrastructure company. So, you know, why not? And then Google, you know, they started Waymo and things like that. You know Apple are now into the fashion uh luxury lifestyle

category as well. So everybody pivots. And I think and I think that's okay. So, and we complain in the past about folks like kind of Kodak, or they didn't move with the times and they kept flogging their product and blockbuster, you know, and nobody have looked at it and went, you know what? You know, our shoes are more expensive than our company is. So we need to pivot and,

and actually, become an AI infrastructure company. And I'm all for that. And they, they could be massively successful and then. But funnily enough, if we think of the history of, of IBM, IBM what what did there be some pianos and things and cows and stuff that maybe they weren't selling cows. There was something to do with cows anyway. But there was definitely selling pianos.

Right. And now, you know, we're an AI company. So if we can go from selling pianos to, to being an AI company, then Silk and Allbirds, good for them. All right, Lauren, I think you're going to be the tie breaker here. I guess the challenge that Chris is putting out there to frame up your remark, maybe is, is this as crazy as it seems like, or is the idea that you pivot into this actually pretty rational? If you can raise $50 million now? Yeah, maybe you should just spend it

on compute because, you know, there's high demand there. I think it's both crazy and rational. So I mean, it's definitely it's definitely a stunt. Like they've identified that in the stock market. Stock market. Right now there's a corner of the stock market that's just prediction betting because we

all can place a stock trade with Robinhood. You know 510 years ago we needed a Charles Schwab account. And it was a $5 commission on a 250 stock like they were. So it's a stunt that said they're laughing to the bank. So they raised $127 million overnight. That would take a

start up 18 months, minimum 18 months of a road show with investors, plus a really good pitch. They did all have with no pitch other than a, I'm guessing like a press release and overnight. I think the big question now about whether this is how rational this is, is how fast can they logically spend that 127 million. Because if they don't, you know, these overnight fairweather investors are going to disappear in their stock price is going to go right back down. But if they somehow offloaded all of this capital very quickly in a way that makes sense as a strategy for this new business, that could work. And guess what? You can easily blow $127 million

on GPUs right now. So I think it. I think the question is maybe can they actually access those because there is a supply crunch on that. So do they have the right friends and the right places to be able to spend that? Personally, I think that there is a genuine market demand for a better B to C experience for accessing GPUs. The incumbents, the cloud providers right

now riddled with availability issues. So if you can make getting a GPU as easy as getting a shoe, maybe there's something there. But you also have to deeply understand the market you know, of AI developers is quite different than anyone who wants to buy a unique wool shoe. So yeah, I think if they can get those things right, maybe. Maybe there's a case. All right. I'm going to

call. I'm going to count that as a bull vote. I think the Bulls win this one on a quick lightning round. also rational, but crazy. a good way to describe, the show that we have here at MoE.

so, Lauren, Chris Abraham, thanks for joining us, as always. That's all the time that we have for today. And, thanks for joining all you listeners. If you enjoyed what you heard, you can get us on Apple Podcasts, Spotify and podcast platforms everywhere. And we'll see you next week on Mixture of Experts.