---
video_title: "You Asked About AI: Agents, Hacking & LLMs"
video_id: ekrOZf_eOJM
channel_name: "IBM Technology"
channel_id: UCKWaEZ-_VweaEx1j62do_vQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ekrOZf_eOJM
video_date: 2026-02-17T12:01:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Today we’re diving headfirst into the wild world of AI — and answering your questions from the comments! David Levy explores AI agents, machine learning workflows, cybersecurity challenges, and the growing world of local LLMs. Tell us what you want covered next below🚀
  
  0:00 - Intro
  0:28 - Can AI Find Me Love?
  1:40 - How Does AI Change The Landscape of Hacking?
  3:50 - What models do you use for creative text generation?
  5:18 - Can Machine learning be done locally?
  6:41 - Is Ollama a good choice for a production environment?
  7:41 - What the difference MCP vs A2A?
  
  AI news moves fast. Sign up for a monthly newsletter for AI updates from IBM → https://ibm.biz/BdpH4T
  
  Still haven't subscribed to IBM Technology on YouTube? →  https://ibm.biz/BdpHrY
  
  The opinions expressed in this podcast are solely those of the participants and do not necessarily reflect the views of IBM or any other organization or entity. 
  
  #aiagents #machinelearning #cybersecurity #llms
---
What's up, everyone? We've been checking out your comments and questions and honestly you've got some pretty intriguing ones. So today we're diving head first into the wild world of AI. We're gonna be covering everything from the big brain stuff like artificial super intelligence to the fun debates about whether AI could ever be self-aware with emotions and all the way down to large language models cranking out our creative tasks. Buckle up and let's get into it.

The first question is: Can AI find me love? And now, I am sincerely sorry to everyone watching this, but I am off the market and have been for over a decade. So I haven't had to wade through whatever modern nightmare the dating world is today. But I remember back in my day, there were dating profiles and responding to and sending messages, so I can't imagine it's too much different today. I would guess there are many a Tinder and Hinge bio written by ChatGPT.

The messed up part is ... that I think there's a pretty good chance that the person responding to your AI-generated messages probably also using AI to respond. So at that point, it's just two bots flirting with each other, which is honestly pretty grim.

And then, there's this other thing. I don't know if anyone's heard of this, but there's the idea of the dead internet theory, where basically every person you think you're talking to online is actually just a generated chatbot. So what if that applies to the dating world? What if all the profiles you're looking at are just bots? My advice, honestly, is use ChatGPT to get directions to the closest bar and have it come up with some sick one-liners and meet someone in real life.

Please. So this is a really interesting question. Pretty timely. So how does AI change the landscape of hacking? We just saw a massive hack using Anthropic's Claude Code.

They released this entire paper about it. It was a couple of weeks ago, at the time this was filmed, and it was insanely advanced. And if you don't know, Claude Code is a coding agent that lives in your CLI. It's excellent, um, and they were able to utilize the coding agents to find and attack vulnerabilities, right? This was done by a nation state, according to the Anthropic paper.

Um, I actually interviewed Jen Easterly. She's the former CISA director about, about this, right. And she made a really haunting point, which I think is, uh, very pertinent to bring up is that we don't necessarily have a cybersecurity problem. We have a software quality problem. And thinking about the way that Claude Code was used in order to find these vulnerabilities, you can see that it's the ultimate tool for exposing that low quality.

So now defenders must be aware of this but they also must be prepared for the unexpected. They have to be really, really creative about how they think the attackers will attack. Another thing is it used to be that to pull off a nation state-level hack, you needed a team of, you know, elite engineers. But now you have what I think of as the democratization of hacking, right? You have these tools that are so powerful, and they're not necessarily difficult to use, right.

Agents aren't particularly hard to write and hard to get to do what you want them to do. So bad actors, even ones with, without a high-level of coding skills, they can spin up these autonomous agents that scan for vulnerabilities. These agents can write exploit code, and they can execute the attack 24x7. It really, really changes what the game used to be, which was human versus human to now, I think, it's just gonna be my AI defense versus your AI offense. So we got this question, which LLM are you using for creative text generation?

And for creative writing, I'm not using anything. I'm a not a particularly creative writer, nor do I need to be. Unless we call work emails and college invite messages creative writing then I can say I use Copilot. I guess I have to be pretty creative when I come up with a reason why I can't join a 5 PM call on Friday. But seriously, I am a musician and I've been playing and writing music for decades.

And there's this, um, music generation model that I heard of and I went in there thinking, well, obviously I will instantly be able to tell that this stuff is trash and it wasn't, and I was genuinely shocked. I was shocked by how interesting it was by the melody choices. Like you could still tell like the instrumentation, like the actual sound of the instrumentations, the actual sound of vocals weren't great, but the songwriting was good. It was excellent. But I think the real question is whether these probabilistic models can truly be creative or if they're just really good at remixing patterns.

And then, of course, it comes down to is human creativity really anything different than that? So I'm still trying to figure that out with the music generation, but I think for creativity and AI-generated creativity, the jury is still out. So we've got a question here. Can machine learning be done locally or only in high-tech environments? So, I think you're probably talking about, can you run an AI model locally?

And to answer your question, yes, you can. I do. I do a lot. I have a couple of computers at home. One's a server that has an RTX 3090, which is pretty good, but I did get an RTX 5090 and I had a, an alert.

It ... When it became available and I bought it. So there's something called Ollama, and it's amazing, right?

It's super easy to use. You can think of it like Docker for LLMs, right. They have a library where they have the most popular trending models that you can just pull down to your machine, and you just run them locally. Like you can pick up Llama, Mistral, you know, DeepSeek, anything, Qwen. It's just super easy.

But talking about like hardware, you're not going to be running this on like my old Lenovo X220. It's just not going work. And you're probably not going be able to run those 400 billion-parameter models locally. But for like 7 billion, 13 billion, like even 70 billion models, it's totally doable. But anyone who has the capability to do it, try it out.

It's super fun. It is super, super easy to do. And I really recommend it. All right, so we got a question. Is Ollama a good choice for production environment?

I love Ollama. I really do. It's the gold standard for local development. It is great for prototyping. It's great for messing around.

But for production, no, I wouldn't use it in production. It's, it's not really built for scale, right? Like Ollama queues your requests one by one mostly and if you put that on a public website, and 50 people try to use it at once, it's probably going to choke. So if you want to go to production, you'd probably want to do something with that, with an industrial-grade inference engine, right? You want to use something like VLM.

The VLM is really designed to handle these continuous batching, and it can basically answer hundreds of people at the same time, and it's really efficient. My suggestion is you use Ollama to build your idea. Have it on your computer, test it out, prototype it and then use VLN to serve the idea to people. If you're going to go to production, I wouldn't use Ollama. So we have a question.

MCP versus API versus A2A, what's the difference? I think this is the perfect way to look at this tech stack, right? You have an API and this is, the foundation, right. Your app talks to a server. It's reliable.

It's rigid. Uh, you have to write custom code for every single tool you want to connect and points and logic. It's, it's all manual, but it's the way it's been done forever. MCP is really great. Uh, this is Anthropic's and actually now, it's, they open source onto the Linux foundation, which is very, very cool.

It's called, um, model context protocol. So. Try to think of this like a USB for AI. Before USB, in the Stone Age, when I grew up, you needed a different port for your keyboard and a different for your mouse and another one for your printer. MCP does that for AI tools, right?

It's like a USB for AI Tools. Anthropic launched this, and literally a week later, there were thousands of MCP servers. So now like your AI agents can just plug into Google Drive or Slack or Postgres without writing any custom glue code. One server with this protocol. You tell your agents all the tools they have access to in a way that the agent will be able to use it and it just works.

And finally, A2A, so this is Agent2Agent. So this isn't an agent just talking to a tool or a server of tools like MCP. It's an AI agent talking to another AI agent. So, they, they, they can negotiate, right? You have agent A saying, I need to build code.

And agent B says, well, I wrote it, it has a bug. And then agent C says, I fixed the bug. They kind of form their own workflows without you in the middle. It's, it's pretty amazing. Um, my, my suggestion to anyone listening is just write a simple express or FastAPI server with like one endpoint with one tool and maybe two endpoints with two tools, you know, wrap that in MCP server.

Uh, write a couple of agents. You know, using boilerplate. All this stuff is just boilerplate code you could find online. And then, connect those with A2A and just, just, have it, have it do something you wanted to do. Like just play with it.

And I really think you'll learn more in an afternoon than reading the docs for a week, right? When you build this stuff, you'll really see the way that it works. And I think that's really, really cool. So everything's so easy for us to learn at this point with like YouTube and anything you find online. So yeah, my suggestion, just build it.

Got questions? Drop them in the comments. Whether it's a deep dive into a framework, a hot take on an architecture decision or one of those 2 AM philosophical rabbit holes about the nature of software, we want to hear it. And if something we said sparked an idea and you went and built something cool, tell us about that too. We'll read them and it may be featured in a future video.