---
video_title: "RSA recap, the LiteLLM breach, and the quest to fix AI agent security"
video_id: 0nPkGvNS0n8
channel_name: "IBM Technology"
channel_id: UCKWaEZ-_VweaEx1j62do_vQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0nPkGvNS0n8
video_date: 2026-04-01T10:00:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn more about solving agentic AI identity and access gaps → https://ibm.biz/BdpSCg
  
  LiteLLM is a nifty little Python library that gives you access to about 100 different AI services through one API. It gets an estimated 3.4 million downloads a day. 
  
  And last week, it was turned into a Trojan horse, distributing infostealers to hundreds of thousands of devices. (At least, that’s what TeamPCP says—the hackers behind the LiteLLM breach and a slew of other high-profile software supply chain attacks in recent weeks.) 
  
  Quote Andrej Karpathy: This is “basically the scariest thing imaginable in modern software.” 
  
  On this episode of Security Intelligence, Suja Viswesan, Dave McGinnis and Jeff Crume help us break down the LiteLLM breach and the broader campaign TeamPCP is waging. 
  
  We’re also joined by HashiCorp Field CTO Jake Lundberg in the first segment for a discussion of how organizations are trying—with varying degrees of success—to tackle the agentic AI problem.  
  
  AI agents are identities—but identities our existing frameworks weren’t built to house. Simply porting existing human and non-human identity management practices onto them won’t cut it. 
  
  But the question remains: What do we need instead? 
  
  All that and more on Security Intelligence. 
  
  Segments 
  00:00 -- Intro 
  1:13 -- Who will fix AI agent security?  
  21:17 -- RSAC 2026 Recap  
  29:31 -- 2026's most dangerous cyberattacks  
  40:45 -- The LiteLLM breach  
  
  The opinions expressed in this podcast are solely those of the participants and do not necessarily reflect the views of IBM or any other organization or entity. 
  
  Explore the podcast → https://ibm.biz/BdpSCh
  
  #AIAgentSecurity #AIAgent #Cyberattack
---
You think of it as like getting onto a roller coaster. Like you have to be this tall to get. You know, I've got to be four feet tall. In order to get onto the roller coaster, you have to be this tall to AI. All that and more on Security Intelligence.

Hello, and welcome to Security Intelligence, IBM's weekly cyber security podcast, where our expert panelists turn the biggest industry news stories into practical takeaways you can use. I'm your host, Matt Kosinski. And even though this episode is coming out on April Fool's Day, we're all deathly serious here about cyber security. Joining me today, Suja Viswesan, Vice President, Security Products. Dave McGinnis, VP, Senior partner, global Cyber Threat Management Jeff Crume, distinguished engineer, master inventor, data and AI security and our special guest star for the first segment, we've got Jake Lundberg, field CTO, HashiCorp, joining the pod for the first time. And

here's what we're talking about today. Highlights from RSAC 2026's is most dangerous cyber attack techniques and the LiteLLM breach. But first, folks, we have to talk about some new agentic AI security frameworks popping up. Our very own Dave McGinnis, who is here with us again today, once said on this show, and it really stuck with me. AI agents are the most helpful insider threats we've ever had, and we see organizations now trying to deal with what it means to secure these very helpful insider threats. Recently, there was

an announcement from Okta talking about their own new framework and platform, Okta for AI agents, which helps to answer some of the questions around these things And IBM has its own approach too with security lifecycle management. So we invited Jake on today to kind of walk us through what's going on in this world of agentic AI security, how things are changing and what we can expect. Jake, to start, could you just set a little context for us? What's the market situation right now? Well, to be honest, I think there's a lot of confusion as to what to do these days. There are a

lot of different AI tools. There's a lot of, uh, just, you know, kind of vibe coding across the board and one of the sort of dangerous things that we see with our highly regulated industries is that these agents have the ability to do things that we're not necessarily expecting They're extremely creative. And if you just hand them identities to go across your entire estate, it's highly likely that they're going to go off in areas that you're not expecting. And so a lot of asks that we're getting from our customers is how we isolate those agentic workflows. A lot of the sort of assumptions that we would use nonhuman identities to be able to pass on to these agentic workloads, and it's just not working for folks because they're getting far ranging access.

one of the other, more dangerous things I think that we're noticing is that not everybody has the ability to move to very short lived credentialing management, because they haven't actually gotten their secrets in in check in the first place, right? So you think about the fact that we have lots of unmanaged identities, I joke. I'm a systems guy. I joke that I probably have access to any number of systems that I had access to over the last 30 years, and it's probably true. I don't want to go out there and test that theory, but the fact that people just have lots of unmanaged identities, it's very difficult for them to move to replace those identities, either through rotation or just in time credentials. And now we've added in the capabilities for people to

take our wide scoped identities from all of our previous jobs, potentially at the same company. Right. So I have different roles here at HashiCorp, at IBM over the years, and all of those roles have a of varying level of authorization across our boundaries How do I make sure that I don't leak some of my authorizations from my previous roles into both my agentic workflows, as well as into those non-human identities in which we're managing? And so it's a very scary area for a lot of folks. I think most folks are kind of taking a let's be as conservative as possible. Approach. As

soon as you get toward the top, towards towards your financial industries and highly regulated industries, they're being a lot more conservative. And then you have other folks that are just like their YOLOing it. We just go out and, you know, just do whatever you can, get this thing off the ground as quickly as possible. what's fascinating about it is it looks a lot like what cloud looked like once folks realized what, like Netflix and, you know, the riots and all the rest of those folks were doing in the cloud, they just went full, you know, full into cloud. You heard the policies where it's like, now, you know, CIOs and CTOs are like cloud first everything. And they

didn't really have a really good handle around security and cost based measurements. And we're seeing the same thing in AI with when it comes to identity or overall workflows. So I'll just pause there. That's kind of, you know, some of the major trends that I'm seeing. But I think we're building a fairly interesting portfolio and not just around identity, and I'm happy to dig into that if you want to hear some thoughts in that area. Absolutely. We're definitely going to move into

that. But before we do, I also wanted to kind of follow up on something you brought up, which is that one of the challenges with these agentic identities is that you can't just port over human based, you know, identity and access management or like regular non-human identity management, that they offer a kind of different sort of threat or a different kind of model. was hoping you could elaborate on on what it is about these identities that makes it so you can't just simply stick them in preexisting frameworks. What's going on there? Well, I think it goes back to what I was talking about before. I think that there's there's two parts to this. One is that not everybody has a

great handle on the scope of their identities from an authorization boundary in the first place. So that's number one. And two is the timing mechanisms for how it is that we manage both the the authentication piece of it. How do I attest that those identities should be doing what they're doing. Because there's two different channels. One, it's it's a human based, you know,

sort of workflow. Kick off. I, you know, Jake needs to go off and, you know, run an accounting app. And so I kind of pass through that data to those identities. Well, how do I both attest that Jake is the one who, uh, who sort of asked for those things? And then how do I reduce the boundaries of what

my identity can do just for that particular domain space? So, you know, I have lots of other jobs that I do. How do I make sure that any one of those, those job specific identities don't inherit my capabilities? And then third, how do I audit those things to show the difference between my request and what it is that I've kicked off, as well as what it is that those agents have done and be able to both attest, as well as audit those capabilities as well and isolate them from, uh, from basically being able to kick off other areas. And this is where the creativity stuff is really scaring our financial customers is the fact that, like, what if that agent just figures out a creative way of asking another agent to, like, do another job for it and says, hey, you know what? I'm

trying to get a job done in order for me to, you know, satisfy gradient descent to the maximum way possible, I'll just have another agent go off and do this work for me, because I have the capabilities of asking those things. I potentially have the ability to reach out to those particular agents because a lot of folks aren't putting the isolation of the workloads into the workflows themselves. And so fundamentally, I think there's two issues. One, it's identity and two, it's the isolation of those workflows themselves. And I think that's the piece that most people aren't thinking about. How do I ring fence? Not just the identity, but the scope and how those agents run

and how it is that I allow them to live and die for the workloads that they need. Absolutely. Yeah. There's this kind of there's this, this, this phrase I've seen come up self escalating privilege chains. Right. And I think that's what you're kind of referencing. There is like you have

one agent who maybe figures out a way to get in touch with another agent and another agent and another agent, and it's just this chain. So the blast radius is almost infinite, right? So we've covered kind of what the issue is. Let's pivot to talking a little bit about what we do about it. And I know there's this model that IBM and HashiCorp have of security lifecycle management.

Can you lay out for us real quick what exactly does that mean. What are we talking about there. Yeah. So I think it's a couple different layers. One is how it is that I attest the the human-based side of things. And so within our portfolio we have Verify that can help with kind of vending

out the human based side of it. And then from the HashiCorp portfolio we have our HashiCorp Vault, which is very focused on those nonhuman identity type of workloads, as well as the ability to vend out agent based identities. And so that combination of being able to pass off from those human based workflows, as well as to do just in time credentials, is something like Vault is kind of the basis of that, but we've really extended it off into some other areas as well. So if you look at a tool like Vault Identity Protect with the capability of ensuring those network streams are only doing the jobs that they say from an identity perspective, so we can inspect into those things. And on the kind of left hand side is a Vault Radar product. We can actually go out and

find those unmanaged identities, remediate them into into Vault and allow for this kind of, you know, end to end workflow. How do I show for human based identity workflows? How do I have very laser like just in time. Identities for non-human or agent based workflows. then how do I verify on both sides that these things are working? There are some other implications in there as well, such

as like code scanning, making sure that people just aren't putting API keys. So you talked about this, uh, you know, this library hack that came up. And so one of the biggest issues that people had is they've got local based, um, API keys, and these libraries can go out, sniff those things, and then return them to the bad actors on the back end So, you know, there's even code protection capabilities for us to make sure that you just don't put those things in your code base to begin with, so that you can't dump them out of your git or GitHub systems or, you know, sort of insert your VCS systems here. So again, kind of holistically end to end on the identity side of things, how we manage that. Absolutely. So, you know, if I'm a sort of part of an organization that is staring down

this challenge today, right. And trying to think about how do I go about securing my, my, you know, AI agents, where do I where do I start? What do you think is like the first thing I go to approach? How do I get into this problem and start tackling it? Any thoughts there? Yeah, absolutely. And I think

this is where, in a bit of inspection as to how your overall identities are used today. So like take the agentic stuff off the table and just think about the fact of how it is that you manage all of your, um, just even like non-human identities or the human based identities to one, make sure that they're all managed and they're not sitting out in a code base somewhere in your VCS systems, in your chat systems, on your file systems. You need to get all that stuff off from those things. That's the first. That's the first step. The next step is how do you transition from

having static-based credentials that are long lived to something that's a little bit shorter? And so the first kind of step in that area is like, how do I do rotation based credentials? And then how do you move to more dynamic,just in time credentials where those credentials are only created in my target data sources when I when I request them with the authorization boundaries that are needed. And then they expire either at a session based or, you know, or some time based Such a system. The best case scenario is that you're moving to session based. once my session is is

stood up, I have a just in time credential. And as soon as that session is is torn down, then I actually get rid of those credentials. So even if it's designed to live for like a day or two days once my session is over, if it only lasted for five minutes, remove those credentials from those systems. Um, another thing that we're we're having big ask for is how do we actually assign those agents some kind of their own identities for kind of long term management, maybe like running into like the SPIFFE area or something like that along those ways could actually be helpful. I'm not sure that's the right answer, because fundamentally, I think the second part of this answer is to really think about how it is that you isolate those agentic workflows in the first place. And this is, you know, we're not here to talk about Kafka, probably one of the most

exciting purchases, I think, that IBM has had, along with HashiCorp, of course, is is this idea of Kafka, because we've seen this in other agentic workflows that have been around for a long period of time. I come from the ad tech industry, and like one of the more interesting patterns that I'm seeing emerge is the fact that we use a messaging layer to be able to only allow agents to see things that are within their scope of context, and they actually don't get the call by other agents. so think of like Kafka is almost like the, the another element of the partitioning layer to basically allow an agent to watch for the work that it's supposed to be doing, and it can't be called by other agents. And I think this idea of isolation is really where we're going to see the leverage within our highly regulated industries, because not only do they get to separate the the concerns between the requester and the thing that does the work and everything that orchestrates it, but you have artifacts that you can pass over to your auditors, and nobody's talking about, like compliance in the security. We're worried about security, but I think that compliance is really where things are going to make a big difference. How do I separate those workloads out? But if

you're looking from an identity perspective, where to start first one, find all the stuff that you're not managing today Two get to the idea of being able to do rotation. three, focus on ways that you can get to just in time secrets. And so that's kind of like the short term roadmap. The beauty is, is that we have tooling with our portfolio that allows just for that. The idea is you've got to have the will and the skill in order to like migrate there. We have the tooling. It's now just,

you know, working on your people to actually affect this change. And, and, and the last piece I'll say is like, you think of it as like getting onto a roller coaster. Like you have to be this tall to get, you know, I've got to be four feet tall. In order to get onto the roller coaster, you have to be this tall to AI. And the fundamental pieces that are going to help you protect your environment is really this ability to very quickly both stand up and change those identities in the event that something goes wrong and, you know, and again, being able to do session management and whatnot. So as you're looking at that height thing, that journey towards very close

to just in time secrets is really that journey you need to be going in. I wanted to add that Jake was pointing out earlier and Matt you were talking about as well, what applied for human identity doesn't apply for NHI because and the main reason being you don't have biometrics and multi-factor authentication and all those things that we add for humans don't apply to agents. That's number one. The second part is NHI is something. If you're using Vault, you already have NHI, right? What is changing is that it used to be all

deterministic. All the work that was done were deterministic. Now it is non-deterministic because of agents at that point, just enough and just in time and the dynamic rotation, all these things that they have to do because you cannot just take whatever we did humans and put it there. So you have that. And that's what the exciting of exciting times that we can bring. What Verify brings

in and what HashiCorp Vault brings in and bring it together and tell the story broadly rather than point solutions. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense, right? It's like a movement from the static. Kind of NHIs. We had to more dynamic ones. And so our approach to managing their identities and their

permissions and their credentials has to move from that kind of static to dynamic. Um, Jake, I really appreciate your time here. Before I let you go. I just Dave or Jeff, any any questions, comments or concerns you have here about agentic AI security frameworks before we wrap up this segment, anything to add there, folks? Two quick ones. Um, one, just just to build on this. The the

NHIs. Right. All legit points. What we need to build in are things that are actually more human. Because that's what the agents and that's what we're teaching them to do, right. So Jake,

tremendous example of this agent can't do it. But I have a friend. That agent can go do it, right. Well, how how do those two agents learn to trust each other? How do they find each other? Right. So

that. Right. That's that's an interesting way,Go ahead,Jake. I would fundamentally argue that you shouldn't allow them to find each other. Right. And this is where the coordination layer becomes so important.

And I think this is the mistake everybody is doing is that they're allowing agents to call agents. There needs to be an intermediary, intermediary and orchestration layer that allows for you to just dynamically allocate not just the identities but the workloads themselves. And so if you think about an agent that can only has a very domain specific job, it does the job and it pops that thing onto a queue somewhere. And, you know, again, Kafka is a great place for this, is that the agents actually only run. They're only looking for the jobs that they need to do, and the orchestration layer goes off and creates those things. And they have very domain specific jobs.

They have very ring tight identities in order to do those jobs. And they actually don't even see the other agents. I think that's probably going to be the biggest, like leap that we're going to see coming forward is a separation of duties and concerns. And so like, it's not just identity, it's the ability to do dynamic based workflow. I fundamentally think it's both things. It's not

just the identity piece of the matter, it's the fact that we just need to isolate those workloads and only allow a coordination layer to be the thing that either allows or disallows that work. If you allow your agents to reach out and talk to other agents, you've already lost this game and you're going to end up with these, you know, sort of escalating, you know, confused deputy situations. So just don't allow the deputies to talk to each other. And it's going to make our lives a lot easier. Do you feel that that limits the the allure and the possibility and the, you know, the the art of what AI is for what it can do? Well, no, because fundamentally, you think about our separations of

duties and concerns as human beings, right. So you said something interesting is that we're, you know, we're bringing the human element to agents. But, I mean, we all have different roles here within IBM. My mom's an accountant, my dad's a musician. We all have like very different types of capabilities within society. And if we start thinking about agents as being representatives for our

particular job function, then how do we isolate those things? How do we create the hierarchies of concerns for allowing agents to do their specialized capabilities, but not necessarily control things in other ways? Yeah, obviously there's going to be managers, but that's that coordination and orchestration function that I think is so necessary there. So so again think separation of duties concerns. We're going to start seeing a lot more like small language models and domain specific models that could even do like IoT devices, very, very small models that are embedded in hardware. Like they're not going to be reaching out to some large language model

to do their job. They're just going to do the job that they're capable of doing. Yeah. I think you're going back to design, right? I mean, like no one's thinking about and we talked about this on the pod before where, you know, people are just so excited about what is possible, and they release it and they go, oops, forgot about it. Right. So you're just talking about great design, right? Like,

hey, look, if I want this agent to do X, then I'm going to give it the ability to do X. And it can talk to here's its friends. And that's all I want it to do. Those are the guardrails right. So that's just that's just solid design. That's just unfortunately not where we live today, as the rest

of the pod will tell us. If you're doing if you're doing FOMO engineering. And like I said, we saw this in the cloud. You're just going to blow your organization up. And so the fear of missing out is you're going to be fear of missing out on your on your revenue targets and your profitability because your company may not exist anymore And so as you're trying to think about speed within the market, like it's like designing a race car, if you look at an F1 that is a major engineering effort to have an F1 on the track, you know, people are just taking a Yugo and throwing it out there and saying, hey, go a thousand miles an hour in a Yugo and guess what? You're going to smash into a

wall and you're going to start losing profits and your board's going to be asking like, okay, we asked you to go fast, but we didn't ask you to smash into the wall. So, you know, be responsible in your engineering efforts, right? As someone who. Has done identity management back to the days when dinosaurs still roamed the Earth, it was interesting. A few things that Jake said that that resonated with me. He was talking about how with these non-human identities, with agents, they're

short lived identities. Well, what has been one of the major problems we've had with human identities since the beginning of time is that these identities often outlived the people. In other words, we were really good at giving out credentials and things like that, and we were really lousy at taking them back. So this is now the case where we have to, as was said, just in time, access rights and things of that sort. But the model has always been, regrettably, just in case it's easier for me to give you all these things just in case you might need them, rather than just in time when you need them. Because I don't want you to come back and bug me again. So

we've got two mind shift changes that have to happen there. It's got to be this thing is is just, you know, something that comes and goes quickly, which, by the way, can present a challenge in terms of observability and accountability and traceability. If the ID, you know, sprung up and then disappeared, and now I want to go back and see, oh, but who did that? You know. Well, it was this agent. Well, but that ID hasn't existed for, you know, many milliseconds already. So those are going

to be some interesting challenges. And then ultimately this one that that Dave and Jake were just talking about, where the agents are, are working with each other. I sense a a Bourne Conspiracy sequel, The Agent Conspiracy, where they're all working against us. And so now we've got to figure out how to have them work, but not work against us. So good luck.

It's a fun challenge. I look, I we could clearly do an entire episode on this, but first of all, Jake, I just want to thank you again for for popping in for being in this first segment with us. And clearly, we're going to have to have you back to talk about this more. But thank you so much. Yeah, thanks for having me I appreciate it. Moving along to our second story for this week, folks. It's RSAC

report back. Now, as you probably know, RSAC 2026 was last week in San Francisco, perhaps the biggest annual cybersecurity conference. RSA brings security pros together from around the world, including, of course, folks from here at IBM, in fact. Dave and Suja were both there. So we're gonna get their takeaways from this year's events. Dave, let's start with you. What were some of your highlights

from the conference this year? What did you see? What did it get you thinking about? I think AI was a thing. I've yet to figure out what that's all about, but just kidding. It was fun. Like, so last

year was a lot of PowerPoints and a lot of we're gonna builds, right? And so so this year there were a lot more demos, which is very encouraging. It was fun to see like some of these things that we talked about last year. You know, as a community and some of the individual vendors actually come to life, right? Get to watch a demo. Um, I will say that there seemed to be just an explosion

of pen test AI, right? Just just using AI to either automate, orchestrate, do the whole thing. Um, which which I took, I take the dark side is. Well, if we did that as our defenders. What do we think the hackers did? But you know, we'll save that for for future topics on

the pod here. Um, I thought that was really interesting. Um, the other the other big takeaway for me. And Suja it would be interesting to see if, if you had the same one was that it was all very domain or kind of job role specific. Right. There was plenty of, you know, there's plenty of moving

passed. Just being an agent and getting or sorry, being an assistant and moving to agentic. Actually getting a goal accomplished. Um, but they were very they were pretty narrow. There were a couple I mean, we were we were extremely broad. IBM did a we did a big thing, but that's a whole nother story.

Um, happy to go into it. But, um, I mean, that that there was it was kind of like, hey, we do this with agenticAI. And it's like, great. I have a hundred things to do, but you'll do one of them. That's cool. And

then had to go to somebody else to do another one. It just like we're. So I think as an industry we kind of went from drawing board. We're proof of valuing proof of concept, but we don't have a ton of integration. Um, like I said, um, orchestration was not a big theme that I saw. That's

interesting because I feel like I have been independently of that, hearing a lot more about people. I even came up in that previous segment with Jake, like people talking about a lot of small models doing things instead of one big one. Right. And like this whole idea of like a multi-model environment, multi-model future.So, so maybe that's where things are trending. I don't

know, but it's interesting to see, like you said, Dave, things go from ideas to now. We're starting to build some things. Maybe we haven't fully figured out how they all fit together, but we're building some things out. Um, Suja, how about you? What did you see? Does it. You know, see what Dave

saw? You see some other things. What's going on? The one thing is the excitement was real. Because it was. I think it took the crowd was almost. The excitement was almost a pre-pandemic level, if you

will. Uh, so that that was that was really good. And it was not just AI. It was all agentic AI. That is that is that is the upgrade. Yeah. I got upgraded to agentic AI. And I agree with Dave. There

were a lot of point solutions, right? Very few vendors were able to talk about the story of end to end. Where do you start? I think we we were talking about Jake earlier on that, hey, how do I tackle this problem from end to end? There is a lot of point solutions. We need to get to a place

where we are bringing things together. That is going to be my. The biggest thing for me was as I was watching over vendor after vendor. Jeff kind of sitting here as somebody like me who was not there. How does this all sound? Does this accord with what you're also seeing in the world out

there when it comes to AI and developments? What's your take? Yeah, sure. First of all, small models are just the models that try harder, so hopefully we can get more out of them and hopefully that will help us actually be able to scale this stuff better without destroying the planet. At the same time, I actually sort of attended RSAC, and not because a colleague made a deepfake of me and used it in his presentation. my deepfake attended the

conference, and I'm waiting to get a report whenever he gets back and tells me, uh, tells me what a great time we had. You're living. You're living in the future. While we weren't there. You're living in the future, Jeff. You're sending your digital twin places where the rest of us

really dream of this right now. Exactly right. And I'm wanting to see the expense report when he gets back. Yes. Uh, but, uh, Dave, you know, to circle back around, you know, as you kind of walked away from RSA this year, was there any particular, I don't know, questions or thoughts on your mind that you really thinking about? Really looking forward to seeing how things play out going

forward. How are you feeling there? I like the going forward. Right. Like, I mean, this is how we solve problems, right? I mean, we we this is too much. But I can do this right. And if we've got a

bunch of people doing all the rest of the things now, now you now you get into. Well, we talked about it in the previous segment, right. Like, how do I get those things to talk to each other to, to achieve the ultimate goal, which is solving this bigger problem. Right. So that's encouraging. That

was one I think the second thing that was really encouraging was the number of people that have been successful. Right. I mean, I mean, last year, I'm not kidding. Like, I saw more PowerPoints than I think I've ever seen it at a trade show. Like like, why am I why am I at your ped and you're showing me a PowerPoint?. Like I want to see it work. Like. Oh, well, you know, we don't. Mhm.

Uh, right. And uh, and then when you would push on things right, like, well what's the model behind it. And then you know they look at you like model like okay. That's not real right. This year. Right.

Like almost everybody I talked to. Right. Like really switched on understands kind of like the core of what AI actually is. How do you use it? The benefits. Um, you know, maybe not all of the

pitfalls, which is probably, you know, evident from, from from our chat with Jake. Um, but, you know, in this world of, like, kind of there's, like, AI for security and security securing AI. There was a lot of stuff in the AI for security, and I think that's that's very encouraging. Um, I'm of course, always the proponent here around like, yeah, we need more. Let's keep going. Right. We'll figure it

out. Let's go. Um, you know, so, um, that's that's I think that's, that's that's probably like just there's we went from a handful of things in demos last year to literally the entire Moscone Center. Um, both sides seem to have some really interesting ideas, a lot of repetition. But that's good, right? Suja, to close out this segment. Just, um, your thoughts, you know, go looking forward

after you leave RSA this year. What are you excited about? What are you what are you looking forward to coming down the pipeline, how you think things are going to go? See, for me as a builder of these products, I'm excited about that. I was like, okay, the strategy is like, we need to be thinking end to end. These point solutions are great. How do I augment, how do I complement and then go from

there? So that that was really validating for me. The other part, which was, yeah, getting out of the AI for a second, there was a lot of conversation about for me on the post-quantum cryptography as well, something that was just happening at a board level or something. Now there was much more real. I met some other vendors, were working on it, and then we ever had conversation for me. The now we

are getting ready for that. And and it's top of mind for highly regulated industries that they are like, how do I start working on it? Because until a few days it seems looming much closer than what it is. So that was also very exciting for me to be looking forward to. Absolutely. And

you know, that confirmed. You know, it calls to mind for me. Jeff, I remember when we did the year end episode last year, back in December, you had said that you think quantum is going to become a thing. People start really putting into practice and talking about this year. It seems like Suja got evidence that you may have been right with that prediction, my friend. you might have been on

the money. You know, they say even a blind squirrel finds a nut every once in a while. on that note, folks, let's move on to another story that also has to do with RSAC. This year, I'm talking about SANS's list of the 2026 Most Dangerous Attack Techniques.

So every year at the conference, SANS releases its list of the year's biggest, most dangerous attack techniques. And they did it again this year. Now, I have to be honest, calling these attack techniques feels a little weird. I feel like they're not. There's not quite the right thing to call them. It feels more like they're like big trends. But the point is, they call them the biggest

attack techniques. And what they have kind of zeroed in on for 2026 are AI generated zero days, supply chain attacks, OT complexity, irresponsible AI use, and the race to autonomous defense. To start with some just initial reactions to this list, I'll throw to you first. Jeff, what's your take there? Looking at this list, how does it feel to you? You think there on

the money? Is there anything? You change how you feel? Yeah, I like the list and I agree with your characterization. These are more like categories than they are techniques, because I would think techniques would be the things under the categories, the way you go about doing. And of

course their number one was about dealing with zero days, which are always super scary. Um, I the only quibble I guess I would have with it is what they had is number five was one that where they're talking about the race to autonomous defense. I think I would move that one up when we're starting to talk about autonomy. Well, then we're talking about agents and the need for, you know, it's my AI versus your AI, good AI, bad AI. And who's going to win that? I think

that I would bump that up a little higher, because I think the bad guys are now starting to take the lead in terms of their ability to use agents to, to do bad stuff. And, and, and that that level of autonomy means the barrier to entry for them is lower than it's ever been, and it's easier to attack. I think another thing they mentioned on their number two was about supply chain risks. And, you know, we've always said the human was the weakest link. Well, now maybe it's the human that's in your supply chain. So the the organization you trusted, who

trusted someone else, who had an employee who is now the weakest link. And, you know, security is all about visibility and control. We can't secure what we can't see. And I can't see that far downstream. So my supply chain is inextricably tied together as this global, uh, house of cards. And we've got to make sure that every single one of those is able to stand up any weak

points. And, you know, the whole thing falls. For me, the, the, the AI part of it as we're talking about. Right? Like where we are thinking about these agents, what are they going to do? It's at the end

of the day, it's it's it is accelerates whatever the human wants, right? If you do dumb, dumb things, it accelerates. If you do great things, it accelerates So that is why it becomes zero day to vulnerability and all those become a problem if you don't know what you're doing. And then if you're using AI that contributes to a lot of things problems than anything else. And the second, when you are talking about, hey, the bad actors that are using AI, the bad actors don't have rules. The good actors are talking about guardrails. What I should do, how do I make it? The

bad actors have no rules, so that's always they're going to accelerate much faster on that. And in this case speed is of the essence. So that's why we are always in the catch up mode. Yeah. So you're suggesting that the bad guys don't have guardrails in their AI? Believe it or not, I don't

think they releasing their own frameworks for agentic AI security or having long podcast discussions about it. But no, I. Seriously it's why they can move faster than we can. Exactly. And you both have have kind of I want to get into this and we will in a minute. But you both identified this

this autonomous defense kind of trend and what it means to kind of compete. And I think that that SANS has some interesting ideas about how we compete. We'll get to that in a second. But first, I did want to Dave, I want to specifically ask you about the very first thing that comes up in this. This list is zero days and specifically kind of SANS, you know, position here is that AI has made it easier for anyone, of any skill level to find and weaponize zero day flaws. Do you think that's

accurate? Do you think that's where we're at? How do you feel about that? answer is yeah. You do not need to write code to build applications. You don't need to write code to exploit a

vulnerability. You don't need you don't need to have that skill anymore. Right. So Jeff made a comment like it lowers the barrier to entry. Yeah. As low as it's going to get, right I mean, can you

speak? Okay. Then you can build an agent. What do you want that agent to do? I don't know, whatever just came out of my mouth next. Right. So like the barrier to entry will never be lower. Right.

I at least I can't imagine unless it gets in my thoughts and. Well, that's a terrifying thought. Um, but, you know, like, I just thought it. And the app appeared, I didn't. It was weird. It's coming, isn't

it, Jeff? Yeah, it's. It is. We're already. There, all right? It's it's like the it's like the Chipotle

customer support agent writing code, right? Yeah. It's like how how. I mean, this happened last week. It's not even security. Like that's what I meant by when I said it is as good. Yes. It is brought

the barrier to entry very low, but it's only as good as the person who is creating it, or as bad as the person is creating it as well. That's why it's a it's a very challenging thing as we think through that. I did a video. It's on the IBM technology channel on what is the the most important programing language for the era of AI. And I'll tell you the spoiler alert, it's not Python, it's not Java, it's not C, it's the language you've been speaking since your birth. It's

natural language. So we invented programing languages because we had this problem that computers could not understand our intent. So we had to convert our intent into instructions that we call code. And then the the computer could take code and turn those that instructions into results. Now with generative AI, to a great extent, we can skip the middleman. We can go straight from

intent to results. So in some cases that's because it's generating the code for us In some cases, it'll just skip that step entirely. And that means, you know, a hack doesn't necessarily mean create a zero day code vulnerability. It could be a zero day in some other sort of semantic sense in an alternate universe that we haven't quite yet figured out yet. But that's that's where I think it's headed. Now, what I have hope for is that as even though the natural language we communicate

is we are not very good at communicating, that is what helping us, I believe, because think about how we are using a, like a copilot or a version of whatever you have for your email. You have to tell it 15 times before you. It gets what you want, right? So you use this email. You're negotiating with AI to get what you want. So because that clearly proves that our communication is not as

great. So we have some ways to go. That is what is deterring us from getting too crazy. So I thank God for that. I think that's I think that's a time bound statement though,Suja, I agree with you.

Yeah, absolutely. I have a feeling right. Whatever time we can get, man. Maybe it depends us up. Maybe it buys us a little time we need. I see what you're saying. You know, but, Dave, I know you had

something you wanted to add in there. It underscores. Actually, you know, I think Jeff made it, you know, the point a little bit earlier. So just making it again, right? Like, like no one's disagreeing that we're not going to have more zero days. Okay. So let's make it the obvious

number one on the list. Right. Why is autonomous defense so far down it should have been zero on your list. It should have been your zero number zero list. You know, it's for your zero days. It's

the only way to get around, right? Like, oh, I recognize that this thing is doing something bad. And at a minimum, I'll quarantine it, right? If not, stop it outright. Right. Like that has to happen.

That has to happen because your attack surface today is. Yes. Does it exist? Then I can attack it. More dangerous than a zero day is a zero click something where the user doesn't even have to do anything? And why would it be zero click? Well, because the agent did it all for the attacker, you

know? In other words, they they compromised the agent, hijacked the agent and it did everything. So the user we can't we can't train a user not to click on something that they never clicked on in the first place. So we got zero days. We also got zero clicks, and zero clicks will be what the agents take advantage of. Right. And you live in and you live in a world where you can tell the

agent that this is your goal. It didn't go. Build me a hack. No, I want that. Whatever it is, I want that payroll list. And a silly example, right? But go get it for me.

Figure it out. Right. And in models that don't have guardrails that are allowed to go do crazy things. I didn't tell it to go exploit a vulnerability to go make one up, to make a zero day. Go use what you can find. Make another one. I don't really care. I've. I've told you to go do what I want. It's goal

oriented, right? So you didn't tell it not to rob a bank in the process of, you know, gaining funds in order to do the exploitation that you asked for. So that's on you. We've all kind of talked about, you know, how important this autonomous defense angle is. And so I want to before we close out the segment, I want to bring up the idea that kind of Rob Lee from the SANS Institute posits in terms of like, how do we build it? Right? Because as you've all pointed out, look, the attackers are

doing their own thing. They don't have guardrails. They can move much faster than we can. So here's kind of Rob Lee's take, and this is very interesting to me is to call for a massive hackathon basically to build out Protocol SIFT, which is like an open source initiative that SANS has to kind of bring AI into the Sans investigative forensic toolkit. Lee compared the effort to what happened with OpenClaw, right? He said if they could do 250,000 lines of code on

GitHub in 16 days, think about what we could do if we do like an open source hackathon for autonomous defenders. Jeff, what do you think about this approach? Do you think this is how we build out these capabilities? How do you feel about this? I think it's you know, it's definitely bold, but what's your take? Yeah, I think it's going to be agents for us. You know, a lot of people trying to

build a lot of agents to do a lot of different things. Some of them will be good, some of them will be absolute AI slop and the, the, the wonders of all of this are that we can create all of these at the speed of light, and we can generate so many of them. And the hard thing will be trying to sort out which ones will be useful and which ones won't. Which ones will backfire on us because we didn't think all the way through the the unintended consequences of this. We thought it was going to guard us. We didn't realize it was going to turn the gun back on us in the process So

these are going to be the big challenges. And interestingly, I think it's not going to only be humans trying to solve this problem. I think we will try to create special purpose AIs to help evaluate the other AIs, and then we'll need an AI to watch the AI that's watching the AI. And now we end up with a recursive problem. I can't solve that part. We can't, unfortunately, not here

anyway. I do have to. I do have to move this along though. But again, this is like we could do an entire episode on this, but I do have to move this along to our next story here folks.

Talking about the LiteLLM breach, I'm sure you've all heard about this by now. Team PCP, the cybercrime gang responsible for a number of high profile supply chain breaches, recently compromised the extremely popular LiteLLM Python package, distributing info stealers to hundreds of thousands of devices. That's what they claim. We don't know for sure how many they hit, but they say we hit hundreds of thousands of people before it was discovered. Endor labs discovered the breach. They found out that team PCP published malicious versions of LiteLLM 1.82.7,

and 1.82.8. Uh. Those versions have since been pulled down. The

and people have been encouraged to roll back if they were using them, but this caused quite a stir and in fact it. Andrej Karpathy, the founding member, one of the founding members of OpenAI, commented on this on on Twitter. He called it a software horror story and this is a quote from his tweet. Supply chain attacks like this are basically the scariest thing imaginable in modern software. Every time you install any dependency, you could be pulling in a poison package anywhere deep inside its entire dependency tree. Classical software engineering would have you believe that

dependencies are good, but in my opinion, this has to be reevaluated. And it's why I've been growing so averse to them, preferring to use LLMs to yoink functionality when it's simple enough and possible. Dave, what's your take on this idea of like, okay, it's time to get rid of dependencies entirely? Like, I don't know, that seems kind of crazy to me, but what you thought here on this, how do you feel about that? I'm gonna I'm going to defer to to to Jensen on this one. Right. Because I

think in his keynote for Nvidia, was it two weeks ago now, ten days, whatever it was. Um, he likened agents and specifically he was he was going around his launch of Nemo Claw, but he likened it to Linux, open source and all of those challenges. If I, if I rewind the the vid here and just put Linux in front of that and open source, would you have asked a different question? I mean, it's a fair point. I think so. I don't think so. Right. And

so? So because I'm doing nothing but share distributions and these different things. Right. And now you rely on who. Right. To build up the level of trust.

Right. And so with Linux we use open source. There's communities there's caretakers. There's all these sorts of different things. Right. And I thought it was a great parallel. I just wish I had

thought of it right. I mean, I was like, dang it. Um, to me, like, like what you're asking is we could have asked the exact same thing about, you know, um, well, the myriad number of Linux distributions that are out there, right? Well, how do I trust that? Am I never going to pull packages in? But if I tie

this back just to to layer it on like this actually goes all the way back to Jake in our first topic, right, where you have multi-agent systems. And should those agents be allowed to talk to each other, how is that any different? It's not. It's all about trust. I'm channeling our friend and colleague Nick, who is such a huge fan of open source. I say that just just to gig him

because he's not, but that that is in fact what we're looking at here. There's been a sort of I'm not against open source by any means, so I hope no one interprets it this way. But there's been a naive approach to it saying that because it's open source, it's necessarily more secure, it's inherently more secure. And that's just not not the case. Um, that that might be the case if we were talking about 100 lines of code and we could have thousands of people examine it and really beat it up. But we've got systems that are way too complex, and we don't have nearly enough eyeballs

and nearly enough attention to be able to really vet all of these things. So the notion that that just because it's open source means everyone has inspected it, that's just not true. There's way more lines of code than than we'll ever have time to, to be able to inspect. And this is one of the one of those things I don't think we can we can stuff this genie back in the bottle where our our programing models and the way that we do things are dependent on these dependencies. You know, we need other stuff. We our systems are too big. We're not ready to go back to where everyone's writing

every line of code themselves. I mean, now we're going to be looking back at, at the video game analogy would be we're playing pong again. And I don't think, you know, in an era where people have seen what, what computer graphics can be. Pong is going to be, you know, acceptable to, to folks. So it's going to be, again, I suspect that AI has created some of these problems for us. We're going

to use AI to at least mitigate some of it. It won't solve it, but we could use another AI that's looking at these things, looking for vulnerabilities and uncovering them for us. And it will be an assist. Um, it won't be a solution, but it will at least tip the scales a little bit in our direction. Absolutely. Jeff, you kind of gestured there towards the, the, the massive

complexity of these systems. And this is one of those breaches that really is kind of the result of that complexity, in a sense. And by that, I mean the way that team PCP got into LiteLLM in the first place was first. They compromised the Trivy security scanner and LiteLLM. LM uses that scanner just in their CI CD pipeline. So they get in there, they get the credentials from that, it gets them

into LiteLLM they can, you know, put info stealers and stuff. So it really shows you how like it one breach, one place reverberates throughout all of these areas, right. And Suja, I was wondering, you know, when you could kind of looking at this situation, what does it kind of bring to mind for you about like the criticality of software supply chain security today, especially in this like AI, you know, enabled driven world, as we've been talking about, what's your thought there. For playing around things? Great open source, whatever you want to download, you play around.

That's a very different thing once you get into the production part of it. Right? It's like, I think it's a along what Jeff's talked about earlier, just because it's in a Play store or a app store, just because it's blessed and it's there in the App Store, doesn't mean that you should download into your phone and start doing stuff. Okay? You need to go and then vet it. Same thing with open

source. That is why there are a lot of companies who are built around open source to make sure that they are certified, make sure that it is there and then giving it to you for production. That's the most important thing. Yes. David, you talked about Linux or we talk about there is that there is HashiCorp, there is confluent. There is enough companies Cloudera, the Databricks, there

are enough companies that surround themselves around open source to make sure that they are vetting the dependencies, they're vetting, everything else, and then making it production enterprise grade for people to use. Is is every company is going to make a mistake. possible. I'm not saying that because it's at the end of the day there is always challenges, but you need somebody to stand by it so that to help you to navigate through that as an enterprise. Because if I if I'm thinking about my own personal needs, I want to make sure the healthcare, the financial institutions where I put my money in are doing the due diligence before they do, just pick something off the shelf and start using it That brings us into the show for today here folks. I

want to thank our panelists, Suja and Dave, and Jeff and Jake. Thank you to the viewers and the listeners. Please subscribe to Security Intelligence wherever podcasts are found. Stay safe out there and check out our latest bonus episode, where frequent guest Austin Zeizel makes the case for rehabilitating cryptocurrency's. rap. We usually associate cryptocurrency with

cybercrime and scams, but Austin argues kind of compellingly, if you ask me, that the blockchain could play a key role in making Zero Trust a reality. That episode is available now on Spotify, Apple and all the usual audio platforms, so go check it out, folks.