---
video_title: "Nano Banana Pro… wtf"
video_id: IcSeYMYMgSs
channel_name: "AI Search"
channel_id: UCIgnGlGkVRhd4qNFcEwLL4A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IcSeYMYMgSs
video_date: 2025-11-21T04:07:44+00:00
video_description: |
  NanoBanana Pro / Gemini 3 image full review. Nano Banana Pro use cases. #ai #aitools #nanobanana #gemini3 
  
  Thanks to our sponsor Abacus AI. Try ChatLLM & DeepAgent here: http://chatllm.abacus.ai/?token=aisearch
  
  Try Nanobanana pro
  https://gemini.google.com/  
  https://aistudio.google.com/
  
  Gemini 3 full review https://youtu.be/UH2_Sgeu4lc
  
  Other places to try Nanobanana pro
  https://www.lovart.ai/
  https://goto.higgsfield.ai/JKnG7v
  https://wavespeed.ai
  
  0:00 Nano Banana Pro intro
  0:25 What is Nano Banana Pro
  1:21 Windows 11 screenshot
  2:57 Sprite sheet animation
  3:56 Medical scan analysis
  5:33 Existing people
  7:42 Fictional characters
  9:14 Remaster old games
  10:13 Redesign UI
  11:22 Changing data and graphs
  12:50 Heat depth edge maps
  14:13 Drawing on image
  14:57 Colorize and translate manga
  16:08 Disassemble gundam
  17:05 ChatLLM
  18:12 Model sheet
  19:16 Floor plan to design
  20:06 Photo to 2D floor plan
  21:00 Coordinates to photo
  22:00 Rare car models
  22:52 Preserving small text
  24:00 Table to graph
  25:12 Python code to diagram
  27:23 Time and full glass
  28:20 Rare species
  29:23 Other use cases
  30:39 Where to use Nanobanana Pro
  
  
  Newsletter: https://aisearch.substack.com/
  Find AI tools & jobs: https://ai-search.io/
  Support: https://ko-fi.com/aisearch
  
  Here's my equipment, in case you're wondering:
  Lenovo Thinkbook: https://amzn.to/4jWeKwH
  Dell Precision 5690: https://www.dell.com/en-us/dt/ai-technologies/index.htm?utm_source=AISearchTools&utm_medium=youtube&utm_campaign=precisionai#tab0=0 
  GPU: Nvidia RTX 5000 Ada https://nvda.ws/3zfqGqS
  Mic: Shure SM7B https://amzn.to/3DErjt1
  Audio interface: Scarlett Solo https://amzn.to/3qELMeu
---
Y'all ain't ready for this. Nano Banana 2 is out and let me say this, there's almost nothing it can't do. Like seriously, that's how good it is. So, in this video I'm going to go over all the insane things it can do and compare it with the top image models out there. Plus, of course, I'm going to show you where and how to use it. Let's jump

right in. First of all, note that the official name for Nano Banana 2 is actually Gemini 3 Pro image or Nano Banana Pro. So, this is actually based off of Gemini 3 Pro, which was just released a few days ago. Remember, this is multimodal, which doesn't just understand text, but also image, video, and audio. This can also generate image, audio, and video. So, Nano Banana Pro is

basically using this to generate images. Also, note that we already have a ton of image models that can, for example, colorize and restore old photos, remove watermarks, change the camera angle of a photo, or turn a photo into to anime style or some other style or vice versa. That's just easy stuff, so I'm not even going to show you any of this in this video. My prompts got to level up to be even more challenging than ever before to handle Nano Banana Pro. I'll go over where and how to use this in a second, but let's jump right in with an already really challenging prompt. Let's try a

screenshot of Windows 11 with the following windows opened: Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Google Chrome on the Netflix homepage. By the way, Nano Banana Pro can do 4K, too. So, for this generation, I'm going to set it to 4K. And here's what I got. For the most part, this does look like Windows 11, including the wallpaper and the icons at the bottom. Notice the resolution is

also listed down here. Now, if I zoom in on this image, however, note that there are still some text errors, such as up here and over here, plus over here, and also over here. But, you know, for the most part, this does get like 90% of the text and the elements correct. And you know, these apps also look correct. This does look like Word, Excel, and Netflix.

This is a significant upgrade if you compare this with Imagine 4 Ultra, which is like Google's previous leading image generator, as well as the previous version of Nano Banana. By the way, I'm adding Imagine 4 Ultra here because Nano Banana 1 is known to only do well in image editing, but not so well for just text-to-image. Now, surprisingly, both of them from far away could generate a Windows 11 desktop, but if you zoom in on the text and icons, they are just complete gibberish, at least for Imagine 4 Ultra. And then if you look at Nano Banana 1, again, all of this text is gibberish. It just could not generate any of these text and icons correctly.

And this doesn't even look like Microsoft Word. So, while Nano Banana Pro is not perfect, it's a significant step up. It even got like most of these minor details correct. Next, here's something pretty useful. Let's prompt it to generate a pixel art sprite sheet of a fire mage shooting a fireball. Space

the frames evenly, the character is robed in deep red and gold with a flowing cape. And here's what I got. You can see that this character remains consistent across all these frames. Now, to test if this actually is a coherent animation, I plugged these eight frames through a sprite animation generator, and here's what I got. It's not perfect, but it's pretty good. Like, you can

actually generate some decent coherent animations with this. In fact, this is the only image generator so far that can actually generate a sprite sheet of coherent frames. This is especially obvious if you compare this with Imagine 4 Ultra and Nano Banana, both of which look pretty awful. Like, you can see the frames aren't really coherent. So, again, the clear winner here is Nano Banana Pro. It's just noticeably better

than anything else. All right, let's get it to do something even crazier. Let's see if Nano Banana can analyze medical images. So, I have this photo of four different medical scans, and I uploaded to Nano Banana and asked it to circle the lesions in these images, if any. And here's what I got from Nano Banana Pro.

So, here's the original image that I uploaded. Here is the actual answer or the ground truth, and you can see Nano Banana Pro was actually able to get most of these correct. So, for the first one, it got it correct. It identified that the lesion is here. It's pretty crazy how out of all these dots, it was able to identify this one as a lesion. And

then same with over here, it was correctly able to identify this one. Over here, it did identify this one, but surprisingly, it kind of added another lesion over here. And then finally, at the bottom, it was also able to correctly detect this lesion. So, again, not perfect, but this result is already really good, especially if you consider the other top image generators, Quinn Image Edit, and Nano Banana. Note that here I'm not using Imagine 4 because it can't actually edit images. So, here

I've swapped it out with Quinn Image Edit, cuz that's the leading open-source image editor, and then Nano Banana 1 was the leading closed image editor. But, you can see none of them could actually get this correct. Like, it's all over the place. So, you know, how crazy is that? You can even get Nano Banana Pro to scan medical images and potentially detect lesions or tumors or cancer. Now,

Nano Banana 2 is really good at generating existing people and characters. So, let's try something like this: Kobe Bryant, Jenny Kim, and Mr. Beast as judges on America's Got Talent. And here's what I got. This indeed looks like Kobe and Jenny and Mr. Beast, and

this does look like they are judges in America's Got Talent. I mean, check out how realistic they look. And if you compare this with the other top image generators, again, note that right now I'm switching back to Imagine Ultra because this is text-to-image, it's not even close. So, like, Imagine won't even let me generate existing characters, and Nano Banana 1 just could not generate any of the celebrities I specified. Now, honestly, this prompt is too easy for Nano Banana Pro. Let's generate even

more people. Let's get freaking Johnny Depp, Jackie Chan, Taylor Swift, Tom Hanks, The Rock, Michael Jackson, Oprah, Blackpink, Cristiano Ronaldo, Elon Musk taking a group photo. Let's see if Nano Banana Pro can generate all of these people all in one photo. All right, look at this. How insane is that? It was able to generate Blackpink,

The Rock, Tom Hanks, Johnny Depp, Michael Jackson, Jackie Chan. By the way, it's really hard for previous image generators to actually make a realistic photo of Jackie Chan. And then we have Oprah, Taylor Swift, Ronaldo, and Elon Musk. They all look like, you know, the actual person, and they're all taking this group selfie. The character consistency of this is absolutely wild.

No image generator even comes close. And notice that I didn't upload any reference photos of each of these characters. This was all from just a prompt. How crazy is that? I mean, if you compare this with the other top image generators, it's not even close.

So, again, Imagine won't even let me generate anything. For Nano Banana 1, this does not look like Blackpink. This does not look like Jackie Chan. Who the hell is this? And then this does not look like Tom Hanks. Like, even this

doesn't really look like The Rock. Like, all these people look kind of off. So, clearly, as you can see here, Nano Banana is just at a whole 'nother level. Now, those were celebrities. Let's see if it can also generate some fictional characters. So, we have Emilia from

Re:Zero, Gojo, Nezuko, Kiroro Gunso, which is an uncommon character that most other image models fail to generate, Kenny from South Park, Bart Simpson, and Snow White taking a selfie. And here's what I got. How cool is that? Indeed, this is Emilia, Gojo, Nezuko. It even got Kiroro Gunso correct. That's very

impressive. And then we have Kenny, Bart, and Snow White. And the outfits are also correct. I've tested this with a ton of image models. Almost none of them could actually get the outfits of Emilia and Nezuko correct, but here notice that the character consistency is just really damn good. The only minor

flaw I can spot here is that if they're taking a selfie photo, then the screen should actually be facing them, right? And again, if you compare this with the other image generators, it's not even close. So, here is Imagine 4's generation. As you can see, the outfit of Emilia is completely wrong, including her hair. And then why is Cartman over here? And then, wait a minute, who the

hell is this? And then Oh my god, you're not even trying. This is just a frog. This is not Kiroro Gunso. So, this was pretty bad. Same with Nano Banana 1. As

you can see, the outfit and hair of Emilia is completely wrong. And then, yo, what the hell is this? As you can see again, Nano Banana Pro is just way better in terms of character fidelity. Here's a really useful use case. I'm going to take this really old photo from the original Final Fantasy VII game, and I'm going to upload it to Nano Banana Pro and get it to turn this into a faithful remaster. And here is what I

got. How crazy is that? This is only like a 1K image, but look at the detail and realism of Cloud plus Sephiroth. With Nano Banana Pro, someone could easily just create a remaster of a really old video game and make it look awesome. I mean, for your reference, here's the same prompt with the other image editors. We have Quinn Image Edit,

which looks like this. It still looks very pixelated. The faces are all messed up. It even added some extra bars here for some reason. This does not look good. And then here's the first Nano

Banana one. I mean, it did add more details compared to the original image, but it's just not as good as Nano Banana Pro. I mean, you can clearly see the difference. Here's another really useful application for Nano Banana Pro. I'm going to upload a screenshot of my home page and then plug it into Nano Banana Pro and ask it to redesign this to make it look better. And here's what I got.

First of all, note that it's able to preserve all the text from the original screenshot. And indeed, it was able to redesign this to make it look better. So, it made the top menu and the banner integrate seamlessly. The tags and the cards do look a lot better. It even added some subtle details to the background. The only thing I don't

really like about it is how the search bar is like in the middle of these two sections, but other than that, it's a pretty good redesign, especially if you compare this with an image edit or Nano Banana. You can see that none of them actually did much of a redesign. For Quint Image Edit, it just added some shadows to some of these cards. And then for Nano Banana one, it just changed the background of my top banner. Plus, it messed up a lot of my text. So, again,

the clear winner here is Nano Banana Pro. It was actually able to redesign my interface while preserving all the text. All right, next let's try this. Let's say you have this from Google Analytics, but you want to fake and inflate your data so you can lie to investors and take their money. Well, let's upload this to Nano Banana Pro and then let's change the clicks to 90K clicks. And

instead of just 8.9K impressions, let's change this to 1.2 million impressions. Now, here's the catch. I don't want it to only change the numbers at the top.

It also has to reflect in this graph down below. So, here I put change the graph accordingly as well. And here's what I got from Nano Banana Pro. Would you look at that? Not only was it able to change the numbers up here, but also it's able to change the axes so that it actually matches the numbers specified up here. How crazy is that? This is the

only model that was able to get this prompt correct. For your reference, here's the same prompt with Quint Image Edit and Nano Banana one. For Quint Image Edit, it could kind of get the numbers correct, although this should say 90K instead of the three zeros. However, it failed to actually change the graph below. And then for Nano Banana one, it didn't even put 90K here, plus it also completely failed to change the graph to match the numbers. So

again, in this example, the point would have to go to Nano Banana Pro. It has a much better understanding than anything else we've seen before. All right, next I'm going to upload this image and here's another really tricky prompt. I want it to generate an image split into four quadrants. The first quadrant would be a heat map of the photo. Second

quadrant would be a top view of the photo. Third quadrant would be a depth map. And the fourth quadrant would be an edge canny estimation. Let's see if it can get all four of these correct. And here's what I got. The first quadrant is

kind of a heat map, so the character is like slightly warmer than the rest of her surroundings, but the sections aren't really correct. Like her face and hands should be a lot darker and redder than the rest of the body. So, the heat map isn't entirely correct. For the top view, it did get it correct. Same with the depth estimation, it got that kind of correct. Plus, the edge map is also

correct. So, it didn't do heat pretty well, but it could get the rest of these other quadrants correct. And again, this is especially impressive if you compare this with the other top image editors, Quint Image Edit and Nano Banana. None of them could get the heat map correct, nor generate a top view, nor could they actually generate a depth map from this. The only thing that was kind of a pass was this edge map. So, as you can see

again, Nano Banana Pro is just clearly more performant. It's not perfect, but it can understand my prompt way better. All right, next let's see if it can follow instructions within my image. So, I'm going to draw all over this image and let's see if it can add all these elements in the image. And then for the prompt, I'm just going to put edit the image based on the instructions. And

here's what I got from Nano Banana. It absolutely nailed it. It was able to add a cowboy hat, plus get her to play guitar, plus add a cat. And also note the reflection on the table is correct. It does reflect this newly added guitar, even though I didn't circle this section to be edited in the original image.

Again, if you compare this with the other image editors, Quint Image Edit just completely failed this prompt. And then for Nano Banana one, it got two of the elements correct, but it failed to add a cowboy hat. All right, next I'm going to upload this image and let's get Nano Banana to not only colorize the image, but also translate the text into Chinese. So, I'm going to write colorize this and translate to Chinese. Let's see if it can figure this out. And here's

what I got from Nano Banana. Would you look at that? Not only was it able to colorize this very well, but it was also able to indeed translate everything into Chinese. It even got the currency correct. So, this is super impressive.

Now, anyone can just plug any comic or manga into Nano Banana and get it to colorize it or translate it into any language you want. How insane is that? Note here that again, none of the previous top image editors could get this correct. So, Quint Image Edit could kind of translate some of the text, but not all of the text. And then it only like colored this halfway. Strangely, it

did half of everything. And then for Nano Banana, it was able to colorize this, but the coloring is really strange. And it didn't even try to translate this to Chinese. So again, the clear winner here is Nano Banana Pro. It's just way more capable at a ton of different tasks. All right, here's an

even crazier task. I'm going to upload this picture of a Gundam and get it to turn this Gundam into its original components prior to assembly. And here's what I got. This is actually really good. Like it got the red wings correct.

Like I could recognize the ton of these elements on the Gundam and it actually looks fairly accurate. Plus, it even has some stickers here, which are also kind of accurate. It's not perfect, but I don't expect it to be. This is a really challenging prompt. It's already really good, especially if you compare the same prompt with the previous leading image editors. So, for Quint Image Edit, this

generation was not what I expected. For Nano Banana, it came close, but again, the pieces don't really look correct. These look nothing like the reference Gundam photo. So again, the clear winner here is Nano Banana Pro. It just has a way higher level of understanding. On my

channel, I featured so many different AI models and tools, it can be very overwhelming. What if you can use all of these models all in one platform? And that brings us to Chat LLM by Abacus AI, the sponsor of this video. Chat LLM is an all-in-one platform for you to use the best AI models out there. You can seamlessly switch between different models in your chats. Plus, you can also

use all the top image generators out there, as well as the top video models out there, all in one integrated platform. And they're usually very quick to add a model to their site once it comes out. Plus, if you're coding something, they have a really useful artifacts feature so that you can preview your generation side by side. Plus, they have a deep agent feature which can do some really complex tasks all autonomously, like creating PowerPoints, websites, and research reports. It's going to supercharge your productivity. Best of all, you can

access all of these AI models and image and video generators and deep agent for only $10 a month. This is way cheaper than if you paid for each tool separately. Definitely check out chatllm.coms with deep agent in the description below. Or here's another crazy test. I'm going to upload this

photo again, and I specifically chose this because it's a really tricky design. Notice that this Gundam actually has two swords on its back. One is gray and one is green. So, it's a fairly complex design. Let's get it to make a model sheet of this character front, back, and side. And here's what we got

from Nano Banana Pro. As you can see, it's the first model that was actually able to get the two swords correct. So, you can see indeed, it should look like this from behind. Very impressive. Now, there are some issues with the face, but it's because this is just a 1K image.

And I guess one minor flaw is for the side view, it's not really holding this gun over here. But other than that, it's still pretty good, especially if you compare this with the other image editors. Quint Image Edit actually comes pretty close, but the swords on its back are not really correct. And then here's Nano Banana one. This is also pretty decent. All right, now here's another

really cool use case for this. I'm going to upload this floor plan and then prompt it to make a photo of this room with a cozy minimalist design. And here's what I got. And indeed, it was able to follow all the details specified from the original floor plan. I especially like the look of this grand piano, by the way. So, there you go.

Interior designers, Nano Banana Pro just made your life like way easier. And then for your reference, here's the same prompt with the other two leading image editors. And honestly, both of them are not bad, either. However, Quint Image Edit was not able to really generate a piano and the lights are kind of messed up. And then for Nano Banana 1, the porch here is kind of messed up.

Honestly, both are still pretty decent, but Nano Banana Pro is just slightly better. Now, to really test its spatial understanding, here's what we're going to do. I'm going to upload this photo and then ask it to make a 2D floor plan of this apartment. And here's what I got. Let me split screen this and you can see for the most part, it does actually follow this image pretty well.

The room should be a bit longer, but as you can see, it's able to generate this curved sofa area, plus this table, as you can see over here, plus this kitchen on the right wall. And then you can see all the way at the end of this apartment is the bedroom, which is also correctly conveyed over here. I would say the shape of this isn't like perfect, but it's actually really good already. Now, if you use the same prompt with the other two image editors, it's not even close. Like, neither of them generate an accurate-looking 2D floor plan of this photo. All right, here's a crazier

thing. I'm going to go to Google Maps and then let's pick a random place like over here. Let me click over here and then I'm going to copy the coordinates down here and then write generate a photo of this place. Here are the coordinates. That's pretty much it.

Let's see if it can figure this out. And here's what I got. How crazy is that? It was actually able to know the exact location of the coordinates and generate this. By the way, it should look something like this. Or here's a video

of it. So, it's super impressive how it's able to actually generate a real-looking photo of this particular location and building just from some lat/long coordinates. And yes, this is the city of Hong Kong and even the buildings in the background look correct. Like, these aren't just some random skyscrapers. That's pretty mind-blowing. Here's the same prompt

with the previous top image models and as you can see, none of them were able to actually understand the exact location. They could kind of get that it was Hong Kong and they just generated some generic photo of a street of Hong Kong, which is not correct. Let's see how good it is at understanding cars. So, we have a Ferrari Portofino, a white Audi, and wait a minute, this is way too easy. Let's spice it up a bit and feed it even rarer cars. Let's do a red Lotus

Elise, blue Saleen S7, and a yellow Opel Speedster in the desert. I bet most of you don't even know what these cars look like. These aren't like common cars that you see every day. And here's what we got from Nano Banana. Absolutely unreal.

Now, I'm not a car expert, but just from an initial glance, all three car models do look correct. Let me know in the comments if this is true. Now, actually, to my surprise, even the previous image models were able to get these cars correct as well. So, here are the generations from Imagine 4 Ultra and Nano Banana 1. Pretty impressive, I must say. Now, all the previous image editors

out there are really bad at actually transferring and preserving text from a reference image or product. So, for example, here, I'm going to upload this image of this lotion with a ton of small text. And then for the prompt, let's get Tzuyu from Twice holding and talking about this exact product. Preserve all the original text from the reference product photo. Let's see if Nano Banana Pro can actually preserve everything.

All right, so here's what I got. Note down here that this is just a 1K generation and as you can see, it was not able to actually get the text showing up correctly. So, instead of just generating a 1K image, I tried the same thing with a 4K generation. But again, if you zoom in a bit, the text is still messed up. It kind of got the heading correct, but for the smaller text, it's all just gibberish. So,

unfortunately, if this is your use case, even Nano Banana Pro is not actually able to completely preserve and transfer small text from a reference photo. Here's another crazy application for Nano Banana Pro. I can feed it a table of data and get it to generate a graph from this. So, I'm going to upload this image and then just prompt it to turn this into a bar graph. And here's what we get. In fact, let me split screen

this and compare the numbers. How crazy is that? In just a few seconds, it into something like this. This is just an image generator. This isn't even like a coding agent or anything like that.

Let's look at the numbers. So, indeed, for MMLU Pro, the first number is 84.8 and then 85, as you can see here. Then for GPQA Diamond, it's 80.1 and 80.7,

which is correct. All these numbers seem to be correct and then the labels are also correct. Blue is just a normal DeepSeek 3.1, orange is 3.1 Terminus.

Very nice. And it was even able to separate these benchmarks into the two categories, reasoning mode over here and then agentic tool use over here. Overall, a very impressive generation and none of the other image models were even able to come close to actually generating a bar graph from a table of data. All right, let's try something even crazier because the goal of this video is to really test the hell out of Nano Banana. So, here is my prompt. Make

a diagram this neural network. And I just basically pasted the Python code to a neural network. Let's see if it can not only understand this code, but generate an accurate architecture diagram of this. And here's what I got. How crazy is that? Now, for you

non-technical folks out there, you probably have no idea what's going on, but for those of you who do understand this, it's pretty mind-blowing. So, it first starts off with an input image, which is correct. Notice that nowhere in this code did I specify for the input to be 1 by 28 by 28, but it just kind of magically figured this out. And then yes, it first goes through this convolutional 2D layer, which has 32 convolutions with a kernel size of three. And then yes, it goes through this ReLU function. And then yes, it

goes through this pool function, which is a max pool 2D function with a kernel size of two. And so yes, the resulting dimension is 32 by 13 by 13. I didn't even specify this in the prompt. That's pretty crazy. And then next, it goes through another convolutional layer. And

yes, this time it has 64 convolutions as specified here. Yes, it goes through ReLU, then a max pool layer again. Here is where it got the math slightly wrong. I believe this should be 64 by 5 by 5 instead of 6 by 6. But again, nowhere did I specify this in the prompt. It

just kind of deduced this. And then yes, we flatten this. And then this part is also correct. It goes through another ReLU and drop out layer and then finally it outputs 10 classes. So, for the most part, it actually got this correct, even though this is quite a complicated PyTorch code for a neural network. How

crazy is that? I mean, for your reference, here is the same prompt with the other two image models and they don't even come close. Like, they have no understanding of what exactly is going on here. So, Nano Banana Pro just has a way higher level of world understanding. Next, here's a prompt that still trips up all image models.

It's not really good at generating the time on a clock or filling a glass full of wine. So, here, let's get it to generate 11:15 on the clock and a wine glass filled to the top. Ooh, and here's what we get from Nano Banana Pro. The wine glass is filled to the top, but the clock is wrong. This is not 11:15.

Surprisingly, it still cannot generate the correct time on a clock. I wonder if this is something to do with the, you know, the structure of how these transformers are designed. It can do so many things. It can turn a table into a bar graph. It can even turn code into a nice diagram of a neural network, but it still can't generate the time on a clock. That's pretty baffling. And then

for your reference, here's the same prompt with the other image models and both of them got both the time and the wine glass wrong, as expected. I also wanted to test its ability to understand and generate some pretty uncommon species. Here's the scientific name for this Sri Lanka slow loris. It's called Loris tardigradus. And for your reference, it looks something like this or like this. Let's see if Nano Banana

actually knows what this is. All right, so here's what I got from Nano Banana and unfortunately, this does not look like the Sri Lanka slender loris. It should be a lot thinner than this. This just looks like a generic loris from somewhere else. So, unfortunately, it doesn't actually know some rarer species. But that being said, if you

compare this with the previous image models, they're even worse. Like, Imagine 4 has no idea what it's generating and then for Nano Banana 1, this looks pretty awful. So, that sums up some of my quick tests on Nano Banana. As you can see, it can handle so many diverse and challenging tasks. It's not perfect, but this is like way better than any other image model we've had before. Now, in addition to my tests,

here are some other cool things you can do with Nano Banana Pro. These are some examples from their official announcement page. You can upload up to 14 different reference photos and insert them into your photo like this. Look how consistent everything is. Here's another example where you can upload multiple different inputs and merge them all into one photo. I mean, there's really no

need to use Photoshop anymore. You can also upload a photo and crop it or outpaint it like this to change the aspect ratio, or you can change the lighting of a photo, or here's an even cooler example. You can even adjust the focus of a photo. Here are some other translation examples for your reference. So, here we are translating everything into Korean. It's also great at

generating infographics like this. Or here's another infographic on how to make chai. And like I showed you from some of my demos, this has a really good world under- standing of many different concepts. So, for example, it can generate a diagram on how solar energy works, or how light reflects and refracts. None of the other models even come close to actually understanding these concepts. You can easily apply

just a sketch of logo and then create a ton of different product photos or marketing materials for your brand. There's just a ton of different things you can do with this. All right, next, let's go over where and how to use it. So, at least for Google's native platforms, you could use this in Gemini or Google's AI Studio. Let's click on Gemini first, and once I log in, already I see this pop-up where I can try Nano Banana Pro. So, I can just click try

now, which toggles on this image feature. Alternatively, if you're starting from scratch, you just need to click on create image, and it would automatically use Nano Banana Pro. So, let's do something like a behind-the-scenes film set of Naruto live-action. We have a film crew and equipment surrounding these characters chatting and preparing. Let's press generate. One thing to note, if you're

using Nano Banana Pro on this Gemini app, is that there's no way for you to customize the resolution, at least not on the free plan. So, all your generations would be 1K resolution. There's also no option for you to actually specify the aspect ratio. So, I believe all generations would just be 16:9. Anyways, here's my final generation, and this actually looks really good. Another thing to note is

that all your generations from the Gemini app do have this Gemini watermark down here. Notice that if I zoom in, the quality isn't great, and that's because this is only 1K resolution. So, that's the free way for you to try Nano Banana Pro. Alternatively, you can also use this in Google's AI Studio. However, note that for here, you do need to link to a paid API key in order to access Nano Banana Pro in AI Studio. However,

the advantage of using this in AI Studio is you can adjust the temperature, or basically the creativity or variance of the model. And then you also have the option of selecting these aspect ratios, and up to 4K in resolution. However, note that again, this platform is paid. So, those are the two main platforms from Google where you can try out Nano Banana Pro. But in addition to this, there are already a ton of different third-party providers that have already added Nano Banana Pro. One platform is

Love Art, and at least right now, you can try Nano Banana Pro on their platform for free. And the nice thing about Love Art is you can choose the aspect ratio. However, all of these seem to be 1K only, so you can't select the 4K resolution option. Just as a quick example, let's generate a manga page of a fight between Goku and Frieza, and let's set this to 9:16. And here's what we get. Or this is also available on

Wave Speed AI. You can see at the top here, Nano Banana Pro is available. Another popular platform is called Higgsfield, and they've also added Nano Banana Pro. I'm sure there are like dozens of other third-party providers that already offer Nano Banana Pro right now. Anyways, that sums up my review on Nano Banana Pro. This is way better than

anything else we've had before, and there's almost nothing it can't do. I really tried to test the hell out of it with some really tricky prompts to actually figure out its limitations. Let me know in the comments below what you think of this, and what other cool and impressive things were you able to do with this. And by the way, since this is essentially Gemini 3 Pro, it's also worth mentioning that I did a full review video of Gemini 3 Pro when it came out a few days ago. That model is also pretty impressive, so definitely check out this video if you haven't already. As always, I will be on the

lookout for the top AI news and tools to share with you. So, if you enjoyed this video, remember to like, share, subscribe, and stay tuned for more content. Also, there's just so much happening in the world of AI every week, I can't possibly cover everything on my YouTube channel. So, to really stay up-to-date with all that's going on in AI, be sure to subscribe to my free weekly newsletter. The link to that will be in the description below. Thanks for

watching, and I'll see you in the next one.