---
video_title: "We now have Nano Banana for VIDEO"
video_id: 2IFMIkN2HaU
channel_name: "AI Search"
channel_id: UCIgnGlGkVRhd4qNFcEwLL4A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2IFMIkN2HaU
video_date: 2025-12-04T03:25:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Kling 2.6 & Kling O1 review. Best AI video generator with sound. Nano Banana of video.  #ai #aivideo #aitools #ainews 
  
  Thanks to our sponsor Artlist. Try it for free: https://artlist.io/artlist-70446?artlist_aid=AIsearch_3782&utm_source=affiliate_p&utm_medium=AIsearch_3782&utm_campaign=AIsearch_3782
  
  Use Kling 2.6 & Kling O1 https://klingaiaffiliate.pxf.io/ref
  
  0:00 Kling 2.6 and Kling O1 intro
  0:46 Kling O1 features
  1:45 Microediting videos
  2:56 Background swap
  4:07 Inserting characters
  4:53 Replacing characters
  5:32 Multiple camera angles
  6:28 Replacing products
  7:23 Adding elements
  8:25 Combining multiple assets
  9:36 Inserting characters in existing videos
  10:50 Style transfer
  11:36 Artlist
  12:46 Precise movement control
  14:02 Kling 2.6 specs
  15:12 Kling 2.6 anatomy test
  15:51 High action scenes
  16:20 Podcast with dialogue
  16:58 3D pixar test
  17:54 Existing characters
  18:50 Snowboarding physics
  19:23 Japanese dialogue test
  20:10 Epic destruction
  20:42 Jiggle physics
  21:05 Anime test
  21:33 Singing and dancing
  22:14 Text and diagrams
  23:41 How to use Kling for free
  
  
  Newsletter: https://aisearch.substack.com/
  Find AI tools & jobs: https://ai-search.io/
  Support: https://ko-fi.com/aisearch
  
  Here's my equipment, in case you're wondering:
  Lenovo Thinkbook: https://amzn.to/4jWeKwH
  Dell Precision 5690: https://www.dell.com/en-us/dt/ai-technologies/index.htm?utm_source=AISearchTools&utm_medium=youtube&utm_campaign=precisionai#tab0=0 
  GPU: Nvidia RTX 5000 Ada https://nvda.ws/3zfqGqS
  Mic: Shure SM7B https://amzn.to/3DErjt1
  Audio interface: Scarlett Solo https://amzn.to/3qELMeu
---
One of my favorite AI video models, Cling, is on fire this week. They released not one but two new models. One of them is called 01. And this is so powerful and flexible. You can plug in any video or images or prompts and get it to do anything such as replacing the background, replacing characters, or inserting new characters or objects from your reference photos. And then today,

they also dropped their latest model, Cling 2.6. This is their first model with sound natively built in. And it's incredibly good at physics, high action scenes, and imagetovideo. So, in this video, I'm going to go over both these models. I'm going to show you all the

awesome things it can do, plus its limitations, and compare them with the other competitors out there. Let's jump right in. First, let's talk about Cling01. This is what they call a unified multimodal model that can take anything as input, including text, images, and video all simultaneously. So, for example, you can just drag and drop some reference images of a character or objects and then merge them all together into your video and also change the scene into something like anime style. Or here's another example

where you can get this character to ride this reference motorcycle in this reference background image. You can also easily plug in a video and then prompt it to replace or edit anything in a video. So, for example, you can replace the statue with a Christmas tree like this. It's kind of like a nano banana but for video. Here's how you can use 01. Once you sign up for a free account

on Clling, they have this new O icon over here on the left menu. So, let's click on this. And down here is where you can use 01. This can generate videos up to 10 seconds and in all these aspect ratios. So, let's give this a shot.

First of all, I'm going to drag and drop this video onto here. And it automatically refers to the video in my prompt like this. And then afterwards, let's write something like remove the people in the background. Let's press generate. And here's our result. Indeed,

it's able to listen to my prompt and remove all the people in the background. And for your reference, here's a comparison of the before and after. Really cool. Or here's another example. I'm going to upload this video onto here of this dude walking in the forest. And

then let's write make it snowing in the winter. Let's see if it can handle that. All right. And here's what we get. Indeed, it was able to convert the scene into winter. And then for your

reference, here's the before and after. So, as you can see, Clling is able to understand the content within your images or video and then know exactly how to edit the video according to your prompt. Here's another really cool example where you can edit existing objects within a video. For example, you can turn the sword into a flaming blade and here's what you get. So, you no longer need to like manually add these effects with some video editing software. You can just prompt it and it

would add this for you in seconds. Here's another test for your reference. I'm going to upload this video of this dude riding a dragon in the desert. And then let's get it to change the desert background into a city. And here's what we get. I'll show you a side-by-side

comparison soon, but let's do a few more of these. I'm also going to change the background into a forest. And here's what I got from that. And then finally, let's also change the background into an arctic tundra with northern lights. And it also was able to nail this. So here

are the generations for your reference. In the top left corner is the original video with the desert background. But as you can see, it's able to swap the background into whatever I prompt it with very seamlessly while keeping, you know, the original rider and the dragon. This is so powerful and flexible. I honestly think this is the future of AI video where we don't need any control nets or any image to video. We can just

prompt an AI model and it would edit the video for us accordingly. By the way, in addition to changing the background of an existing video, you can also just turn the background into a green screen like this. So, you can do some post-processing with it later yourself. This is a super powerful feature. All right, so those were just some quick examples where we edit existing videos.

Let's bump up the difficulty. So, I'm going to upload these two images of some characters. So, here's image one. And then here's image two. And then let's write they are dancing and singing on stage. Let's press generate. All right.

And here's our result. As you can see, it's indeed able to generate these two characters. Their outfits are consistent with the images that I've uploaded, and they are dancing and singing on stage. Now, there are some artifacts with this. For example, the hands and fingers aren't very clearly defined, and the details of the faces could be better, but overall, from far away, this is still very good. You can also merge like

characters of two different art styles together, and they can still blend in seamlessly within this video. It looks kind of strange, but it works. Or let's try something like this. I'm going to upload this girl staring up into the night sky. And then let's replace this girl with another character. So, we can

also insert an element. I'll go over how to create an element here as you can see in a second. But let's just use one of their default ones like this assassin. And then here, let's write in the video replace the girl with assassin. Let's see if it can handle that. And here's

what we get. Indeed, it was able to replace the girl with this assassin while keeping her original pose. You can see the assassin also was able to look up at the night sky. Now, with this tool, of course, it's also super easy to create additional videos of the same scene, but at different angles. So, for example, let me upload this same video, and then let's write generate the scene from behind. And here's what I got. For

your reference, here's a sideby-side comparison. Now, it's not perfect, and somehow it decided to add this comet in the sky for this generation, but we can also edit that out further if you don't want the comet. Overall, it does preserve the overall look of the original video. And instead of generating a shot from behind, let's also try a front view of this scene. And here's what I got from that. So, here's

the reference video and the two generations for your reference. You know, again, somehow it decided to add a shooting star in the sky, but if you don't want that, you can always plug it back into Clingo1 and edit that out. But, as you can see here, you can now easily create additional shots at different angles from an original scene. super useful tool. Let's try uploading a reference image of this handbag. And

then let's prompt it to create a product video of this on a minimalist marble table surrounded by flowers, rose petals falling down slowly. And here is what we get. Indeed, it was able to generate a video of this handbag. And this looks exactly like the handbag in the original photo. Now, that's just easy stuff.

Let's bump up the difficulty of this. What I'm going to do is plug that video back into here and then drag and drop this other leather handbag. And then let's write replace the pink bag in the video with this new image. Let's see if it can figure this out. And here is what we get. And you can see it preserves all

the details from the original leather handbag photo, including the lion logo at the bottom right, as well as the buckle and the stitch patterns. This is really good at product consistency. Now, instead of just uploading one reference image, you can also add an element feature. This is kind of like a fine-tuned model of any character or object you want. So, here are some of their default characters, but you can also click on my elements and then click this plus icon to create your own element. So, here's how you would do so.

You would first need to add one frontal image. So, you can easily generate this with like nano banana or some image editor or just take a photo of anyone. for me. Let's just upload this reference image. And then you can also get Cling to generate some additional photos of this character at different angles for you. So, for example, here it was able

to like create all these views from just one reference photo of my character. So, I can select, you know, the ones I want like this one and this one. And let's select her face as well, like this. And then press confirm. And then afterwards, let's name this element something like JP girl. And then for the description,

let's also describe this person with a text prompt. So just something simple like this and then press generate. And then afterwards, you can select your new element and plug her into any video. All right. So here's a tricky example. I'm

going to use my element and then also upload this photo of a speaker, this photo of a blue dress, and then these headphones, and then this pink handbag again. And then let's get this element. Let's call her something like this influencer. and then is wearing the blue dress and these headphones. So, I'm going to refer to them by typing the at sign and then selecting this and this.

And then she's also holding this handbag. So, let me type the at sign and then select this. And also holding this speaker. So, that would be this one. And then she's talking about these items in a cozy bedroom. Let's press generate.

And here's our result. Indeed, it was able to capture everything I specified in the prompt. She is wearing the blue dress and the white headphones and she's holding the speaker and the handbag and she's talking about these items. So, you can easily upload an influencer as an element and then plug them into any video to talk about any product you want and pump out a ton of marketing content or UGC. Here's a more challenging example. I'm going to mix a video with

an element and an image. Let's see if I can merge all three assets into the same video. So, we have this video of a forest and then that JP girl element and then this image of a fox and then I'm going to write the girl is walking with the fox from right to left in this video of a forest. Let's press generate. And here's what we get. As you can see, you

can now easily just insert any character or object in an existing video while keeping the motion and everything from the original video. This is truly a unified multimodal model. And I really think that this is the future of AI video generation and editing where we don't need any control nets or image to video. We don't need to like manually specify the trajectories and camera control. We can just drag and drop anything onto this unified model and then just prompt it to merge everything together like this. Here's an even

crazier example where you can upload like a ton of different elements of this dude wearing this black robe holding this wand thing with some blue flames in this castle background with an owl perched on his shoulder and a woman walking behind him. And here's what you get. It's able to merge everything seamlessly into this video. Finally, let's also see if it can transform a video into another style. So, I'm going to upload this video and then let's write turn into anime style. And then in

addition to anime style, let's also try a 3D Pixar style. Let's press generate. And here's what I got. Indeed, it was able to transform the original video into anime and Pixar style. There are some like subtle things I don't like about his expressions. So, for the anime

example, the dude shouldn't be talking. So, I don't know why his mouth is kind of moving at the beginning there. And then for the Pixar example, the dude should not be smiling. He should have a serious face. But other than that, it was able to convert this into anime and Pixar style. Another thing I don't

really like about both these generations is they seem to be very saturated in color for some reason. Like it doesn't actually preserve the color tone of the original video. Speaking of AI tools, you've got to check out Art List, the sponsor of this video. Art List is the ultimate platform for video creators. They have the ideal combination of the best and latest AI models and curated music, sound effects, and digital assets. You can use the best image and

video generators out there, including Nano Banana Pro and the latest Cling01 video, and they've just added Cling 2.6. For example, let's try something like two kung fu masters fighting on a rooftop with rain and lightning in the background.

Or here's another example with Nano Banana Pro. Let's try something like a behind-the-scenes film set of Spirited Away liveaction. And here we go. Look how realistic this is. And then I can click animate to turn this into a video.

Let's use cling 01 video for that. Let's press generate. And here's what we get. It's now so easy to create anything in art list. This is the ultimate resource for creators. Integrating the best AI

image and video generators, plus curated music, sound effects, and stock footage all in one platform. Try it out via the link in the description below. Here's another cool element feature that they showcased where you can replace all the characters in the original video with these three elements and it's actually able to, you know, capture their movements and poses very well. This makes it so easy now to replace or insert any characters into videos. Now, if you do like 3D modeling, then this feature is even cooler. So you can just

upload a video of how you want to move around in this abstract 3D scene and then upload a reference image of how you want the scene to actually look and it can basically apply that image onto this 3D scene and here's what you get. Or here's another example where this is your uploaded 3D scene and you can upload an image of this dude riding a red motorcycle and here is the result. Notice that it's able to follow the composition that was specified from your input video. This gives you ultimate control on how things should move. Anyways, in a nutshell, those are some of the cool things you can do with Cling01. Overall, a very impressive

model that just understands whatever you upload, including videos and images, and you can prompt it to manipulate all these assets however you want. Again, you can just click on this O icon on the left menu to try this out. Now, in addition to 01, which was already really impressive to me, they also just dropped Cling 2.6. This is their latest, most advanced model with audio natively built in. And you can access this right now if

you click on this video icon on the left menu. And then at the drop down here, make sure you select video 2.6. Now, this can do both text to video and image to video. Let me try out some texttovideo examples first. Now, Clling

is known to do very well with highaction cinematic scenes. So, let's try something tricky like a sorceress casting massive fireballs while her opponent summons icy dragons. Their powers clashing midair with explosive shock waves, dynamic camera pans. Notice that for Clink 2.6, you can create videos of 5 to 10 seconds with these aspect ratios. And yes, this has audio

natively built in. So, let's press generate. All right, here's what we get.

This looks so epic. It's a really high action scene. Plus, the audio is also very seamless. This is especially impressive if you compare it to their competitors. And as you can see, Cling 2.6 is the clear winner in this example.

Now, Cling is also incredibly good at anatomy. So, here is a really tricky example that so far pretty much only Clling and Kind of High Loa were able to get correct. A gymnast doing a flip on a balance beam. And here's our result.

Anatomically speaking, this is pretty much perfect. Now, her face does kind of look distorted at the beginning there as she prepares to jump, but other than that, I mean, everything is anatomically correct. This is like the only video model that can actually generate a gymnast doing a legit flip on a balance beam. Even like Vio or Sora could not handle this well. Now, Clling is known to do really well in terms of these highaction scenes and following your prompt. So, here's a tricky one with a

ton of details. A courier dashes out of a dimly lit warehouse, clutching a stolen briefcase, weaving past parked trucks. Security guard bursts through the door, radio crackling, sprinting after the courier amid flickering shadows.

As you can see, it's able to follow my prompt very well. All right. Next, let me also try to specify some dialogue in the prompt and let's see if it can follow this. So, here we have a podcast interview with an Indian man and an Australian woman. The podcaster asks, "What's your favorite healthy snack?"

And the guest replies, "Almonds, definitely. It's a superfood." Let's see what we get. >> What's your favorite healthy snack? >> Almonds definitely. It's a superfood.

>> And for the most part, this is very good. The lip sync is very seamless. It does look like they are talking. I don't know why the Australian woman kind of has a slight Indian accent, but whatever. Overall, I mean, I think this is on par with Vio and Sora in terms of speaking and lip-sync. Next, let's try

one of my favorite prompts, which tends to trip up a ton of video generators. So, we have a princess wearing a glittery white dress. She's running away from a massive dragon with glowing red eyes. It's going to be 3D Disney Pixar style. And here's what we get.

This is actually very good. It's very high action. Everything is coherent. It got all the details that I specified in the prompt. The only thing is she's kind of running like diagonal to the dragon, which is kind of weird. But overall, I'm

still very impressed by this generation. Now, here's the same prompt with what I think is the best generation I got from another competitor, which is called LTX2. And this also has sound natively built in. [crying]

All right, let's see if it can understand existing characters right out of the box. So, let's try Goku fighting Iron Man in a crowded stadium. It's a pretty short prompt. Let's see what it generates. >> Let's Let's finish this.

>> All right, so it was kind of able to generate Goku and it definitely got Iron Man correct. However, Goku is kind of on drugs or something. He can't even like punch properly. Something is seriously wrong with Goku. So, this is not a perfect generation, but it is kind of able to understand some characters like Goku and Iron Man. Now, honestly, I

think the best model for this type of prompt would be Sora 2. It's really good at understanding existing fictional characters. So, for example, here is Sora's generation of Goku fighting Mewtwo in a crowded stadium. [cheering] You cannot hope to match my power. >> We'll see about that.

>> All right, here's another tricky high action prompt. We have a snowboarder launching off a snowy cliff, midair rotation, sharp descent into fresh powder, snow dust trails behind, heart-racing descent into the valley. Let's see what we get.

I mean, it pretty much nailed this. It's also cool that it decided to kind of like turn this into slow motion as he does the midair rotation. The physics and anatomy are all correct. This is just beautiful. The only issue I have with this is the audio sounds kind of weird. Now, Cling 2.6 can also do image

to video where you can upload an image to use as the start frame of your generation. Notice that it currently only supports the start frame and not end frame. So, I'm going to upload this anime image. And then for the prompt, let's try something like this. The guy says this Japanese and then the girl says this Japanese. Let's press

generate. >> What a beautiful view. >> Yeah, the breeze feels good. >> Okay, that was really weird. And I tried multiple generations with the same prompt. And for all generations, it did

not speak the Japanese that I specified. Somehow, it translated this into English. Now, the translation is correct. So, that's indeed what the Japanese means, but in English. But it's just weird that it could not generate Japanese and it decided to make them speak English instead. All right, here's

another image to video example. So, I'm going to upload this image of Godzilla destroying the city and let's see what we generate from that. [music] And this is also pretty good. Like everything remains very consistent and coherent. Now, Clling is known to do very well in image to video. In fact, it

has always ranked like number one on imagetovideo leaderboards. So, I would expect Clink 2.6 to also do very well. Now, of course, when all these new models drop, there's one really important thing that we need to test out, which is jiggle physics. Let me upload this image and let's get her to run very quickly. And here's what we

get.

And I must say, the jiggle physics here are just spoton. It looks way better than the other video generators that I've tested before. All right, here's another image to video example where I'm just going to upload this anime scene. And I'm not even going to prompt it anything. Let's see what it does with this.

It was able to detect what's in this image and generate the sound from that. And the scene is very nice. The only flaw is that the faces and the eyes of the two side characters are kind of messed up at times. And then for your reference, here's the same generation with the other competitor models. Next, I also wanted to see how good it is at dancing and singing. So, I uploaded this

photo and it's going to be a K-pop group singing and dancing, an upbeat Korean pop song. Let's see if it can actually generate K-pop. [music]

>> So, it's not really generating K-pop again. It's making them sing English. And actually V3 and some other models do the same thing where even though I specified for it to generate like K-pop or J-pop or another language, it just ends up speaking or singing in English. Now, as you can see from this generation, it's not actually that good. The hands and the faces are messed up a ton of the time, so it's not very coherent. Now, while Cling 2.6 is really

good for like high action scenes and anatomy and image to video, it still cannot do text very well. Clling is known to do pretty badly at rendering text. So, here's an example of that. We have a camera pushing in towards a couple kissing. Then, it tilts up to show the sky with this text.

So, here it is following the camera movements that I specified very well. It is first pushing in towards the couple and then tilting up to show the sky. However, the text is complete gibberish. And then here's another tricky prompt that no video model has gotten correct so far. This really tests its world understanding and its ability to generate diagrams and text. So here we

have a professor explaining the Pythagorean theorem on the whiteboard. So the square of the hypotenuse is equal to the sum of the squares. So as you can hear it does have that understanding of the Pythagorean theorem. The professor is able to explain what exactly this means. However, the diagram and the text are just completely wrong. So, it seems

to have an understanding of what this is, but it just could not render it into text and diagrams on this whiteboard. Now, Cling 2.6 just came out today, and these were some of my preliminary tests on it. I hope that gives you a sense of what it can and cannot do. Notice that right now, Cling 2.6 outputs 1080p

resolution videos, so it can't do like 2K or 4K yet like some other competitors like LTX2. And the awesome thing is you can try both Cling 01 and Cling 2.6 for free. So once you sign up for a free account, I'm just on a dummy account right now. And here it says it includes 166 credits and a trial of advanced features. So as you can see here, I have

166 credits. And note that each generation from Cling 2.6 costs 35 credits. And then for Cling01, it costs 30 credits if you don't upload a video and 45 credits if you upload a reference video. So with 166 credits, you get like a handful of generations to test both models out. So that sums up my review of

Cling01 and Clink 2.6. Cling is absolutely crushing it with AI video this week. But actually, Cling isn't the only one that's cooking something huge in the AI video space. December is going to be a crazy month for AI video, so stay tuned. I think in the coming weeks,

you're going to see some even better state-of-the-art video generators being released. Anyways, let me know in the comments what you think of this, and if you've had a chance to try out Clling 01 or 2.6, let me know what impressive things were you able to do with these models. As always, I will be on the lookout for the top AI news and tools to share with you. So, if you enjoyed this video, remember to like, share, subscribe, and stay tuned for more content. Also, there's just so much

happening in the world of AI every week, I can't possibly cover everything on my YouTube channel. So, to really stay up to date with all that's going on in AI, be sure to subscribe to my free weekly newsletter. The link to that will be in the description below. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.