---
video_title: "Realtime AI videos, AI reads minds, space GPUs, Kimi K2 Thinking, gynoids - AI NEWS"
video_id: 4EzwAYOqLj8
channel_name: "AI Search"
channel_id: UCIgnGlGkVRhd4qNFcEwLL4A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4EzwAYOqLj8
video_date: 2025-11-09T03:27:44+00:00
video_description: |
  INSANE AI NEWS: Kimi K2 Thinking, Bytedance Bindweave, Project Suncatcher, OlmoEarth, Brain-IT,  #ai #ainews #aitools #aivideo
  
  Thanks to our sponsor Abacus AI. Try ChatLLM & DeepAgent here: http://chatllm.abacus.ai/?token=aisearch
  
  Sources in order of mention:
  https://lzy-dot.github.io/BindWeave/
  https://github.com/alibaba-damo-academy/Lumos-Custom
  https://amitzalcher.github.io/Brain-IT/
  https://allenai.org/blog/olmoearth-models
  https://moonshotai.github.io/Kimi-K2/thinking.html
  https://research.google/blog/exploring-a-space-based-scalable-ai-infrastructure-system-design/
  https://joonghyuk.com/motionstream-web/
  https://shaochenze.github.io/blog/2025/CALM/
  https://github.com/FoundationVision/InfinityStar
  
  
  0:00 AI news intro
  0:59 BindWeave
  3:25 UniLumos
  4:54 BrainIT
  8:22 OlmoEarth
  10:34 Xpeng Iron 
  12:44 Unitree teleoperation
  14:20 ChatLLM
  15:30 Kimi K2 Thinking
  22:56 Project Suncatcher
  25:30 MotionStream
  28:58 Continuous Autoregressive Language Models
  31:52 Bytedance Infinity
  
  
  Newsletter: https://aisearch.substack.com/
  Find AI tools & jobs: https://ai-search.io/
  Support: https://ko-fi.com/aisearch
  
  Here's my equipment, in case you're wondering:
  Lenovo Thinkbook: https://amzn.to/4jWeKwH
  Dell Precision 5690: https://www.dell.com/en-us/dt/ai-technologies/index.htm?utm_source=AISearchTools&utm_medium=youtube&utm_campaign=precisionai#tab0=0 
  GPU: Nvidia RTX 5000 Ada https://nvda.ws/3zfqGqS
  Mic: Shure SM7B https://amzn.to/3DErjt1
  Audio interface: Scarlett Solo https://amzn.to/3qELMeu
---
AI never sleeps and this week has been absolutely insane. We have a new real-time video generator which you can even edit. For example, you can drag your mouse around to control the movement in real time. This new open-source model is crazy. It even beats the top closed models out there like GBT 5. We have a new AI that

can read your mind and reconstruct exactly what you're seeing with incredible detail. Bite Dance drops a new open-source video generator, plus a new deep fake generator. We have a new family of open-source models for geospatial research. So, this can help analyze things like deforestation, wildfires, urbanization, and more. This might be the next big thing in AI.

Instead of processing each word as tokens, this AI model uses a continuous vector, which means it can process way faster. We have some ridiculous humanoid robot demos and a lot more. So, let's jump right in. First up, Bite Dent releases a new AI tool called Bind Weave. This basically allows you to upload any reference photo of a person or object and insert them in any video.

For example, you can upload a photo of all these different characters. And just with a text prompt, you can generate a photo of them doing anything. Notice that the face fidelity is also very good. like this actually looks like the input photo even though it's only given one image. So this is super impressive.

Now in addition to just uploading one photo, you can actually upload multiple photos of different people or backgrounds or objects. So for example here we can upload these two people plus this background and here is what we get. Or you can upload these three ladies and get them to dance together like this. Or here's another example where we can upload these two people plus this background with a sofa. And here's what we get. Notice that the details of their

faces plus the sofa and the background are all very consistent. Here are a few more examples for your reference. So, as you can see, with this bindweave tool, you can create videos of anyone doing anything in any environment. This gives you ultimate flexibility. Here are some more examples. Not only can you add in

people or backgrounds, but you can also add in objects such as this football or this book. Or you can also add in this cat. Or you can also get people to wear pieces of clothing. Again, the quality of these generations are really good and cinematic, and all the elements do look like the reference images. Now, if you compare Bindweave with other similar tools such as Vase and Phantom, which I've gone over before, notice that on average, Bindweave scores the highest.

The awesome thing is if you scroll up to the top of the page, they've already released the code to this. So, if you click on this GitHub repo here, it contains all the instructions on how to use it. Plus, on HuggingFace, they've indeed released the Bindweave model. Note that this is based off of 1 14B. Plus, this is 66 GB in size. So, you're

going to have a hard time fitting this on like a consumer grade GPU, but because this is open source, I'm sure the community is going to create more quantized or compressed versions of this in the future. But note that for now, it's probably hard for you to run this locally unless you have some insane GPU. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week, Alibaba releases a pretty useful tool called Uni Lumos. And this basically allows you to place a new character in a video onto a new background, and it would automatically relight that character so that the colors match and blend in seamlessly with the background.

So here are some examples for your reference. On the left is the original video. The top row contains various different backgrounds where we need to place the character. And so after plugging it through this Lumos custom, notice that it's able to change the colors, the contrast, the white balance of the characters so that they blend in seamlessly with the new background. You know, before in order to do this, you need to like mask out the character and then manually drag the different color sliders like brightness, contrast, white balance, saturation, etc. Like what a

hassle. But with this AI tool, it automatically handles everything for you. And if you compare this with other video relighting models, notice that in terms of quality and temporal consistency, this Lumos model outperforms the rest. It's also way faster. So if you compare this Lumos model with the other competitors, apparently this is able to generate videos 76 times faster. The awesome

thing is they've released this already. So if you scroll down a bit, this contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. All the links and info are on this page. So, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Next up, this AI is pretty wacky. It's called

Brain It. And apparently, this is an AI that can scan your brain and kind of read what you're thinking of and reconstruct that image. So here are some examples where on the left is the image that the user sees and then basically they would get this brain IT AI to scan the person's brain activity and then from that the AI will reconstruct the image and note how similar that image is compared to the original image. It's important to note that the AI has never seen the original image. All it's doing is scanning the person's brain waves and then reconstructing an image from that.

So, it's kind of like it can read your mind. Here are some other examples for your reference. Notice that it doesn't just detect, for example, that that person is thinking of a jet. It's even able to detect like the direction it's flying to, plus the overall shape and details of the jet. Same with this motorcycle race. Like, it's able to even

detect like the tilt angle and the overall composition of the image. Same with this hotel room. That's pretty insane. Same with like this one over here. It's able to detect approximately the same pose of the original image.

This one is even more impressive. So, it's even able to detect the poses of all three characters. Now, there are some discrepancies with the background and the colors of their clothing, but this is still very impressive how it's able to just analyze someone's brain activity and kind of estimate and generate a complete image based on what they're seeing. Really quickly, here's the architecture behind it and how it works. So this brain it is essentially a transformer model which is trained to analyze this brain activity or more specifically fMRI signals. So these

brain waves are sent through this transformer and it's able to parse out and detect some high-level semantic features. So for example what the image represents but also some lowerle structural features. This is basically like the rough layout of the image like the composition, where people are standing etc. So both these outputs are then merged through this diffusion model which is in charge of generating the predicted image and here is what you get. And this two branch approach allows brain IT to create images that closely resemble what the person actually saw.

And if you compare brain IT with other similar competitor models, you can see it's not even close. So in terms of predicting the image, especially the overall composition and the orientation of all the objects in the image, you can see that brain it just predicts things a lot better than the other models. Here are some other examples for your reference. Notice that for some of these predictions, the other models don't even come close. But Brain It is actually really good at predicting, you know, the overall composition of the image and where objects are placed within the image. Here are some other benchmark

scores for your reference. Basically, the takeaway here is that Brain IT outco competes most of these models across most of these benchmarks. As you can see, the best performer is highlighted in bold. If you scroll up to the top of the page, for now, they've only released a technical paper on this, but it does say the code is coming soon. If I click on this, it just takes me back to this page. So, there's no GitHub repo or

anything yet, but it looks like they are planning to release this, which is great. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Next up, this AI is very useful for geospatial researchers out there. So, this is called OMO Earth by the Allen Institute, and this is what they call an Earth observation foundation model. This is essentially an AI model that's trained on like 10 terabytes of Earth data, including satellite imagery, radar, environmental sensor data, and contextual maps. So after feeding this

and training it on a ton of data, OMO Earth is now able to basically analyze all this geospatial earth data and transform this into actionable insights. So currently this OMO Earth family includes four different sizes. We have this V1 nano which is 1.4 million parameters. This is not even a billion.

And then V1 tiny which is 6.2 million parameters. And this can even be small enough to run on like most edge devices. And then we have this one V1 base which is 90 million parameters and then V1 large which is 300 million parameters. But I mean even this one can be run on most consumer grade GPUs. Now with this

AI model which is trained on so much earth observation data, you can use it to do a ton of real world applications. For example, detecting deforestation in the Amazon or assessing wildfire risk or predicting typhoons or classifying different ecosystems across the globe, just to name a few examples. And if you look at this chart, it outperforms many other competitors, some of which are very specialized and commercial models. So, it delivers state-of-the-art results in a ton of things like segmentation or classification as well as detecting objects. Now, the Allen Institute has a really nice history of actually open- sourcing and releasing their models, and they've done the same for OMO Earth. So,

if you scroll down here and you click on this link, this actually takes us to their GitHub repo. And here it contains the links to all the models plus instructions on how to download and run this. So, if you're in like geospatial research, this is currently one of the best open source AI models that you can use to analyze geospatial data. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. In humanoid robot news, this Chinese EV company called Xbang has released their latest robot called Iron. Now, I don't see why this

is such a big deal. I mean, from just a quick glance, this seems like any other humanoid. Oh my, what do we have here? Now, this is a really nice and sleek design. I especially like the curvature.

Like, this is just so perfect. Anyways, let's move on to the specs of this. By the way, if you haven't heard of Xpang, they're like the Tesla of China. So, they primarily make electric cars, but like Tesla, they've recently expanded to developing humanoid robots as well. And this iron robot is their flagship robot.

Now, this is 178 cm tall. This weighs 70 kg. And it's built with what they call a humanoid spine, bionic muscles, and flexible synthetic skin. So, this looks and feels a lot more human. Plus, it has a hand with 22 degrees of freedom for incredible dexterity. In fact, its

external skin is designed to feel warmer and more natural than traditional robots. And this is supposed to enhance its presence in customer support. But come on, I think we all know where we're going with this. Now, if you think this demo is fake, I know a ton of people think there might be an actual person inside wearing this robot suit. Well, here's a video debunking that thought.

So, they actually cut apart some of the skin to show you the leg. So, this is indeed 100% robot and 0% human. There's no human inside wearing a suit. By the way, here's another video of it walking around. This time without any other skin or outer layer. And as you can see, the

design of this is way more meticulous. The way it walks and moves is just so damn lifelike. Like this is the most natural moving robot I've seen so far. Whereas if you look at other robots like the Tesla or Figure or even the Uni Tree, they just have a very robotic rigid vibe to it. Whereas this one moves a lot more naturally. Anyways, keep this

robot on your radar. I think our dream of catgirl robots isn't too far away. Now, in other humanoid robot news, we have a new demo by Unitri Robotics. This time, it's showing how fast and precise its tea operation capabilities are. Right now, now tea operation isn't new.

This is where you can control the movements of a robot remotely using like a VR headset or by moving your own body. But usually, there's some latency involved, so it's not like real time. Plus, the movements are pretty lackluster. But here, as you can see, tele operation has improved dramatically already. So, you can even like remotely kick the soccer ball around. You can do

kung fu. And the latency is super low. This is essentially real time. And as you can see, this is full body coordination. You're not just moving its hands or its torso. You can even like

get to robots to fight like this. And note that all the time the robot remains balanced, which is historically very hard to do. Now, instead of just getting robots to fight or do kung fu, here are some other more useful household chores you can get a robot to do via teleoperation. Honestly, this is way more impressive than the Neo1X robot demo, which we had last week, which moved so slowly it was kind of painful to watch. But here, everything is way faster. And as you can see, the Uni Tree

robot doesn't just dance or do kung fu. It can definitely also do household chores, at least via teleaoperation. This is an even trickier task where it needs to hold and balance this tray and not spill the water, but it's able to execute this very well. On my channel, I featured so many different AI models and tools, it can be very overwhelming. What if you can use all of these models all in one platform? And that brings us to

Chat LLM by Abacus AI, the sponsor of this video. Chat LLM is an all-in-one platform for you to use the best AI models out there. You can seamlessly switch between different models in your chats. Plus, you can also use all the top image generators out there, as well as the top video models out there, all in one integrated platform. And they're usually very quick to add a model to their site once it comes out. Plus, if

you're coding something, they have a really useful artifacts feature so that you can preview your generation side by side. Plus, they have a deep agent feature which can do some really complex tasks all autonomously like creating powerpoints, websites, and research reports. It's going to supercharge your productivity. Best of all, you can access all these AI models and image and video generators and Deep Agent for only $10 a month. This is way cheaper than if you paid for each tool separately.

Definitely check out Chat LLM that comes with Deep Agent in the description below. Next up, this is crazy. The team behind Kimmy is at it again. If you haven't heard of Kimmy, this was previously one of the best open-source non-thinking models out there, but this week they've just released Kimmy K2 thinking, and this not only matches the best closed models out there, but it even beats them in some cases. So, here are some specs. This has a trillion

parameters, but only 32 billion parameters are activated. So, not only is this like super performant and intelligent, but it's also very efficient. And this is a mixture of experts models. So, think of it as like a team of agents working together to help you solve a problem. And this has a context length of 256 tokens, which is a standard size for most of the top models out there. Now, Kim K2 is designed to be

especially good at agentic coding and reasoning. So the really unique feature about Kim K2 is that it can perform these multi-step reasoning and autonomous tasks using many steps. So here it says Kim K2 thinking can execute up to 200 to 300 sequential tool calls without human interference. Basically it can do a series of steps calling different tools for like 300 steps all autonomously. This is a really long reasoning and thinking process. Not only

that, but it reasons coherently across hundreds of steps to solve complex problems. Now, here are some benchmark scores for your reference in terms of agentic reasoning and agentic search. It even beats the best closed models out there like GPT5 high and claude sonnet 4.5 thinking. These are the top models from OpenAI and Anthropic. Same with

this one here. Here is humanity's last exam. This is basically a test on some really obscure scientific knowledge. Historically, it's been really hard for even the top AI models to score well. So, you can see like GPT5 high and Claude 4.5 have scored pretty low. But,

as you can see, Kimik 2 easily beats these two models. Now, in terms of agentic coding benchmarks, first of all, it's important to note that Enthropic has designed Claude to really max out the software engineering benchmarks. So Claude is actually not designed to do well in other subjects like science or academic research, but it's really good at coding. And so it's no surprise that Anthropics Claude would perform the best here. However, as you can see, Kim K2 is not far behind. And at least in terms of

competitive programming, it even beats Claude by a huge margin. Here are some other benchmarks for your reference. Notice that for competitive math, it completely destroys the benchmark scoring 100%. but so has GPT5 and Gro 4. Here are some other competitive math benchmarks. And as you can see, Kimik2

also scores the highest here. For agentic tasks, Kimik 2 also on average scores the highest which are highlighted in blue. So this is an absolute beast of a model. And the awesome thing is you can try it for free right now. So it's just kimmy.com and here is where you can

select K2 and then over here is where you can enable thinking mode. So, this is exactly the same as chat GPT or Grock or any other AI chat interface. I'll probably do a full review video on Kim and K2 thinking, but for now, just to show you a really quick example here, let's feed it a pretty tricky prompt. We have a child diagnosed with this very rare disease with minimal information. Research all current treatments, experimental therapies, and management strategies. Organize everything in a

detailed report. So, I'm going to turn on web search and thinking and then click generate and let's see what that gives us. It first pulls up all these web pages and it's reading through all of them to find the information it needs. All right. Afterwards, here is our final report. So, notice that I

haven't even turned on agent mode or anything. This is just a standard text chat mode. And as you can see, this is a really comprehensive report. So, it first starts off with an executive summary and then it lists out the current FDA approved treatments. Everything is super detailed and up-to-date and then afterwards here are some experimental and investigational therapies yada yada yada. Again,

everything is just very detailed. And then here are some comprehensive management strategies. And then afterwards, here is some prevalence and epidemiological data. So, it gives us some stats on this disease. Plus, here is a biomarker diagnostic chart. It's

able to actually create a table and break down all this information. And then we also have this diagnostic flowchart, which is pretty cool. It doesn't have like this flowchart creation tool. So, what it decided to do is actually just code this up using text, which is pretty smart. And then here we have some genetic counseling protocol for families, yada yada yada.

And then afterwards, we have conclusion and future directions. Plus, it lists the references at the end. So this is a very thorough and comprehensive report. It was able to do this in just a few seconds. And if you look at this independent leaderboard by artificial analysis, notice that Kim K2 is actually ranked number two, just one tiny point below GPT5 high. So it's not an

exaggeration to say open source has already caught up. There is currently no mode. Like this even beats Gro 4 and Claude 4.5 Sonnet. That's how good Kimmy K2 thinking is. Now, this is open

source, so you can potentially download it and run it locally on your computer, as I'll go over in a second. But if you choose to run it through their native API, this is also way cheaper than the closed competitors such as Cloud 4.5 and Gro 4, which are almost like six times more expensive. So, this is an insanely capable and efficient and cheap model. Now, the awesome thing is, as with the previous Kimmy models, this Kimmy K2 thinking is also open- source. So

they've already released this on hugging face. If you click on files and versions, this is a huge model. This is a trillion parameters. So the total size is roughly 594 GB. So it's not going to run on like consumer grade GPUs. You're

going to need some really professional GPU clusters or you can also rent some GPU cloud in order to deploy this. But here's the thing. Here's the advantage of this being open-source. If you're a business or you need to work with some super sensitive data, you can't use the top models out there like GPT or Grock. And that's because first of all, these are closed source. You don't know how

these models actually work. Plus, you're forced to use it through their platform or API. In other words, all your chats would go through the servers of OpenAI or XAI or Anthropic if you use their models. So, they potentially have access to all your chats and data. This is of course not ideal if you're working with like really sensitive information. So if

that's you, then the only option is to run these open- source models locally or on premise where it never touches the cloud or the server of thirdparty providers. Anyways, props to the Kimmy team for releasing this. This is an absolute beast and I can't believe they actually released an open- source model that's now ranked number two, even beating some of the best closed proprietary models out there. If you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main announcement page in the description below. Also, this week, Google announces something pretty crazy.

We've all heard of the top AI companies like XAI and OpenAI scrambling to build these massive data centers with a ton of GPUs so that they can have as much compute as possible. So, for example, here's a photo of XAI's Colossus data center, which they're planning to house like over 200,000 GPUs. Now, what if instead of just building this on the ground, why not send GPUs up in space? Well, that's exactly what Google is planning. So, this is called Project Suncatcher. And here they're planning to

create these solar powered satellite constellations with TPUs or tensor processing units, which is like Google's version of GPUs that are specialized for doing AI and machine learning. And basically, they're just going to shoot this up in outer space and everything is going to be solar powered. Now, you might be wondering why space. The thing is, space offers almost constant sunlight, allowing solar panels to produce up to eight times more energy than on Earth. Plus, note that TPUs and GPUs produce a lot of heat when they're running. So, for these massive data

centers on Earth, they require some really sophisticated like water cooling systems in order to keep everything from overheating. But instead, if you send these GPUs to outer space, well, this removes the need for any cooling. So the plan here is to basically launch these clusters of small satellites in low earth orbit and each cluster is going to carry some Google TPUs and these satellites will communicate with each other using these ultraast free space optical links. So together these clusters will basically form a distributed computing network which can be used to train and run AI models. Now this all sounds pretty crazy and of course there's going to be major technical hurdles. So that includes like

maintaining these tight satellite formations and maintaining the connection and communication between them using these optical links. This is much easier said than done. You also need to protect the hardware from space radiation which is like many times more severe than the radiation on Earth. Anyways, here they say Google plans to launch two prototype satellites by early 2027. So this isn't like a decade away.

They're actually going to do this in like 2 years. And if this test is successful, then this could lead to potentially some huge AI infrastructure in outer space. Anyways, that's a really highlevel summary of this. There's a lot of pretty interesting technical details about this. So, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Next up,

this AI is really neat. It's called Motion Stream, and this can create videos in real time. Not only that, but you can also like drag your mouse around the canvas to control the motion of things in the video. So, here are some examples of this in action. For example, you can first get it to generate this video in real time. And notice that on

the left, if you drag your mouse around, the wave moves according to your trajectory, and it renders everything in real time. Like, there's very minimal latency. So, here it says this can output videos at 29 frames per second with like 0.4 4 seconds of latency, which is essentially real time. And you can do this on a single Nvidia H100 GPU.

Here's another example where you can first add a grid on your canvas and set that to static. And if you set it to static, that means that particular part of the video should not move. And then if you drag another grid on there and you move that part around, it moves the dog according to that green grid. But notice that the red grid remains stationary. Or here you can add another grid on the dog's nose and on the right arm. And this will basically make those

things fixed. And then if you drag another green grid on the left arm, notice that it only moves the left arm. So this allows you to really microcontroll which objects should move and not move in the video. And again, notice that it's generating everything in real time. Here's another example for your reference. When you drag this

elephant around, it's actually moving its entire body. like the physics are all correct. It actually kind of understands the anatomy of an elephant. The motions are quite seamless. Or here's another example where we can drag this cup around to control where the cup is placed in the video. And notice the

physics are all kind of correct. So if you move the cup elsewhere, notice that the liquid also spills on the plate and then on the table. So that part is correct. But I guess there is one huge error with this which is there seems to be like an infinite amount of tea like it doesn't stop spilling. Really quickly here's the architecture behind it. So it

consists of this teacher model and then a student model. So the teacher model basically generates highquality videos but it's slower. And the generations from this teacher video are then used to train the student model which is faster and can run in real time. By the way, notice that as with most open- source AI video tools, this one also uses Alibaba's one, which is like the leading open-source video generator out there. So, this isn't like a completely new video model. This is just like a

framework built on top of Alibaba one. Nevertheless, this is still very impressive. I can see how in the near future, people can just drag their mouse across a video and control everything in real time. Anyways, if you scroll up to the top of the page, they have released a GitHub repo, but here it says the code is currently under the company's internal review for open sourcing. We have not received a firm timeline and the release may or may not occur depending on the outcome of the review.

Honestly, since this is coming from Adobe, I wouldn't really count on them open sourcing anything. But anyways, if you're interested in reading further, they've released the technical paper plus a lot more examples on this page. So I'll link to this main page in the description below. Next up, Tencent releases this paper which is quite a huge deal. This might be the next big thing in AI. Here they've introduced

something called continuous auto reggressive language models or COM for short. You see how large language models that you and I use today like chat GPT or Gemini or Grock or DeepSeek work is that they basically break down text into tokens. And how they generate the output is that they predict the next most probable word in your sequence one word at a time. This might sound crazy to you. Like you might think it's got to be way more complicated than that, right?

Like how can we get Chad GBT to write a complete essay for you or write an entire professional research report for you. But actually behind the scenes that's what it does. It just predicts the next most probable word one word at a time until it finishes your essay or research report or whatever you prompt it. You see, the problem with predicting one word at a time is that it's very computationally inefficient, especially if your input or output is extremely long. The compute required basically increases pretty much exponentially as your sequence length increases. So, this

traditional way of processing and outputting text is not very efficient. Now instead of just breaking each word down into tokens and processing that sequence, what comm does is it basically converts this into a continuous vector. And if you compare COM with similarsized transformer models, you can see that it requires way fewer computations or basically flops than traditional language models while maintaining the same performance. Really quickly, here's the architecture behind it. So it first takes your input text and then it uses an autoenccoder to basically convert this into a continuous vector. The

vector is then passed through this energybased generative head. And this model uses what they call an energy score to basically evaluate the quality of its predictions and improve its performance. It's similar to like a loss function in a traditional transformer model. Anyways, after plugging it through this head and making the prediction, it's then passed through this decoder to basically convert the vector back into text that you and I can read. Now, the key here is that instead of predicting the next token or the next most probable word, it predicts entire vectors, which could be chunks of words.

So, this drastically reduces the number of steps to generate text. And because the predictions are vectors, it also avoids some computational limitations from traditional transformers. The awesome thing is they've actually released the code to this. So on this GitHub repo, if you scroll down a bit, this contains all the instructions on how to actually install this and prepare the training data and train this. So you can potentially train this yourself and compare it with similar size transformer models and see how the quality and efficiency compares. For now, this is

just a proof of concept, but it could potentially be the next big thing in AI. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also, this week, Bite Dance releases a new open-source video generator. It's called Infinity. And unlike previous top video generators like Juan or Hunyan Video, which are diffusion transformer models, this one is what they call an auto reggressive model. It's kind of similar to how GPT

image works. So currently they've actually released a discord for you to join where you can generate videos with infinity for free. So if we click on this, this takes me here. So I'm supposed to join this random research lab, which sounds super sketchy, but let's join anyway. And then up here is where you can use infinity either for text to video or image to video. So

let's look at some examples. Here we have a nice skyline view of downtown Manhattan with a big cruise driving by. And here's what we get. Note that the quality isn't great. I think the generations here are only 480p. Here's

another example for your reference. Honestly, the quality and the details aren't great. You can see some considerable noise and warping going on, especially with the face and fingers and other details of the video. Here's the Sora Tokyo lady prompt. Again, notice that it's not really good with the details. Her face is messed up. The

details of everything in the background are also messed up and warping over time. it's not very consistent. So this is more of a proof of concept. The really nice advantage of these auto reggressive models is that unlike Juan or Hunen which are diffusion transformer models, this one generates way faster. So here it says it can generate a 5-second 720p video approximately 10 times faster than leading diffusion methods. And if you look at these

benchmarks, it's actually not bad. So in terms of auto reggressive models, this is by far the best performing one. Now if you compare this with the leading diffusion models like Hungan video and one 2.1, notice that one 2.1 on average scores the highest or the second highest, which are underlined. And of

course, we also have one 2.2 now, which is even better. So Infinity Star isn't as good as 1 2.1, but out of these auto reggressive models, Infinity Star does score the highest. Anyways, the nice thing is they've released the models and the code to this already. So, down here

are all the instructions on how you can install and try this out locally on your computer. Notice that this is 8 billion parameters. And if I click on this 720p version, notice that this is like 35 GB in size. So, auto reggressive models are known to be a bit larger than diffusion transformer models. So, this isn't going to run on like most consumer grade GPUs.

Plus, as I showed you in some of the demos, the quality isn't even state-of-the-art. So, at least for me, I don't think it's worth spending time to try this out. But anyways, this is one of the leading auto reggressive video models out there. So, if you want to play with it and fine-tune it yourself, I'll link to this main page in the description below. And that sums up all the highlights in AI this week. Let me

know in the comments what you think of all of this. Which piece of news was your favorite? and which tool are you most looking forward to trying out? As always, I will be on the lookout for the top AI news and tools to share with you. So, if you enjoyed this video, remember to like, share, subscribe, and stay tuned for more content. Also, there's

just so much happening in the world of AI every week. I can't possibly cover everything on my YouTube channel. So, to really stay up to date with all that's going on in AI, be sure to subscribe to my free weekly newsletter. The link to that will be in the description below. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one.