---
video_title: "This is now the #1 open-source AI"
video_id: BpsleXIV-WI
channel_name: "AI Search"
channel_id: UCIgnGlGkVRhd4qNFcEwLL4A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BpsleXIV-WI
video_date: 2025-11-11T03:20:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Kimi K2 Thinking full review. Best open source AI model. Kimi K2 vs GPT 5. #ainews #ai #aitools #llm 
  
  Thanks to our sponsor LTX Studio. Try it for free https://tinyurl.com/2a9wl672
  
  https://www.kimi.com/
  https://huggingface.co/moonshotai/Kimi-K2-Thinking
  Minimax M2 review https://youtu.be/xt6_zIKeX6A
  GPT-5 review https://youtu.be/IrWtw9ehB2g
  
  
  0:00 Kimi K2 Thinking intro
  1:20 Drag and drop UI editor
  5:26 Fluid dye simulation
  8:16 3D Tokyo map
  11:40 Beehive simulation
  14:26 Photoshop clone
  16:54 Financial analysis
  20:17 LTX
  21:54 Bacteria taxonomy tree
  24:44 Interactive physics course
  28:22 Music sequencer
  32:18 Medical research
  35:19 Hallucination test
  36:28 Kimi K2 Thinking specs and performance
  41:55 How to use Kimi K2 Thinking
  43:30 Importance of open source
  
  
  Newsletter: https://aisearch.substack.com/
  Find AI tools & jobs: https://ai-search.io/
  Support: https://ko-fi.com/aisearch
  
  Here's my equipment, in case you're wondering:
  Lenovo Thinkbook: https://amzn.to/4jWeKwH
  Dell Precision 5690: https://www.dell.com/en-us/dt/ai-technologies/index.htm?utm_source=AISearchTools&utm_medium=youtube&utm_campaign=precisionai#tab0=0 
  GPU: Nvidia RTX 5000 Ada https://nvda.ws/3zfqGqS
  Mic: Shure SM7B https://amzn.to/3DErjt1
  Audio interface: Scarlett Solo https://amzn.to/3qELMeu
---
make a drag and drop UI editor like Wix. And it was actually able to pull this off. And I can export the design. Make a 3D visualization of Tokyo's top neighborhoods. Holy smokes. Look at

this. It made all of this in just one prompt. Make an interactive taxonomy tree displaying human gut bacteria. Look how detailed and comprehensive this is. Or make an interactive music sequencer and synth. Here's what we get. And

everything works. Guys and gals. Open source has caught up again. And this is not an exaggeration. This is like the next DeepSeek moment. We have a new

open-source model called Kimmy K2 thinking, and it's now ranked number two, at least according to this independent leaderboard called Artificial Analysis. It's just one tiny point behind GPT5. But get this, it even beats the top AI models from other closed source labs, including Gro 4, Cloud 4.5 Sonnet, and Gemini 2.5 Pro.

It's pretty insane to see that an open- source model is actually ranked number two. You know, a few months ago, the top five were all closed source proprietary models. So, in this video, I'm going to go over all the crazy things that Kim K2 can do, plus its limitations. And of course, I'm also going to go over its specs and performance and benchmarks, and talk about how and where you can use this. First of all, let's jump right in with some demos. You can simply use this

in kimmy.com. This is a free chat interface very similar to chat or grock or Gemini. So over here is where you would enter your prompt. Today we are going to test out Kimmy K2. So I'm going

to select K2 and then over here I'm going to enable thinking mode. So this will basically use Kim K2 thinking. I'm not going to use this okay computer agent or this researcher agent here. I'm just going to test out the raw Kim K2 thinking and see how well it does. All right, let's try my first prompt, which is already pretty challenging. Develop a

drag and drop UI builder, including panels, buttons, and forms, much like Wix, that allows the user to build and customize a web page. Include snap to grid and alignment guides in one HTML file. And in fact, I'm going to turn off web search, so it can't even have access to the latest information. I'm just going to use the raw Kimmy K2 thinking and see how well it does. So, let's press run. All right, here's what we

get. And I can actually expand its thinking process to show you how it thinks and reasons through this task. First, it's thinking about what the core components are. Then, it's conceptualizing the layout. And then, it's also thinking about the key interactions, etc., etc. Here's the

rough code structure and the core algorithms. And that's pretty much it. It's thinking was also pretty short, so this is a no BS model, and it doesn't waste tokens trying to explain everything. So, if I scroll all the way down, yeah, that's pretty much it. So, let me click on preview. And here is

what the UI builder looks like. Now, unfortunately, I can't like expand this right side window further. So, what I'm going to do is actually copy this code and then paste it in an HTML and open that file up in a separate tab. So, here's our drag and drop UI builder. Let's try this panel thing. Let's see

what that does. Very cool. So, it looks like I can drag and drop this panel with a title and content. Let's try to change the title. Let's try something like AI news. And then here's today's news. Very

cool. So, this panel thing works. Uh, let me try to add another one. Actually, let me drag another one over here. And look at that. It even has like these

snap to lines so that both of these are aligned. And then let's add a button. Very nice. So, it looks like I can add a button here. Let me align this to the left. And then instead of click me, I

can say something like read more. And then let me add another button and drag it over here. And for this one, I'm going to write purchase. I can even input a field. So let me drag this over here. And let me add name. Enter name.

Very cool. Let me add another field. And this time it's going to be email. Enter email. And everything just works. I can

also like redrag this somewhere else. So for example, if I don't like the position here, I can drag it over here. And notice that it gives me these red lines to make sure everything is aligned properly. There's also this form container. Let's see what this does. Oh,

very nice. So, this actually gives me an entire form like this. There's also this text area, which I assume allows me to input longer snippets of text. Very cool. Let's see if delete element works.

So, I'm going to click on this and then click delete. That also works. Let me align this better. And then for toggle grid, let's see if this works. that also works. Preview mode, that also works.

And then let me actually try to export this code. And this actually prompts me to download this HTML file. So let's click save. And let's open this up. And would you look at that? This actually

was able to successfully export this layout in a separate HTML file. Everything just works. Now, this could be better. You can definitely prompt it further to add more features like changing the colors or the width and height of each element. But this is already a really good start how it's able to generate all of this in just one prompt. So there you go. You can easily

build a drag and drop UI or website builder just like Wix with just one prompt. All right, let me start a new chat. And here I'm going to get it to create an animation of fluid dynamics, include interactivity and sliders with multiple color dyes and put everything in a standalone HTML file. Note that this is a keyphrase I like to use to make sure that it imports all the necessary dependencies and libraries and that everything on the page works. And again, for this one, I'm not going to use web search. I'm only going to use

Kimik2 thinking. Let's press run. All right, here's what we get. So, if I expand the thinking process, this is actually very short. It's first considering the key components and then the page layout and then the interaction logic and then the algorithm for the fluid simulation. it has decided to use

a grid-based method, specifically this method for advocation calculations, whatever the hell that means. And then for the die part, this can be made into a particle system with each particle having position, velocity, and color, etc., etc. Again, its thinking process is relatively short compared to Deepseek or other top thinking models. So, it doesn't take up too many tokens. And

then here is basically our output. So again, let me just press preview. And here's what we get. Now, like before, I don't like how this is squished in just the right side window. So I'm going to copy this code and then paste it in a blank HTML file and open that up in a new tab. All right. So here's what we

get. Let me try to drag my mouse around this. Now, this is giving my graphics card a really hard time. This is really slow. So let me first decrease the particle count to like 100 and then try again. Now, I'm not sure what this does

here. It seems like it's just adding these puddles, but it's not like mixing the dye. So, let's try to change this to dye particles. And now it's animating a lot better. Now, for viscosity, let's increase this a bit. For diffusion,

let's decrease this a bit. And for strength, let's increase it. So, you can actually see the colors retained a bit longer. And then here's some blue dye. I'm just going to play around with this a bit more. and keep mixing different

colors of dyes. So, you can see this very cool. Everything just works with one prompt. I don't see any major errors with this. It does look like a pretty decent liquid simulation. So, overall,

this is not bad. But for your reference, here's the same prompt with GPT5. And at least in my opinion, GPT5 executed this a bit better. The fluid animations and the mixing of the colors just look a bit better than Kimiku thinking. But notice that GPT5 was the only other model that was actually able to get this to work. I

tried the same prompt with Groc 4 or Claude 4.5 or Gemini 2.5 Pro and none of them could get this to work properly. All right, here's another super tricky test. Let's see if it can generate geospatial apps like this. Create a 3D

visualization of Tokyo's top neighborhoods. Sidebar lists all these different neighborhoods, etc. highlight building extrusions and add a day and night toggle. And here's the thing, I'm not going to enable web search, so it can't search for existing public maps, nor can it search for information about these places. Let's test if it already has this knowledge built in to the model. And here's what we get. First of

all, here's the thinking process. Again, it's pretty short. It's first considering the overall layout. And then for building extrusions, it's going to use Mapbox's free API. And then for the day and night theme toggle, it's going to do this, etc., etc. And that's pretty

much it. So here it gave me the code. And let's scroll all the way down and see if it explains this further. [laughter] I really like how this is no BS. So it doesn't even explain this code. It just

gives me the code and expects me to figure everything out. Anyways, let's click preview. And here's what I get. But again, I don't like how this is squished in this right side window. So I'm going to copy this code and then paste it in a blank HTML and open that up here. Now it doesn't seem like

anything is loading. So actually if I inspect the console, it seems like I'm missing this Mapbox token which is expected. So if I actually inspect the HTML code and let me just find token. Aha. So here I actually need to log into Mapbox and then insert my API token into here for this to work. So, let me do

this really quickly. I'm going to sign up for a free account on Mapbox. And then here are my access tokens. I'm going to copy this default public token and then paste it back in here and then press save. All right. Now, if I refresh

the page, aha, you can see it's starting to load up the map of Tokyo. Now, if I select, for example, Shibuya, it actually zooms into Shibuya. How cool is that? Now, the mouse works. I can scroll to zoom in and out. I can also drag the

right click button to rotate the map. Everything works. I also specified a night mode toggle which is actually down here. So, let me click on this. Wow, that is super cool. So, with night mode

now I can see these 3D buildings. It was able to actually, you know, import all these 3D buildings from Mapbox. This is so cool. So, that's just Shibuya. Let's try Asakusa. So you can see right now

it's zooming to a new location. Very cool. I guess one minor error here is that the legend is kind of blocking some of these cards. But let's try a Kihabara. And now it's taking me to another district which is over here.

Very cool. I really love these visualizations. I guess another minor error is that the legend doesn't really work. So all these buildings are just colored in light blue. I don't see any of these other colors like parks and nature. Let's try something else like

Harajuku. And now it's taking me over here. All right. So, there you have it. Here is a 3D visualization of Tokyo's top neighborhoods with a night and day toggle like this. And again, it's super

impressive that it's able to code up all of this with just one prompt. All right, here's another really tricky prompt that only GPT5 was able to get correct. None of the other leading models even come close to coding something up nicely. So, let's see if Kimik 2 can do this well. Make a visual simulation of a beehive construction showing hexagonal cells forming worker bee paths and honey storage. Include sliders for colony size

and resource availability. Put everything in a standalone HTML file. Again, for this, I'm going to disable web search and only use the thinking mode. And here's what I got. Here's the thinking process. First, it's thinking

about the overall structure and then planning the key components and then also planning the interaction logic including B AI behavior, the hexagonal construction algorithm, resource system, animation loop, etc. This seems a lot more thorough than other leading models. And then afterwards, it gives me the code down here. So, let's click on preview. And here's what we get. Already

this looks pretty good, but let me copy this code and paste it in a blank HTML file and open that up separately. So here is our beehive construction simulation. It does create these hexagonal cells plus these hexagonal cells are animated. So you can see them slowly being filled up with honey and these cells are expanding. Plus the bees are going out to forage for flowers. And

you can see these flowers on the canvas. Let's see if these sliders work. So, I'm going to increase the colony size. And as you can see, indeed, it has started to deploy a lot more bees as I drag the slider. And then for resource availability, let's also increase this a bit. And I do see like the cells filling

up with honey a bit faster and the colony expanding a bit faster. Let me decrease this a bit. Now, there are a few noticeable errors with the generation. First of all, the hexagonal cells aren't really aligned properly. Like some of the corners are overlapping, which is not correct. Plus,

some of the cells are being filled up, but some of them are still empty. So, everything is just not really tracked correctly. Plus, the expansion of the hive is also not correct. Like, a beehive should not expand like this. It should expand outward one layer of cells at a time. So, it's not perfect. And

then for your reference, here's the same prompt with the next leading open-source model, which I featured last week called Miniax M2. And then here's the same prompt with GPT5. Now, as you can see, GPT5 is really good. It could actually get the hexagonal cells to align properly. Plus, the hive is expanding at the edges. The animations of each cell

filling up with honey, plus the bees foraging also look a lot better. So, at least in this case, GPT5 is still noticeably better than Kimik 2. All right, here's the prompt that I like to test leading AI models. Can they create a Photoshop clone with all the basic tools? Put everything in a standalone HTML file. All right, here's what we

get. Here's its thinking process. It's thinking about what core features this Photoshop clone should include, and then it's thinking about the layout, and then the interaction logic, etc., etc., And then finally, here is our code. So if I

click preview, here is what we get. But as before, I'm going to copy this code, paste it in an HTML file, and open that up in a new tab so that it's full screen. All right. So it looks like we have these basic drawing functions plus layers. So let's try this out. I'm going

to brush on top of this. So it looks like the brush works. Let me increase the size of this and change the color. That also works. Next, let me add a new layer. And then let me try to brush on

top of that. Very nice. So it seems like this layer function works. If I toggle the visibility, notice that I can enable and disable this layer. And next, let me also test out opacity. So let's drag

this to like a low value. And then I'm going to select a large orange brush and let's see if it's any fainter. And it is. So it looks like opacity works. Let me see if these shapes work. So, let's

try to actually add a new layer and then draw a rectangle. All right. So, that also works. Let's try to draw a circle now. And let's set it to this color. Let

me add a new layer and draw a circle here. So, it looks like that works. Very cool. Now, here it looks like I can insert text. So, let me insert something here like hello. And it seems like that

also works. Let's try to turn off these layers one by one. So, that also works. So it does have all the basic functions. However, if you compare the same prompt with Miniax M2, it has a few more functions such as brightness, contrast, saturation, grayscale, etc. So I would

say actually Miniax's generation has a bit more features. And then if you look at GPT5's generation, this is still the best generation I've seen so far. So, not only does it have all the basic features, but it even has this like overlay setting where you can choose how to blend different layers together. As you can see here, none of the other models could actually program this with just one prompt. So, this is actually a really impressive generation by GPT5.

Now, instead of just coding some fun stuff, let me also show you some really useful applications for this. I'm going to take the PDFs of the Q4 reports from Google, Nvidia, and Amazon. And I'm just going to drag and drop all three PDFs onto here. And then let's get it to make a comprehensive financial analysis report on the attached data. Include interactive charts and or graphs. Make

it visually appealing. Put everything in a standalone HTML file. For here, again, I'm going to disable web search so it only has access to this data. and then press run. All right, here's what we get. Again, it outputed this really long

HTML file without any explanations. So, this is really short and concise and it doesn't waste tokens explaining things. So, let's click on preview. And here is our tech report. Now, again, I don't like how this is squished in this right side window. So, I'm going to click

copy, paste it in here, and then open this up in a new tab. All right. So, here's the executive summary here. [snorts] It actually gives us three tabs. And each tab includes some financial highlights including revenue, net income, operating margin, some key insights and segment performance metrics. So this is Google and then here

is Nvidia. Very cool. And then here is Amazon. Very nice. Now let's actually fact check some of this information from my PDFs to make sure all these numbers are actually correct. So, let's try to

find this segment, YouTube ads. Apparently, this claims that it has 10.5 billion in revenue for Q4. Let's see if that's correct. All right. So, I'm

searching for YouTube ads here. And for Q4 2024, it was indeed 10,500 million, which is in other words 10.5 billion. Now, here they also claim that the growth is 14%. So let's actually do a quick calculation. Let's divide this

by this. And you can see it is indeed a 14% growth. So it seems like these numbers are actually correct. It's not like hallucinating anything. All right.

Now moving on to this comparative analysis here. It gives us a chart comparing the revenue and the year-on-year growth for all three companies. There are some like layout errors here. I think this pink line should show up on top of the bars. Otherwise, I can't really see what the pink value is for Alphabet and Amazon.

And then here are some profit metric comparisons. Everything is colorcoded very nicely. Here's the cloud market position, AI investment, and capital expenditure. By the way, look at the insane growth from Nvidia. 1,264%.

That's pretty crazy. And then here it gives us some strategic insights and trends. Here it creates this graph comparing multiple metrics from all three companies. And then here's capital intensity and free cash flow, forward-looking indicators and key risks and considerations. Very cool. So that's

the overall report. As you can see with Kim K2, you can upload like any PDF or document and get it to analyze it, compile all the information, and then spit out an analysis report or whatever you want. This is a super powerful tool. Speaking of AI tools, you've got to check out LTX, the sponsor of this video. LTX is an all-in-one platform that handles your entire video workflow.

From initial storyboarding and shot planning to creating final professional videos, they have the best and most affordable models on the market, including their latest LTX2 model, which can generate 4K videos with audio at up to 50 frames per second. In fact, if you look at this independent leaderboard by artificial analysis, LTX2 is ranked number three globally for imagetovideo right alongside Cling and VO. Plus, their interface is super userfriendly, so you can easily create and edit videos with ease. They've just launched this new elements feature, which is a way to tag, organize, insert, and combine anything in your scene. For example, let's add a character element. Let's

call this something like model one. and then upload this photo. And then let's add an object element. I'm going to upload this energy drink and call it drink. All right. Now, afterwards, I can

just insert and use these elements across my generation. So, for example, let's first generate an image of model 1 drinking the drink in a forest. And let's use nano banana to generate the image. Perfect. Here's what we get. And

I can then choose the frame I want and generate a video from that. And here's what I get. LTX is the ultimate choice for anyone looking to create AI videos with ease. Definitely check it out via the link in the description below. All right, next let's move on to some science examples because Kimiku is known to do really well in terms of scientific stuff. So,

let's get it to build an interactive tree displaying human gut bacteria classification from film to species. Each node should show microbial functions and health impacts when hovered. Now, for this one, I am going to turn on web search so it can actually well search the web and find the latest information on human gut bacteria. Let's click run. All right, here's what we get. And as you can see, first of all,

it's searching for all these results online on human gut bacteria species. And then after thinking a bit here, it continues to search for 25 additional results. And then here it's proceeding to think through and build out the code for this fogyny tree. So afterwards here is what we get. And if I scroll down a bit here, it introduces some key features. In fact, let me click on

preview. So you can preview this tree in a side window. So this contains collapsible nodes. It contains all these different fila with over 20 key species with detailed information. Plus, I can hover over each node, etc., etc. All

right, so what I'm going to do again is I'm just going to copy this code and paste it in an HTML file and then open that up in a new tab. All right, so here, let's test this. I can zoom in and out with my mouse. I can also drag this around and if I hover over each one, it gives me some information on each node. Very cool. Now I can click on this

further and the animation is also really smooth. And then let's click on this further. And this expands even further. And then if I click on this, it expands even further and further. In fact, what I'm going to do is click on expand all.

I'm just going to keep clicking this until the entire tree expands. So, as you can see, here's the entire tree. And look how comprehensive and detailed everything is. Each node contains information about that particular species or genus or class. This is a ton of information jam-packed into this interactive fogyny tree. I can also like

click on this to collapse it. So, let's keep collapsing this one and this one. Very cool. Let's also click on this one to collapse it and then this one to collapse these. Everything just works.

So, there you have it. Here is a human gut microbiome interactive tree from just one prompt. As you can see, you can easily get Kim Kate 2 to, you know, search and compile information online into some really nice interactive charts or graphs or whatever you want. If you were to do all of this manually, it would take hours for you to not only do the research, but then also code up everything into this nice graph. Here's another example. Let's try to get it to

create some educational resources. Let's try create an interactive course on high school physics with visualizations and animations. Include just the first three lessons for now. Put everything in a standalone HTML file. Let's click generate. Here's what we get. And here's

the code. So, let me click on preview. And this is what we get. I wish there was some like download HTML code button because right now I have to keep copying this and then manually pasting this in a blank HTML file. But anyways, let me open this up. And here it gives me three

lessons. Lesson one is motion and kinematics. Let's see if this animation works. So let's just press start with a velocity of 3 m/s. And here's what we get. Let me press reset. And instead of

three, let's speed this up to like 6.5 m/s. And as you can see, the car goes way faster. If I bump this up to 10 m/s, it goes even faster. And then here it gives me some nice formulas. Here it

even gives me a quick quiz. If a car travels 100 meters in 5 seconds, what's the average velocity? I believe that would be 20 meters per second. And indeed, that is correct. And then here are some key takeaways. All right. Next,

let's move on to lesson two. And then here is where we can apply two different forces to this block. So, let's start the simulation first. And as you can see, the block is moving to the right because we have a force of 5 Newtons versus -3 newtons. Now, instead, if we increase the force to the left to 6 Newtons and we decrease this to 4 Newtons, it should slide to the left.

Let's see if that's the case. And this also works. Let me press reset. Now, if I set this to five and this to -5, then it should balance out and the block shouldn't move at all. And so if I press start simulation, that's indeed what we get. The block doesn't really move. So

here is Newton's second law. Here's this interactive force diagram. So let's click on this. And then let's click somewhere else. Okay, I see what's going on here. So I can click to insert

multiple arrows here. And what it basically does is it calculates the average force or the average direction that this should move in. As you can see from Fnet over here. So if I keep clicking somewhere else, then as you can see, Fnet is now like this. And then here's another question plus key takeaways. Next, let's move on to the

third lesson. Here we can simulate dropping this ball at different heights. So let's drop this at 2 m first and then click drop ball. And you can see the potential and kinetic energy as the ball drops and bounces. Next, let's set this to 3 m and then press drop ball. And

that is what you get. Notice that everything works perfectly. The height is also aligned with the y-axis. So if I set this to, for example, 1.6 m, the ball is actually located at 1.6 m. And

the numbers at the bottom do dynamically change as I adjust the height of this. Everything just works. Here are some energy formulas. And then here's some energy bar chart. If I press start animation, I think this represents like the differences in potential and kinetic energy as a ball drops. And then here we

have another question plus key takeaways. So overall, this is a very solid course with three lessons and everything just works. With Kim K2, you can easily prepare like educational materials for yourself to learn or to teach your kids. All right, here's a music example. Let's get it to create an interactive music sequencer and synth, including a step grid, multiple tracks, effects, and tempo control. Let's click

generate. All right, here's what we get. And here's what the preview looks like. Looks pretty cool so far. I'm going to click copy and then again paste the code in a blank HTML and then open this up in a new tab. All right, so here we have

basically a sequencer of different tracks. So, let me try to fill in some values for kick and snare first. Like this. And then let's press play.

Very cool. So, it looks like kick and snare works. In fact, let me decrease the tempo to 100. And let me just decrease the reverb and delay to zero for now. And then press play.

Very cool. Now, let me add in some high hats here. So, let me just do this and then press play. Okay, now the high hat sounds really weird. This does not sound like a high hat. So, let me just mute this track and

then press play again. Okay, so it looks like the mute works. Next, let me try to add in some bass here. I'm not sure what the space is because you can't really change the pitch of this. Let me just add in a few blocks and then press play.

Okay, so that's essentially what the bass does. You can't really like edit the pitch of this. And then what about lead? Let's add in some lead like this. >> [music] >> All right. So, it seems like the lead is

just the same pitch but shifted a few octaves up. And then let's see what pad does. So, again, I'm just going to fill in some values here and press play again. [music]

All right. Very cool. So, those are all the tracks. Again, this is super basic. You can't really change the pitch of the bass or the lead or the pad, but everything except the high hat works.

Next, let's actually press clear all. And I'm just going to add in some snares here. And then let's play around with the reverb. So, here is the dry snare sound without any reverb or delay.

All right. Now, let's increase the reverb to like 80% and then play this again.

Very cool. So, as you can see, it was indeed able to add reverb to the track. Now, instead of reverb, let's try delay. So, let's increase the delay to like 70s something% for the time. Let's increase this to like 300 milliseconds and then press play.

Okay, let's actually increase this a bit more and then decrease the feedback and then press play again.

Okay, it looks like there is some delay there. However, I'm not sure why, but it's also adding some reverb into the mix. I'm not a really musically technical guy. So, let me know in the comments if you think this delay section is actually working properly, but other than that, I mean, this is a really solid music sequencer from just one prompt. The tempo works, this grid works, most of these tracks work, and everything is very interactive, and it looks great. So, again, Kimiku is really

strong in terms of just getting things to work in just one prompt. Next, let's test its ability to do scientific research and compile information. So, for the prompt, the patient has Alexander disease. By the way, this is a very rare disease with very minimal information online. So, I'm really testing its ability to dig deep and then compile everything into a nice report.

So, research everything about the subject and suggest next steps or possible ideas for cures. Compile everything into a visually appealing, comprehensive report with charts and graphs. And then for this, yes, I am going to enable web search. Let's click generate. All right, here's what we get.

So if I expand this, you can see it has searched for nine results. And then it proceeded to think and digest these results. And then next, it decided to search and analyze an additional 34 results. And then afterwards, here's the full medical report. So here's an executive summary. Plus, it even gives

me a critical update, which is well, very upto-date. This is only in 2025. And apparently there's an FDA filing expected for Q1 of next year. And then here is the disease classification and prognosis. Everything is very detailed and organized. Now, this is pretty cool.

Here it gives us some molecular pathophysiology. So here is some toxicity cascade and it was able to actually code up this really nice flowchart of what exactly happens after this gene mutation. Afterwards, here's a table on the symptoms versus frequency and age. And then here we have another diagnostic flowchart. So you would start with this and then you would do this brain MRI scan and then look for some characteristic patterns etc etc. Here it

gives us a nice table on current treatments. It even gives us like intervention and evidence level. And then here are some emerging therapies and everything is super detailed. Here is some prognosis and survival data. Interestingly, it did not decide to format this into a table. And then here

are recommended next steps, yada yada yada. And then here's a table on future therapies and then key research centers. And then here it gives us a supportive care road map. So again, this is a really nice flowchart suggesting next steps. Here it gives us clinical trial access information. It even lists out,

you know, which places or labs are actively recruiting. And then here it gives us some parent and caregiver resources, critical decision points, and finally conclusion and action items. It even gave me this table of the top five immediate actions. So this is a very detailed and comprehensive report on a rare disease with very minimal information. I hope you can see how incredibly useful Kimik K2 is. I mean,

if you were to do this manually, it would take you at least days to search for and compile all this information and organize it into a comprehensive report like this with like tables and charts. This is incredibly detailed. Next, here's a hallucination test. So, the prompt is give me all the details about stable diffusion 5, which does not exist. So here I'm testing if it's going to just hallucinate and make stuff up or if it's actually going to tell me that actually this does not exist. So for

here I'm going to turn on web search and then click generate. All right, here's what I got. And here it says as of right now SD5 has not been released or announced. The latest version is SD 3.5.

So perfect. It did not hallucinate and make stuff up. it was able to, you know, reject and confidently say that SD5 does not exist. So here it just proceeds to give me more details about SD 3.5, which is the latest version. And then it also

gives me some previous versions. And that's about it. So here again, it concludes that there's currently no stable diffusion 4 or 5 announced or in development according to public sources. So that sums up some of my tests on Kim Kate 2. I hope you can see how powerful this is for doing so many different things. Next, let's go over the specs

and performance of this and why this is such a big deal. First of all, Kimik2 thinking is open source or more technically open weights. That means you can download the model and run it locally on your computer if you have enough compute or you can even fine-tune it further or do whatever you want with it. The power is in your hands. I'll talk about why this is so important in a second. But first of all, here are some

specs on Kimik K2 thinking. So this is a mixture of experts model. Think of this as like a team of agents working together to help you solve a problem. And then this has a trillion total parameters. So it's pretty huge. For

your reference, DeepSeek only has like 671 billion parameters. However, in terms of activated parameters, these are basically like how many parameters in the neuronet network are actually active when you're using it for inference, only 32 billion are active. So, this is actually a very small percentage of the 1 trillion parameters. And this means this is super efficient. And then over here, you can see that the context length is 256K.

This is basically like how much information you can fit into your prompt at once. 256K is not the largest, but it's good enough for most tasks. For your reference, GPT5 high has a context length of 400K, and then Gemini 2.5 Pro has a context length of a million tokens. Now, Kim K2 is designed to do really well in terms of coding and agentic use. In fact, here it says it

can execute up to 200 and 300 sequential tool calls without human interference. Meaning you can give it a really complex task and it would just autonomously proceed to do the task for like 300 sequences without stopping. It can just reason coherently across hundreds of steps to solve very complex problems. Right now, here are some of their reported benchmarks for your reference. for humanity's last exam. This is

basically testing an AI's knowledge on some really obscure scientific knowledge. As you can see, historically, even the top models out there scored really poorly on this benchmark. However, here Kimmy K2 thinking with tool use was able to achieve almost 45% noticeably higher than even GPT5 High and Claude Sonnet 4.5 Thinking. Note that these are OpenAI and Anthropic's flagship models. So, the fact that this

open-source model was able to even beat these top closed source models is just crazy. Here are some other benchmarks on Agentic Search. And as you can see again, Kim K2 thinking performs better than even the top closed proprietary models out there. Now, in terms of coding, it's important to note that Enthropic is kind of benchmark maxing these particular software engineering benchmarks. So they've designed Claude to do really well in SUI multilingual and SUI bench verified, but it doesn't perform as well in other subjects like science or language. So it's no surprise

that enthropics Claude would score the highest here. But Kimmy K2 thinking is actually not too far behind. And notice that here in terms of this competitive programming benchmark, then Kim K2 even beats Claude 4.5 thinking by quite a huge margin. Here are some other noteworthy benchmark scores for your reference. So for a IME which is like

competitive math Kim K2 thinking obliterates this benchmark and got 100%. But so did GPT5 high and Gro 4. For this IMO answer bench which is also competitive math. Kimik2 scored the highest. And then for GPQA diamond which is like graduate level science questions. Grock Force scored the

highest here at 87.5% but Kimik2 thinking actually came pretty close even beating Claude Sonnet which was only 83%. And again Kimik 2 seems to be especially good in these agentic benchmarks. And if you look at this independent leaderboard by artificial analysis then Kim K2 thinking is ranked number two just one tiny point behind GPT5 high. This is currently OpenAI's best model but this is closed source and proprietary. And then Kim K2 thinking

even beats Grock 4, Claw 4.5 Sonnet and Gemini 2.5 Pro. So Kim K2 thinking is not only the leading open-source model we have right now, but it's also the second best model. Its intelligence is extremely close to the number one GPT5 high. And if you look at the cost of Kim

K2 thinking, like if you choose to use it through their native API, then this is also way cheaper than the other top models out there. So for example, GPT5 high costs like over three times more and then both Claude and Gro 4 are like almost six times more expensive. So not only is Kimik 2 thinking an incredibly performant model, but it's also very efficient and cheap to use. Now it's important to look at multiple leaderboards so you get an objective sense of how good a model is. Here is another leaderboard called LiveBench by Abacus AI. And interestingly over here,

Kimik K2 thinking is actually ranked pretty low. It's all the way down here, even below Deepseek R1, which is kind of a surprising result. Currently, this is the only other major leaderboard that has listed Kim K2 thinking. I tried looking on LM Arena, but it doesn't seem like they've added Kim K2 thinking yet. Oh, and by the way, in addition to Kim K2, BU also dropped Ernie 5, which is another AI model which is currently ranked number two on this leaderboard.

Oh my god, it's so hard to keep up. Anyways, those are the specs of Kim K2. Now, where can you use this? The easiest place for you to try this out online is just Kimmy's native platform, which is kimmy.com. Here they offer a chat

interface, which is very similar to ChatgBT. You can enter your prompt here, and then here you can select from Kimik2 or Kimmy 1.5. After you select Kimik 2 over here, make sure you actually enable this thinking toggle to actually use Kimik2 thinking. And then here is where you can enable web search so it can fetch the latest results from the web.

And then for okay computer, this basically enables its coding agent mode. So you can get it to autonomously code up a project in multiple steps. Or instead of okay computer, we also have this researcher mode which is like a research agent. This can help you autonomously find information and do research and compile everything using multiple steps. And then finally, you can also click on this paperclip to upload documents. This includes like

PDFs, docs, spreadsheets, or even powerpoints. Or you can just drag and drop your files onto here and get it to analyze as I've showed you with the financial analysis example. So that's how you can use it online. But like I said, Kimik K2 is open source or more technically open weights. So you could potentially download this and run it locally. They've already released the

model on hugging face. So if I click on files and versions, note here that it's almost 600 GB in size. So you're going to need like a high-end GPU cluster to run this. This is not for consumers, but people who are serious about, you know, running an AI model locally or on premise. And here's the importance of this. I've repeated this a ton, so I

might sound like a broken record, but it's really crucial to emphasize why we need open-source models. First of all, if you look at the other top models out there, like GPT5 or Grock or Claude or Gemini, these are all closed source and proprietary. In fact, none of the top American labs have open- sourced any models that are even worth considering. If you're a business and you're working with sensitive data, if you use some of these top closed models, first of all, you don't know how these models work behind the scenes. Plus, you're forced to use it through their platform or through their API. That means your data

is sent to the servers of OpenAI or Anthropic or whoever. So, they potentially have access to your data and your chats. In fact, it has been leaked like few months ago that Anthropic could report you to the FBI if it detects that your chats are suspicious. That's just one example. So, if you are working with sensitive data, then the only really secure way is to run an open- source model like Kim K2 or Miniax M2, which I featured last week, which is also incredibly impressive. But you would

have to download and run these models locally or on premise so that it never touches the servers of thirdparty providers. So props to the Kim K2 team for actually spending so much time and effort and money to create something of this intelligence and they've actually decided to make this free and open source for us to use. This puts the power of AI back into our hands and not just the big AI corporations. Anyways, that sums up my review on Kimik Ketu thinking. Let me know in the comments what you think of this. And like I

mentioned briefly, I also did a review on another insanely good open-source model that was released last week called Miniax M2. If you want to learn more about that, see this video for a full review. As always, I will be on the lookout for the top AI news and tools to share with you. So, if you enjoyed this video, remember to like, share, subscribe, and stay tuned for more content. Also, there's just so much happening in the world of AI every week.

I can't possibly cover everything on my YouTube channel. So, to really stay up to date with all that's going on in AI, be sure to subscribe to my free weekly newsletter. The link to that will be in the description below. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one.