---
video_title: "The best free AI image generator is here!"
video_id: iNM5z8cCH8w
channel_name: "AI Search"
channel_id: UCIgnGlGkVRhd4qNFcEwLL4A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iNM5z8cCH8w
video_date: 2025-12-02T03:30:40+00:00
video_description: |
  Z-Image review & installation tutorial. Z-Image vs Flux 2 dev vs Qwen Image. #ai #aitools #aiart #imagegenerator
  
  Thanks to our sponsor Abacus AI. Try it here: http://chatllm.abacus.ai/?token=aisearch
  
  https://tongyi-mai.github.io/Z-Image-blog/
  Use online: https://huggingface.co/spaces/Tongyi-MAI/Z-Image-Turbo
  ComfyUI workflow: https://github.com/Comfy-Org/workflow_templates/blob/main/templates/image_z_image_turbo.json
  GGUFs for low vram: https://huggingface.co/jayn7/Z-Image-Turbo-GGUF
  ComfyUI tutorial: https://youtu.be/g74Cq9Ip2ik
  
  SEE PART 2 FOR MORE ADVANCED TIPS & TRICKS: https://youtu.be/icAh98ff7Dw
  
  0:00 Z Image intro
  1:23 Z Image Turbo examples
  3:18 Z Image Edit examples
  4:52 Z-Image vs Flux2 dev vs Qwen Image
  6:04 It knows so many celebrities 
  6:43 Anime and disney characters
  8:35 Complex prompts with text
  9:50 Character model sheets
  10:50 Posters with text
  12:20 Expressions and gestures
  13:19 Wildlife photos
  14:09 Prompt adherence
  15:15 Anatomy tests
  16:33 Watercolor painting
  17:32 Crowded complex scenes
  18:23 Long text
  19:15 Manga page
  20:46 ChatLLM
  21:50 How to use Z-image-turbo online
  23:10 How to install Z-image
  25:54 How to use Z-image in ComfyUI
  29:45 How to use Z-image with low VRAM
  33:10 How to use Z-image i2i
  36:54 How to add loras to Z-image
  
  
  Newsletter: https://aisearch.substack.com/
  Find AI tools & jobs: https://ai-search.io/
  Support: https://ko-fi.com/aisearch
  
  Here's my equipment, in case you're wondering:
  Lenovo Thinkbook: https://amzn.to/4jWeKwH
  Dell Precision 5690: https://www.dell.com/en-us/dt/ai-technologies/index.htm?utm_source=AISearchTools&utm_medium=youtube&utm_campaign=precisionai#tab0=0 
  GPU: Nvidia RTX 5000 Ada https://nvda.ws/3zfqGqS
  Mic: Shure SM7B https://amzn.to/3DErjt1
  Audio interface: Scarlett Solo https://amzn.to/3qELMeu
---
This is now the best open-source image generator you can use right now. It's called Zimage, and this has incredible world understanding. Plus, it can generate super realistic photos. And yes, this can also generate beautiful people and very uncensored stuff. This is also a super efficient model, so you can generate images in just seconds, even on like 4 GB of VRAM or lower. So,

in this video, I'm going to go over all the cool things that you can do with it. Plus, I'm going to compare it with the other leading open-source image models, including Flux 2 and Quinn image. And of course, I'm going to show you how to download it so you can run it for free and unlimited times offline. Make sure you stick to the end because I'm also going to show you how you can run this with low VRAM. Plus, I'm going to show you how to do image to image so you can take a lousy photo that you made previously and plug it through Z image to retouch it. And of course, I'm going

to show you how to add Loras to your workflow so you can generate any style, character, action, or effect you want. Let's jump right in. All right, so here is their official page. Z image is by the Tongi my team from Alibaba, which are just absolutely killing it in terms of image and video generation. Here, note that there are two different models. One is Z image Turbo, which is

the image generator, and then Zimageedit, which is the image editor. Let's go over some examples of Z image Turbo first. So, it can generate some super realistic looking photos. As you can see here, here are some other examples for your reference. Everything looks very realistic. I mean, it's

pretty hard to tell that these were AI generated. Now, this can create very good-looking photos in 2K, 3K, or even up to 4K resolution, although the quality does kind of degrade a bit once you get up to 4K or beyond. And this can absolutely ace skin textures and hands and fingers. Now, in addition to those realistic portrait or scenery photos, this can also render text very well, both in English and in Chinese, so you can easily get it to create posters like this. You can even specify the font and how the text should look within the poster. And this can easily handle

different design and art styles. Here are some other examples for your reference. This is just an incredibly powerful and versatile tool if you want to create like social media posts or marketing materials or posters. Notice how diverse and beautiful these examples are. For all these posters, you just have to prompt it. You don't have to

like manually design anything or take any photos yourself. This also has an incredible world understanding. It can understand like hundreds of celebrities and existing characters, as I'll show you in a second, plus different locations in the world. So, here are just some examples for your reference. Of course, it knows the Great Wall of China. And by the way, this photo looks

so realistic. Here are some other examples for your reference. Like, this looks like a legit photo. And then here's another popular location. I mean, all these photos just look super realistic. They kind of have that

photographic graininess to it, which makes it really hard to tell that this was AI generated. And I mean, the details of all of these images are just absolutely incredible. All right. So, those were just some quick examples of the Zimage Turbo model, which is text to image. Next, I'm also going to show you some generations from this Zimage edit model, which allows you to edit existing images using natural language. You can

easily change, you know, the hair color of existing characters or the clothes that they're wearing. You can easily change the text as well as, you know, the character from like a duck to a cat. You can change expressions as well as add speech bubbles in the image as well. Or you can change the scene from like summer to winter like this. And notice how good it is at preserving all the details of the original photo. Here's

another example where we can change this yam into corn, but it preserves the same style and also the same font. And of course, you can do multiple rounds of editing. So you can change her hair color and her outfit to something like this. And then you can make this character sit at a hotel like this. And then you can also turn it into a watercolor painting like this. Here's

another example for your reference. The really awesome thing is this image model is incredibly tiny and efficient. It only has 6 billion parameters. So even like the full official model fits comfortably within like 16 GB of VRAM. There's already some quantized versions as I'll show you in a second that can even fit on like less than 4 GB of VRAM.

And at least for me, I can generate a photo in less than 10 seconds. That's how fast and efficient this is. Also, one thing to note is that they haven't released the Zimage edit model yet. So, right now, we only have access to the text to image model, which is called Zimage Turbo. So, next I'm also going to show you some of my generations using Zimage Turbo. And I'm also going to

compare it with some other leading open source models. One of them is called Flux 2D Dev, which was just released a day before Zimage, but it's not as good. And then we also have Quen image which was the previous leading image generator. Now one of the coolest things about Z image is it has a great world understanding of existing people and characters. For example, I can get Anne Hathaway, Jackiechan, and Messi at a nightclub. Let's add some harsh flash

and make it an amateur lowquality photo. And here's what we got from Z image. Indeed, it's able to generate all three characters pretty accurately. Plus, her hand and fingers are also correct. And Jackiechan actually looks like Jackie Chan. Historically, it's actually very

hard for image models to generate Jackiechan for some reason. But here, it pretty much nailed all three characters. Now, if you look at Flux 2 dev, An doesn't look like an Jackiechan looks completely different. And then even Messi doesn't really look like Messi. So, this was a complete fail. And then,

same with Quinn image edit. These two characters do not look like what I specified. Plus, this isn't even like a lowquality photo with a harsh flash. So, this one was also a fail. Clearly, the point goes to Z image. By the way, if

you're curious on how many people Z image knows about, here are some images for your reference. And for each cell, the user basically prompted it with portrait photo of that person's name. Feel free to pause the video and inspect each person. Some of them look very good, some of them not as good, but as you can see, it has an incredible world understanding of existing people. What's even more impressive is how it's able to cram all this knowledge in just six billion parameters. Like none of the

image models even come close to being able to generate all these characters right out of the box. So this is incredibly impressive. Now in addition to celebrities, let's see if it can also understand some fictional characters. So here's an anime example. Let's get Miku, Nezuko, Gojo, and Sasuk taking a selfie.

And as you can see for Z image, it nailed all the characters. Their faces and outfits do look like the original characters. For Flux Dev, for Nezuko, it's not too bad. Although her fingers are all messed up, plus the bamboo is messed up. For Meiku, it got her face and hair correct, but her outfit is wrong. And then this is not Gojo. This

is not Sasuk. So that's a complete fail. And then who the hell is this? And then we have Quen image. It could get Meiku correct, but for the other characters, they kind of messed up the outfits pretty badly. Especially Gojo with the

eye here that looks horrible. And then this doesn't even look like Sasuke, nor does this really look like Nezuko. So overall, not great. Again, the point clearly goes to Z image. Now, like I said, Zage is great for doing uncensored stuff right out of the box. Of course, I

can't show any of this on YouTube, so here's a safe example. And then here I also wanted to see if I can understand some Disney characters. So the prompt is a realistic amateur photo of Snow White and Elsa wearing bikinis, their tongues sticking out, hugging each other in a subway train. And as you can see for Z image, it's really good. It looks super realistic. This does look like a real

photo of, you know, Snow White and Elsa in bikinis. The facial expressions and the body postures are all really natural and dynamic. If you look at Flux 2D dev, it kind of has that plastic polished vibe to it that you get with the previous Flux versions. So, this is not great. I mean, if you compare this with Z image, at least for me, I would prefer Z image. And then for Quinn image, it's

not even generating a realistic photo of these two. So, that's a fail. So, at least for me, the point goes to Z image. All right. Next, let's test its understanding on a very tricky prompt with a lot of text. So, the prompt is a

cozy bakery window with a wooden sign reading freshly baked today in cursive Pacificico font. Below a chalkboard list croissants 250, sourdough loaf 5 bucks, cupcakes $3 each. A poster advertises baking workshop Sunday 108mm with a rolling pin graphic. And then we have four pastries, a chocolate eclair, blueberry muffin, cinnamon roll, and almond croissant. Here's the generation from Z image. And it pretty much nailed

it. There's nothing wrong with it. The text looks completely correct and it's able to generate all the elements that I specified in the prompt. Very impressive. Here is Flux 2 dev's generation. It got all the text correct.

However, the pastries do look kind of fake and weird. It just doesn't look realistic. Same with this croissant here. The shape is all messed up. So, not as good as Z image. And then for

Quentageit, it's also able to get all the text and the elements correct. But again, it seems like these pastries look kind of fake. and clearly AI generated. Whereas if you look at Z image, these pastries look a lot more realistic. Plus, the croissant from Quinn image is missing almonds. So again, the point

here has to go to Z image. It's the most realistic with pretty much no flaws. Next, let's test how good it is at creating some character design sheets. So we have a female, long white hair, blue eyes, black cami, bare shoulders, white kimono, carrying a glowing red sword. Make a model sheet showing the character in three consistent views.

Front, side, and back view. Here's what I got from Z image. All the details look correct to me. It is the same character consistently across these three views. Hard to find any flaws with this. Here

is Flux 2 Dev's generation. The quality isn't as good. Plus, here she has two arms. The hands and fingers are also kind of messed up. And then here's the generation from Quinn image. I really

like the design of this one, but again, it's not really consistent. For example, there should be a red ribbon here, but it's missing over here. And then somehow for the back view, there's some red strap over here, but I don't see this in the front and side view. So, it's not really consistent across all three views. Whereas, if you look at Z image, the character does remain consistent across the views. Next, let's test how

good it is at generating posters with text. So, here's the poster for holiday cookie swap and bakeoff. It should have a large cookie tin overflowing with decorated sugar cookies and gingerbread men. It should have a curved title along the top of the tin with the text holiday cookie swap and bake off Sunday, December 15th at this time and this location. Plus, there should be a footer featuring sponsor logos. Here's what we

got from Zimage. We do have a cookie tin with some Christmas cookies and the title is also curved along the top of the tin. The text is also correct with the right location. Plus, we do have some sponsored logos at the bottom. The only flaw here is that the sponsored logos are kind of gibberish, but that's because I haven't explicitly specified what logos to put. Other than the logos,

though, this looks like a very nice design. You can see the font and the colors are all aligned throughout this poster. Here's the generation from Flux 2. Already, you can see some errors in the text. For example, over here, the Christmas cookies are also kind of messed up over here. Plus, the text is

gibberish over here. And also, the logos are gibberish. So, it doesn't look as good or consistent as Z image. And then here is the generation from Quinn imageedit. I actually like this the most. It does have, you know, more of

that holiday spirit. The title looks beautiful. The cookie tin also looks beautiful. The text is all correct. Plus, it does give me some logos at the bottom. So, I don't know. In this case,

it would have to be a tie between Z image and Quen image. But, let me know in the comments which one you prefer. Next, let's test its ability to generate some tricky expressions and hand gestures. So, here we have a woman taking a selfie in a cafe. She's doing a cute expression with pursed lips and she's also winking and one hand is doing a peace sign. It's going to be an

irregular angle amateur lowquality photo. And here's what we got from Z image. And this looks beautiful. She is winking. She is doing those purse lips plus doing the victory sign. And it's an

amateur photo at an irregular angle. I mean, if you just look at this photo, it's really hard to tell this was AI generated. You can easily create like an Instagram influencer page or an Only Fans with all these cute photos and monetize it like hell. Here's the same prompt with Flux 2. It got most of the elements correct, but her wink is kind of weird. And then for Quint, this is

not bad, but this looks way too cinematic and perfect. Like this should be a lowquality casual amateur photo. So again, in this instance, I would have to give the points to Z image. Now, here's another strength of Z image that I haven't heard people talk about a lot. It's actually really good at generating wildlife photos. So, here my prompt is a

fisheye photo because I also want to test its ability to handle different camera perspectives. And then it's going to be of a sloth hanging upside down from a branch in the rainforest. And here's what I got from Z image. This looks like a legit fisheye photo of a sloth. This looks really nice and realistic for Flux 2 dev. Immediately

you can see that this looks way too cartoony. This is not a realistic photo. The colors are also way too saturated. And then here we have Quinn image. The colors aren't as bad, but again it looks way too like plasticky. Definitely not

as realistic if you compare this with Z image. So here again the point clearly goes to Z image. Next let's test its ability to understand some really tricky prompts. So here we have a ballerina practicing spins in a studio with mirrored walls and bar equipment scattered with point shoes and sheet music. A rabbit watches a top a grand piano outside the large window. An

elephant balances on a circus ball. So here we do have a ballerina practicing spins. The floor is scattered with shoes and sheet music. We do have a rabbit on a grand piano, although one flaw is sitting on the bench and not on the grand piano. And then we do have an elephant outside balancing on a circus ball. For the most part, this looks

pretty good. Here is the generation from Flux to dev. You can see, first of all, her hand is messed up over here. Plus, this is not a grand piano. Plus, the elephant and the ball are not outside the window. There's a lot more

noticeable errors with this generation. And then for Quinn image, again, this doesn't really look like a grand piano. There's no sheet music scattered on the floor and it doesn't look like the elephant and the ball are outside the window. So again, Z image is the winner. Really impressive. Next, for research

purposes, of course, let's also test how good it is at human anatomy. So here we have a woman sitting and showing her palms and soles of feet. For Z image, it's indeed a woman sitting showing her palms and feet. And the palms and feet all look correct and very realistic. Here is Flux 2 dev's generation. And I

mean, it got all the elements correct, but this just looks too perfect and polished. Like, if you see this photo, you can probably tell that it's AI generated. And then here's the generation from Quinn image. It's kind of the same thing. It got nothing wrong, but you can clearly tell that this was an AI generated photo. The colors are

too saturated. Everything just looks too plastic. So, again, in terms of like realism, I would have to give the point to Z image. Here's another really tricky prompt that none of the other open- source models have gotten correct so far. Here we have a woman doing a handstand. One leg is bent and the other

is extended. For Z image, it absolutely nailed it. Even like the feet and the toes are correct. They should be pointing in this direction. This looks really good. For Flux 2 dev, you can see

that this leg is completely messed up. Plus, even the knee and the foot here are not in the right direction. For Quinn image edit, it's the same thing. So, the knees and the feet are completely in reverse. This is not anatomically correct. So here the point

clearly goes to Z image. It's the only one that was able to actually get this correct. Let's test its ability to generate some different art styles. So here's a minimalist Chinese watercolor painting of a tiger in a forest. And I mean look at how beautiful the generation from Z image is. Especially

these like brush strokes on these trees. This looks exactly like a Chinese watercolor painting. Even the tiger looks very nice. Now, if you look at Flux 2D dev, notice that everything looks too perfect. This looks kind of cartoony. And then here's the generation

from Quen image. It's actually not bad. Like the trees and the bamboo and even the tiger do look a bit better than Flux 2 Dev. Plus, it even decided to add some text over here, which is actually correct. This stands for like the king of the forest. But I mean, in terms of

the artistic style of this, if you compare this with Z image, this just looks way better. Like for Chinese paintings, the brush strokes should look more like this. It's kind of casual and messy like this. So, at least for me, I would have to choose Z image for this one. Next, I wanted to see how good it is at generating some really complex scenes with a lot of elements. So, here

we have a busy, crowded marketplace with lots of stalls, items, and people. Here's what I got from Zage. If we look close, it's actually quite hard to spot any flaws with this. Like, all the people actually look intact and coherent. This is really nice and detailed. Here's the generation from

Flux 2D dev. And as soon as you get it to generate a ton of people in a really messy scene, then you get a lot of noise and artifacts for some reason. And then here's the generation from Quinn image. This is not bad, but if you really zoom in and look at the details, there's a lot of artifacts within the crowd. Plus, everything just looks too plastic.

Definitely not as realistic, especially if you compare it with Z image. So again, in terms of realism, quality, and the least amount of errors, I would have to give the point to Z image. Next, let's see if it can generate some really long text. So we have a hand holding a pen writing in a diary. On the page, it says, "This is quite a long piece of text, much longer than what typical AI models could generate accurately." This

is a test to see if all the text will show up correctly here. And also remember to subscribe to my channel. So here's what we got from Z image. This does look like handwritten text. And the text mostly looks correct except for over here where the word also repeats twice. Here is Flux 2 dev's generation.

This doesn't even look like handwritten text and there are misspellings everywhere like over here and over here. And then for Quinn image again there are errors within the text over here and here and here. It's just gibberish or it keeps repeating some text. So overall none of them aced it but in terms of having the least amount of errors again the point goes to Z image. Next, I also wanted to see if it can generate some manga. So, here's a manga page with

multiple panels showing a fight between Goku and Frieza. I didn't explicitly tell it what to generate for each panel. The creativity is up to it. So, here's what I got from Z image. Most of this text is just gibberish. This does look

like Goku and Frieza, but they're not really fighting. And then, for some reason, his wristband here is colored, which is not good. And then here is Flux 2 dev's generation. It does look like they are kind of fighting. So, there's more action than Z image, but the text is messed up and the hands and fingers are all messed up. Especially if you

look at Frieza. Plus, Frieza is colored, which is not good. Here, his face is kind of messed up. There's just noticeably more errors with this generation compared to Z image. And then, here is Quen images generation.

Again, this looks kind of awful. There's just way too many errors in this generation. Honestly, none of these could get this prompt well. So, I would have to say it's a fail for all three. All right, so that sums up some of my quick tests on what Z image can and cannot do. As you can see across the

board, it basically destroys the other two leading image models. It's especially good with handling tricky prompts, different art styles, anatomy, and realism. Plus, it has an incredible world understanding, so you can generate like existing people or fictional characters, and it also handles expressions and poses very well. All right, next let's go over how you can use Z image. On my channel, I featured so many different AI models and tools, it can be very overwhelming. What if you

can use all of these models all in one platform? And that brings us to Chat LLM by Abacus AI, the sponsor of this video. Chat LLM is an all-in-one platform for you to use the best AI models out there. You can seamlessly switch between different models in your chats. Plus, you can also use all the top image generators out there, as well as the top video models out there, all in one integrated platform, and they're usually very quick to add a model to their site once it comes out. Plus, if you're

coding something, they have a really useful artifacts feature so that you can preview your generation side by side. Plus, they have a deep agent feature which can do some really complex tasks all autonomously, like creating PowerPoints, websites, and research reports. It's going to supercharge your productivity. Best of all, you can access all these AI models and image and video generators and Deep Agent for only $10 a month. This is way cheaper than if you paid for each tool separately.

Definitely check out Chat LLM that comes with Deep Agent in the description below. Just a reminder, it's important to note that right now we only have Zimage Turbo, which is the text to image generator. We don't have Z image edit yet, which is the image editor where you can edit an existing image using natural language like Nano Banana or Quinn imageedit that's expected to be released soon. Next, let's go over how and where you can use Z image Turbo. So, I'll link to this official GitHub page. And if you

don't have enough VRAM or if you just want to test this out online, they've already released a free hugging face for you to try this out. So, it's just this button here, which takes you to this page. And here is where you can generate images for free online. So, here's where you would enter a prompt. Let's try something like this. And then here's

where you would choose the resolution and aspect ratio. Here's the starting point of random noise. So, generally, I would set this to random. So, if you generate this again with the same prompt, you'll get a slightly different photo. And then for these values, I just tend to leave it at the default. I'll

talk more about this shift value in a second. But next, let's click generate. And as you can see, I'm just on the free plan. And this is super quick. This takes like only 6 seconds to generate a photo. And here's what we get. Here's

indeed a super realistic photo of a minimalist cozy room. Definitely try this out. It's completely free for you to use. Hugging face gives you some free daily credits. So, this allows you to generate like a dozen images per day.

Now, in addition to hugging face, of course, the awesome thing about Z image is they've already released the model for you to download and run offline on your computer. So, you can use it for free and unlimited times. You can customize it however you want, and you can generate some uncensored stuff. So, next, let's go over how to install Zage. One of the easiest and most intuitive ways to use Zimage is using Comfy UI, which is the interface you're seeing here. If you haven't heard of Comfy UI,

this is the most popular platform for running open- source image, video, and audio generators locally. In fact, if you're new to Comfy UI, definitely see this video first where I go over how to install and use it. But anyways, back to this Z image video. This assumes you already have Comfy UI installed. The nice thing about Comfy UI is you don't need to create all these nodes and noodles from scratch. You can just drag

and drop a pre-built template onto your interface. Now, the nice thing is there's already an official Comfy Y workflow for Z image, which looks like this. So, I'll link to this workflow file in the description below, and all you need to do is click on this button to download the JSON file. Now, you can save this wherever you want. I'm just going to save it in my Comfy UI folder.

All right. And then afterwards, let's go ahead and open up Comfy UI. After you load this up, the first thing you need to do is click on manager and then click update Comfy UI because you do need the latest version to support Z image. All right, afterwards, let's press restart and then click confirm. After restarting and updating to the latest version, all we need to do is take our downloaded JSON file and drag and drop it onto our interface. So, you can see here

everything is pre-built for you already, and it's actually very simple. Now before we get started with the workflow, first we need to download a few models. So on this card, this contains all the links to the models that you need to download. Let's first click on this Quen 34B and this goes in Comfy UI in models and then text encoders. Note that this file is around 7.5 GB in size. And then

afterwards, let's click on this one to download the Z image model. And this goes in comfy UI in models and then diffusion models. Notice that this one is 11.4 GB in size. So this can definitely fit within like 12 GB of VRAM or even lower with some offloading. And

then finally, we also need this AE.safe tensor file. So let's click on this. And this goes in comfy UI in models and then VAE. Notice that this one is only around 300 megabytes in size. All right. Now,

after downloading all those models, that's basically all you need to get started. So, let's press R to refresh our models list. And then next, let's go over this workflow. So, step one is to load the models. So, let's click on each dropdown and select the model that we just downloaded. So, for this one, I'm

going to select Z image Turbo. And then for the text encoder, I'm going to select Quen 34B. And then for the VAE, I'm going to select this one. And then step two, here is where you would specify the width and the height of your image. Now, you could generate like higher resolution images from this up to like 2K or 3K or even 4K. I find that it

tends to generate great looking images even up to like 2048x 2048. But if you go higher than that, then the quality does start to degrade a bit and you're really going to push its limits if you try to generate 4K images. For us, let's just leave it at this default value for now. And here the batch size is basically how many images you want to generate at once. And then over here is where you would enter your prompt describing what you want to generate.

Pretty simple. And then over here is the shift value. Now this shift value is actually quite interesting. So I played around with this a bit and the default shift value of this workflow is three. If you lower the shift value to something like one, then the contrast and the detail seems to be a lot higher.

Whereas if you set the shift value to something like six, then it seems to be softer with less detail. But feel free to play around with this shift value yourself and see how it affects your image. And then finally, your prompt and the resolution will be plugged into here to generate the image. So here we have the number of steps it takes to generate the image. The more steps you have, the longer it will take, but the higher quality it will be. And vice versa. It

seems like the sweet spot is 8 to 10 steps. But again, feel free to play around with it. If you set the step count to like four to six, it does generate faster and the image tends to be softer in details with more noise. If you increase the step count to something above 10, then it can slightly improve sharpness, but sometimes it makes it too sharp. And then for CFG, this is basically how literally you want the AI to follow your prompt. Now, Zimage Turbo

is specifically designed to work within the range of a CFG of 1. Whereas for stable diffusion, you can often set the CFG to something super high like six or even 10. Notice that for Z image edit, often if you go above three, then it's already going to mess up your image. Now, the CFG is basically how literally the AI should follow your prompt. So, if you want to generate a lot of text in your image and you want to make sure it gets the text 100% correct, then you can try to increase the CFG slightly to like 1 point something or two. Also, if you

increase the CFG, it tends to saturate the colors a bit. And then if you want like some softer or less saturated images, then sometimes a lower CFG of like.5 to one can actually give you that result. Again, feel free to play around with this until you find the optimum combination for your use case. Also, you might have noticed that here there's not really any negative prompt, and that's because with a cfg of one, it basically ignores your negative prompt. And then

next, we have sampler name anduler. This is basically the algorithm that's used to generate the image. Now, the default one that they have here is already pretty good, so I just tend to leave it at this. However, if you want to generate images of more variation from the same prompt, then some people say that you should use Oiler with DDIM uniform. But again, this is up to you.

I'm just going to leave it at the default of this res multistep and simple. And that's pretty much it. So, let's click run. And you can see it's proceeding to load these models into my memory. And here's the result. This was

super quick. This only took like 14 seconds on my GPU with 16 GB of VRAM. Also note that this is a save image node. So it's automatically saved in your comfy output folder as you can see here. So in a nutshell, that's how you can use the official Z image turbo model locally on your computer for unlimited times. Now one thing to note is that

this official Z image turbo model is around like 11 GB in size. So if you don't have enough VRAM to fit this model, then this section is for you. Fortunately, there's already some quantized or compressed versions of Z image Turbo that can fit comfortably with as low as 4 GB of VRAM. So, this is super efficient. I'll link to this page in the description below where this user has created a ton of different compressed models. So, let's click on

files and versions. And here you can see a list of different compressed models of different sizes. For example, the smallest model is this Q3 small GGUF, which is only 3.79 GB in size. This can fit comfortably within a GPU with only 4 GB of VRAM. So, next I'm going to go

over how you can download and run these GGUFS. So, first let's download this example workflow file. So, I'm going to click here. You can save this wherever you want. For me, I'm just going to call it Z image gguf. All right. And then

afterwards, going back to our interface, I'm just going to drag and drop this JSON file onto my interface. And here's what we get. Now, the next step we need to do is download one of these GGUFs. So, I'm going to choose this one, this Q4 medium GGUF, which is around 5 GB in size. So, let me click download. And

this goes in Comfy UI in models and then in unit. Let's click save. All right. Now, afterwards, going back to our interface, there's one more thing we need to download, which is this quantized text encoder. So, let's click on this. And here again, it contains a

ton of different compressed text encoders. Now, for me, because I downloaded the Q4 medium model, let's look for Q4 medium, which is over here, and let's download this one, which is 2.5 GB in size. And this goes in Comfy UI in models, and then text encoders. And that's basically all the models you need to get started. Now, once you load

up this workflow, you might see these GGUF nodes highlighted in red, which means you haven't downloaded them yet. So, what you need to do is click on manager and then click on custom nodes manager. And then at the top here, search for GGUF. And what you need to do is download this Comfy UI GGUF. In fact, if you have it already, it also wouldn't hurt to update this to the latest version. So, let's click on this and

then click restart. Afterwards, let's go over this GGF workflow. So, here is where you would click on the dropown and select the GGF you just downloaded. And then over here is where you would select the quantized text encoder, which you just downloaded, which for me is this one. And then here's where you would enter a positive prompt and the negative prompt. But I don't think Z image

actually needs a negative prompt. So, let's try a prompt like this. And then here is where you would set the width and height of your image. Again, this can go up to like 6 megapixel resolutions without affecting image quality. This can definitely do like really high resolution images, but for me, let's just keep it quick and small.

So, I'm just going to do 1024x 1024. And then over here is the K sampler, which has the same settings as before. And that's pretty much it. Let's click run. All right. And here's what we

get. Very impressive considering this is a super compressed and quantized version. So in a nutshell, that is how you can use Z image turbo even if you have like 4 GB of VRAM. Next, let's also go over how to do image to image. In other words, how can we input one image and get Z image turbo to edit it slightly or to add more details. They

don't have an official workflow for this, but we can already tweak this to incorporate an input image. So here's what we need to do. We basically need to replace this latent image node with your uploaded image. So let me double click anywhere on the interface and then type in load image and then select this one. So here is where we would upload the image to use. So for example, let me

choose this image. Now we can't just drag this image node and connect it to the K sampler. What we need to do is first double click here and then use this VAE encode node first. So let me click on this and then connect this load image node through here. So this basically uses your VAE to convert this image into what is called latent space.

And by the way, we also need to connect the VAE which we have over here. So let's also drag a noodle here and connect it to the VAE node. And then afterwards, we can connect this latent to the K sampler. Notice that when I do that, it will automatically disconnect this one. In fact, let me click on this and then click on this button or controlB to disable or bypass this. All

right. And then afterwards, let's enter a prompt to convert this into a realistic photo instead of just this 3D animation. So let's write something like realistic cinematic photo of a Chinese girl in a pink honu talking. Basically, we just need to roughly describe the image. And then afterwards here, the only thing we need to tweak is this den noiseise setting. What this means is how

much of this original image do we want to edit out. Now, initially when we use this text to image workflow and we loaded this latent image node, this basically generates a frame of random noise. So, we want to edit out 100% of that random noise and turn it into our prompt. But here, since we're uploading a reference image as the input, we don't want to, you know, completely remove 100% of this. We want some of this image to influence our final generation. So,

basically, this den noiseise value is like how much influence you want this original image to have. A lower value would have higher influence. A higher value would give it more room to change this image a lot more. So for us, let's try something like 0.5. And then let me

press run and see what that gives us. You know, the awesome thing about this is everything just works. I can just tweak this workflow to convert this into image to image. All right. Now, as you can see here, it still has that 3D animation face. So it seems like this

image has too much influence. So, let me increase this value further to something like8 and see if that's any better. And let's see if it can convert this into a more realistic face. And here we go. If we set this to like8, here is what we get. By the way, this is like super

quick. Like I'm generating these images in like 7 to 8 seconds. So, let me drag this original image over and expand this a bit so you can compare the two generations side by side. So in a nutshell, that is how you can do image to image using Z image edit. You can convert a previously shitty generation with stable diffusion and plug it through Z image to make it even better.

Or you can kind of convert an anime or Disney Pixar scene into a realistic photo like this or vice versa. Note that this is just basic image to image. So you can kind of use Zimage Turbo to retouch an existing image. But this is not like an image editor. Remember I mentioned there's going to be another model coming soon called Z imageedit which allows you to actually edit images using natural language kind of like Nano Banana and Quinn imageedit that has not been released yet. So keep that in mind.

Now the biggest advantage of these open- source image models is that people can fine-tune it with their own data sets and create what are called. These are basically smaller fine-tuned models which you can add on top of your workflow to specifically generate a certain thing. This could be a specific art style or a specific character like this or a specific pose or action or effect. And this is of course really useful for uncensored stuff. Now, of course, on YouTube, I can't show you any of this, but if you go on Civot AI and you turn off all the filters, there's going to be a ton of uncensored Loras for Z image involving any position or fetish or action you can think of. Like,

it's wild. So, next I'm going to show you how you can add a Laura to your workflow to generate something specific. For us, let's just go with this one, Commodore 64 style pixel art. So, I'm going to click on this and then click download over here. And this goes in comfy UI in models and then in Lauras.

Let's click save. Now afterwards going back to our default Z image workflow. What we need to do is basically insert a Laura node after this load diffusion model node. So let's double click anywhere on the interface. And then I'm going to search for Laura and then we are going to select Laura loader model only. And then let's press R to refresh

the model list because I've just downloaded a new Laura. And then down here is where you can select the lura that you want to use. And then over here, this basically determines the strength of the lura or how much influence the lura should have on your generation. So let's set this to something like8 or 80%. And then next all we need to do is connect this diffusion model over here. And then

connect this node over here. So that this is now in between this node and this node. And that's pretty much it. So, for the prompt, let's do something simple like camping on the lakeside. Now, there's one more thing we need to do. Going back to the page for this

Laura. Most of the time, in order to actually trigger the Laura, you need to use a trigger word. And here it says the trigger word is this C64 style pixel art. So, I'm just going to copy this and then paste it in here. And that's pretty much it. Let's click run. And here's

what we get. Perfect. So, here's how you can load any Laura into your workflow. And to load multiple Lauras, you can just string multiple Laura nodes together. So, for example, if I want to add another Laura, I can just double click anywhere again and then search for Laura and then insert this node and then put this in between these two nodes like this. And then here I can select another

Laura for example. And that's how you can add multiple lures into your workflow. All right, so that sums up how you can download and use Zimage Turbo on your computer for free and unlimited times. This is so fast. Like for me, I can generate a photo in just a few seconds. The GGUFS that I showed you can

easily fit within 4 GB of VRAM or lower. This is very accessible. The quality is amazing and super realistic, and you can do uncensored stuff. This is definitely the best open- source image model you can use right now. Anyways, that sums up my review and tutorial of Z image. Let

me know what you think of this and what other impressive things were you able to generate from this. Also, if you run into any errors during the installation, welcome to paste the error message in the comments below, and I'll try to help you troubleshoot as much as possible. Also, once they release Zimageedit, which is the image editor, I'll definitely do a full review and tutorial on that as well. So, stay tuned. As always, I will be on the lookout for the top AI news and tools to share with you.

So, if you enjoyed this video, remember to like, share, subscribe, and stay tuned for more content. Also, there's just so much happening in the world of AI every week. I can't possibly cover everything on my YouTube channel. So, to really stay up to date with all that's going on in AI, be sure to subscribe to my free weekly newsletter. The link to that will be in the description below.

Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one.