---
video_title: "Insane 3D models, realtime AI video, new #1 open model, realtime AI worlds, Gemini 3 Flash: AI NEWS"
video_id: JxrVtFER1Q8
channel_name: "AI Search"
channel_id: UCIgnGlGkVRhd4qNFcEwLL4A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JxrVtFER1Q8
video_date: 2025-12-21T03:30:27+00:00
video_description: |
  INSANE AI NEWS: Wan2.6, Gemini 3 Flash, Trellis 2, MiMo V2, HY World, Seedance 1.5 Pro, FLUX2 Max #ai #ainews #aitools #aivideo
  
  Thanks to our sponsor Hubspot. Download the free guide “Find Your Best-Fit AI Video Generator” https://clickhubspot.com/545c77
  
  Sources in order of mention:
  https://3d-models.hunyuan.tencent.com/world/
  https://huggingface.co/spaces/prs-eth/stereospace_web
  https://vchitect.github.io/LongVie2-project/
  https://z.ai/blog/realvideo
  https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen-Image-Layered
  https://microsoft.github.io/TRELLIS.2/
  https://github.com/thu-ml/TurboDiffusion
  https://teal024.github.io/SCAIL/
  https://aleafy.github.io/vrgbx/
  https://lumalabs.ai/ray
  https://klingai.com/
  https://github.com/KlingTeam/SVG-T2I
  https://wan.video/
  https://seed.bytedance.com/en/seedance1_5_pro
  https://mimo.xiaomi.com/blog/mimo-v2-flash
  https://blog.google/products/gemini/gemini-3-flash/
  https://meigen-ai.github.io/LongCat-Video-Avatar/
  https://bfl.ai/models/flux-2-max
  GPT Image review: https://youtu.be/75b_5Y_jipg
  https://snap-research.github.io/EgoEdit/
  
  0:00 AI news intro
  1:16 HY World 1.5
  4:16 StereoSpace
  6:24 LongVie 2
  8:02 RealVideo
  10:01 Qwen Image Layered
  12:15 Trellis 2
  15:55 TurboDiffusion
  19:35 Free Hubspot guide
  20:42 SCAIL
  24:28 V-RGBX
  26:47 Ray 3 Modify
  28:25 Kling Motion Control
  29:31 SVG-T2I
  31:58 Wan 2.6
  33:21 Seedance 1.5 Pro
  34:40 MiMo V2 Flash
  37:27 Gemini 3 Flash
  39:53 LongCat Video Avatar
  42:48 Flux 2 Max
  44:58 EgoEdit
  
  
  Newsletter: https://aisearch.substack.com/
  Find AI tools & jobs: https://ai-search.io/
  Support: https://ko-fi.com/aisearch
  
  Here's my equipment, in case you're wondering:
  Lenovo Thinkbook: https://amzn.to/4jWeKwH
  Dell Precision 5690: https://www.dell.com/en-us/dt/ai-technologies/index.htm?utm_source=AISearchTools&utm_medium=youtube&utm_campaign=precisionai#tab0=0 
  GPU: Nvidia RTX 5000 Ada https://nvda.ws/3zfqGqS
  Mic: Shure SM7B https://amzn.to/3DErjt1
  Audio interface: Scarlett Solo https://amzn.to/3qELMeu
---
AI never sleeps, and this week has been absolutely insane. We have not one, not two, but four new AI video models. This is now the best open- source 3D model generator you can use. Look how detailed and accurate this is. Xiaomi releases what is now the best open-source model you can use. It even beats Deepseek and

Kimiku Thinking, and it even rivals the top closed models out there. This is now the best AI for animating characters. It's so good at full body control, and it's free and open source. This AI allows you to generate videos offline in as little as 2 seconds using Alibaba's wand. This is like 100 to 200 times speed up, which is huge. Clling releases

an open-source image model, which is a totally different beast. We have a new open-source 3D world generator, which you can interact with in real time. Speaking of real time, this open- source AI can make talking avatar videos in real time. All you need to do is input a transcript and a photo of your character. This AI can turn any photo into a 3D or stereo image. Google

releases another banger, Gemini 3 Flash, and a lot more. So, let's jump right in. Thanks to HubSpot for sponsoring this video. First up, 10 cent Hunyen releases another banger this week. It's called Hunyan World 1.5, and this can create

interactive 3D worlds, which you can move around in in real time. So, here are some examples for your reference. You can press the WD or arrow keys to basically move around the scene. And notice that none of this is pre-esigned or pre-built. This entire scene is generated on the fly as you move around.

And it's doing this all in real time. Here's another example for your reference. Now, we've seen plenty of these 3D World generators before, but this one seems to be very good quality, a lot better quality than some other ones that we've seen in the past. Now, it's still not perfect. There's still a lot of noise and artifacts with the generation, but I mean, it's doing all of this in real time, so there's going to be some sacrifice in quality. Now, in

addition to just firsterson views, here are some examples of thirdp person videos where you are like following a character from behind. And it can also render this very well. As you can see, this can be easily applied to like video game design. And this technology once it becomes efficient enough, I think this will be the future of video games where we no longer have like worlds that are 100% pre-built. We can just have an AI model as the video game and you can prompt it to generate whatever you want and it can just generate any scene or any character on the fly in real time.

Now, this doesn't just handle characters moving around. You can also add certain things in the video just with a prompt. So, for example, you can add wood smoking and it actually makes the wood smoke. Or here's another example where you can prompt it to darken the sky and that's indeed what it does. And then you can also prompt something like castle catches fire and that's what happens. Or

here's another example where you can prompt it to have a distant explosion and here's what you get. Notice that it's able to render this pretty much in real time. And if you compare this new Hunyen World 1.5 with other competitors like Matrix Game or Gamecraft, which I've mentioned on my channel before, notice that on average it out competes the rest of them across all these benchmarks for like reconstruction quality. The awesome thing is if you scroll up to the top of the page, they've already released a GitHub repo and all the models. So, if you click on

this and you scroll down a bit, first of all, note that you do need a CUDA GPU with a minimum of 14 GB of VRAM with offloading. But if you do have that, then here are all the instructions on how you can download and run this locally on your computer. You know, it's actually kind of crazy that it only requires 14 GB. This is a realtime 3D world generator. Like previous competitor models are way more compute inensive. And then here are basically

all the instructions on how to run and configure this. And it also looks like they're planning to open source the training code for this as well, which is fantastic. Anyways, all the links are up here. So, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Next up, this AI is also very interesting. It's

called Stereo Space, and this can generate a 3D scene from a 2D image. More specifically, what this does is it takes a photo and it breaks it down into something like this, which you can view with 3D glasses. You know those ones in theaters which have like a red and green lens to it? That's what you can use to view photos like this. And if you view it through those glasses, then this scene actually looks 3D. So, here are a

few more examples for your reference. Now in addition to converting this into these red and green photos, you can also just generate a stereo photo like this. So again, these are meant to be used in 3D glasses where the left image should be viewed with the left lens and then the right image should be used with the right lens. But what you can also do is just cross your eyes right now and try to like merge both these photos together. And once you do that, you should be able to make up a 3D render of this scene. Here's another example for

your reference. And apparently this new stereo space method on average outco competes other 3D photo generators. As you can see from this table over here, the best values are highlighted in green. Notice that stereo base basically got the best values out of all these benchmarks. The awesome thing is they've released a free hugging face space for you to try this out. So here's what it

looks like. Let's upload an input image. So I'm going to drag and drop this image onto here. And right now it's proceeding to create an anoglyph from my image. All right. So here's what we get. Now in

addition to an anoglyph, I can also generate a sidebyside view which would give me this. They've already released the code to this. So if you click on this GitHub repo and you scroll down a bit here, it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally. It doesn't say the VRAM requirements here, but if I click on the hugging face repo, it seems like the total size of everything is like 12 gigabytes. So, you should be able to fit this comfortably within 12 GB or even lower. Anyways, all the links are at the

top here. So, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Next up, this AI is super useful. It's called Long V2, and this can generate what they call ultraong videos. Now, here's the thing. If you've been playing around

with AI video generation, it doesn't matter if you're using open- source models or closed proprietary models, most of them could only generate like videos of up to 10 seconds max. So, that's very limiting. What if you want to generate longer videos? Well, this one, Long V2, can generate videos of up to 5 minutes long. So, here are some examples for your reference. Now, of

course, because these videos are like minutes long, I'm actually going to fast forward this for a bit. But as you can see, even as the video goes on and on, there's no like noticeable errors or like inconsistencies. The scene remains very coherent across the entire generation. Here are some other examples for your reference. Even as I fast forward this to over a minute or 2 minutes, the scene still remains very coherent. And if you look at these

benchmarks for long video quality and consistency, you can see that on average, this LongV2 even out competes other competitor models. Now, if you scroll up to the top of the page, they have released a GitHub repo. And if you click into it here, it contains all the instructions on how you can actually download and run this on your computer. Notice that this does use 14B as the base model. So, you should be able to run this on a consumer grade GPU with some offloading. Now, if I click on the

model weights of this Long V2, notice that the total size of both these models are like 14 GB in size. So, keep that in mind. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Next up, ZAI, which is the company behind one of the best open- source models out there, GLM, they just released a realtime video generator this week. It's called real video and this can create videos of a person talking in real time based on what you type. So it basically combines

text to speech with an avatar animation and it can generate this all in real time including lip sync and facial expressions that match what they're saying. Here are some examples. So here is where you would enter the text that you want the character to speak out. Here is where you would upload a reference image of your character. And then here is where you would upload the voice that you want to use.

>> Honest. That is rich coming from you. Let me tell you something, pal. Sometimes the truth is just another way of lying. I prefer to keep things ha flexible.

It is called survival. Try it sometime. >> The universe demands your struggle. meaning forged in fire, not comfort. Your potential screams to be unleashed.

To lie flat is to betray your own magnificent spirit. >> Now, here are some impressive achievements. So, this system can generate videos in real time with a delay of only approximately 2 seconds. The awesome thing is if you scroll up to the top of the page, they've already released a GitHub repo. And if you click into this and you scroll down a bit, notice that here they've already released the model for you to use. And

then here it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. Also note that this basically uses the best open- source video model right now 2.2 plus the self-forcing technique which accelerates the video generation even more. Anyways, all the links are up here. So if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week,

Alibaba continues to cook. So the Quen team just released Quen image layered. This can basically take a single image like what you see on the left and split it into multiple editable layers kind of like Photoshop layers. So each layer contains a different part of the image, for example, the background or the person or objects, text, etc. So you can edit one part without messing up the rest. So here's an example. You can take

this poster and plug it through this AI to break it down into separate transparent layers like this where we have the background and then the character and then the different text and designs in separate layers. And the advantage of this is you can then just take any individual layer and edit that however you want. For example, we can change the background to blue and it would only change this part while keeping the rest of the layers the same. So here's the final image. Or you can change the character to look something like this and it would only change the character while keeping the rest of the poster the same. You can also delete

certain elements such as these extra lemons over here. Or you can also resize individual elements such as this lemon over here. You can make it bigger like this. And it basically keeps you know the rest of the image the same. And you can even choose like how many layers you want to split the image into. So for

example, if you choose three layers, this is what you get. Or if you choose eight layers, then it can be more surgical and break it down into these eight layers. Now, the awesome thing is, as with most of the models from Quinn, they've open sourced this already. So, here's the model on HuggingFace. Here it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this. However, note

that everything is pretty large. Like the total size of everything is 60 GB. If I just look at the Transformer model, this is like 40 GB in size. So, you'll need a high-end GPU to run this for now, but I'm sure because this is open source, the community is likely going to release some quantized or compressed versions of this in the future that can run on lower VRAM. Anyways, for now, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also, this week,

Microsoft releases Trellis 2. This is currently one of the best open-source 3D model generators you can use right now, and it's a huge upgrade from their previous version one. Here are some insane examples for your reference. If we feed it this input image, here is the resulting 3D model that it can generate. Look at how crazy the details are. And

note that this is just one image. It doesn't even know what the back of this character looks like, but it's able to guess and also generate everything very realistically. Or here's another example for your reference. Let's say we input this photo of this Mecca character. Look how detailed and accurate this is.

Here's another crazy example. Notice that it's really hard for a 3D model generator to create fur, but it actually pulled this off really well. I'm very impressed by this model. Here's another really tricky example of this backpack, but it's able to capture all the details and create a very accurate and realistic 3D render of this object. Even with something as simple as a pineapple like this, for previous 3D model generators, it's really hard for them to actually accurately capture all the details of this. But as you can see, Trellis 2

handles this beautifully. Here's another example of this mermaid. Again, a very tricky scene with a ton of different elements, including jellyfish floating around. And her hair is also super complicated, but it's able to render this very well. And note that this is just from one 2D photo. Now, the

technical details behind this are actually quite interesting. So, let's go over this really quickly. First of all, instead of using traditional meshes, Trellis 2 uses what are called oxels. These are like selective 3D pixels. In a simple sense, they only exist where geometry is actually needed. So, it's

not like filling up any empty space. And then there's one voxil that handles geometry, such as the shape of the object, and then another one that handles the material or basically the appearance of the object, like the base color or how metallic or reflective or how transparent it is. And merging both the shape and the material or basically the surface together allows it to create some super realistic and accurate objects. Now 3D model data is huge. So Trellis 2 also compresses this very efficiently using this sparse compression VAE. This basically shrinks

the 3D data by like 16 times in each dimension. So a massive like 1024 resolution 3D object can be compressed down to only 9.6K tokens. Now if you scroll up to the top of the page, the awesome thing is they've released a free hugging face space for you to try this out online. So, if I click into this, here's what it looks like. Let's upload

a reference image. I'm going to upload this fox. And then for the resolution, sure, let's select 1024. I'm going to just leave all the settings at default. And then click generate. Now, note that

this takes around 38 seconds. And here is our result. I can also view like the normal estimation of this and the material properties and other intrinsic properties. Very cool. And then I can click on this to extract the GB and basically download the 3D model. In

addition to the free hugging face space, they've also already released a GitHub repo which if you scroll down a bit here, it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. Now, this does require an Nvidia GPU with at least 24 GB of VRAM, but I'm sure because this is open source, there might be some quantized versions that can run on lower VRAM in the future. Anyways, all the links are up here. So, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Next up, this tool is incredibly useful. It's

called Turbo Diffusion, and this can speed up your local video generation by 100 to 200 times. So, if you've been running AI video generators locally, you're probably using either 1 2.2 or 1 2.1. Here's how fast this thing is. At

least on a single RTX5090, if you add this turbo diffusion on top of your Juan workflow, you can basically speed it up by almost 200 times. And then here's the generation time. Turbo diffusion is the green bar, which you can barely see because it's so fast compared to just the regular one. So you can generate a 5-second video in as little as like 2 seconds. By the way, here's a comparison between just the regular one and adding turbo diffusion into the workflow. At the top is an

imagetovideo example using Juan 14B where we use the same starting frame of this cat on a surfboard. And then on the left is just a regular one workflow. And on the right is if you add turbo diffusion into the workflow, which speeds it up by like 119 times. That means you can generate a 5-second video in only 35 seconds, which is incredibly fast. And notice that there's no like noticeable degradation in quality. The

quality of both videos is very similar. Same with the video at the bottom. This is just text to video and it's using the standard Sora prompt of this Tokyo lady. And as you can see, even after adding turbo diffusion, which speeds up the generation by like 93 times, the quality is very similar. It's not like noticeably worse than the regular one video. Here are some other examples for

your reference. On the right is turbo diffusion. Note the huge difference in the generation time. And then here are some other image to video examples for your reference. I mean this is going to be a gamecher. Now anyone with even low

VRAM can generate videos way faster whereas before it would take like hours to generate just a 5-second video with the regular one. Here are some texttovideo examples. And if you compare this with another accelerator called fast video, not only is turbo diffusion even faster, but the quality is also a lot better. So for fast video there are a lot of noticeable errors with the generation but for turbo diffusion everything remains intact and consistent across the generation. Here are some other examples for your reference.

Really quickly here are the technical details behind turbo diffusion. So it uses a combination of acceleration techniques. One is sage attention which is a way to speed up the attention mechanism in neural networks. You're probably familiar with this already. But then they also use this SLA or basically sparse linear attention which reduces the amount of computation needed even further. And then they also use this RCM

which is used to basically skip a ton of steps to make the generation even faster without sacrificing much quality. So all these techniques together basically help make turbo diffusion really fast and efficient. The awesome thing is they've released all the models already for different versions of one. And here it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. And they've also released the training code to this as well, which is awesome. For now, you can only use this

via this Python code, which is not really intuitive, but I'm sure because this is open source, it's going to be added to Comfy UI very soon. Anyways, all the links and info are on this page. So, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. With all these new video generators popping left, right, and center, it can be really hard to keep track of everything. That's why I teamed up with HubSpot to create a simple, practical guide to everything you need to know for AI video called Find Your Best Fit AI Video Generator, a side-by-side comparison. Inside, I break

down the current AI video landscape and include a quick cheat sheet to help you choose the right model for your specific needs. Then, I go over the strengths and limitations of each of the top current models. I cover the specs of the model, like what resolution and duration it can generate and all the places where you can access it. My favorite part is the sample prompts that I've included. They let you experiment with each model and see which one fits your needs. The key

here is that there's no one model that can do everything. Each video generator has its own pros and cons, so it's important that you learn the nuances of them so you know how to effectively combine them together to make some really epic videos. You can download my guide completely for free using the link in the description below. This resource was made by HubSpot, the sponsor of this video. Here's another state-of-the-art AI that was released this week. If

you're looking to animate characters in your video with ultimate control, then this one is currently the best AI you can use. It's called scale, and basically you can take a reference photo of any character plus another reference video, and it would basically apply the movements of that video onto your new character. Now, we've had a ton of these tools before, like one animate, which is also really good. But in terms of full body movements and complex characters with different shapes and aspect ratios, then this new scale one actually performs much better than one animate. Here's another example for your reference. It doesn't even have to be

like a human-like character. You can even get this squirrel to dance like this human. So that's the advantage of scale. It doesn't really matter what proportions your character has. It's able to apply the movements of a reference video onto your character very accurately. And yes, this also works

with anime characters as you can see from this example. Here's an even crazier demo of this person doing a spin kick. And it's able to apply this movement onto this new character very accurately, even though this is quite a tricky movement. And you know, the previous character animation tools are definitely not able to generate movement as consistent as this. And the awesome thing is you can even apply this to multiple characters in the video. So

here's an example of that where we have two characters and it's able to apply the movements onto these penguins very well. So here's how it works. It actually takes the video and extracts a 3D pose from the video as you can see from the far left. This is different from just a 2D pose which are used in like competitor models. Now of course with this 3D pose it's going to be a lot more accurate at actually detecting and rendering the pose in a 3D space. So if

you compare scale which is on the upper right corner with other competitors like vase or one animate or uni animate notice that scale just performs a lot better and is a lot more consistent. This scene is especially tricky because you know the legs might be mixed up as this woman spins around. So you can see like for the other competitors it often mixes up the legs or sometimes the woman's front switches to her back. But for this new scale, everything remains very consistent. Or here's another tricky example. Notice that this new

scale one contains the least amount of errors. For one, animate, it's usually better with lip-sync and animating expressions, but as soon as you get it to do like some complex full body movements, then it kind of falls apart. And this is where scale does a lot better. Here's another even trickier example with multiple characters. And because scale is able to detect the pose of these characters in a 3D space, it's able to understand their movements way better than the other competitors like vase or one animate, which as you can see has a lot more noticeable errors. So

I mean with this new scale tool, you can even generate a really nice looking and coherent fight scene of two characters. Anyways, there are a ton of examples on this page. In the interest of time, I'm not going to go over everything, but just note that Scale is currently the best open- source tool you can use right now if you're looking to control the movement of a character using a reference video. The awesome thing is they've released everything already. So, if you click on this GitHub repo and you scroll down a bit here, it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. And

note that it's already added to Comfy UI via this Swan video rapper by Ki. All the links are at the top here. So, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Next up, this AI is pretty interesting. It's called VRBGX.

And this AI allows you to edit the intrinsic properties of videos. Specifically, this AI takes your input video and it breaks it down into four separate intrinsic properties. the albido, normal, irradiance, and material. Now, what exactly do these four things even mean? First of all, albido is like the base color of a surface. So, for example, you can edit

the albido or the color of the wooden chairs in the foreground to yellow. And you can also change the wall to blue. And here's what you get. Notice that it only changes the color or albido of these objects while keeping the rest of the scene the same. or instead of albido, you can also edit the normal of the scene. And the normal is basically

the direction of the surfaces of everything in the video. So, for example, you can add this flower pattern to the side of the sofa and it's able to match the original lighting and blend in seamlessly with the scene. Now, in addition to albido and normal, you can also edit the material properties of anything in a video. For example, if you make it into metal, then it's more reflective. or if you make it out of wood then it's less reflective. So here

for example we can make the chairs and the table less reflective like this. And then irradient is basically like controlling the light in the scene. So for example you can change the lighting of this original video which is a colder color to a much warmer yellow light like this while keeping the rest of the scene consistent. Now you don't have to just edit all four of these properties separately. So, here's an example where you can edit both the albido and the radiance of the scene, and here's what you get. Or here's another example where

you can edit both the normal and the irradiance of the scene. So, notice that you're changing the sofa plus you're also changing the lighting of this video. Now, if you scroll up to the top of the page, they have released a GitHub repo, but since this is from Adobe, it doesn't look like they've actually released anything yet. Here they say that on their to-do list they are planning to open source the model weights plus the inference code plus the training codes to this which is fantastic. Anyways, all of the links and info are on this page. So if you're

interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week, one of the top AI video companies out there, Lumalabs, just released a new model called Ray 3 Modify. And this is really powerful. It basically takes an existing video and reshoots it in different styles or angles. Or you can also add visual effects or insert or replace anything.

So, for example, you can act out a scene yourself and then just reshoot the video with a prompt like this. Or here's another example where you can act out a fight scene with another person and then reshoot it into something like this. Or you can also easily take a video and change it however you want with a prompt. For example, you can change it to nighttime or winter or sunset, etc. Or you can also easily replace a character in an existing video by just uploading an image of your new character and it's able to apply the character swap very seamlessly. So, this is a

super versatile tool and it's actually very similar to Cling01 which I mentioned last week. In fact, I think this is going to be the future of AI video. We're going to see more and more upcoming models with these features where we can just take an existing video and edit it however we want by dragging and dropping new elements or by prompting it with natural language kind of like nano banana. And this completely removes the need for traditional video editing stuff like mocap or green screens or masking or manually applying the animations or VFX yourself. AI can just handle this automatically and seamlessly for you. Anyways, back to

this new Ray 3 modify. If you're interested in trying this out, I'll link to this in the description below. Now, since I mentioned cling, they also released something really powerful this week called motion control. This allows you to control the movement of any character using a reference video. So, here are a few examples for your reference. So, this works very similar

to one animate and some other body animation tools that I've gone over before. So, this allows you to basically transfer the movement of a video to a new character. It's even able to handle complex actions. Plus, it's also able to get the hands and fingers and gestures correct. And it's able to do lip sync and expressions. And you can even upload

up to 30 seconds of a reference video. So, it's not like limited to just 5 to 10 seconds like other animation tools. Now, if you're interested in trying this out, once you log in to Cling AI, it's just this new tab called motion control at the top here. So, here is where you would upload a reference video, and here's where you would upload an image of a character to animate. Anyways, if you're interested in trying this out, I'll link to Clling in the description below. Now, Clling is not done cooking

yet. So also this week the team from Clling released this really fascinating image generator called SVG text to image. Now to understand what this paper involves first let me give you some background on how image generators work. The foundation behind all image generators is the diffusion model where it first starts off with a latent image of noise like this and at every step it takes away some of that noise until it gives you the image you prompted. Now actually it doesn't generate the image in the visual dimension that you and I can see. Instead the image is converted

into this latent space first which looks like this. If you've been playing around with workflows in Comfy UI, you'll know that we often need to import this VAE first to encode the image into latent space. And then after the AI generates the image through this K sampler, we need to use the VAE again to decode the image back into visual space which you and I can see. And the point of using this VAE to generate the image in latent space is that it's faster, cheaper, and more stable without sacrificing much image quality. But here's the crazy thing. This week, Clling released a

different beast. This model actually bypasses the need to work in latent space. There's actually no need for a VAE. Instead, this just generates the image in visual space that you and I can see. So, it's a much more simplistic workflow and the quality is actually very good. So, here are some examples

for your reference. Note that this is just experimental. It's kind of a prototype. The quality isn't as good as like the leading image models out there like Z image, but it's actually very impressive given that this workflow doesn't even use a VAE. And if you compare this new model with all the other competitive image generators out there, it's not like the best in terms of overall quality, but it's pretty close. Like it's better than Flux 1D or

SD3 or SDXL. And notice that again, this is in a class of its own. This is a completely different model architecture that does not require a VAE. Now, the awesome thing is they've open- sourced the entire pipeline, including the models, as well as how to install and run this locally on your computer, but also the code for data preparation and training. All the info is on this page.

So, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Now, we're not done with AI video yet. So, this week, Alibaba also released their latest video generator, 1 2.6. Now, this generates video with audio up to 1080p in resolution. It has pretty good lip sync,

and you can even generate multi-shot videos with smooth transitions up to 15 seconds long. Now, this is just a very marginal upgrade from 1 2.5, which kind of does the same thing, but a new feature of 1 2.6 Six is that they've added reference to video where instead of just uploading an image of a character, you can upload a reference video of a character like this. And then one 2.6 can generate a new video of this

character. So here's an example or here's another example. Now honestly, because 2.6 is just a very marginal upgrade, it's not really impressive to me. Honestly, there's still a lot of noise and errors with these generations.

And this is closed source. So there's no indication whether they will actually open source 1 2.6. So assuming this is closed source, then it's not even as good as the best closed models out there like VO or Sora 2. But anyways, if you are interested in trying this out, you can do so for free in one's native platform, which is just one.video. You

can click on here to generate a video and you get free credits to start. Anyways, if you're interested in trying this out, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Now what I think is actually way better than 1 12.6 is actually Bite Danc's C dance 1.5 Pro which was also released this week. This

also was able to create videos with audio. So here are some examples for your reference.

Get some work done.

>> [music] >> So, as you can see, the quality and consistency of Cedance 1.5 Pro is actually really good. And if you compare all these different benchmarks like aesthetics and motion and alignment with other leading video generators like Cling 2.6 6 and V3.1 you can see that overall seed dance which is like the teal color has the largest area. Same

with over here in terms of these audio benchmarks then seed dance 1.5 pro is better than cling and vo 3.1. So anyways those are just some examples for your reference and you can try this out right now in the streaming up platform. So if you're interested I'll link to this main announcement page in the description below. All right next up. If I ask you

to name a Chinese tech company, I'm sure Xiaomi would probably come to mind for some of you. Now, they've been pretty silent in the AI space so far. Well, scratch that because this week Xiaomi just dropped a really powerful open- source model called Mimo V2 Flash. This is designed to be ultra fast, efficient, and strong at reasoning agentic and coding tasks. So, here's the crazy thing. If you look at all these

benchmarks and these are not like cherrypicked benchmarks. These are standard benchmarks that other AI models use like Sweetbench verified or Tao or AIM which is competitive math, GPQA which is like graduate level science questions. Humanity's last exam which is like very obscure scientific questions and then arena hard which is creative writing. You can see that MIMO v2 flash performs very close to even the top proprietary models like claude 4.5 and GPT5. The crazy thing is MIMO v2 is

actually relatively tiny. So this is a mixture of experts model with 309 billion parameters. Note that DeepSeek is more than double this size. And I would assume GPT5 and cloud 4.5 are also like many times larger than this. And

the crazy thing is it doesn't use all of this at once. Only 15 billion parameters are active when you use it. So this makes it super fast and efficient. In fact, its performance on Sweetbench verified, which is like agentic coding. This is actually the best performing open-source model you can use. It even

beats the latest version of Deepseek and Kim K2 thinking, which is really impressive. Same with Sweet Bench Multilingual. So, if you're looking for the best open-source AI model to use for agentic coding, then actually it's not DeepSeek or Kimiku or Miniax. Currently, the best one is Mimo from Xiaomi. Here are some examples for your reference.

You can get it to create a beautiful MacOSS simulation and here's what you get. Or you can also create a solar system explorer like this. And this is also kind of interactive. And of course, you can also create a beautiful homepage like this. Now, like I said, they've open sourced everything. So, here is the

hugging face repo where you can go ahead and download this. So, here are the models for you to choose from. And here are the instructions on how to run this locally on your computer. Now, because this is still a large model at over 300 billion parameters, the size of this is roughly 313 GB. So, it's not for like consumer GPUs. You'll still need a

multiGPU cluster or like a DGX Spark to run this. But nevertheless, this is among the top open- source models you can use right now. So, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also, this week, Google releases Gemini 3 Flash, and this is actually the best model you can use right now in terms of efficiency. So, here are some benchmark scores for your reference. You

can see that Gemini 3 Flash is like four times cheaper than Gemini 3 Pro and it's only like slightly less performant. But for some of these benchmarks, it's still better than like Claude 4.5 or GPT 5.2. And like Gemini 3 Pro, the Flash version also excels at understanding and processing images, video, and audio.

This is multimodal, and it's also great at agentic coding. So, for Sweetbench verified, it got a whopping 78%. Even higher than Gemini 3 Pro, apparently. Now, here's a comparison between Gemini 3 Flash and Gemini 2.5 Pro. If you look

at the speed of this, this is like three times faster, but it also uses 30% fewer tokens compared with Gemini 2.5 Pro. And it's also much better at agentic coding, as you can see from these examples. So, I mean, there's really no reason to use the previous 2.5 version anymore. You

can just use Gemini 3 Flash for way cheaper and faster. And if you look at this leaderboard from Artificial Analysis, you can see that Gemini 3 Flash is actually ranked number two behind GPT 5.2 extra high and Gemini 3 Pro, which are tied for number one. So, this even beats Claude Opus 4.5. Plus,

this has a 1 million token context window, whereas Claude is like five times smaller. This is basically how much information you can fit into your prompt at once. The really important thing is if you look at the cost of this, this is way cheaper than the leading models GPT 5.2, which is over here. This is like over four times more expensive, as well as Gemini 3 Pro, which is over here. So, Gemini 3 Flash

is currently the best bang for your buck. You can get like one of the most intelligent models. This is ranked number two overall, but for a fraction of the price of the other models. This is a very impressive achievement. Now, here they say that Gemini 3 Flash is now the default model in the Gemini app. And

this also is available in AI Studio. So, if you click on the model dropown, you should see this latest Gemini 3 Flash over here. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week, Chinese food delivery company Muan continues to ship some really cool AI stuff. So they just released LongCat Video Avatar, and this has got to be the best open-source tool you can use right now for generating talking or singing videos. So this takes in an audio clip

of what you want the person to say, plus a photo of that character, plus a text prompt, and it would merge all these inputs together and sue a video. Here's an example. [laughter]

>> [laughter] >> Now, it's not perfect, but it's even able to generate more extreme expressions like this evil laughter. Or here's another example. >> I've been standing with you. I get 18 YEARS OF MY LIFE TO STAND IN THE SAME SPOT AS YOU. >> I WENT WITH a film, an Australian film that was in the marketplace. So, I got

in to see the ice storm and I borrow I borrowed a frog. It was an It's such an extraordinary film. It's actually able to capture some subtleties in the audio clip. There's some like mouth clicking sounds and it's able to capture that very well. And she's moving supernaturally. Her eyes are blinking.

Her face is moving. It's actually very good. >> With no real witness, >> Mr. Willis's testimony is not only vague, it is unsubstantiated. The substance I was looking for, Mr. Sims,

was to come from you. Notice that in the audio there are some breathing sounds and it's also able to make this character inhale during these breathing sounds. Everything looks super seamless and natural. >> Didn't know until the day you turned up alive and then all this happened. I haven't told Danny.

>> Now this doesn't just have to do talking. This can also do singing like this. When the lights turn red, we scream our truth with a word. [music] Hands in [singing] the air lights. [music] [singing]

>> And this doesn't have to just do humans. So you can also do other characters like this. So with this tool, you can easily create like music videos or influencer videos like this. >> Vitamin C and hyaluronic acid. Just two drops every morning gives you that 8 hours of sleep look. You felt truly

free. With EA Trip, your dream vacation is closer than you think. We compare thousands of flights and hotels to find you the lowest prices guaranteed. >> The awesome thing is they've released the code to this already. So here's the GitHub repo. And note that here it says

they've released this long cat video avatar this week. So here are the links to the inference code as well as the model weights. And then here it contains all the instructions on how to download and run this locally on your computer. Anyways, if you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. Also this week, Blackforce Labs releases their best image model yet, Flux 2 Max. Now this is

pretty good. Here are some examples of its generations. We can also do some nice posters and graphics. Everything is very realistic and high quality as you can see here. However, it's still not at the level of Nano Banana Pro which is really good. And unfortunately on the

day that they released this, OpenAI also released GPT image 1.5 which is even better. So, you know, I kind of feel sorry for Flux because, you know, a few weeks ago when they first released Flux 2, it was kind of overshadowed by Z image by Alibaba, which was open source and way cheaper. And then this week, they released Flux 2 Max, but on the same day, OpenAI releases their image model, which is even better. So, I mean, there's really no reason to use Flux 2 at all. So, I mean, if you look at this

independent leaderboard by artificial analysis, Flux 2 Max is pretty good, but it's only ranked number three below NanoPanana Pro and OpenAI's GPT image 1.5. And then, same with image editing, you can see that Flux 2 Max is number three. Plus, it's even more expensive than number two and number one. So, there's really no point in using Flux.

But, if you are interested in reading further, I'll link to their announcement page in the description below. Now, while we're on the topic of GPT image, this model is actually very good. It's definitely among the best out there. I would say it's not as good as Nano Banana Pro, but at least according to this leaderboard, it's actually better. But definitely give it a try yourself.

You get like a dozen free generations on ChatGpt, whereas for Nano Banana Pro, you only get like two or three generations on the Gemini app for free if you're on the free plan. So, OpenAI is actually way more generous. Now, I already did a full review on GPT Image 1.5 comparing it with Nano Banana Pro, so definitely check out this video to get a good sense of what it can and cannot do. I'll link to it in the description below. Next up, this AI is

super cool. It's called Ego X, and this can take a video shot from a third person perspective, so for example, on the left, and then convert that video into a firsterson shot, as if it was seen from the person's own perspective. This is called an egocentric video and this AI is basically able to generate this. Or here's another example where on the left is the original video and on the right is this new egocentric video generated from the perspective of the woman. How cool is that? Or here's

another example where we can regenerate this video from the perspective of the Hulk. Here's an even crazier example where we can regenerate this table tennis match from the perspective of a certain player. Now, there are a ton of noticeable errors with this generation. So, it's not perfect, but it's still pretty cool that we have an AI that's able to kind of guess and generate what this scene would look like from an egocentric point of view. Here are some examples where the middle column is the ground truth. This is what the

egocentric video actually looks like in real life. And then on the right is the video generated by this AI. And as you can see, it's actually very similar to the ground truth. Instead of soccer, here's a basketball example. And again, the AI generated video which is on the right is actually quite similar to the ground truth. Here's another example for

your reference. It's pretty crazy how the AI was able to extrapolate so much data from just one original video. And again, it's very similar to the ground truth. Really quickly, here's how it works. It first converts your input video into this 3D point cloud space to understand the scene in 3D. And it also

guesses this ego trajectory which is like how the person moves from their perspective. And then it combines both of these through a video diffusion model to basically generate this egocentric video. Now if you scroll up to the top of the page, they have released a GitHub repo. And if you click into it, it says that they will release the inference code and the model weights by this week, which is fantastic. They're also planning to release the training code and even the data prep-processing code by the end of this month. Anyways, if

you're interested in reading further, I'll link to this main page in the description below. And that sums up all the highlights in AI this week. Let me know in the comments what you think of all of this. Which piece of news was your favorite? And which tool are you most looking forward to trying out? As

always, I will be on the lookout for the top AI news and tools to share with you. So, if you enjoyed this video, remember to like, share, subscribe, and stay tuned for more content. Also, there's just so much happening in the world of AI every week, I can't possibly cover everything on my YouTube channel. So, to really stay uptodate with all that's going on in AI, be sure to subscribe to my free weekly newsletter. The link to that will be in the description below.

Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.