---
video_title: "The BEST local AI music generator is here!"
video_id: aUcDyeZgz_k
channel_name: "AI Search"
channel_id: UCIgnGlGkVRhd4qNFcEwLL4A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUcDyeZgz_k
video_date: 2026-08-15T03:20:14+00:00
video_description: |
  Minimax Music 3 tutorial. Free open source AI music generator #ai #aitools #aimusic #agi #suno
  Thanks to our sponsor Higgsfield. EARLY ACCESS to Seedance 2.5 1080p is now LIVE https://higgsfield.ai/s/theaisearch-KjSNaO
  
  Minimax Music for Comfy https://docs.comfy.org/tutorials/audio/minimax/minimax-music-3
  ComfyUI tutorial for beginners https://youtu.be/g74Cq9Ip2ik
  
  ACE Step tutorial https://youtu.be/QzddQoCKKss
  Foundation 1 tutorial https://youtu.be/CMuwP0u-Sjg
  Muscriptor https://huggingface.co/MuScriptor
  
  Chapters:
  00:00 Minimax Music 3 intro
  00:35 Pop 
  02:13 Punk rock
  02:47 R&B neo soul
  03:55 EDM progressive house
  04:50 Jazz
  06:08 Metal
  07:33 Country
  08:46 Higgsfield
  10:31 How to install Minimax Music
  12:50 How to run the workflow
  17:07 Suno restrictions
  17:49 Editing or inpainting songs
  18:23 Making and stacking loops
  18:48 Song to MIDI
  
  Newsletter: https://aisearch.substack.com/
  Find AI tools & jobs: https://ai-search.io/
  Support: https://ko-fi.com/aisearch
  
  Here's my equipment, in case you're wondering:
  Lenovo Thinkbook: https://amzn.to/4jWeKwH
  Dell Precision 5690: https://www.dell.com/en-us/dt/ai-technologies/index.htm?utm_source=AISearchTools&utm_medium=youtube&utm_campaign=precisionai#tab0=0 
  GPU: Nvidia RTX 5000 Ada https://nvda.ws/3zfqGqS
  Mic: Shure SM7B https://amzn.to/3DErjt1
  Audio interface: Scarlett Solo https://amzn.to/3qELMeu
---
The best open source AI music generator is here. It's called Mini Max music and not only can this create super clean and great sounding songs, but it's also incredibly tiny. The smallest model is only 2.5 gigabytes in size, so this can fit on most consumer hardware. In this video, we're going to go over some demos and how to install it so you can run it for free and unlimited times offline. Let's jump right in. First, let me show you some demos so you can get a good sense of the range of music it can generate. First, here's a pop rock example. The prompt and the song description is on the left, and the lyrics are on the right. We promised it one day and we haven't seen each other since the following day. We promised it one day and we haven't seen each other since the following day. Instead of pop, here's a more punk rock example. I was in the ninth grade when I fell in love for the first time and her name was... and here's a really smooth R&B Neo Soul song. You speak like when I lose my hope, you build me up, make me believe, but you're not mine and that cuts deep. We talking whispered, it's hard, I'm true, chasing something we can't prove. You say I make you feel alive, but baby we're living a life. I'm torn between what's right and will. There's love is something I can't conceive. You're my karma, store my ache, the sweetest, the risk I'll ever take, I love you, but I can't stay. It can also kind of do EDM, so here's an EDM Progressive House generation. I grab my pen, heart starts to race, town to escape to claim my faith, see each stroke of ink, breeze like for new, worlds to wagon where dreams come true. I'm weaving tales and toes, characters bow, adventures unfold and colors and go, through ink and paper I carve my way in this realm of wonder forever I stay. From the shadows of mine, stories ignite, panels bloom under late night, lines and curves. Next, let's see if it can do jazz. It can also do different languages, so let's try a Chinese example. Now some of you folks are probably wondering if it can do metal, so here's a metal example. The wounds of blade, it cuts the sky, shadows crawling, they creep their lie. I hear the whisper, sharp as glass, they're coming fast, they're coming fast. It's a night battle, hearts collide, run or fight, there's no place to hide, echoes screaming across the night, it's a night battle under the moonlight. Street lights like a broken code, every step feels like it's slowed. Let me know if that sounds metal enough to you. Finally, here's a fun country example. We know those times when you feel like there's a sign there on your back, it says I don't mind if you kick me, it seems like everybody has things go from bad to worse, you think they can't get worse than that and then they do. You step off the street in narrow and you don't know where you are, you need to love your compass, so up you're broken heart, ask directions from a genie in a bottle of gymbie and she lies to you. That's when you learn the truth, met a man down on the corn, notice that it's even able to make the guy sing in a southern country accent. Alright, so those are some demos, hopefully that gives you a good sense of what it can do. Next, let's go over how to install this. If you want to supercharge your content creation, definitely check out Higgsfield, the sponsor of this video. They've just added the most capable video generator up there, Cdance 2.5. The biggest improvement from this model is that you can now generate up to 30 seconds of video in a single pass, with multiple shots and an actual narrative with audio built in. You can also extend an existing generation with new shots while keeping the same characters, locations, pacing and overall look consistent. What really stands out is the reference system. You can feed it up to 50 references at once, including 30 images, 10 videos and 10 audio files, so you can provide your characters, environment, visual style, motion and soundtrack all in one generation. You also get much more control over editing. For example, you can specify exactly what happens during different timestamps, change just one section without affecting the rest of the video, or move the same performance into a completely different environment, or even change the camera angle while preserving the characters and action. Cdance 2.5 supports text-to-video, image-to-video, video-to-video and other references, giving you ultimate flexibility on your video creation. And right now is the best time to try Cdance 2.5 on Higgsfield, because they are offering unlimited Cdance 2.5 for up to 33 days, terms and conditions apply. And if you're up for the challenge, check out the Higgsfield Global Film Festival, which has a massive $1 million prize pool. Simply create any original film inside Higgsfield, it can be any story or genre and submit it for a chance to win cash prizes and other rewards. Try Cdance 2.5 in Higgsfield today using the link in the description below. So for this tutorial, we are going to use a platform called ConfUI. If you're not familiar with it, this is basically the most popular platform for running open source, image, video and audio generators offline on your computer. It's completely free for you to use. In fact, if you're not familiar with ConfUI, definitely see this video first where I go over how to install and use it. All right, assuming you do have ConfUI, the first thing you should do is update to the latest version. So in your ConfUI folder, simply click into the update folder and then click on update.confUI.bat. And it should proceed to update to the latest version. Afterwards, it says press any key to continue, so let's press any key to exit out of the terminal. And then next week and proceed to startup ConfUI. After you've opened up ConfUI, simply click on templates in the left sidebar. And then at the top here, search for music. And you should see this Mini Max text to music. So let's click on this. And here's what the workflow looks like. Now, you first need to download several files for this to work. And by the way, if you don't see this workflow, I will also link to this page where you can manually download the workflow and then just drag and drop it onto your interface. So first over here, we need to download a few models to get this to work. The first model is the unit. So I will link to this page in the description below. If you click on diffusion models, here is where you can download one of these models. The full model is only 9.8 gigabytes in size, so even this should fit on like most consumer GPUs, which is great. There's also an FP6 version, which is 4.9 gigabytes in size, and then an even smaller int 8 Convert version, which is only 2.5 gigs in size. For me, I'm going to download this FP16 one. So let's click download. And this goes in ConfUI and models and then in diffusion models. Let's click save. And then afterwards, we also need to download this text encoder. So in this text encoder folder, again, we have free for you to choose from. The smallest in 8.1 is only 9.2 gigabytes in size. So that's what I'm going to download. Let me click on download and this goes in ConfUI and models and then in text encoders. Let's click save. All right, finally, we also need to download the VAE for this. So let's click into this folder and then there's only one VAE, which is 217 gigabytes in size. Let's click on download and this goes in ConfUI and models and then VAE. And that's pretty much it. After you've downloaded all these models, simply press hard to refresh your model list and then select the model that you just downloaded from the drop down. So let me do that real quick. For the text encoder, I'm going to select this one for VAE. I'm going to select this one. All right, so that's all you need to do. Now, next we can start generating this song. First of all, note that for now, we only have a text to music workflow. There's no music to music. You can't create covers yet. I'll talk more about how you can do that later in the video. Now, the first input field is where you would input a description of the song. Here, it's recommended that you structure this field into three sections. A global metadata, which contains like the genre, the overall feel, plus like the pace and the key. So for example, here we're going to input a low five hip hop chill hop with jazzy extensions. It's going to be laid back and dreamy throughout a gentle warm drift with subtle night glow that deepens in the middle, etc, etc. And then for the second section, we should enter the vocal details. How should the voice sound? Should it be male or female? Should it be high pitched? Low pitched? Should it sound smooth or coarse? What should the timbre sound like? And then afterwards, the third section should be the arrangements. So you can enter details about the exact instruments and what types of instruments to use. You can also enter details about the intro, the verses, the bridge, and outro, etc. Now again, you don't have to come up with all of this from scratch. If you're not sure, you can just copy this prompt and add it to chat GPT and get it to write it out for you. Now, the next field is where we can enter the lyrics and as with the other frontier music generators, you can add meditags like intro, verse, bridge, chorus, outro, etc. You can also add like secondary vocals in brackets like this. It even works with ums and o's and other sounds as well as pauses like this. And then after you enter in your lyrics, here is where you set the maximum duration in seconds. So this supports generations up to five minutes long. So you can potentially set this all the way to 300 seconds. For me, I'm just going to leave it at one minute. And then the seed is basically the unique ID of every song. So if you leave all the settings the same and you use the same seed, you're going to get the exact same generation as before. If you use a different seed, then you're going to get a different generation. And then finally down here for tiled and code, it explains what this is over here. So basically if you enable this, it's going to cut VRAM usage. So this is helpful if you're generating very long songs on low VRAM. If you have high VRAM like 16 or 24 gigabytes, then you can just turn this off to make it faster and better quality. So since I do have enough, I'm going to turn this off. And that's about it. Now you could expand this workflow further by clicking this corner over here. And here you can also set the batch size. So like how many songs to generate at once. Let's just leave it at one. And then here's the classic case sampler. So you can play around with this step count. In general, the more steps you have, the higher quality, the song will be, but it'll take longer to generate and vice versa. And then CFG is like how literally you want AI to follow your prompt. So if you find that your generation isn't really following your description, you can try bumping up the CFG to see if it's more faithful. And then here are the different algorithms you can use to generate the song. For me, I'm just going to leave it at the default. And that's pretty much it. Let's click run. All right, here's my generation. And note that this took around three to four minutes on 16 gigabytes of V-Ram. Let's play this. Now to be fair, this ain't soon quality. It's not as good as the most recent soon models, but many max music three arrives at a very important time. That's because a few days ago, soon announced additional restrictions for their users. In particular, even paid pro users are limited to only 20 downloads per month starting September 3rd. Premier users can get 60 downloads per month. And you can only use your songs commercially if they were generated with a paid plan. Now, 20 downloads per month isn't bad, but it has received quite some backlash among Soono users recently. Soono is also known to add watermarks or tracking to their generations. So if you distribute your Soono generations off platform, they could potentially identify and track these generations. All right, now like I said, currently this mini max music three only supports text to music. But what if you want to edit or in-paint an existing track or maybe take reference from a song and do a cover on it? Well, fortunately there are open source tools for those features already. So I've covered another tool called ASTEP 1.5 XL and this allows you to in-paint existing songs or make music in the style of an existing song. I already did a full tutorial on this, so see this video if you want to learn more. Another really cool open source tool for music generation is called Foundation One. This basically lets you generate individual loops. You can take a loop as reference and generate additional tracks on top of that. And so you can create multiple tracks and stack them together to create a full song. And of course you can also import these tracks into a DAW to edit them further. You can also convert each track into mini notes, so you can even adjust the individual notes afterwards yourself. And speaking of MIDI, we have another open source tool called Muse Scriptor, which basically allows you to upload a song, and it'll dissect the song into separate instruments and figure out the MIDI notes for each track including the vocals. In fact, they released a free hugging phase space, so let's open this up and try an example. Let's drop a song into this and let me play you the song first. Every tear that cried made me realize I'm breaking free tonight from your life. And then down here we also have some advanced settings, so you can manually choose the instruments that are present in the song to improve the accuracy. But I'm just going to leave this all blank and get it to automatically select the instruments itself. And that's pretty much it. Let's click on you can see this is fairly quick. It only takes a few seconds for this to complete. And afterwards it has detected a voice track and an acoustic piano track. And here's what the MIDI sounds like. And there you go. It's as simple as that. There are some errors with the prediction during some parts of the track, especially at the end there, but you can import this into a AW and adjust the notes further. And of course remix this however you want. So this is a really useful tool if you want to take any song and take elements of it and reverse engineer it. If you click on this hugging phase link, note that they've released three different variants of this, a large medium and small variant. The large one is fairly tiny at only 5.5 gigabytes in size. So even this one should fit on most consumer devices. And then the small one is only 0.1 billion parameters. And this one is only 412 megabytes in size. So this could even potentially fit on just your phone. So that's mu-scriptor. This is really useful if you want to dissect a full song into the notes of each individual track. Anyway, that sums up my review of Mini-Max Music 3 and some other open source tools that you can use for music generation. I hope you found it helpful and if you run into any errors during the installation, welcome to copy and paste the exact error message that you see in the comments below and I'll try to help you troubleshoot as much as possible. As always, I will be on the lookout for the top AI news and tools to share with you. So if you enjoyed this video, remember to like, share, subscribe and stay tuned for more content. Also, there's just so much happening in the world of AI every week. I can't possibly cover everything on my YouTube channel. So to really stay up to date with all that's going on in AI, be sure to subscribe to my free weekly newsletter. The link to that will be in the description below. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one.