---
video_title: "AI Mode to be the default? This week's AI News You Can Use - NotebookLM recap"
video_id: QDDa0veGnMI
channel_name: "Marie Haynes "
channel_id: UC5JCNbPrfBAhnVG1Cfx25qA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QDDa0veGnMI
video_date: 2025-09-08T17:32:19+00:00
video_description: |
  Here's the full newsletter: https://community.mariehaynes.com/posts/ai-mode-to-become-the-default-chrome-data-used-for-ranking-on-device-embedding-from-google-ai-news-you-can-use-sep-8-2025
---
Welcome to our AI news rundown where we're breaking down all the biggest developments from Marie Haynes's latest newsletter. We've got a ton to get through from the very future of Google search all the way to well robots doing your dishes. Let's get into it. Okay, so let's just jump right in with the question that's on everyone's mind. There's some serious rumors flying around that Google's AI powered search could soon become the main event. You

know, not just an option you can turn on. And it all kicked off with this. This one simple two-word response with a smiley face from a Google product manager. But that little tweet, it sent shock waves through the entire industry because it suggests a massive fundamental shift is coming for how billions of us find information every single day. But here's the thing, not everyone at Google seems to be singing from the same hymn sheet. And that's

creating this really fascinating puzzle about what the future of search actually looks like. And this is where it gets really interesting, right? On one hand, you have a key product manager hinting that this huge change is just around the corner. But then a senior VP comes out and says, "Hey, wouldn't read much into this." It's a classic case of mixed signals coming out of a tech giant that's clearly in the middle of a major transition. So what's the real story?

Well, the bottom line seems to be this. We probably won't wake up tomorrow to a completely different Google search. But the foundations for that future, they are absolutely being laid. Ads are coming to AI mode, which means the money engine is starting to turn. And the CEO himself is talking about a slow and steady integration piece by piece. The

change is coming. Okay, so enough about what might happen. Let's talk about what's already happening right now because AI is already transforming your search results with some seriously powerful new tricks. I mean, just imagine this for a second. You need to see if your local auto shop has a specific part in stock. Instead of you

having to call them, you just tap a button and Google's AI literally makes the phone call for you. This isn't a someday thing. This is being spotted in the wild, turning search into a true personal assistant. And this is another perfect example of how search is evolving. It's not just a list of blue links anymore. It is becoming a decision

engine. It's actively comparing products for you and giving you advice on what to buy right there on the results page. And there's more. You're getting more control with the ability to switch between a slower, more thoughtful reasoning mode and a quicker, fast mode. The AI is also getting way better at handling those tricky science and math questions. And they're testing out a

whole new experience for Google Finance. Now, this AI wave isn't just happening inside Google search. The tools that you can use every single day are getting some major upgrades that you can play with right now. We're seeing some really key updates that make powerful features more accessible to everyone. So, if you're a free chat GPT user, you now get better organization tools. Over in

Gemini, you can just drop an audio file right in. And on your phone, how cool is this? Circle to search can now give you real-time translations of text just as you're scrolling. This slide shows a really fantastic trend that's happening. On the one hand, you have the big off-the-shelf tools like Grock, adding new features like analyzing PDFs. But on

the other hand, you have people like in this example building their own simple AI helpers in just a few minutes to do exactly what they need. It's all about personalization. And honestly, that's the big takeaway here. The barrier to creating your own software is just dissolving. It's like we're all becoming developers, able to create the exact tools we need just by describing them. So, let's zoom out from

our personal toolkits for a second and look at the entire business world because AI isn't just creating new apps. It is fundamentally restructuring whole industries and even changing how the law works. Speaking of the law, documents that were just unsealed from that huge DOJ versus Google trial gave us this unprecedented look under the hood of the search engine. And guess what? It confirmed a ton of things people in the SEO world have suspected for years. that

data from Chrome is used in rankings, that the content on your page matters more than links, and that yes, every website has a secret spam score. And the legal headaches for Google don't stop there. Just this week, the EU slapped them with a massive $3.5 billion fine, saying they broke competition rules with their digital ads. And you can see these shifts happening everywhere. In retail,

Walmart is rolling out these AI super agents. In finance, a major Australian bank is automating roles and cutting jobs. The change is so profound that it's even creating a brand new job in the executive suite, the chief AI officer. Now, this next one might not sound like AI news at first, but trust me, it is incredibly important. The payment company Stripe is building the plumbing for a future where our AI assistants can actually pay each other for services. It's a foundational piece

for this coming agentto agent web. All right, for our last section, let's take a quick look at some developments that honestly feel like they're pulled straight out of a sci-fi movie, but they are very, very real. This is a really big deal for privacy and just for access in general. Google's new model here lets you run complex AI right on your phone or your laptop without needing to be connected to the internet at all. Meanwhile, in the world of robotics, what used to be science fiction is becoming, well, household reality. We're

now seeing humanoid robots like this one learning how to do complex chores like loading a dishwasher all by itself. In that line between human and machine, it is blurring faster than ever. Neurolink just did two more brain implant surgeries. And get this, they're trying to trademark the word telepathy. At the exact same time, China has announced its goal to become a global leader in brain computer tech within 5 years. The race

is on. So when you put it all together, from search to business to robots to brain implants, all of this incredible progress is making these tools more powerful and more accessible every single day. And that leads to one final big question we want to leave you with. And before we go, on a more personal note, we just want to take a moment to honor the memory of Alan Bllywise. He was a respected and truly giving member of the SEO community who passed away this week. He was an absolute pillar of

the industry and if you ever had the chance to meet him, you knew he was one of the kindest people around. He will be deeply missed.