---
video_title: "This Week in AI - NotebookLM video overview of Marie Haynes' newsletter Aug 26, 2025"
video_id: fqxLfEK4OwQ
channel_name: "Marie Haynes "
channel_id: UC5JCNbPrfBAhnVG1Cfx25qA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fqxLfEK4OwQ
video_date: 2025-08-26T19:30:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Don't have time to read all 30+ pages of newsletter this week? This podcast is actually a pretty good summary!
  
  Read the full newsletter here:
  https://community.mariehaynes.com/posts/how-could-todays-ai-lead-to-a-world-of-radical-abundance-ai-news-you-can-use-aug-26-2025
---
All right, welcome back. You know, the world of AI moves so fast it's almost dizzying. And this week, phew, no exception. We're going to cut right through all the noise and get to the stuff that actually matters. The things changing how you find dinner and yeah, even how you interact with your devices using just your thoughts. So, let's just

dive right in. So, you hear guys like Deis Hobus from Google Deep Mind talk about this grand vision, right? A world of amazing abundance. It sounds great. It sounds huge. But, you know, how do we

actually get from here to there? Yeah, that's the big shiny goal way off in the distance. But the real story, the one that's actually interesting, is what's happening right now, this week. So, let's take a look at what actually changed in just the last few days. Okay, first up, let's talk about the upgrades to the AI you're probably already using every single day. So, first, let's

tackle this really fascinating puzzle that's been popping up. If you have a website, you've probably worried about this. Are AIs like ChatCBT just killing website traffic, you know, by just giving people the answer? Well, the data is coming in and it's not what you think. It's complicated. And check out

this contrast. It's pretty wild. On one hand, yeah, you've got some content sites seeing their chat GPT referrals drop by a third. Ouch. But then look at this e-commerce store. They're seeing

traffic go up by over 40%. So, what does this tell us? AI isn't just killing traffic, it's shifting it. It's changing who gets the clicks and why. Meanwhile, Google is just full steam ahead. Their

AI search mode is now in 180 countries and it's doing way more than just spitting out answers. It's turning into a real assistant. I mean, you can actually book dinner reservations through it now with partners like Open Table and Resi. And they're adding more and more links and stuff. Basically teaching the AI when you actually want to click on a website. And here's where

it gets really personal. It's starting to connect the dots. Based on what you've been searching for, even on maps, the AI mode will start tailoring its answers just for you. So, you're looking for food, well, it might remember you were looking at ramen shops earlier and just boom, serve up the best local spots. This is already happening for some folks in the US. And this isn't

just about search. You know, the AI models themselves, the brains behind the operation, are getting some serious upgrades. We're talking new senses, new scales. It's really starting to blur the line between what's digital and what's, well, real. Okay, you have to see this. This is

Google's Gemini Live, and it's got this new visual guidance thing. You can literally just point your phone's camera at something, like here, a spice rack, and ask it a question, and it just looks and figures out that, yeah, coriander is a good substitute for Cumin. Think about that. Your AI can now see the world through your phone. And it's not stopping there. It's weaving itself

right into how you work. There's a new listen to this tab feature in Chrome, which means Gemini can now just read your Google Docs or pretty much any web page right out loud to you. It sounds simple, but wow, for getting things done, that's a huge help. All right, so those are the new toys you can play with. Now, let's zoom out a bit and look at the huge power plays happening between the tech giants. This is the big

picture stuff. Man, the race to win at AI is making for some really weird alliances. I mean, get this. Apple Apple is talking to Google about using their Gemini AI to make Siri better. Can you believe it? And Meta, they're teaming up

with Midjourney for images. And this one's crazy. They just signed a $10 billion deal to use Google's cloud. It's like everyone's scrambling for an edge, and they don't care who they have to partner with to get it. And of course, you can't talk about tech battles without talking about Elon Musk. In

classic Musk fashion, he's basically claimed his AI company, XAI, is going to blow past everyone else on the planet and then leave Google in the dust. I mean, it's a huge claim, but it's Elon. You can't really count him out. And his way of doing things is, well, it's unique. He just announced XAI is building a new company called Macro hard. Yep, you heard that right. It's

totally a dig at Microsoft, but the goal is dead serious. To simulate an entire software company using nothing but AI. The name's a joke, but the ambition behind it, it's absolutely massive. Okay, we've covered the everyday stuff and the boardroom drama. Now, let's get to the really wild developments. The

stuff that honestly feels like it's straight out of a movie. This This right here might be the single biggest thing that happened this week. So Meta is getting ready to launch new glasses, right? But they come with this, a neural wristband. Now, it's not reading your brain exactly. It's reading the nerve

signals your brain sends to your hand. And the result, you can control your devices with your thoughts. Just think about that for a second. That's a massive, massive leap. And if that wasn't enough, Google dropped this absolute mind bender called Genie 3.

What is it? It's an AI that can take one picture or even just some text and create an entire interactive 3D world you can move around in. But here's the craziest part. Its main job is to create endless virtual worlds to train other AIs. It's like an AI dreaming up a video game so another AI can learn how to be a robot. Deis Hazabus called it an AI

playing in the mind of another AI. Just wow. So you have AIs training in virtual worlds to become robots. But for that to work, you need two things. Really smart brains and really capable bodies. And

guess what? We saw huge steps forward in both this week. Right. So, let's talk about the robots themselves. The brains and the brawn. You've probably seen

videos of this Atlas robot. It's already incredibly agile and now it's being upgraded to do even more complex stuff out in the real world. And the brains powering these things, they're getting a massive power up, too. I'm talking about companies like Nvidia literally packing a supercomput onto a tiny chip all designed to be a robot brain. And finally, let's touch on health because the pace here is just accelerating like crazy. Google's got an AI now that can

be your personal health coach just using the data from your watch. At the same time, scientists are getting way better at using brain implants to turn thoughts directly into text. And then there's a startup looking at gene therapy, not to cure a disease, but to change our brain cells so they can interact better with AI. The implications of that are just staggering. Okay, so when you put all that together from just one week, you kind of have to take a breath and ask, what does all this speed mean? And

that's really the main thing to understand here. The personalized search results for ramen and the mind control wristbands, they seem worlds apart, right? But they're not. They're all part of the same story, the same incredibly fast-moving wave. The future isn't something we're waiting years for anymore. It's literally being delivered

in weekly updates. So, think about it. In just one week, we got smarter assistance, bizarre new corporate partnerships, and tech that was purest science fiction just a blink of an eye ago. It all leads to one final thought, really. The technology, it's ready. It's

here. The real question is, are