---
video_title: "Google's Agent2Agent Protocol: This radically changes how the web works."
video_id: bhRSFH3e3qI
channel_name: "Marie Haynes "
channel_id: UC5JCNbPrfBAhnVG1Cfx25qA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bhRSFH3e3qI
video_date: 2025-04-14
video_description: |
  Google's Agent2Agent (A2A) protocol is here, and it's set to change everything. Announced at Cloud Next 2025, this new standard allows AI agents to talk directly to each other.
  
  What does this mean? An internet powered by communicating AI, radical changes for businesses using tools like Agentspace and the Customer Engagement Suite, and a potential upheaval for traditional SEO.
  
  I share thoughts about A2A, the Agent Development Kit (ADK), Agent Cards, and why the future of the web might look very different, very soon.
  
  More, including links to all of the resources mentioned in my blog post: 
  https://mariehaynes.com/googles-agent2agent-protocol-will-radically-change-the-web
  
  Subscribe to my newsletter for all of the interesting news as AI changes our world:
  https://mariehaynes.com/newsletter/
---
Welcome to another episode of AI news you can use with me Dr. Marie Haynes. Yes, we are going to talk about search news. But it is really important for us to understand what Google just announced at Google Cloud Next. This week I'm going to talk in this episode about agents and how what we know currently as search engine optimization or even search engine marketing when it comes to ads is going to radically change and this is going to start happening very soon because Google's already given us the uh framework for building these agents. So what I want to do today is

try and describe what these changes are. We're going to talk about agent space. We're going to talk about Google's agent development kit and more importantly the agentto agent protocol which I believe is going to radically change the web. I mentioned in last week's episode how Google's demis Sabis the CEO of deep mind had said that the structure of the web is going to change dramatically and the way that we interact with the web is going to change and I'm thinking this is somewhere you know years in the future but it's actually here now. I think there's great opportunity for those who understand how these agents will work. I

think there's a lot that we don't know about them. And so my hope is that this conversation is not too confusing. But um because there's so much for us to try and understand and those who do I think will there will be massive opportunity there. Google said that every enterprise will have multiple agents through which they communicate with customers and with other businesses. And if that's the case, there are going to be hundreds of millions of businesses who are looking for people who understand agents. I

especially am thinking of people who are out of work right now. I would highly encourage you to start learning more and more about agents. Right now, we're at a phase where nobody is the expert on this. And so, we have tons of opportunity for us to learn to advise businesses to create new products. I think this is going to open up all sorts of opportunity for new revenue streams and uh there's a lot that we have to learn. So at Google Cloud Next last

week, Google announced several things that are massive and each of these could be a podcast episode on its own. They announced Ironwood, which is a new chip for AI, a tensor processing unit that has 42.5 exoflops of uh compute. That's a massive amount of computing power. They said that the world's largest supercomputer at the moment currently has 1.7 exoflops of uh computing power.

So 42.5 exoflops. This is not my area of expertise, but what I'm learning from this is that Google has a ton of computing power. When I was at Google IO last year, Jeff Dean gave a talk and he was talking about how Google had advanced in terms of machine learning. He said the thing that always held Google back from going further and from doing more was the amount of compute that they had. So we are about to see AI

go exponentially more uh powerful than it currently is. Google announced some other stuff including uh Google Docs will now have AI audio overviews. You've probably seen in Notebook LM the audio podcasts. Imagine now your Google Docs uh will be able to produce podcasts or summaries in audio form and uh what a great thing that'll be uh for for many many businesses. They announced Google Chirp which is new texttospech HD quality voices and this is important when we come to uh what we're going to talk about soon the customer engagement suite that will have AI agents that sound like real people. Uh they also

announced Google LIA which is a text to music model which sounds absolutely incredible. But what I want to focus on in this episode is agents. Agents are going to change how businesses interact. They're going to change how we do SEO. They are going to open up new opportunities for those who understand how to use them, but they're also going to make some businesses unnecessary. And

I know that that's a difficult thing to hear. I thoroughly believe uh that those sites that were impacted by Google's helpful content update probably were impacted because Google could see that there's going to be less and less need for sites that provide information that's already clearly known around uh the web and in the world. And so our key in making money with agents, in having success with agents, is to be offering something to the world that is new, that is unique and original with you, or to be the world's leading expert in some particular area where people are going to be seeking out your agents. Um, let's talk for a minute about agent space. So this is the first thing uh that kind of blew my mind at the Google Next event.

uh agent space is for use within agencies or not agencies within offices. Uh you need to be a fairly large workplace in order for uh you to get accepted for agent space. When I spoke to a Google rep and it was funny because they asked me to uh you know if I was interested in agent space and I'm like agents Google of course I'm interested in this and uh then it turns out that you need to have a hundred seats. Uh I don't know if that's still the case now. Uh but you need to have a fair number of seats and you need to pay for each of those seats in order to use agent space, but if that is you, then agent space can radically change how your office works.

So they demoed a situation where um the agents basically your company will have multiple agents. So some of them could be that they just draw from your information. Uh all of this information would be private to your company. It's not like you're giving your company documents for AI training to Google. Um, but they showed an example of maybe there's an onboarding agent. So, you've

hired a new employee and your onboarding agent will walk them through the things they need to know about your company. That onboarding agent may talk with an HR agent who will set them up with uh the things that are necessary uh, you know, within the office or within their home workspace. and um you know perhaps that HR agent communicates uh with payroll agent and you can see how all of these agents talk together. Each of the individuals in your company can also create their own personal agents. So let's say your job is to report to clients on how their finances are doing.

Um, then you can draw from whatever agents your company has to get the information that's needed. And perhaps you've created your own personal agent that puts that data into charts and into maybe even a video uh that you show your clients. And so eventually what we're going to see is that when there is information in a company, everybody in that company can use that information in the way that works best for them. That's really exciting. I just had a meeting with my search bar pro members. We had a

fantastic meeting. We were supposed to talk about images in AI and instead we talked all about agents because that's all I can think about right now. And uh Jeannie Hill had this fantastic idea that I've just reached out to Google to see if we can do. When they talked to me about agent space, I was a company of one. I still am a company of one. And uh

because you need a hundred seats, they were like this is not going to work for you. But still, they talked to me for quite a while about agents and I got all excited again about them. Well, Jeie was saying, "What if the search bar, my community becomes the company and we produce agents that could be used within the search bar?" So then we could have an agent where perhaps one draws from my newsletter and uh I help you personalize your agent that pulls out the interesting AI news and gives you ideas on how you can uh benefit or profit from that. or perhaps I have an agent to analyze traffic drops like I would and um or maybe another agent to help you create content or to implement uh some of the experiments that we're doing in using uh different techniques to try to optimize to get into AI overviews, things like that. And so it's possible

that the search bar may become a collection of agents uh that you could use. So we'll see if that actually happens. So agent space is exciting. It's not the most exciting thing I'm going to talk about though. The next thing is the customer engagement suite.

This is something that is going to change how people communicate with businesses on the web. So in the video from Google Cloud Next in the presentation they described a demo where actually they demonstrated it where a man was uh surfing the web and came uh he was going to buy a product from a garden store and what he was buying he had two products in his cart that were soil for planting his flowers and then a chatbot kind of popped up on the side and he had a voice conversation with the chatbot. I'm telling you, it sounds like a real person. It really does not sound like AI. And this chatbot was talking to him saying, "Can I help you with your purchase?" And he said, "You know, I'm

not sure if I have the right soil for the plants that I have." And the chatbot was like, "Well, what plants do you have?" And he said, "Well, can I show you?" They switched to video. So, this week I got access to Project Astra, which is really cool. I've been using it

for my plants actually and a number of other things to just point the video at something and go I'm not sure how I'm supposed to use this or I'm not sure what this problem is and uh and then project Astra using Gemini will uh be able to see my video and converse in real time with me. So, in this demo, the agent uh could see through video, oh, and said, "Oh, that's a beautiful patunia you have there." And actually, the soil that you have in your cart isn't the right kind. And it suggested that he uh swaps it out for another soil. And so, the agent changed what was in his cart. Then, he asked if they have

any landscaping deals where somebody could come to his house and plant. And the agent uh drew from information that it had about the store and said, "Yes, we do. We have this thing and it costs this much." And he said, "Well, could I get a discount on that, like maybe 50%." Now, you've heard all these I'm sure you've heard these horror stories of agents that if you prompt them just right, you can get them to agree to give you like a 100% discount or give you I think somebody a couple years ago prompted an agent uh to sell them a car for a dollar or something like that.

Well, this agent said, you know, I'm not sure if I can do that. Let me talk to my supervisor. So, then what it did was it pinged a human at the company. The human got a message from the agent saying, "This customer is asking for a discount." The human replied back saying, "Well, we can't give them 50%, but we could maybe give him 30% off."

And so then the agent went back to the customer and said, "Great news. I've negotiated with my uh I've talked to my um my my supervisor and now you have a discount." So, and it went on like this that you can have these real like very vibrant and real and helpful conversations with uh with an agent which is going to really help people decide what products to buy and uh really to decide whether they're going to be using your store. So, that is something that's very very exciting. I think it's going to take some work to implement it and I would imagine when people first start implementing it, we're going to have some stories of it not working well, but it is something that's going to change how everybody interacts with stores. Um, but that's

not the most exciting thing. What I'm most excited about is Google's agent development kit and also the agentto agent protocol. So, Agent Development Kit is a Python framework. And I know I've lost some of you now because you're like, I'm not a developer. I don't program things in Python. Um, but let me

tell you, it's not that difficult. And I think it's worth spending some time in Google's documentation. I'm going to write a blog post, at least I hope to, uh, that has links to all of this documentation. So, if you go to mariehannes.com/blog, you'll find it there. and the agent development kit in

under a hundred lines of Python you can create an agent and um all you need is you need to get an API key from Google which you can get from either AI studio very easily uh or from Google cloud you have to have a Google cloud account that is attached to a credit card now let me talk about that for a second when I first started talking about AI in search uh a lot of people said well Google would never do that because it's going to kill their business model. We know that Google makes the grand uh share of their revenue from advertising. And uh if Google's giving AI answers and people don't have to go to websites, then they've just cut off a bunch of their revenue. Well, I think that agents will become a bigger revenue source. Um, and so if I have to get an API key from Google because I'm using their uh Gemini, I'm using the compute power from Gemini, then I need to pay for that.

Now, right now, using Gemini is actually quite cheap. Uh, I have been playing around with making agents and and doing all sorts of stuff via the API. I haven't put anything into production yet. Uh, but it's cost me like three cents a month, I think. Um, not very much. Uh they did recently uh announce

actually at Google Cloud Next as well that you can use VO which is the video generation text to video through the API now and it costs uh 35 cents a minute or no a second 35 cents a second which is uh you know it could add up. So um so but to generally use the AI models through Gemini is not very expensive but over time if you imagine every business is going to have multiple agents this is going to be a revenue source for Google. So I want to um read a quote from one of Google's blog posts this week. They said every enterprise will soon rely on multi- aent systems. every enterprise multiple agents multiple AI agents working together even when built on different frameworks or providers that's something that Google said is this agentto agent protocol which we'll talk about you don't have to just use Gemini they said that there are I believe 200 of the popular language models I didn't know there were that many are all going to work with this protocol so if you like uh building stuff with chat GPT or with claude that's going to be fine you can still create your agent agents which with whichever language model you want.

I'll go on to read here. Agents are intelligent systems that can act on your behalf using reasoning, planning, and memory capabilities under your supervision. They can think multiple steps ahead and accomplish tasks across various systems. So, these agents, we're going to be creating them. I think we still have to imagine what they're going to be. I'm going to share some examples

near the end of uh this podcast where what I've imagined it's going to look like uh but I think um we can't yet imagine uh what we're going to be seeing with these agents. So right now Google has what's called an agent garden and uh there's eventually going to also be an agent marketplace. So, I could create an agent and you might say, you know, like let's say I create an agent for optimizing content and I might make it available for you to purchase or lease or buy a subscription to perhaps. And if you're an SEO agency, then you might say, well, you know what, I uh I want to use Marie's agent and you pay me money for it. Um, so I think that that's how that type of thing is going to work.

So, in Google's agent garden, they currently have a few example agents, and one of them is going to shock you. I sound like a Google discover headline, perhaps. There's a data science agent. There's a travel concierge that helps people make decisions on uh where to travel. And one of them is a brand search optimization agent. This agent

analyzes your keywords, your brand keywords, and it analyzes your competitor search results. compares titles and descriptions and it generates suggestions to enhance a brand's search engine ranking. I am not kidding. It analyzes competitor content and how competitors are performing for target keywords. I did spend a bit of time looking uh at the code. So the code is

there. You can find it in GitHub. Um and basically it's multiple agents that talk to each other. So there's an agent uh for finding keywords that you are maybe missing out on. Um there's a search results agent uh which it goes to a particular page takes a screenshot. I'm

not sure if that particular page is Google search perhaps and um and you know can do it can click on competitors like this is pretty wild stuff and it's right there in under a hundred lines of code that you can implement right now. uh I haven't done it yet, but I want to. And there's also a comparison agent uh that does a bit of work to, you know, see how you're comparing against competitors. So, this is something this is probably like a very uh simple version of an agent. I think that we'll be able to put a lot of our knowledge and expertise and our strategies into agents which will um save us a ton of work and also make it so that my strategy and my process or your strategy and your process that you can offer that to others whether it's employees that work in your company or you could sell it to to clients to um to other people who do similar work on the web. So this

is going to change how uh businesses communicate with each other. Now speaking of communication, this is what Google announced is an agentto agent framework. This is meaning that there's going to be a protocol for agents to communicate with other agents. So let's say you've built your own suite of agents and you really like Claude and I've built mine using chatbt uh using OpenAI's language models. There will be basically a way that my agent can communicate with your agent. Now, you

might be thinking, some of you have heard of MCP, model context protocol. And I'm going to just hopefully I don't lose anybody here because it's a little bit complicated. From what I understand, these are two separate things. So, model context protocol is something that was uh suggested by Anthropic, the makers of Claude. And what it does is it helps agents connect with tools. So there will

be a standard protocol to allow agents to use APIs. Basically like if I wanted to connect with Google search console uh via my agent, there's a standard way for that to happen. The amount of data that gets transferred back and forth will be standardized. That's for agents to connect with tools. Google's agentto agent protocol is for agents to connect with other agents. And we're going to

eventually have this whole ecosystem where there is communication amongst a agents all around the internet which is a little bit hard to wrap my head around but I see that it's going to be happening. So agents can use tools. Some of the tools that Google uh put in their documentation is the agents will very easily be able to connect with PayPal, with Stripe, with uh Google Calendar, with Shopify and um I think you know one of the things that we will see is uh learning to optimize to uh if you have a tool to make your tool attractive to agents uh which is going to be a different thing than search engine optimization. these agents as you have an agent the each will publish their capabilities and how they interact with users. So this is going to be done in a JSON format and uh it's basically like a card that I think that's actually what they call it is the agent card that says here's what this agent is and here's what it does. So

let's say I'm having a conversation with my personal agent. My personal agent might be chap GPT it might be Gemini. It might be something that I've developed from open-source and uh let's say I ask it a question about uh you know I'm really interested in uh buying this particular product. Well, my agent will go search for an agent that's likely to be helpful in making that decision on the products. I'm going to talk a little bit more in a minute about specific use cases. Uh but in order to do that, it

will look at the card of the agents that are uh potentially suited and will make a decision based on um whether it seems to be the agent that's going to meet my need. Then those agents communicate. Now they communicate with each other uh via something that is called artifacts. Artifacts could be data, it could be a file, it could be an image, potentially a video. And each agent produces an artifact or or multiple artifacts that will it will give to the other agent.

And so basically it's like uh multiple employees talking or multiple workers talking to each other uh that they have these conversations and say hey can you help me do this? And that agent says sure let me produce this. Maybe I need to go talk to another agent. it comes back with uh a full document for you and it gives that document the artifact to your agent which then synthesizes it for you. Um these agentto agent interactions somebody it it's kind of like the uh HTTP protocol that allows us to interact with websites except that protocol is quick. It happens very quickly. Agentto

agent interactions some of them might take hours or they might even take days. One of the examples that Google gave was I mentioned this before but uh an employee onboarding agent. It might coordinate over several days with a training agent uh that walks people through orientation for joining a company. So these agents are basically communicating with each other uh in order to be as helpful as possible to uh to us the user. Um so let's talk about how this changes our industry. How does

this change SEO? SEO is not dead. As long as there are businesses that need to be found on the internet, then there is a need for people to uh to help uh these businesses. However, much of the practice that we do currently as SEOs is going to radically change and as I said before, I think some websites that currently exist are going to be less and less needed. So, uh I had this fantastic conversation with deep research. Uh I

used ChachiBT deep research and also Gemini deep research and asked uh what I did was I gave it all of the documentation that I found from uh Google producing on agentto agent framework and uh agent space and all of these different things and then I asked the deep research agents to um it's kind of meta isn't it to uh speculate on what the future would look like on how this would change SEO and how it would change the structure of the internet. Um, I uh I I'll link to from my blog post. I'll link to both of those conversations. They were fascinating. I actually think the chat GBT one was better. Um, it

might be because I I like the chat JBT deep research better. It takes longer than Gemini. Uh, but Gemini is better if you really want to browse the websites that um were recommended, which for some things I like to do that. Uh, but let me tell you what came out of this conversation uh with deep research. So chatt said it pictures that there's going to be an agentrich ecosystem. So a user will delegate a

goal to our personal agent and then that agent will search and synthesize info uh basically on on the user's behalf and then they're going to use these agentto agent conversations to do that. um instead of having so let's say I was looking to buy a new DSLR camera and I'm like I want one for under $1,000 right now I might go to search and I might see a list of 10 blue links or in some cases there's an AI overview that shows me product comparisons uh but search is kind of where I would go for that type of information right now some people might have communications with their language models about that actually that's probably where I would go too um but in the future and very near future what's going to happen is my agent will go out and start querying various product agents. So that agent might be the sites themselves. It might be uh the you know it might go to Canon and might go to Nikon and and look at these different websites to find the uh the specs of all of these products. But perhaps my agent will go to review websites. And I think there's still

going to be a need for review websites. Um, review websites though have to be amazing in order for them to be useful for an agent because in terms of specs, we're going to be able to get that from the product uh manufacturers themselves. But what's different is your experience. So let's say you're a photographer. You're a professional photographer and you have tried a particular product and you have shared what you really like about it, what you don't like about it, uh what you know you found to be the best inexpensive camera, all those things. Your value in your experience is

something that will be important to agents. Now the question I have is how do you monetize that? because my agent is going to get that information from your agent which has synthesized the information from your reviews, but I didn't look at any ads to do that. And that's where I think you will actually uh be able to charge some money to connect with your agent. And if you're good enough at sharing your experience, it might be something where uh you know, maybe you get paid a few cents or a few dollars for each time that somebody requests access from your agent. It's

possible that that could happen. And then my agent's going to come back to me and give me a curated answer after it's connected with all these other agents. And my agent, I might say to it, you know, I think uh I'm going to buy this model. Can you find me the cheapest price? It goes out again and does its research via agentto agent protocol and um and then probably could just make the purchase for me because my agent's going to know my address. I will give it my

credit card information. Uh what I've seen when I've used operator so far, OpenAI's operator is before it does something that actually has a consequence uh uh it will ask for your permission basically. So it's not like agents are just going to suddenly order everything you've ever dreamed about on on Amazon. Uh it will ask for your permission to do that. So here's a quote from my deep research that I thought was really good. In the agent mediated

world, the classic SEO goal of ranking on page one of Google results evolves into becoming a trusted source for agents. I think that that's probably what we're going to see. Um, and when then we might see the emergence of we're going to have to think of new acronyms again. ChatBT suggested agent SEO or maybe agent experience optimization where we optimize our content or our services so that AI agents can find them and and understand them. It even suggested that search engines will evolve to uh basically be agent directories and then uh search would be an orchestrator of the agent directories. Now I know what you're

thinking is like I don't want I I kind of like doing search. I like browsing. that will always be there. I can't remember if I saw this or if I read that it was going to happen, but I swear I saw at one point uh a picture of Google search where AI mode was the default and then there was a button to go back to classic search, which is the traditional 10 blue blue links. I think that AI mode will eventually uh morph into using Gemini as our personal agent for those who want to use Gemini. And uh and then

we're going to see less and less that we go to these websites, but instead our agents synthesize the information. Um and so here's an example that ChatBT gave me. A travel query might rank a flight booking agent or a travel blog agent. So, I just recently did a consult with a travel blog and one of the things I noticed was that this site was really good at putting information together that already existed on the internet and they've struggled with recent updates and the reason is because information that's known is less and less important. It was important I actually think that Google used us for many years. They gave

us this revenue opportunity where we could create content, organize content, and give it to Google and now that's not working anymore. I don't think it's particularly fair, but I also don't think that there's any way that we can fight against it. Um, and so now what I advised this site was you need to get out there. They actually have people in this area that they advise on travel for um that use their firsthand experience except that all of their blog posts were written like they were encyclopedia entries. And instead, what I would love to see is that they write about the time they went to that restaurant and the really cool thing that the waitress said and uh the best thing that they loved on the menu and that type of experiential content. So, you might create an agent

that is uh things to experience in this city agent. And if it's good enough, if it provides people with helpful and unique information that they're seeking out, then that's something that probably will be sought out by uh agents who are trying to figure out how to best meet this travel query. Um, and so SEO kind of evolves from making your website relevant to search queries to making your your agent the preferred one that users find the most helpful, which is kind of a different way to to think of things. So, let me just think for a moment about different types of websites and kind of speculate on how agents are going to change how your business works. I've already talked about information websites that you need to have something that's unique and uniquely helpful to people in order to succeed in an agent-driven world. Um, you know, I

think that I will be creating agents that other people will want. And if you're running an SEO agency, perhaps you license my agents to help you improve your work. The thing is though, eventually, uh, the businesses themselves could probably just license my agents. And so I think what's going to happen is that the best of every industry will rise to the top. And uh right now we're in a situation where anybody who wants you know my neighbor down the street could just decide I want to be an SEO agency and create a website and you know have a chance at at succeeding. I think in the world of

agents uh unless you have a successful business it's going to be very hard to get a start as a new business. I know that's disappointing for some, but for those who are doing really good work, if you can uh make your processes into a agentic flows uh and use agents to get more success for your clients, then uh then you know I think you're going to do really really well. Um let's talk about service websites. Like say I'm a lawyer or for my American friends an attorney. I've never understood the difference between the two. I'm just going to say

lawyer. Well, first of all, you'll have internal agents. So, you'll have agents that help you keep your documentation. You'll have research agents that help you find uh things that you need for your cases. You'll have customer service agents, maybe some with voice that act as uh receptionists and um and then uh you know, maybe bring to a real person uh communication that needs to have human communication. Uh and then you

know those are all a part of agent space but what about the web? Right now you use the web to produce websites for people who are looking to hire a lawyer. Uh and you have blog posts that you've written on uh the services that you offer. Um you know in an effort to try to get people who are searching for a lawyer on search. I I think that eventually what's going to happen is you will have an agent card that represents what your particular firm does or company does. And um and then also

probably your agent card is going to have information uh about what you're known for, what type of services you have. Uh and then it's probably something where there's going to be information known about your reputation, about the reviews, what people say about you. Um and even eventually I wonder if agents will be able to determine which agents uh people found helpful and again the most helpful the most reputable uh lawyers are going to be surfacing at the top and so I don't know how that changes our economy and uh our business world. I think that if you are excellent at what you do in your service then agents should be a really good thing for you. If you are uh a company that has thrived off of good marketing rather than being the best, then it's going to be more and more difficult to get business. So,

let's say that I'm looking for a particular type of lawyer. Like, say I want a real estate lawyer. Well, I'm going to be talking with my agent and my agent will seek out and connect with the agents of lawyers that are likely a good fit for me. So, my personal agent will know where I live, will know the complexities of the real estate deal because it's connecting with my real estate agent. Oh, that's funny. Real

estate agent. Well, you know, and I think there'll be less and less need for humans as real estate agents. I think a lot of what uh human real estate agents do right now will be replaced with AI agents. Um, and then, you know, my personal agent will know how I like to communicate as well. And you know, maybe some people want a really uh very business professional lawyer and I want one that's going to have a little bit of levity and uh you know, enjoy the conversation with them. My agent will

know that and it's going to go out and it's going to find me a real estate or sorry a a real estate lawyer uh agent that is going to suit my needs. But I think that there could be more opportunity. Like I think it's not just about uh having your business found. I think if I was a real estate lawyer, I might create an agent that uh is filled with knowledge on specific questions that would be asked in my area like maybe zoning regulations or local tax implications, things questions that you know only a real estate lawyer in your city would know. And so if you can produce a helpful agent, then there's more likely a chance that my agent will seek your agent for information. And

when it comes to something that I actually need a human for, which I think for the short term, we will still need human lawyers. I can imagine the time though where most of what's done in the legal space is uh is completely done with AI agents. I I think it'll take some time to get there. Um, but if I need uh to actually engage with you, then um you know, my agent is going to choose somebody who really is the best fit and the most helpful for me. Uh let's talk about e-commerce. We've

talked about the customer experience agents and um and those are the chat bots that are going to talk with your your uh customers. Those are important and I think that businesses that have those and have helpful customer experience agents are going to be more likely to be recommended by personal agents. So, um again, you need to be creating uh you know, you either need to be the best product, be the manufacturer of a product, and if you're kind of a middleman who sells products that other people manufacture, then you need to be providing an experience that really helps somebody who's going to be buying that product. And we need to be thinking about what types of things agents are going to go looking for. So perhaps producing buying guide agents or um you know agents to help people choose what model they're going to buy, that type of thing would be very very important. I

want to talk about I have a number of clients uh or clients that I've spoken to in the past that are either affiliate sites or lead genen and I have real concern for these sites. Although I think that in the short term there's going to be some big opportunity. Um I if you have like a calculator or you have forms that help people choose which product or service to go to eventually I think the the services that you're recommending are going to have their own agents and there will be less and less need for uh an agent that advises me on those multiple agents if that makes sense. I think though that there's a window of time because major corporations, you know, it might be a while before they jump on the agent bandwagon. And I think some of these sites that do lead genen uh or do affiliate things. If you can create a

really helpful agent, and this is why the word helpful is so important, why Google has emphasized it so much. If you can be something that really helps people make their decision, then my personal agent is more likely to want to connect with your agents that are going to help me. Um, and then eventually you can recommend, you know, sell the lead or or whatever. But I think that that's a very short window and eventually, uh, you know, businesses are going to have every business is going to have multiple agents. So my agent can just go out and find the best option for me, uh, by looking at those. I think um you know

search platforms like Google are still going to continue to play a role in connecting people to answers but I think a lot of those answers are going to be delivered by agents in the future. Uh Chachib said this quote the web could become more of a data and knowledge fabric that agents tap into which means SEO will extend to optimizing presence in that fabric. For example, being a part of a relevant agent network or maybe data hubs. Content strategy might might also shift. For example, creating content that an AI will find useful to quote or use might become as important or as appealing uh important as appealing to human readers. So, um I'll

just share one quick thing about ads. I think that AI is going to radically change ads for a number of reasons. Chachi PT suggested that instead of ads, we will probably pay for the opportunity to have conversations with people. So, let's say uh my main revenue source is consulting and um you uh are doing some searches on how to implement AI into your business or how to create agents or whatever. Well, perhaps I pay for an ad where my agent can talk to you and help you make decisions and then say, "By the way, if you want to actually talk to Marie herself, uh, here's the way that you pay her and do that." Um, so I think

that we're going to see a new type of ad, uh, which is geared towards agents. chat thinks that maybe we'll see some type of bidding uh kind of an analogous to ad bidding where agents bid to provide a service for a user's request. I think that that probably will happen. So, um you know, if you have expertise, if you can figure out how to package that into agents, I really think this will create whole new revenue models. We're going to have subscription-based AI services. uh

you'll probably chat suggested we might even have successbased fees where you can connect with multiple agents and whoever uh you know so if your goal is to make more money to like even for SEO is to improve search engine rankings the agents that uh actually do search engine rankings does that even matter improving agent rankings maybe uh the ones that have the most success uh will be able to charge more perhaps Um, McKenzie reported a couple years ago that generative AI and agents have the potential to add trillions in economic value by automating knowledge work and by producing the types of things that we've just talked about. So, I think we're really at the start of something and given that Google has given us this documentation and the ability to start implementing things, I really think we should start learning that. I know you are probably way too busy. I know I'm way too busy, but it will be worth your while to dedicate some time to learn this topic more. So, what do we do now?

I recommend that you read everything that Google has written on the agent development kit and that you try to play around with it. Even if what you're producing is not really good, you'll be getting experience in how to do this and understand what's happening. Um, again, I'm going to have a blog post out soon with links to all of these resources. If you're a member of my community, the search bar, you know, in real time that uh I've been updating all of the important information for the paid members, we've been having a bit more discussion on how to actually implement these agents and I think that we're going to have some really cool stuff come out of the search bar. Um, so I think we have a lot to learn. I'm more

excited than scared about this, but I have to say that there's a little bit of trepidation because we're going into brand new territory here. Um, okay. So, my daughter made me promise that I'd end with something cool. She says I'm not cool enough. So, these are her words.

She said, "If you like this episode, please like, subscribe, and better yet, share with someone you think would find it helpful. And until next time, I wish you the best of luck with everything. [Music]