---
video_title: "What I learned at Google I/O - Search is radically changing!"
video_id: 9_3wJqL2zpM
channel_name: "Marie Haynes "
channel_id: UC5JCNbPrfBAhnVG1Cfx25qA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9_3wJqL2zpM
video_date: 2025-06-05
video_description: |
  It was an honour to attend Google I/O in person.
  Search is changing radically! Google called it a new era of Search with Gemini 2.5 at its core.
  
  This podcast episode was recorded live.
  
  Stay up to date on AI with my newsletter: https://mariehaynes.com/newsletter
  Immediate updates on important AI and SEO news in my community, the Search Bar: https://community.mariehaynes.com/spaces/11879397/feed
  
  0:00 – 0:51 Welcome & recap of Google I/O invitation, outline of the live episode’s agenda
  0:51 – 1:55 Screen-share setup; meeting Sundar Pichai and Sergey Brin anecdotes
  2:40 – 4:15 What AI Mode is, why Google may replace “classic” search, and the query fan-out patent
  4:15 – 6:02 How clicks train AI Mode; demo showing 59 source sites and the result carousel
  7:03 – 9:14 Ethics of Google using web content; E-E-A-T impact on carousel inclusion
  9:55 – 12:22 Accuracy, hallucinations, feedback buttons, and why original content matters
  14:00 – 17:21 Freshness signals, library analogy for originality, Gemini Live phone demo
  17:21 – 27:55 Gemini AR glasses test, personal-context search & privacy implications
  32:21 – 35:22 Gemini in Chrome: on-page AI assistance, summarisation, e-commerce concerns
  35:22 – 40:47 Project Mariner: browser agents that automate multitab workflows; job impact
  40:47 – 43:59 Agent Mode & agent-to-agent checkout; custom charts/graphs in AI Mode
  43:59 – 50:52 Deep Search (multi-query research) and uploading your own files for reports
  50:52 – 54:42 E-commerce upgrades: “Try it On” virtual fitting, price-tracking, “Buy for Me” with Google Pay, Wing drone delivery
  54:42 – 57:00 Gemini V3 multimodal video creation, Flow editor, AI content production costs
  57:00 – 60:00 Google’s universal AI assistant vision, coming hardware, and industry upheaval
  60:00 – 61:00 Sergey Brin on the web’s unpredictability ten years out; reflections on accelerating change
  61:00 – 62:27 Dario Amodei’s forecast of 20 % unemployment from AI; balancing fear with opportunity
  62:27 – 63:50 Learning-curve discussion: experiment daily, let Gemini/ChatGPT tutor you step by step
  63:50 – 66:00 Question on falling organic clicks: focus on conversions, cite Will Reynolds’ data, report revenue over raw traffic
  66:00 – 67:12 Who gets credit—SEO or CRO? Rebranding SEO as AIO/GEO and outlining the evolving practitioner role
  67:12 – 68:32 Brand building beyond Wikipedia: podcasts, social presence, authoritative mentions; example of podcast mention boosting AI-overview visibility
  68:32 – 69:20 LLMs.txt debate: no major model honors it yet, so implementing it is likely wasted effort
  69:20 – 70:10 Server-log analysis of AI bots: seeing ByteDance and others, limited actionable value beyond selective blocking
  70:10 – 71:10 Google Agent Space: 100-seat minimum, use cases for large agencies (onboarding, HR, process agents)
  71:10 – 72:10 MCP for e-commerce customization tools; preparing your site for future agent-to-agent APIs
  72:10 – 73:20 Speculation that many third-party agent frameworks will fade once Google/OpenAI integrate agents natively
  73:20 – 74:10 Community learning benefits; SEO skillset as problem-solving edge in the AI era
  74:10 – 75:25 Overview of the Search Bar Pro community, tutorials, “happy hour” discussions, member advantages
  75:25 – 76:50 Coping with upheaval: lamplighter analogy, choosing optimism, hunting for new opportunities
  76:50 – 78:00 Closing remarks: upcoming talks on BCIs and agents
  78:00 – 87:08 Final chat exchanges, farewells, and session wrap-up
---
Okay, welcome to another episode to a live episode of AI News You Can Use with me, Dr. Marie Haynes. This month has been crazy. I just got back from Google IO. Uh I was honored to be invited. I I

really don't know how people get invited to uh to Google IO. They invited me as part of a group that they called the builders group. And uh uh we had some special talks and some some meals and things that they provided for us. uh and I learned so much about the future of search through uh this event, Google IO. So, what we're going to do today, this is a little bit of a different uh type of episode. It's a live podcast, so bear

with me if we have some technology hiccups. Um and uh there's a chat area if you're here live, so feel free to uh uh talk amongst yourselves and to ask questions. I'm going to try to cover the questions in the chat. What we're going to do is we're going to cover AI mode, Gemini Live, uh, search, which is very, very interesting. Um, and AI in Chrome, all sorts of really interesting things that are happening. We're also going to

talk about agent mode. Uh, if you have been following my work, you know that recently I've really been talking a lot about agents and um, uh, there's there's really going to be a lot of big change uh, in the web in terms of agents. So, I think probably the best way to do this, I'm going to screen share my um let's see here my blog post. And I want to ask you in the chat because I had an issue last time. Can you still see me? Can somebody tell me

that in the chat? Can you hear me? Even several people were typing. Okay, you can. Cuz when I did this before, we lost me. I

mean, you don't need to be looking at me, but but uh it adds a little bit more personality. So, here's the the first cool thing. I got to meet Sander Pachai, the CEO of Google. I didn't get to talk to him very much. Uh I told him that my license plate uh used to be Thank you, Google, because Google has given me so much opportunity to uh to have this really cool life that I can make a living talking to you about things like this. Uh but I didn't tell them that I

had to get rid of it because people kept cutting me off on the highway. Um, but uh anyways, I I didn't get to talk to him for very long, but it was really an honor to uh to take this picture. And then I turned around and Sergey Brin uh was in the room as well. Uh and I did get to um uh to be in a talk with Sergey Brin and Deis Sabas, which maybe we'll talk about if we have time. Um I want to talk first about AI mode. So most of you

have probably used AI mode. I'm thinking if you're in the US, everybody has access to it now. You can see it when you go to um uh when you go to search, uh there's an uh an option to use AI mode or one of the little buttons up in the top left where it says news and images and and video. Uh you you will see AI mode there. And I really predict that eventually AI mode will be the regular search and there will be a little button at the top to go back to traditional or classic search. That's

that's my guess on what's going to happen. So uh some of what we talk about on AI mode is probably not going to be new to you, but I think all of us have a lot to learn in how websites are ranked in uh AI mode because it's different. So AI mode uses this thing called a query fan out technique. I have an article that I wrote a few months ago actually uh about what we know so far about how this works. Uh Mike King wrote an excellent article uh just recently, very very long article. I actually read most

of it um which took quite a long time. I I agree with what Mike's saying. He's he's really laid out uh the foundations of what we need to know about vector search uh and about how the query fan out technique works. Mike found a patent that is likely behind uh how AI mode works. I do and I sent a message to Mike. I haven't heard back from him yet.

Uh but I do think that he's missing one thing. I think that uh it's one thing for us to understand how to convince Google that we should be ranked in AI mode. Uh but I really think that um AI mode is constantly learning from what people click on. So, if you are one of the websites in the carousel, I'm going to show you in a second here what it looks like. If you're one of the websites in that carousel, that's fantastic. Uh, but if you are not a

website that people consistently click on uh and go on to get more information from, then you may find that you drop out of AI mode. So, I personally think that we're going to see a lot of changes. I I'm actually quite excited because a good number of my sites that I've worked with, clients that I've worked with are doing really well in AI mode and that even includes some sites that have been suppressed by core updates. We've been working really hard to uh uh to get them out of that suppression. One of those sites um actually did see a big improvement back to prehelpful content update, September helpful content update levels um back uh and in just the last couple of weeks. I

don't think that's because of AI mode because it started before then. But Google's algorithms really are changing. So, let's uh let's see. I'm going to run this um video where I did. So, I already uh searched in regular mode and then I hit this little button to go to AI mode.

And uh I don't know how well you'll be able to see this, but I I want to show you. Let's just go back there for a second. I want to show you how you can see. First of all, it says kicking off one search. Now I sat in a demo um of Gemini live search which I'll tell you about in a minute and uh the woman who we spoke with she actually works on AI mode and she told me quite a bit about how it works. So she said that when you

do a search now first of all Google said that when people search in AI mode they tend to type queries that are two to three times longer than uh what you would type in traditional search. And so she said they take that query and they use a language model to break it up into um uh subtopics and then they go out and they do searches on the subtopics and find relevant information. Then AI mode uh again uses a language model to put it all together into an answer which we're going to see here. And then it decides which of because you're going to see here it it says it's going to search I think it was 59 it uh yeah I think it I think it ends up being 59 sites for this query that it searches for. And um in that case uh you know not all 59 of those sites are going to be shown to users which is something that I know like I'm not happy about that but I also kind of understand why goo and we can talk about this if you have questions later on. We'll we'll talk about um you

know we can talk about the ethics really that Google uh well you know what why don't we talk about that a little bit right now I believe that for 25 years Google gave us this incredible opportunity that we were encouraged to create content um and then we were able to make money from that content so we could put ads on it we could have affiliate revenue or we could sell things from our website and um I I do think that for many websites that era is ending now is That unfair? Did Google use us? I I think they did. You know, I think I I looked back a little while back. I can't find it now, but there was a video from Matt Cuts, uh, former web head of web spam at Google, and he was encouraging people to write niche blogs.

How funny now, right? Because a lot of the niche blogs were ones that were impacted by the helpful content system. And uh, and you know why they were doing that, in my opinion, was because Google needed that niche info. And the only way to encourage people to put info on the web was to help allow us to monetize it. So um so yeah, I think Google used us to get our content. Um and I think that a

good number of people uh that that that revenue source is going. However, I think for many businesses there will be more opportunities that come with AI mode. So we can talk about that in a minute. So if we go on to do this search, you can see takes a little bit of time for the um the the websites to appear and uh and then so here is are the websites that Google the search system predicted would be ones that I'd want to click on even after I read this information. So uh we'll see here that the carousel shows search engine round table, the Google blog, uh CNET, and uh I don't know who Silicon Angle is. Maybe

that's a big site that I just haven't heard of. Uh, and what I find in AI mode, because we're going to see all sorts of things saying, you know, how do you get into this carousel? I do think that for uh a lot of queries, EAT is important. If you look at almost all of those sites that were shown there, they're sites that we recognize. Um, and so if you're looking for news, uh, then you're, uh, you know, you're more likely to see, uh, an authoritative news site in the the, um, in that carousel.

However, Google said one thing at IO that was really encouraging to me, and they said something to the extent of, uh, we hope that AI mode surfaces content from sites that you've never heard of uh, before or have yet to experience. I do believe that um Google's system that uses that tries to identify where helpful content lives will get better and better at figuring out that you know this website didn't just summarize all the points for AI mode uh um that that were used in AI mode but actually have something that would draw people beyond doing this search. So, uh, we'll continue here and you can see then, um, that there's this big long answer and it's really good. Like you, if you just want to know what was announced at Google IO, you could essentially just read this instead of reading my blog post. Uh, and I I don't see any um hallucinations or anything wrong in it. Although, I've seen people

point out that AI mode is still getting things wrong. Apparently, if you ask if it's 2025, it says no, it's not 2025, it's 2025. Um, and so, like, clearly there are mistakes to be made. Let's talk about that. Why does Google uh why would Google put something into search that is not accurate? I I really believe

that um what uh Google is doing is they need to test AI mode. They need to test these answers and they need to do it with millions of people and so the only way to do this is to go live and eventually it will get better and better. Claudia asked who else was cited besides Google and uh I think it was search engine roundt was there and there was this site silicon angle I don't know who they are um and then the Google blog themselves and CNET uh as well. So now this is just one search if you uh are caring about I mean if you're in this call you really should be trying to uh to do searches on AI mode um and really think one of the things that you can do is you can take your page give it to Gemini or chat GPT and ask what are some questions that users would ask about the content on this page then search those questions in AI mode. Now, if you're outside of the US, it is possible.

Clearly, I got AI mode. I can only get it on my phone, though. I think I signed up for Labs, Google Labs, on my phone using a VPN. Uh, but I can't replicate it. I know I have a client in Australia, uh, who was able to get it on his desktop with some VPN trickery, but he couldn't figure out how he did it either. Uh, so, um, Xavier, how does

Google know when AI mode says uh, something wrong? Are people expected to click on provide feedback? You know, you should if you see something wrong, you should be clicking the the down button. Um, and those I believe will go to quality raers and um, you know, I I would imagine I'm guessing here, but I would imagine that Google actually uses AI uh, to look at uh, the results and figure out like what was wrong in it. Um, but maybe it's all done by by humans as well. And um yeah, I think that when

people are posting on social media of uh you know, look at this horrible thing that uh Google AI did. I think that there's a team that works on okay, how do we fine-tune the system so that that doesn't happen again. So yes, if you see something wrong um and if you see something great in a in AI mode, thumb it up. I I often thumb it up when I see my clients in uh uh in the results. I don't know if that helps or not.

probably my individual thumbs up. Is it going to make a big difference? But um but yeah, I I think uh it learns by feedback. Um Claudia says, "Do you think domain authority matters to AI?" So domain authority that that term DA I think you probably know this, but just in case, uh DA was a a term that was coined by MA and Moz was trying to replicate page rank and I I think they did a very good job. you know, they made

because years ago we used to have Google actually gave us a toolbar that told you it was called the toolbar page rank and um and you know it became a way that you could determine how much money when people were buying links. It was awful. Like Google gave us this thing that allowed us to figure to make an economy for link buying that if you had like a a page rank six site uh you could make a lot more money than if you had a page rank three site. Um, and you know, why did Google give us that toolbar? That was before they had Chrome. And uh, and

so I, you know, all of us SEOs who installed the the toolbar, we were essentially feeding Google with data on, uh, that they now get from Chrome. So, uh, that wasn't your question, though. Really, I think what you're asking is, um, does the authority of your site matter in AI mode? It 100% does. Uh, I think it depends on the query, though.

So, um I I don't think there's a number like I don't think that your MA DA score because that's based on links uh really matters that much in AI mode. But if you are known as an authoritative voice in your industry, then yes, you're more likely to be quoted in AI mode. If you are not known as an authoritative voice, then um uh the way to get there is number one to like become one. Uh the quality raiders guidelines talk extensively about being known for your topics and you uh those of you who are in uh the search bar pro uh area, you have access to the reputation GPT that I created. Um that gives you ideas of like how do you get known for a topic? You

you go on podcasts, you um you write stuff that's good enough to get cited that that sort of thing. Uh and then the other way uh that you know I don't think we've seen it just yet to the extent that we will and this is my prediction is to write stuff that's original, unique and insightful. So earlier this week Google produced uh a blog post on how to succeed in AI mode and um or in their AI search features and a lot of SEOs were kind of like here we go again. It's just another create great content. Um but it said you know we they're looking for stuff that's unique that's original. They actually said that now um

AI has multimodal capabilities then uh you know pay attention to the images unique imagery can help uh and videos as well can probably help and so I really think that um we will see more and more that truly original content and original doesn't just mean like the words on the page are original but something where if you read all of the stuff that's in this I AI mode uh answer and you read the websites that were already ranking, would people still want to read your website? And uh you know, and if the answer to that is no, then there's you probably aren't original and insightful. So, uh yeah, Xavier says, "I I found that blog article was a bit generic." I I do honestly believe that um uh originality really matters. I think the problem is that um many of us don't really understand what originality is.

So, uh so think of it this way. I I often tell this analogy of going to the library and you ask the librarian, I would like 10 books on what happened at Google IO and um the librarian brings one book back and says well well this one is from the Google blog you know lots of people read that this one's from uh CNET you know a lot of people found that interesting and and and this one's from Marie Haynes she was there personally and wrote her experience about it and then you know what is it about your blog post because you can summarize what was at IO, but unless you add something that makes people go, "Yeah, yeah, I want to get that book," then it's going to be hard for you to convince Google that uh that they should be showing you. Um, yeah, Xavier said, "It's it's hard to convince people to write content and add value to make it truly unique." And I think I actually think this was part of the reason for the helpful content update that Google was using machine learning to learn when content truly was unique. a lot of the content that was impacted was like pretty decent content. Uh but like if

you took it away from the web, nobody would be crying that it was gone. And uh and so if anyways that's we won't get into um helpful content too much. I we decided I think the other day that it was kind of a swear word to say helpful content. It's it's destroyed so many businesses that update. Um and so uh okay well let's keep going here so you can see uh again that um AI mode gives a really really thorough answer. The other

thing I don't know if I did this in the video but you can ask a follow-up question on AI mode and uh and then okay so here these are just the same websites that were uh shown in the top carousel. Oh there's a couple of other ones there too. Uh you know I don't know who why this one was chosen. If you know if you're working on client work or trying to rank your own websites, I would be looking at every page that uh Google has ranked and I would be trying to think why would people want to see this uh this article and some of them it's obvious like the Google blog is from Google Cyric's uh interesting Google autocomplete from 2021. I don't know why Google showed that. Uh but um uh just,

you know, start looking. I I put a little spreadsheet in the search bar. Uh again, the pro area for some tips and some prompts you can use to try to figure out what's original and unique. Now, AI mode is not just search and that's the thing that uh I I think we really need to grasp. AI mode um will eventually kind of morph with Gemini uh and Google's final goal. I wrote about

this at the end of my article. Google's final goal is to produce an assistant that will be with us all the time that will help us do many things in our lives. And uh so there's uh a lot that AI mode's going to do. We're just at the beginning. I should point out that uh Google said repeatedly that we are in a new era of search that uh search is being transformed with Gemini 2.5 at its

core. Uh like this was a a really big deal. This is not just an experimental product that they're trying to stuff AI into. Um, and I also want to say that because a lot of people will say, well, Google is just trying to copy chat GPT. I mean, the T on chat GPT is for transformer, which was Google's technology that Google gave away to the world. And uh I I believe that this was

their um their goal right from the beginning was to create an AI um uh assistant. Uh and the web is just a part of that. Here's an interesting thing. Uh if you do a search for search engine or search engines, you don't see Google on there. It's interesting, right? I don't

think it's their goal to be a search engine. Um their goal is to be helpful to people and help them find information. Uh so yeah, and this uh uh I won't actually I don't know if I can play it. Let's just see here. Intelligence would be the ultimate version of Google. Can you hear

that before I go on here? Oh, okay. Wonderful. Thank you. Um, okay. So, Larry Page, one of the

co-founders of Google who is not at IO. I would love to meet Larry Page. Um, uh, this is him in the year 2000. Well, intelligence would be the ultimate version of Google. So, we had the ultimate search engine. It would

understand everything on the web. it would understand um you know exactly what you wanted and it would give you the right thing and that's obviously artificial intelligence. So Google's goal from the beginning uh or at least from you know maybe it wasn't the very beginning but at least like within 5 years in they were starting to figure out uh artificial intelligence and machine learning. So last year at Google IO, I had the honor of uh Jeff Dean, the chief scientist of AI at Google, sat down next to me randomly at lunch. I was like, "This guy looks familiar." And

then I realized, "Oh my gosh, it's Jeff Dean." uh and he pioneered he wrote so many papers uh map reduce uh papers on mixture of experts uh that were used by Google to uh create these systems that can take the world's information and turn it into something that um that people can use to be uh to be useful. So uh so let's talk about Gemini Live. So, you've probably used Gemini. Uh if you have, I think it's actually available even on the free version of Gemini now.

Um that you can use Gemini Live and you hold your camera up to something and uh and you can talk with it. Uh let me see if I can demo it. See here, try. So, if I uh go to this bottom button here, your connection was interrupted. That's funny tech. And I'm gonna po point my phone.

Uh, hey Gemini. How's it going? I'm doing well, thanks. I see you're looking at something on your laptop. Is there anything I can help you with?

Yeah, what do you think I'm doing? It looks like you're pointing your phone at a laptop displaying a website. Are you trying to get more information about something on the screen? Can you tell me what kind of webcam that is? That appears to be a Logitech webcam. Is

there anything specific you'd like to know about it? Do you know what kind it is and how much it costs? It's hard to tell the exact model from here, but it looks like a Logitech Stream Cam. They usually cost between $150 and $200. Would you like me to find the price for this specific model? Yeah.

Where can I buy one? You can buy one online from retailers like Amazon or Best Buy or directly from the Logitech website. Do you want me to find a link for you? So, right now, I know you couldn't see my screen there, but uh uh but I was clearly just showing it the the camera that I'm using and yeah, it got the right kind. Um that's Gemini Live, but there will also be search live. So, right now it's just

telling me, hey, I can find you a link. Eventually there will be uh an overlay on the screen and that's what we demoed. Uh, I went in a little room and um they had some things set up, some books on a shelf and uh and then I asked they they said what uh ask it what's a good summer read for and I don't know really what a summer read is but maybe a shorter read, I don't know, but um and then so the woman said that uh what Gemini would do then is um search for what is a summer read and then it would search for the names in the books and then it provided me with a link links to Amazon and to other places to uh to buy it. So, this is something we really need to think about. Um I uh was working on a report for an e-commerce client and uh I happen to have uh one of their products in my house and so I asked Gemini um you know what is this and uh if it broke where could I get another one and it recommended three sites of which my client was the second site. So um we

should be trying to think about how this will work. Now, uh that's with cameras and then there's also the glasses. Um and uh so here I am looking very very geeky. Uh this was I got to try the prototype of the glasses. When glasses come out, they will be much nicer looking. They're going to be made by

Warby Parker and Gentle Monster. Uh and then there will be other companies eventually that make them as well. What fascinated me is like I clearly have prescription glasses and uh they Google uh took my glasses and um did some scan on it and then put like this film over what I was wearing and I had like perfect vision which is really wild that like these glasses cost hundreds of dollars and yet you can just do that in a few seconds is is uh is pretty crazy. Um and so uh I don't know if Kim is here. Kim uh Kman Harris and I were uh uh together hanging out and we both had the glasses on and the demonstrator said, "Um, okay, can you see the weather and the time?" And I was like, "What are

you talking about?" And then I kind of focused my eyes a little bit differently and right in front of me was a really clear display with the weather and the time. And we walked around this room and asked questions about paintings. Uh, and it it was it was very very cool to to talk. Eventually, Gemini in glasses will also um be able to show you Google Maps, and the maps will be down on the ground.

So, if you're walking somewhere, uh it'll just show you exactly where to walk, which is pretty cool. Um uh and uh and so this is really going to change how people search. Like, I picture that I'll be in my backyard, I'll be doing gardening, and I'll uh tap So, the way the way you turn it on is you tap the side of your glasses and I'll just say, you know, what is this bug that's on my plant? And Gemini might say, "Well, you know, that looks like it's an aphid, and uh you probably need a spray for that." And then Gemini will show me where I can buy it. And we'll talk in a minute about

uh Google is going to be creating buying agents that will buy for me, so I won't even need to go through the checkout. And um and then eventually, so at the um at IO, they had a little thing called Pie in the Sky, and these really delicious pies were delivered by drone by a company called Wing. So Google has partnered with Walmart and right now Google and Walmart are uh delivering supplies to for disaster relief and I I think I mean there's a lot of regulation that happens before a Google drone comes from Walmart to my backyard to give me the spray that I need for my uh my flowers but uh but I do think that that's where we're headed eventually. So uh the way people search is is going to change. It was very very helpful and uh and very intuitive. like I I just really

found it really easy to switch between actually seeing and then seeing the the little screen uh that we have. Um feel free at any time if you guys have comments or or questions to add uh in the chat. I'm I'm pretty good at uh stopping back and forth. So um if you want to add something, go for it. Uh the next thing is personal context. This is

going to change search. So, uh, you will need to give your permission for this. And I know a lot of people won't want to, uh, but Google has, um, you know, I have, how many years have I been using Gmail for? Like I have years and years and years of context on what's important in my life. Uh, and so you can give Google access to that uh, and your other Google products. So, you know, in your

Google Docs, uh, in Google Maps, the locations that you've been to. The example that they gave uh was um in AI mode you might search for they said uh things to do in Nashville this week with friends or big foodies who like music and then AI mode will show me restaurants that like really me they know that I like outdoor seating because that's what I've booked in the past or something like that. Um, so the big thing about personal context is uh that there's no way that you can do keyword tracking for for that. And keyword tracking really is going to be difficult anyways because we're going to be having conversations with AI rather than searching with keywords. Um, so what do we what do we do about this? I think

it's really really important to develop an audience and um you know I want to be in people's Gmail. I want to I have a newsletter and uh if you're um interacting with my newsletter then there's a good chance I think in the future that if you search for something and Google has the choice of showing you my website or other websites that you've never visited before uh that it's going to show you mine because we have a relationship together. So um uh I and then the other thing I think about is bookmarks. Uh and you know we don't I I don't know how many of you bookmark pages. I do bookmark stuff and I I print stuff and um send it to people. One of

the questions in Google's documentation on uh creating helpful content is whether your content is bookmarkw worthy and uh and so like I don't think it's a direct ranking factor. I don't think like oh 40 people bookmark this page therefore it gets a ranking boost. Um but the types of pages that people find valuable enough to bookmark are uh the types of pages that Google wants to show to people. So, um, so yeah, personal context. Um, when did they say that was coming? Did I write

that? Uh, I'm not sure. Some of these things they said were coming by the summer. I do believe, uh, that most of what we're talking about here will be live and probably globally by the end of the year. I don't know that 100% for sure. Um but I think you know I wrote a

little while back how Sunder Pachchai said that search is going to change radically uh in the year 2025 and and I I do believe it. Uh Jeanie says uh audience connection a domain with a large engaged audience often signifies its trusted and authoritative source in its niche. Yeah, people share and link to it and discuss the content they found on it. So um so yeah I I I do think that having an audience is important and that's why um when Google came out with the helpful content update or system uh they published all this stuff on people first content and uh and I hated the wording that they used. They said do you have an existing or intended audience?

Well, you know, everybody has an intended audience, but I think if you have an existing audience um outside of search, like if if Google search went away, would you still have a business? Uh and if the answer to that, I mean, you might have a reduction in business, but if the answer to that is yes, then uh then I think you're probably going to survive uh through the um the next uh era of search. Uh, Xavier, now we'll see websites displaying a popup asking to bookmark the current page before we leave. I I've considered that, you know, I I think it's not a bad idea. I think even better though is creating content that like people want to bookmark. So,

like for example, my I started creating a page on Google algorithm updates. Oh, I haven't added AI mode to that yet. Uh, in like 2011, I think I started doing that page. Uh, and it's been bookmarked many times. Um, and then it often ranks well. Sometimes it doesn't. I think it's

because I don't always keep it fresh. That's If I could give you one hint about ranking right now, it would be freshness. Uh Google is really seeming to reward pages that have new information, fresh information on it. Okay, let's talk about Gemini and Chrome. Do any of you in the chat have access to this yet? Because uh it

apparently is uh live now in the US for English users and only on MacBooks and Windows. uh PCs, which is wild to me because I have a Chromebook. You would think that Chromebooks would get this first. Mind you, I'm in Canada, so I don't get it anyways. Um, but this is really going to change how people use the web. So, um, let's see here. You saw

it in your MacBook, Genie. I guess you haven't tried it out yet. I think at first it'll seem like a novelty and then we'll start figuring out how to use it. Um the example that they give here is uh they're they're saying this is a a recipe page and somebody is asking how can I make this dairyf free uh and so people will take your recipe and then say well you know I want to make this uh dairyfree nutree or I don't have any sugar what else can I use uh that type of thing and so um how does that change how we make content uh you know I think I would have liked to be creating content where I'm like, "Look, here's my process for getting into AI mode or AI overviews. I just published something in the search bar this morning on that."

Um, and then uh and then suggest that people use Gemini in Chrome to personalize it for you. And I'll probably put on my web page, here's a prompt you can use if you open Gemini in Chrome to personalize this for your website. And uh so that's one thing, but the other thing that I'm worried about is e-commerce. Uh because I think if I'm on a product page that and I could use Gemini to say like where can I get this for cheaper or uh what do you know about this? Like does this uh retailer have a good refund policy or good shipping? Are

there complaints about this retailer? Um and so I think that we're going to see uh this change a lot of things. Glenn Gabe shared this example uh where he was watching baseball in Chrome and uh and how many saves does Luke Weaver have this year? And and then Gemini answered, "Oh, interesting. Sharing uh oh, it shared a video." So, it was uh he was

obviously on uh on YouTube. So, interesting stuff, right? I think that's really going to change how uh we do search and we'll come up with new and interesting ways to create content uh in a way that encourages people to to use Gemini in Chrome. Um, of course uh people will use it to summarize big long articles. I I find that interesting.

Like I I still don't really like AI summaries of articles in my newsletter. I write it myself um because I always feel like it misses the important parts for me. Uh but I do find it useful when I'm reading like a patent or a scientific article that maybe is like 200 pages long and I don't want to read the whole thing. Uh so yeah, lots of people will be will be using this. Um okay, let's talk about project mariner and then we'll talk about agent mode.

Maybe I shouldn't have put these two together. Project mariner is the thing that will change how uh it'll be the thing that causes jobs to be lost. Um, and it'll be the thing that causes some people to have a huge advantage over others. So, right now, Project Mariner, you can only use it if you have Google's new expensive AI plan. They right now, Gemini Advanced is $20 a month. And, uh,

this Gemini Ultra is $250 a month. Can you imagine paying $250? I mean, I'm already paying $200 a month for OpenAI Pro. It's going to be so confusing because OpenAI Pro is the super high level. And now Gemini Pro is the $20 a month level. Ultra is Google's super

high level. I'll tell you as soon as this is available in Canada, I am buying it. Um, and the reason for that is that I believe that it will save me many hours of work, uh, that would save me far more than $249. Actually, in Canadian, it's like $333 a month. Um, so I demoed Project Mariner at Google IO and uh I asked I I was like here's what I hope it will do. And the guy was like,

"Yeah, I don't see why it couldn't." Anything you can do in your Chrome window, you can teach AI to do it for you. So you can have 10 Chrome browsers open at one time and you can teach Project Mariner repeatable tasks if you want. So, for example, when I go to publish my newsletter, um, one of the things that I like it takes me probably about four hours to uh uh to get it from like I'm done in Google Docs to put it everywhere where I need to put it. So, I'll be able to uh say to project mariner um you know, put this in the search bar and uh you know, optimize the images. I do it like this. um you know

make sure that all the parts are bolded that need to be bolded and uh uh things like that. And then uh another window will be putting it into ConvertKit and creating my email based on the template that I use to send my email out. Another window will be opening up LinkedIn. Another one on X and another one on Blue Sky that'll be writing a um a tweet or a post for me to to do. And then each of them will complete their task and then send me a message to uh verify that I want to go ahead and hit send or or complete uh whatever I'm going to do. So

that's one thing. And then the other thing we can do is is client work. So this is very similar to OpenAI's operator uh which I was just using before this call for a client. Um the difference between operator and this is that project mariner uses my browser whereas operator uses a remote browser somewhere you know probably in California and um and so what I did this morning was uh one of my clients were we're trying to figure out some things that we can do to improve user engagement and they have access to uh they're working with a company to do AB testing so they asked me for ideas for AB testing and I came up with some ideas and then I sent off project mariner and I said, "Do a search for this product and uh as if you were buying it. Do the search on Google because it will use Bing, but if you ask Project Mariner to use Google, it will." And then uh and

then I said um on each of the websites you're on, take note of what's really good for people and likely to be satisfying for them um and potentially lead to conversions and and what's not. And then I said, "Now go to my client's site," which it actually did anyways, but uh go to my client's site and make a list of the things that they could consider AB testing. And it gave me a list of I think I asked for 10 things of which like eight of them were fantastic and we will probably do. So I don't know if Project Mariner will maybe check rankings for us. Uh rankings I say with air quotes because um you know keywords won't be a thing anymore. Uh but um I

think all sorts of things like uh I saw Will Reynolds had a really excellent video uh the other day where he was like the more you'll know you get use out of agents by how many Chrome tabs you have open. So if you're doing work for clients and you're like search this, click this, screenshot this, then that's the type of thing that we'll have our agents do. So why does this cause the end of work for some is because like right now I do almost superhuman work uh in publishing newsletter. It used to take me I had a team of of 12 and almost everybody on the team would be involved in publishing newsletter and now I made the choice to take all that work on myself uh rather than to manage a team. Um, but now it, you know, it's basically like me having employees. Um, and, uh,

you know, the employee can work all day, every day if I, if I wanted to, uh, and has no emotional needs. Um, this is not a a a hit on any of my, uh, former employees. They're wonderful. I love them all. But, um, but you can see that eventually AI will be trained to do a lot of the things, uh, that I do. So,

um, Project Mariner is one thing. And then Google said that they're going to be introducing agent mode. Uh agent mode is the start of using AI mode as your agent to connect with agents on other websites. I wrote an article and I did a podcast episode a little while back about agentto agent protocol. And what that is is basically exposing the information on your site in a way uh that is easy for other AI agents to read it. And so um Google gave this

example here can't make that smaller of uh buying tickets. So they partnered with ticket master and with a few other uh places and um this AI answer tells me all right here's the cheapest seats. Uh I want affordable seats. Um see how it it looked for t these two tickets on 15 sites. And then I think I messed up the order of these. It told me the best

value tickets are are these ones here. And there's a a button to purchase on SeatGeek. And if you do that, so this is I think this is SeatGeek. Um I I you can have your agent do that. And I didn't actually visit the website at all.

There's another video that I've shared a few times with Satcha Nadella, the uh CEO of Microsoft, and he says that within a few years, SAS and business applications will be no longer because what SAS is is essentially a database of information with some type of a graphical interface on it. And very soon for things like this, like you know, well, you might say, well, what if I want to explore for myself? Well, you know, you can ask your agent to to do that, you know. Well, if you're like, I want seats that um uh you know, are in the front row or whatever, like your agent can do that. So, um so a lot of websites now, you know, like that's going to change how people shop online.

Um let's see here. Okay, next. Custom charts and graphs. This is exciting and also is uh not good for some websites. Um, so what you'll be able to do in AI mode, and right now it'll be uh I think it this is coming in the summer. It'll be just for sports

queries and for um financial queries. And so the example that they give here is uh the White Socks. Here's a breakdown of uh my computer thinks that I'm not using it. Okay, here's a um breakdown of the team's home win percentages by year. and it made a chart. Now, um, you know, so I

could ask things like, "Show me how deep into the playoffs the Leafs went every year and ask it for a sad face emoji alongside." Um, now, uh, and this says, "Compare the Phillies and White Sox home game win percentage." And, oh, I didn't show you the actual chart there. Um, the thing that, uh, concerns me is the financial data. So, um, uh, if you have, uh, a lead genen site for, um, you know, say you're helping people find, uh, the best credit cards or the, you know, the best insurance or anything like that. A lot

of that information, I think you're going to get directly from, uh, Google search. And I I think it'll be very very helpful for people, but also uh, will send less traffic to websites. Um, so, uh, you know, there's, uh, some changes coming there. Um, okay. Again, if you have any questions or, uh, thoughts, keep going. Don't worry about

interrupting me because, uh, I'll stop and go back. Okay. Um, deep search. How many of you have used deep research? Deep research is a game changer. Uh, there's

deep research in Gemini. I think free users get some use of deep research. Uh, and uh, and then there's but um, Gemini advanced users uh, get significantly more. I've never run out of queries, but I know some people who are like using deep research all day long that Google says, "Okay, that's enough. You can't use anymore." Um, and then Chat GPT has

deep research as well, which I really love, especially if you're using 03, the reasoning model. Uh, it gives you incredible reports. So deep research what the way they described deep search in AI mode uh is very similar to deep research. I think it is deep research other than it works fast much faster. Uh and so this is going to be right in the search results. And you can see this

query that like uh people are asking help me research an affordable summer camp within a 10-minute drive for my nine and six-year-old. Include dates and schedules, pricing, afterare support, all these things. And um deep search will go off and it they said it's essentially um essentially uh uh AI mode with the query fan out except that it will ask hundreds of queries and come back with a report for you and this will be right within the Google search results. So we can see that that means less need for people to actually go to websites perhaps. I I you know deep research one of the first uh things I did Amy you said you have it and you love it. uh deep deep search I or deep

research. Deep research is just so good. I don't know that deep search is out yet. I could be wrong on that. Um and uh one of the very first things that I searched for with Deep Research was we're doing uh composting and we added worms to our compost last year. And um

and I was like, okay, you can take the worm castings. It's like the worm poop uh and it's really really good for compost, but there's only so much. like we get we we have a fair amount now, but I was like, I bet you you could like put that in water and water your plants with it. And it turns out it's called worm tea if you if you do that. Uh and so the first every time I talk about worm tea, I usually forget to mention that it's for our plants and people think it's really gross. Um, but I did deep

research on how to do worm tea and it showed me like this massive report on uh how many worm castings to use versus how much water, how long it lasts for and in between every paragraph was a link to websites. I read every single one of those websites because I was deeply researching this topic. Um, now I didn't actually make purchases from those websites, but I mean I I I could have. So uh so deep search could be bad for some websites. It could be really good for other websites. And I think that if

you have detailed experiential information that you're more likely to show be shown on uh deep search. Um the other thing uh that is really really exciting now is if you use deep research you can add your own sources to it. Uh so you could add a Google slide deck, you could add your docs, you could add all sorts of things uh and ask Google to make a report based on those things plus the web. And uh I did this I tried it with newsletter. I took a list of links and uh I asked it to make me a headline for each of them and write a two paragraph or a a two sentence summary.

Now I won't take those exact summaries. Although maybe I will, maybe I'll do it and you won't know that it's me or Gemini. We'll see. Um, but uh Oh, Jeie said uh you you got uh is that Gemini in Chrome after updating your Chrome browser? I should try that. Try it with

my VPN on. Um and so uh uh yeah, so I I asked, "Oh, deep research in AI mode transforms shopping away from Kimple Kimple simple keyword searches into a highly intelligent, personalized, and proactive experience." I would see that. I did deep research uh around Christmas time, I think, to find ideas for my children. I was like, they're this old.

This is the kind of thing they like, and it found me uh all sorts of really cool ideas uh that I wouldn't have thought of before. Um, so back to my newsletter, uh, like this deep research that took my own Google Docs and the style of my newsletter as well. Um, made like a pretty good version of, uh, each story that I will either use or I'll modify slightly to, uh, to use, but it'll save me many hours, uh, to do that. Oh, you have Oh, deep research, Amy. Yeah. Yeah. I like I' I'd really

encourage you if you're not sure what to do with it, like just start. You can even ask Gemini or Chat GPT like what should I do deep research on. I love Chat GPT's memory. It's a little bit creepy how much it knows about you. But almost every day I ask something like based on what you know of me create this. And uh you could say like what are

some topics that I could explore deep research with? And I'd encourage you to do that. Um this right here was really cool. I I took my notes from IO and then I took my last few reports for uh one of my clients and I put them into the deep research with your own files in Gemini and I asked it to create a report for my client uh on what came out of IO for them. And um not only did it create a report, but it said, "Would you like a website, too?" And so it gave me this

HTML. I I wish I could show you, but uh clearly I had to blur out some of the client stuff. Uh but it it actually was really good. Like a couple of the things I would have changed the wording on. Um and so I actually put this up on my website uh on a on a page just for this client and they took all sorts of notes from it. And so um that and that was

just with a really simple prompt. So you can see how eventually we'll be able to produce really good uh reports for our clients. The other thing it asked was whether I wanted a podcast from it and the clients said it was amazing. I didn't listen to the whole thing but I they know that uh there there's potential for hallucinations. Um but it's it's pretty cool what we uh what we can start creating with AI. Um so okay

let's talk about ecom there uh were some very interesting things. I should have tried this. I I didn't want to I stood in so many lines to try things at IO but this try it on thing is really cool. So, what you can do, and this is going to work with any uh pretty much any retailer that is in Google Shopping, um that uh I can use try it on. I go to my camera roll and I give it a picture of me. Apparently, you can give it a

picture of anyone. Um which is a little bit scary, but like how is Gemini to know, I guess? Uh I give it a picture of me and then it will show me the product that I'm uh looking at and what it would look like on me. That's really cool, right? Um, and so here this guy tried this shirt on um this picture of him. So how do we how do we optimize for

that? I really don't know. I really don't know. I mean I guess have really good images uh but you know you should already be doing that. Um so yeah the big change is coming for ecom. This is

the biggest change for ecom. So, uh, Google talked about a gentic checkout and buy for me with Google Pay, which I could not find any information on. It was funny. I was looking for, um, information to show my client like official stuff from Google and I searched for buy with me with Google Pay and then I was in the AI overview, which was kind of funny, but now I'm not there anymore. It shows you how um, uh, they changed so much. So, price tracking. So,

if you're looking for that shirt and you've tried it on and you're like, "Oh, yeah. This looks cool, but also it's kind of expensive," um, you can ask Google to track the price for you and they will track the price and when it comes down, your buying agent will send you a message and we'll say, "Uh, do you want me to buy this for you?" Pardon me. Too much talking. Um, and if you say yes, then uh then it will go ahead and buy for you. So I could not

find that many screenshots. This is uh one that I took uh during the event myself and it will uh initiate the purchase, submit the purchase, complete the purchase. Um it gives you know Gemini is going to have your email address and and then you'd give it your uh your card information via Google Pay. And uh Google Pay then will now this is a new thing. Buy for me with Google Pay.

I'm pretty sure it's a new thing. Uh and I don't know how that changes. Um, do any of you have thoughts? I don't know if you want to leave a comment there. I see Jeanie's typing because I I feel like this is a really big change because um like there's no point optimizing your your checkout pages, your uh I mean I'm sure there still are going to be people that go to your checkout pages, but eventually your checkout pages are just going to be my agent talking to your business agent. And um you know it

doesn't really matter what the design of your page is or how quickly your form uh loads as long as it loads. So um so I think that we have uh we're going to have significant change in how people interact on the web. I shared some stuff a little while back of uh Gemini live agent is it called customer service experience where uh you know you'll be able to actually talk with an agent with your voice show it things with your camera and be like you know I want to uh I want a couch for this area here's my living room can you suggest one and then the agent can talk with you and then put it into oh not you're going to buy a couch online maybe you do uh but um you can see that there's a lot of potential there oh no worries Genie a Google Cloud meeting. Genie's all over the place. Tell us what you learned. Um,

so yeah, and then we talked about potentially wing delivery. Uh, I'll just briefly go over um, uh, oh, I'll run out of battery here. Gosh, that would be bad. Apologies. Uh, V3. Um, now if you

have Gemini Advanced, if you're paying the $20 a month, you can use V3. Uh, which V3 is really cool. It has sound. It has talking and sound effects. It is really hard to tell that it's AI. Now

that I've seen a bunch of VO3 videos, I can look at it and be like, "Oh, yeah. Yeah, I'm pretty sure that's AI." But we're really getting to the era where it's going to be hard to know. I uh sat in uh a fireside talk with Deis Sabbas and uh Darren, I think it's Afronoski. Um I don't have it written here. and uh

they were talking about so he created um an entire movie uh that you know for production using a lot of VO for sound effects for um for B-roll for all sorts of interesting things like that and so this is really going to change Google has um an editor now called flow you need to be a part of the expensive plan to get the most out of flow uh let's let me actually play this here seeing as you guys have uh can see the sound do you think we live in in a simulation. No, never. Does it matter? In the future, computers will create your television programs. Zero and ones.

[Music] [Applause]

A AI versus 100 animators. Who

wins? I do what I want. Bro, is this even real laughter?

Some people claim that we live in a simulation. [Music] Would you still love me if I was an NPC?

We are coming for you, Hollywood. [Music] We are just random [Music] numbers in the machine.

[Music]

Are you real? I

am. So, that's pretty wild that that was created completely with V3. Uh, the sound, all of the talking is V3. And, um, it is a bit scary, isn't it, Xavier? Uh I I posted in the search bar this morning. Uh the Wall Street Journal

spent $1,000 on AI tools uh to create this like, you know, I think it was like a two-minute piece, but it would have cost, you know, they didn't need a production crew. They didn't need It's clearly not exactly uh what we would get with uh without AI, but um that's pretty wild what what's happening now. I didn't see Google publish this, but I swear I heard it in uh um in the uh the talk in the amphitheater was that um Gemini will be able to make uh explainer videos for us. So, if I'm asking, you know, for a recipe for something, uh Gemini can probably make the video that explains step by step. And you can imagine when I have glasses on that that's going to be uh quite interesting as well. Um, we

talked about the new AI plans and there's a ton more that we could talk about as well. I'm going to do a separate episode, probably a live podcast. Uh, this thing is cool. Stitch, uh, I just asked it for a website. My daughter wants to create a baking website and then we can modify that. Um,

let me end this part and then we'll we'll go into questions. Uh, if any of you have questions on, uh, Google's vision for building a universal AI assistant. So they published this uh blog post and um uh that's their goal is to build a universal AI assistant. I put this video in here because OpenAI, you may have seen uh partnered with Joanie Ives C company that uh he was the man who de designed the iPhone uh and the MacBook Pro. And they're going to be creating uh a new device, a bunch of new devices, but the first one they've hinted at is something that doesn't have a screen. You just carry it around with

you. remember stuff about your day. You can ask it things. And uh it sounds like Google wants to be the same thing. And considering that Google's already on our phones and uh already used by uh you know the majority of us, I I I honestly think that Google will do very well. Um

it'd be interesting to see how well Open AI does. But um one thing Sabis said was that in order to get there, there are still a couple more breakthroughs that have to happen. And um uh and also there needs to be a better understanding of the world around us. And that's where we're going to see more Google's doing a lot in the area of robotics. Uh Whimo cars. Oh, we tried so hard to get a

Whimo and they didn't come to our area, but uh one day I'll drive in one. Um you know, driverless cars are getting pictures of the world around them. And uh we are going to start to see that the world moves off of screens and uh onto uh you know just life that everything is there ahead of us. So um let me uh end the presentation there. That was quite a long presentation and um we'll see any of you have any comments or or questions about AI mode about um about the future.

Uh the talk with Deis Savis and uh Sergey Brin was was fantastic. I have a bunch of video from it that I want to get out and publish. I'll probably do that next week. Um and uh because uh somebody asked Sergey Brin, the interviewer, asked him to predict what the web will look like 10 years from now and he said like he can't even predict what the world would look like 10 years from now because so much is changing. So, I think uh we have um an exciting future ahead, but also a little like a terrifying future ahead. Xavier says,

"Yeah, everything will change." And now I feel like like I've been saying this for a couple of years. I think 2022 when I first saw ChatGpt, the one of the first things I did was ask it to make a poem about Barry Schwarz and John Mueller arguing whether cheese was a ranking factor. And uh it was just a silly little poem, but I'm like math could produce this. Just amazed me. And

we'll see more and more that um I'm going to be I'm I'm actually working on some agents right now that take my site review process and uh you know automate a good chunk of it in a way that I'm happy with. Um and I'm also working on some agents that will help people stay on top of AI uh and and things like that. And so that's I I'm excited for me. I I think I've got a lot of good things coming. Um but I also think that we just saw today that Dario Amodi from uh Anthropic uh said that um within I think he said five years there's going to be 20% unemployment and a lot of jobs lost. Uh but with that comes a lot of

opportunity. So if you are here watching this, you're uh in this presentation uh or you're watching it afterwards, you're far ahead of everyone else. And I know it can seem very frightening because as human beings, we like to have stability and we like to know where our next paycheck is coming from. Um I I I do believe that there's more potential for good than bad with AI, but um we will see. You know, there's there's a lot coming. Uh Xavier's typing. We'll see

what he's got to say. The learning curve curve to master AI is quite tough. You know, this is this is kind of what I've been trying to think on is because I think in order to know AI, like I don't think we need to know everything about it. Like I I think we need to know the basics of how a language model works. We need to experiment. I I almost think of

talking to Chachi and Gemini like talking to a new species even though they aren't legitimately a species. Um but uh I feel like um um it's it's like learning a new language and uh we have a lot to learn. So the the best way I could encourage people to learn is to just keep trying to use the tools and try to use it for stuff that you're doing in your day-to-day work. So uh and if it doesn't work well then you have some experience that you can carry over to the next thing that you tried to use it. Uh Carly Href shows which keywords you're mentioned in AI overviews. What

do you use to track mentions and citations in chatbt? I don't I know um Samrush is I don't know if it's out but they're they're working on um something that tracks mentions. The thing is I don't think you can because I think a lot of it's personalized. I think that when I search for some of my own clients in chatt like I search for keywords uh or phrases or questions that they would rank for like chatbt always chooses my client but that it's because memory knows that we've taught. So then I do uh an incognito like you can go into chatbt search without being logged in. Um and

often it's the same but not always. So, uh, yeah, I, um, uh, I don't really know how we're going to keep track. What I am tracking is, um, in G4, you can set up, again, there's a tutorial in the search bar on this, but you can set up very easily something that shows you, uh, referral visits from the language models and the different AI tools. And so, I'm I'm just monitoring whether they're increasing. Most of my clients, they're increasing regularly, but they're not anywhere near the type of traffic that they get from Google search. Uh, and so

we have decided that because things are changing so much, we're not really focusing on being mentioned in chat. Um, and because, you know, we have a lot of theories on what that takes, but a lot of it is the same as what we do for SEO is like, uh, you know, become known for your topics, produce helpful content. One thing uh I think we should really be doing it for SEO already, but not everybody is, is focusing on semantics. Um making sure that you're answering questions uh in a way uh that looks good to machines, but then also uh it's really important to to look good to people as well. Um Nola, do you think AI conversations will appear in search console as this mode becomes established? I can't see that Google

would give us query data or conversation data. Um, we had the big kathuffle where uh when AI mode first came out, if it sent a visitor to your site, it would say no referer. Um, which made it look like it was direct traffic. And Google uh said it was a bug. I don't know if it was a bug or uh what, but um they've fixed that. I tested it yesterday and

now it just comes as Google organic. Uh, so it doesn't actually tell me that the search is coming from AI mode, but um they did hint that we're going to have something in search console. I think we will probably see which pages are getting visits from AI mode. Um, and uh, yeah, but I don't think we're going to see query information because I don't think that would be possible with the way people are doing conversations. Barbara, Gemini can be a great help in tutoring you on AI. just

ask whatever interests you and it'll be a superb tutor. Yes, I I 100% agree with that and that's a lot of how I've learned what I've learned about AI. Um it's one of the hard things is is you don't know when it's hallucinating and um and if you search for stuff on SEO, it's really easy like if you know SEO, it'll it'll say things like like like guest link for uh a guest post for backlinks and and stuff that like is old sky. we just wouldn't do today. Um, and so we know it's like not perfect in its knowledge, but you still I I kind of consider it like talking to a really smart person. Like if you and I sat down

and I taught you a bunch of stuff about AI, some of what I say is going to be wrong. Actually, that's something that Dario Emodi said today uh as well is that um humans hallucinate more than AI does. Uh and so I really think of it as a really helpful assistant. And yeah, here's um some a good uh a good tip for when you're asking questions like this. Um you can tell it I'm new. I want to

learn the subject. Teach me things one part at a time. And that way you don't get this massive long like reading. You can ask questions on every little bit uh at a time. Um oh, Amy said has their AI toolkit live. It's $99 per month per

domain. Uh I wonder if it's if it's good. like I I think I think it's having some data is better than nothing. Uh they asked me to test it but I just couldn't commit the the time to it. So um you know I I think having something is is better than nothing. But I also

think that visits from language models will be important for like a very short period of time and then it's really AI mode as it it morphs with Gemini. Uh, Xavier, I think AI overviews are maybe a bit easier to track, but soon two people on the same query will have different answers and possibly citations and links in there. I I agree the same um that uh even I see it between different searches that uh I'll have uh different results. So, and even hrefs. So Hrefs is what I'm using the most right now for looking at what's in AI overviews, but often HFS will report something and then I'll go do the search and it's not the same as what they reported uh because it's changing so much. Uh Carly, this is a

really great question. How do I calm leadership down about how our organic search traffic keeps declining? You know what? I feel like I want to write an article on this then then you can point people to my article. Um, I think one thing is to say Will Reynolds has written some stuff on this. Uh, I would

I would look at his blog on SEIER. Uh, and he's written about how everybody is seeing a decline in clicks. Like it's not possible to not see a decline in clicks. Um, because AI overviews are are taking some of those clicks. What we really need to focus on is conversions and the things that matter. Now, if you

are um ad driven, uh, then then this is bad news. like it it's it's been bad news for a while. Um, but for other businesses, so if you uh if you have real life customers and search is just another channel for you, um, then I really want to be looking at not traffic uh, but whether your bottom line has actually changed. And in most cases, not all cases, but in most cases when I talk to people, the actual amount of money they're making from search hasn't changed that much. It's just that it's hard for us to report on it. So, um, I

hear you, Kari. You know what? I I will write that uh that article at least something that can say look it's not your SEO. Don't fire Carly. She's doing a great job. It's just that everything

has changed. And also there's uh competition from many other sources now. Like a lot of people are um uh searching on Tik Tok or on Instagram or um uh YouTube. I I uh so last year Jeff Dean sat down next to me. this year. Um,

Jeffrey Geller, I think that's his name, sat down next to me and, uh, he was on the YouTube team and I learned a lot of stuff, uh, about the YouTube algorithm. But he said really it all just comes down to, uh, creating stuff that people really like that your audience likes. Uh but when I asked him because we were talking about now he works on this fund that Google has for AI startups and I actually had tried to apply to that and uh and he said I told him what I was trying to do. I'm making this learning platform. I'll share more about that later. And um he said you don't need

funding for it but he said the one thing you should do is produce more content which is part of the reason why I'm doing this and this will go on YouTube. Uh so I would encourage you to look at YouTube shorts. YouTube Shorts has as many views now as regular YouTube. Uh so that's important. Um Nola said, "A lot of our clients are seeing fewer clicks but higher conversions." Yeah, that's

great. So that's what we need to be reporting on is and and the problem is as SEOs, we'd really like to report on look the numbers go up and to the right. And I I think sometimes um you know the SEO it looks great to the SEO but what the seauite really wants to see is like have we made any more money from search? Uh and that's that's what's super important. Sheena, oh hi Sheena. Uh help

them see that it's about relevance engineering. Oh heard through Michael King. It's forcing us all to be better brand building marketers. Yeah. Um that really just comes down to understanding your audience, doesn't it? that uh and

and that's really the biggest part of I I would say instead of optimizing for search engines, we should be understanding the questions our audience has. Keyword research in the past, I've said this so many times, but people used to we our our process was look up a keyword we want to rank for, look at what everybody else is writing, cover all those things, and then maybe add a few other things where we're just paraphrasing what everybody else has done. If you understand the questions your audience is asking, um especially if those questions aren't answered on search already, then uh then you're going to do really well. Um yeah, Laura, YouTube is so important. Uh oh, Carly said the CRO team will get that credit though. Well, I don't know. I I think

that SEO is changing. We always have this debate on what do we call SEO now that we're in the area era of AI. I feel like I'm leaning towards AIO, AI optimization. Um, I don't know the some people call it generative engine optimization, GEO. Uh, but I think that our role where you can prove I don't know your your industry, Karly, and and how your organization works, but I feel like where you can prove your worth is in understanding all the things we just talked about. Like when I talk to

clients and I'm like, "Okay, so project mariner's coming and agents are coming." And I'll say like I we don't really know exactly what it looks like. I can't tell you what to build right now, but I can tell you some things that uh that are, you know, you have knowledge that they don't have and that will be very very valuable uh especially as we start to use these agents. Um and so I' I'd really encourage you to uh to do that, Xavier. Yeah, we love communicating when figures go up and find good excuses when they go down. I mean, that's that's what

we do, right? Um, so let's see here. We got a couple more questions. SEO is the core of everything in digital. I I really think that we have such every SEO I know is such a good problem solver and we're going into an era where there will be many problems. One of the things that

I'd encourage everybody uh to to to kind of embrace is that we won't have the answers. Uh, and we're used to um you know, oh, I have this technical problem. I will just go see what's written about it on the web. Whereas, you know, I might write my thoughts on what's going to happen with agents, but nobody knows. Even the the people who are designing these uh these systems won't even Sergey Brin uh the co-founder of Google was like, I don't even know what the web will look like. Somebody asked him uh

what he's telling his children. Um is he encouraging his children to go to college or to university? And uh he said he's and he has the same philosophy as me is I'm encouraging my children to do what they love. Uh he had a good point. He said um encourage them to do things that are challenging to them and then uh to use today's technology to um to advance in that area and for some that might be going to university or college.

But uh I think there's all sorts of opportunity that's coming for those who are just willing to uh to to grab a hold of what the future has. Um Carly, besides building a Wikipedia page to build my brand awareness, is there anything else I can do? This is just marketing is uh um you know be everywhere. Uh I don't even think building a Wikipedia page is the thing because you can't really get a Wikipedia page unless you have what they call notability. Um, and they're very very strict like on on how you it used to be that you if you knew a Wikipedia editor you could get in there. Uh, but now um

really it's about building a name for yourself. Some of that is PR, but I think you can do it without spending money on PR. Like for example, how did you come to this uh podcast? Uh, it it's because I have name recognition, which I've never spent any money on PR. I've published things that are helpful to people.

Um, I've been uh present on social media. I think that that's one thing that that really helps. Uh, you can go on podcasts. You can Here's an interesting thing. I went on um a podcast with 97th floor with Paxton Gray and they called me a Google SEO and AI expert. And the next day, if you search

for Google SEO and AI expert, I was uh number two in the AI overview and number one organically. it only lasted for a while, but because e is primarily about what other people say about you. And uh I think that's the key thing uh to remember right there. Um thank you. Should I implement LLM.ext

on my websites? My boss wants me to do this, but I'm reading it's a waste of time. I think it's a waste of time. I haven't seen any of uh for those who aren't sure what llms.ext is, it's it's like a robots.txt txt file that gives

instructions to the language models on what they're allowed to crawl uh and how they're allowed to use your data. Uh I don't think any of the major language models are using it. Um and I I I personally don't think that it's going to happen. Now, if it comes out that uh you know, OpenAI was like, "All right, you know, we're going to respect LLM's.txt and here's how you create one, then create one." Uh but right now there

there's nobody following it. So yeah, I agree with Laura. MCP should be a focus. If you're not familiar with MCP, at first it sounds horribly complicated, but it's not. Um, model context protocol is kind of like an API for agents. So,

uh, or well, an API that allows agents to use your tool. So, if you have something on your website like a form, um, any type of a tool that people could use, then uh, you can um, use mono context protocol, which it's not difficult to program. There's all sorts of tutorials. You can do it with just a few lines of code and it makes it so that any language model I think it supports like over 200 different language models can understand how to use your tool. Uh and eventually that's something that's going to be very very important. So, as I'm creating these

agents, I'm going to create these little Marie bots that you can um you know, you can try to think like me or converse with me and uh I will use MCP so that if you're chat user, if you're Gemini, if you're Claude, uh you'll still be able to use my tools uh even though it's not speaking the same with the same language model as you are. Xavier, what do you think about SAS solutions suggesting to analyze server logs to monitor AI bots traffic? I wonder what the purpose is. I think it's interesting to see there are many AI bots. I know some people block out uh any AI bots other than OpenAI, Google uh perplexity perhaps. Um I I really don't

know the purpose though of analyzing it. Um I I think it's interesting. I think I think analyzing stuff at this stage, anything that you can analyze and report on is something interesting. Uh but I don't know what action you would take on it other than perhaps if some bots are I know one of the biggest consumers of crawl information on the web is bite dance which is Tik Tok. Uh and so you know perhaps you wanna you want to be blocking them. Um but maybe you don't

want to be like you know Tik Tok is important for a lot of businesses as well. So, um, let's see, Xavier, what you have to to say there. This has been good. We've been going almost an hour and a half

now. One claim is they can help to see if it brings traffic, but I doubt it. I mean, there are a lot of different AI tools and bots. Uh, and I find it fascinating to watch the conversation around agents. Like I know a lot of people right now are using N8. Um,

what's the other one? There's another one that people are using and I'm like all these companies will be redundant as Google and OpenAI uh develop their their product their products. I think that um OpenAI will still be like really important to they've done such a good job at getting people into the ecosystem. Uh, but I I don't really worry about other um AIS at this point. I I I've I'm open to being wrong on that, though. It's uh I see several

people are typing. So, we'll we'll uh we'll see if somebody has another opinion on that. Uh Sheena, would MCP apply to ecom customization models allowing AI to understand and use those tools? I'm almost positive yes, that's the case. Um now Google will come out with uh if you're a member of agent space and agent space is for using AI within your business uh I believe that a part of that uh is involved with monitoring your your ecom um and actually using AI uh to get insight into what people are buying. So I I would

look into that. Um but yes uh so if you have a shopping cart that that feature that we saw where ticket master or where uh Google's going to buy for me now buy for me now probably doesn't use MCP it's probably still just navigating the web. Um but eventually agents will be looking for uh tools to integrate with. So yeah I would at least look into it Sheena. If you if you find something, you know, you should write about it and uh and then I'll um link to it and put it in newsletter and and and share it with people. Uh Carly said, "Met with Google

yesterday about agent space and creating me an SEO agent. Do you think it's worth the money?" So, I talked to somebody about agent space. It was funny because I signed a form that was like, I'm interested in learning more, but then it turns out that you need a 100 seats. You need to buy a 100 seats. and we were

looking at maybe we could buy a 100 seats within the search bar. Uh but then they were like, "No, you're just reselling it and it wouldn't work that way." Um but uh so I think it would be useful if I still had an agency uh uh especially if I had a hundred seats in an agency. So if I had a 100 person agency, what agent space does is it lets me have my standard set of documents. So I'd have our template for site reviews, our onboarding process, our like all of the documents that are currently in Google Docs. Then in the entirety of my

team would be able to use AI across those documents. And what they talked about was having agents within agent space. So say you bring a new employee in, then the onboarding agent would talk to that employee and would coordinate with the HR agent and also the payroll agent. uh and um any questions that that new employee had about, you know, how much vacation can I take or can I, you know, can I take a sick day, things like that would go through these agents. Um and then there's always the option to uh to to bring it to the attention of a human. Um and so I I do think that agent

space is probably worth the money. Uh but I don't know a whole lot about it other other than that. All right, we'll give uh a few more seconds if anybody's got any other questions or comments. Like I said, I I'm uh I'm going to be working on um more about the future. We've been I have a few talks coming up uh at the end of the summer and in the fall and uh everybody who asked me to speak a few people asked me to speak on Google algorithms and I'm like I just want to talk about how AI is changing the world. So, um, so we're

going to talk about, uh, about brain computer interfaces, which seems like so futuristic, but it's not that far away. Um, and we're going to, uh, talk about agents changing how people work. Well, you're welcome, Xavier. I, uh, I love doing this. I have no voice soon, though. I'm going to be losing losing my

voice. Um, and thank you to everybody who came. I, I, I really appreciate. I should mention a little bit about the search bar. Uh, if you are new here, um, you you've you've joined now. So, you're

a member of the search bar SEO and AI news area where myself and some uh really enthusiastic people put information in about what's happening in search and in AI. There is a paid area of the search bar too which is fantastic. We have just over 200 of us now that um share our experiences with AI. Uh I put tutorials in just today. I put in a process that you can use to try and rank in AI overview, something that's worked well for me. Uh but it's a

it's an ongoing process. Um and then we have regular meetings. Uh except it's not like this meeting. Everybody gets to talk. It's not just me talking. Um and

Xavier came up with the name uh we're we're calling them the search bar pro happy hour. Uh and it is it's really a lot of joy talking about the future and helping each other as we figure out how um we're going to take advantage of this knowledge of AI and help the the people who are around us. uh because as the world changes there's it's really easy to fall into this place of fear. Uh I I went through it. I I went through a very very difficult time where I realized that because my career for the last decade plus has been helping website owners who struggle with Google's algorithms. And I was finding every

single meeting I was having was a grief counseling session. Um because a lot of websites your your business needs to change or your business practice uh is no longer going to function. And um this is something that we go through as uh humanity. You know, I talk a lot about the lamp lighters, the people who would go around uh uh lamp putting gas in the the lamps in the 1800s and how they lost their jobs when electricity came. But then electricity brought all sorts of opportunity. And so, you know, we can we

can sit and complain about the mistakes in AI and uh uh uh or we can try to figure out how to how to take an advantage and how to how to be happy and and succeed in this new era. Oh, Leanne, hi. Thank you. Uh thank you for investing so much time helping others to understand this massive shift. And we'll be sure to attend the next happy hour.

That's awesome. Yeah, thanks Sheena. I I'm so glad to have you here, Sheena. Tina and I met at Mozcon and uh started dreaming about having businesses for SEO and then we both got nice and successful with our businesses. So community uh really is the way to go, right? All

right. Well, thanks everyone. We'll end this episode here. Uh I will put this in the search bar afterwards and it'll be up on YouTube as well for everybody to see. So uh thanks for watching, listening, participating and I wish you the best of luck with everything.