---
video_title: "Testing Gemini's new storybook mode: A story about not having fear as AI changes the world."
video_id: _q9DxX_dXUI
channel_name: "Marie Haynes "
channel_id: UC5JCNbPrfBAhnVG1Cfx25qA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_q9DxX_dXUI
video_date: 2025-08-15
video_description: |
  OK storybook mode is cool! I gave Gemini an upcoming presentation I'm giving and it made a story out of it. I thought this was quite good!
  
  You can get storybook mode from within the Gemini app. It appeared for me as a Gem.
---
The thinkers sat at their computer, a nod of worry in their stomach. Every headline screamed about AI, a new intelligence that seemed to be growing at an impossible speed. They remembered the stories of the lites, who smashed the machines they feared would replace them. Was this the same? The knitter, seeing their partner's distress, brought over a warm cup of tea. Remember the

stories of the first weavers? they said softly. They didn't smash their looms. They created new patterns, new fabrics, new ways of being. Together, they decided to face the unknown. They started small, asking the

AI simple questions. What is the best way to learn a new language? Can you help me understand the stars? The AI responded with patience and clarity. A new kind of teacher. The knitter,

feeling bold, asked the AI to help them design a new knitting pattern. Together, they wo together threads of mathematics and art, creating a design of breathtaking complexity and beauty. The knitter's hands, once just skilled, were now partners in a new kind of creation. The thinker, inspired, turned to a question that had always fascinated them. The mysteries of the deep ocean.

With the AI as their research partner, they explored vast data sets and complex simulations, seeing the hidden world of the ocean in a way no human had ever seen it before. The fear began to fade, replaced by a thrilling sense of possibility. The a I wasn't a replacement for their minds, but an extension of them. It was a tool, a partner, a new way to be human in a world that was constantly changing. They reached out and found they were not alone. All over the world, people were

using this new intelligence to create, to discover, to connect. They joined a global community of artists, scientists, and dreamers, all learning and growing together. The thinker and the knitter combined their passions. The thinker's research into bioluminescent creatures of the deep sea inspired the knitter's new collection of glowing textiles. Their individual talents amplified by the AI created something entirely new and beautiful.

Years passed, the world was different, transformed by the partnership between human and artificial intelligence. The thinker and the knitter, now older and wiser, looked out at a world not of fear but of boundless potential. They shared their story with the next generation. A story not of loss, but of joyful creation. They taught them that the future is not something to be feared, but something to be built.

Together with curiosity, courage, and a little bit of help from our new friends.