---
video_title: "How AI Will Change Our Lives Over the Next Decade [AUDIO ONLY PODCAST]"
video_id: dKVJhKItAhI
channel_name: "Marie Haynes "
channel_id: UC5JCNbPrfBAhnVG1Cfx25qA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dKVJhKItAhI
video_date: 2025-04-04
video_description: |
  Dr. Marie Haynes discusses the future of AI, highlighting the massive investments being made by companies like Google, Meta, and Amazon. She acknowledges concerns about job loss and fear for the future but presents an optimistic vision, quoting Sam Altman and Elon Musk who believe AI will lead to greater prosperity and even a universal high income.
  
  Marie details how AI is currently used for tasks like organizing thoughts and image generation, but its true potential lies in AI agents. These agents will research and complete tasks, changing how we interact with the web and businesses. She gives examples of using agents for hotel and flight research and deep research projects.
  
  She also talks about using AI for coding and creating tools, sharing her personal experience of developing a tool to analyze website traffic drops. Marie believes AI agents will become like employees, increasing productivity and allowing her to focus on more complex tasks. She envisions AI optimizing businesses in various ways, such as chatbots, competitor research, and IP creation.
  
  Marie acknowledges the disruption AI will cause, leading to job losses in digital marketing and other industries. She compares this to historical technological shifts like electricity and the printing press, noting that while there were initial negative consequences and job losses, these technologies ultimately led to progress and new opportunities.
  
  She encourages listeners to embrace AI, suggesting they learn to code with AI, stay updated on AI developments, and become experts in AI in specific areas. She also advises sharing their knowledge and learning to communicate effectively with language models (prompting). Haynes believes AI will improve our lives, offering advancements in healthcare, mental well-being, and innovation. She concludes by emphasizing the importance of being part of shaping the future of AI, rather than just watching it happen.
  
  Learn to prompt with a weekly email from Marie Haynes: https://www.mariehaynes.com/prompts
  Marie's AI Newsletter: 
  https://www.mariehaynes.com/newsletter
---
Welcome to another episode of AI News You Can Use with me, Dr. Marie Haynes. If you have heard podcasts before, you know it's search news you can use. I'm still very much in love with search and with understanding what Google's doing. But in these days, what AI is doing is really my top priority. In this episode,

I want to talk about the future. I want to talk about what's happening with jobs and why I believe that the future is actually very exciting. However, I think we have some rocky road to go through. It blows my mind that there are billions potentially trillions of dollars being stent spent on developing AI. This year, Google uh announced 75 billion is going towards AI. Meta is spending 60 to 65

billion. Amazon over a hundred billion and you've probably heard of project Stargate with uh it's a the US government is involved. It's a joint venture between OpenAI, Soft Bank, Oracle and some others to invest over 500 billion in developing AI in the US over the next few years. There is so much money being spent on AI yet I really don't know that many people who are making money from AI. So there's a disconnect here. In fact, what I see is

a lot of people are losing jobs. A lot of people have fear for the future. So, what I want to do here is share my vision for why the future is good. And to share some thoughts on what we can be doing in this time period where there's a lot of transition happening. I want to start by reading a quote from Sam Alman.

Sam Alman is the co-founder of uh Open AI and he has a blog that he's written called the intelligence age. So, let me share what he wrote here. It won't happen all at once, but we'll soon be able to work with AI that helps us accomplish much more than we ever could without AI. Eventually, we can each have a personal AI team full of virtual experts in different areas, working together to create almost anything we can imagine. Our children will have virtual tutors who can provide personalized instruction on any subject in any language and at whatever pace they need. We can imagine similar ideas

for better health care, the ability to create any kind of software someone can imagine, and much more. With these new abilities, we can have shared prosperity to a degree that seems unimaginable today. in the future, everyone's lives can be better than anyone's life is now. So, that sounds pretty promising, doesn't it? Now, some people might say, well, of course Sam Alman is going to be bullish on AI because he builds AI and has a lot to profit from this. I I

thoroughly believe that what he's saying is correct. Uh I know many of you are probably not fans of Elon Musk. I think we need to pay attention to what Musk is doing as uh his XAI is going to be very very important in terms of the development of AI in the world at least I think it is and he has said that we won't need I I don't know if you've heard of universal basic income but a lot of people are saying that AI is going to take so many jobs that we are going to need to have this universal basic income so that everybody has essentially enough money to live on. Well, Elon says that actually what we need is a universal high income and that's what we're going to have. And he says that AI will produce so much prosperity in the world that everybody will have more than enough and no one will ever have to work again. I I know

it seems kind of fanciful, but uh let me see if I I can explain how I think we're going to get there. So today, the things that we use AI for are not worldchanging. At least they don't seem to be. At least not for me. I use AI like multiple times per day. Uh I'm

constantly jumping between Chat GPT, Gemini, and sometimes Grock as well. Uh I use it to help me organize my thoughts. I used Chatt Voice before recording this podcast to just sort of bounce ideas back and forth and and help me figure out the structure of what I wanted to say here. Um, I use ChachiPT for images and uh the new ChachiBT images are pretty exciting, but none of that is making me insanely prosperous. But I I believe it's coming. So, how do

we get from where we are now with language models, with AI to a world where we're prosperous and what do we do if we are facing job loss at this point? The next thing that we're going to see is agents. you're going to be sick of hearing about AI agents. Uh, and it's for good reason because AI will change how we interact with people on the web, how we interact with websites on the web. Uh, and much of what we do today, if you are an SEO, involves uh working with websites to make them look better for people and for Google's algorithms.

uh but eventually a lot of the communication that happens on the web will be done where my AI AI agent goes out and researches what's on your website and comes back with information for me. And this is why a lot offormational websites have not done well with recent Google updates because the world's information has already been pulled into AI and Google doesn't so much need websites anymore in order to uh provide people with information unless you are the type of business where people still want to see you outside of getting information. So um for example the other day I was using uh an agent chat GPT operator. Operator uses its own browser and what it does is um will go out and and do tasks for me. So I asked it uh I'm speaking at a conference in Toronto in October and they gave me a list of hotels and so I started researching the hotels. I'm

like, "Okay, well, this one's kind of close, but uh it's super expensive and you know, and I really don't enjoy looking for hotels and for flights." And so then I thought, "Well, I could get Operator to do this for me." And Operator opened up a browser. I gave it my list of criteria that I wanted and started to make a list of uh it actually went to the website of each hotel. It clicked on the date picker. uh chose the

dates that I needed to be in to Toronto for and started to make a list of the costs of hotel rooms in each of these hotels. Funny enough though, with all of the image generation that's been happening with ChachiBT, the whole Chachi BT went down this week and my operator was not able to finish its tasks. So, I will let you know how that works out. I'm going to have it try to find uh the best flights for me as well for a couple of other events I have coming up. Now, that might seem disappointing. and you're like, "Well,

how is that going to change the world? You used a system to save you half an hour of work and it didn't even work." I'll tell you, these agents are going to get better and better. You you've probably seen or heard of deep research. Uh there's deep research projects by Gemini, uh by OpenAI, and also with Grock. They each have their own

strengths. Right now, I'm finding ChatgBT deep research to be the best for me. It goes into great detail. Uh, and it takes quite some time though to produce a report. I use Grock if I'm doing deep research on something that requires knowledge of what's happening in the world right now. And Gemini, I

find, is good when I know with my deep research, I'm going to want to click on websites and do more research on the websites as well. Deep research is an agent. It's not just search. It is something where uh it'll do a search and it'll go to a website and start learning about the thing I asked it to search for and based on what it learns it decides whether to go on to another website. Um I don't know if it actually clicks links on the website but it will eventually it basically what it's doing is it's searching the web for me. It's acting as

an agent. at Google IO last year in 2024, they said that AI will eventually do the searching for us, which is a whole different paradigm. Um, again though, that doesn't really make us uh a ton of money, does it? So, let me tell you uh a little bit more about how I think we will eventually use agents to be very prosperous. A couple of years ago, I decided I wanted to start creating this tool. And the tool was to

help assess traffic drops in website traffic drops just like I did. And boy, the hours I've put into this. I say a couple of years ago actually, uh, when I used to have an agency, I had a whole team of people that were working on creating this type of tool. Um, I've put a lot of money and a lot of time into into trying to create this thing and never really had good success with it. Well, um, and then a couple years ago when Chat GBT came out, I thought, well, I can code it and I can learn and every Every time Chat GPT would give me code, I'd put it into VS Code and then it would make an error. I'd put that into

Chat GPT and uh it would tell me how to fix the error, but then that would cause more errors and it was it was really really awful. Well, lately, if you have tried to code with LLMs in the past and been frustrated, try again. I tried uh I've been using ChateBT 03 Mini. Uh, but I'm one of those enthusiastic people who pays $200 a month for uh, chatbt and have unlimited prompts for 03 mini. I've heard that the new Gemini 2.5 is

incredible for coding and also is in cursor which cursor basically you just talk to the system and say I want a tool that does this and then it produces something for you and you say oh you know could we make the buttons orange or whatever and and people have been creating some pretty fantastic things with these tools. So, the other day I said to ChateBT, uh, I'd like a tool that connects with Google Search Console and prints out, uh, uh, charts of all of the sites that I monitor and, um, shows me, you know, their traffic patterns. And it took almost no time at all that it now I it wrote it in Python. I really don't know any Python. And, uh, but it created something absolutely incredible.

And then uh as I was doing my client work, I was like, man, I wish it would be I wish I could have a tool that just tells me the top pages that lost traffic. And and there are tools that do that, but like I have a whole system that I use in search console. And I'm like, if only I could take what I currently do and automate it. So I explained it to Chat GBT. I'm telling you, within like 10 maybe 15 minutes, I had built this tool that does what I want to do. And you know, if I want I

might one day make it public. Um I have to figure out the security issues and and whatnot. There's all sorts of um horror stories of people vibe coding like this and uh and producing stuff that uh you know has their API key in it and costs them a bunch of money. But at this point all of a sudden chatbt is becoming something really helpful to me. And it hasn't directly made me money but has saved me a bunch of time. I did a

site review last week that would have taken me many many days to do and uh I think I I cut off probably 10 hours of work by using the tools that I created. So AI agents are helping me get better. Now I can picture that there's a day where I can take this further. I think my next step is to take the pages that dropped in traffic and what I'm doing now is manually evaluating them uh to determine things like how well they align with Google's guidance on helpful content um how helpful they are a number of different things. And usually I can find the patterns. Well, it wouldn't

take that much for me to write that into some prompts so that I can have an AI agent do that for me as well. There are other things I could build an agent for, such as um administrative tasks. So, uh if people contact me with problems with their newsletter subscription, then I can create an AI agent that can converse with them and surface things to me when there's a problem. I really think that the day is coming where um you can use my AI agents and greatly improve your SEO. Uh and you know, I won't be the only one with AI agents. other SEOs will

put their processes into agents as well. And then what I will be doing is being freed up for the people who have really big budget to uh to to to have me work on something directly. And I don't know, maybe the day will come where my AI agents do a better job than I do. I'm going to talk in a minute about AI and our brains. And I think we will get to the point where AI completely augments us and makes us far better at everything uh that we do. So, um, you know, I think

that the day is coming where AI agents will work like employees for me. And it might be something right now, I guess I probably have about four or five little programs that I run. They're not really agents, but what makes something an agent is its ability to use tools. So, actually, maybe it is because it's connecting with the Google Search Console API. Uh, but eventually these things will talk with each other. Now

what if I had a thousand different AI agents out there? Uh you know all of a sudden I can produce I can do the work that it would have taken an agency to do. Uh and all of them have my thought process that uh the same thing that I would have thought. So I think that I will become very productive uh and hopefully prosperous in creating these AI agents. So how does that make us more prosperous as the world though? Because

if I'm a prosperous SEO, what about somebody who doesn't have AI agents? They're going to lose their job. I'm going to get to to those people in a minute, but first, let's talk about the businesses that I work with. So, right now, my AI agents will be looking at the helpfulness of their content. But eventually, what we'll be doing is trying to find ways to optimize their business. I have a few clients right now

that are in the early stages of trying to figure out how can we benefit from using AI not just for SEO but for improving our business overall. And it might be things like uh adding a a chatbot via voice. Uh some of the new agents that use voice to talk with people are actually quite good. Um, it might be using AI to do deep research on competitors and to get an advantage. Or it might be using AI to do deep research uh to investigate new procedures and new IP that they want to create. Uh, you may

have heard that Open AI is potentially uh soon going to have agents that cost thousands of dollars per month. I heard a rumor that or was in some uh uh website that OpenAI is going to be uh releasing agents that uh cost $20,000 a month, which seems ludicrous, but what if those agents can do research and develop products for you that eventually could make companies millions of dollars? I do believe that we're getting uh to that point and actually these agents. So, I talked about using OpenAI operator. Google has a version of this called Project Mariner which is going to do the same thing. Uh we've only seen

early video of it where uh what they do is they give a spreadsheet of some businesses and then the agent goes off and visits those businesses websites, finds contact information and fills out the spreadsheet. very rudimentary stuff, but I think I I believe that we're not far from the day where my AI agent uh will take my newsletter when I'm done, will publish it on my website, will uh go to ConvertKit and make it into an email, and before it's ready to send it out, we'll um you know, have say to me, "Hey, Marie, I'm done uh I'm done putting newsletter into ConvertKit. Uh do you want to give it a look over before I hit the send button?" and it'll be just like having a bunch of assistants working for me. Well, Sunder Pachai, the CEO of Google has said that within two to three years, operators like well, he uh agents like Project Mariner uh which is Google's version will be deeply embedded into our workflow within two to three years.

That's significant. I want to read you another quote from Demesis Sabis who is the uh co-founder of deep mind probably the the main creator of Gemini the language model and the the AI technology that uh Google is using today he said I think that we're going to end up with a kind of economics model where agents talk to other agents and negotiate things between themselves and then give you back the results and you'll have the service providers with agents as well that are offering ing services and maybe there's some bidding and cost and things like that involved and uh efficiency and then I hope from the user's perspective you have this assistant that's super capable just like a brilliant human assistant and can take care of a lot of the mundane things for you and I think if you follow that through that does imply a lot of changes to the structure of the web and the way we currently use it. I think there will be incredible opportunities that will appear economic and otherwise based on this change, but I think it's going to be a big disruption. So, we are in for they're just talking about the next few years. We know that Google's AI mode is coming and that is kind of like AI overviews except that uh it doesn't just do a search and give you retrieve information from an index. It uses something called

a query fan out technique where it takes the query and actually figures out what would the next queries be that you would follow up with this and uh and gives you results that are much more helpful. We will still need websites for the most uh like for a number of things but some types of websites will not be as necessary. Um so what does that do for for SEOs? Let's talk about job loss. I know a number of people who are uh fantastic SEOs who are currently looking for jobs and uh it's not for lack of skill. Um you know I I'll give a shout

out here to my friend Nick Leroy who runs seo jobs.com. I think that's a fantastic place to find jobs but even then it's getting harder and harder uh to find a job in this area. I talked to an SEO who runs an agency recently. Actually, I've had two conversations like this in the last few months where uh both of these people said they let go of a bunch of their junior copywriters.

Now, they're not having AI write all of the copy that they put on websites, but they used to have they used to pay people to write the initial copy and then it would go to a higher level editor uh to expand upon that. And now that initial stage they feel that AI does a better job and so those copywriters are out of work. I I think we'll get to the point I don't think image generation is quite at the point where it completely replaces the need for humans uh who do graphics but I think a lot of people who used to pay money for stock images uh or for professional logos a lot of them are finding that AI is providing answers. Similarly, uh uh video um you know, OpenAI Sora, I like using it because it produces funny videos. Uh they're not really completely lifelike, but Google will soon be coming out with VO, which I have seen makes incredible videos, and they will just continue to get better and better from here. And so, we're

going to see that a lot of jobs are lost on the digital marketing uh scene. I think that it goes well beyond that, though. I asked on uh X and on uh some other social media. Uh I said I was going to be doing this podcast and asked for some thoughts or questions and Cindy Crumb asked me a good question about the internet of things and how AI will change that. Think of all of the electronic stuff that you have in your house. Uh your fridge, your thermostat,

your your your vacuum cleaner, like all of these things that run on some form of electricity. Well, I think that all of those eventually will communicate via AI agents and what's going to happen is uh that everything will be automated. Um the other day, funny story, I we are always losing our power here at our house and uh the power went out during a storm a little while back and so we did what we always do. We grabbed some candles and some board games and uh live like you know the olden days with no electricity. Uh I'm going to talk about electricity in a minute. And uh and then

um you know and I was texting uh our hydro company to report an outage and uh anyways about like 10 o'clock at night we get a knock on the door and it's these two men from hydro and uh they went down they said you're the only house on the street that has no power so there must be something wrong with your house and after a bit of investigation they found out that our a fuse had blown somehow and um we never really figured out what caused it but it was easy to fix And so those men helped us. Well, I don't think we're long from the day where my home AI system would be able to determine what's going on. All of the wiring, all of the electricity, all of the appliances probably will be automated and optimized. I would imagine that um you know, the the way that energy is transmitted to uh appliances would be optimized for when we need them. And um we're going to see all sorts of improvements. Now, uh, if that

happens, those two men who came to my house, uh, will be out of a job. You know, there might be certain jobs that humans are needed for, but I think that we're going to see that AI will do just as good a job for, uh, for lawyers, for real estate agents, for even eventually, I believe that robots will do a lot of the jobs that humans currently do. I've told this story before, but imagine a grocery store uh, that is run by robots. And you might say, well, I don't want to go to a robot grocery store. I want to go to the one that has a human cashier.

But the store that's run by AI will have everything optimized. It'll have the perfect temperature. Uh, it'll have cashiers that um, uh, you know, say exactly the right things to you and know exactly where to find anything and can make really good suggestions and perhaps even integrate with your own personal agents. Uh, you know, you might have an AI agent in your fridge that's like, "Oh, uh, your milk is low and um, you know, it's been a while since you had that kind of cheese that you like, uh, and and suggest things for you." Um, and so, uh, you know, the grocery store owner is going to employ robots rather than people because these robots don't need breaks. They don't complain. Uh,

you know, they might break down from time to time, but you just replace them with another robot. Uh, and so I think we're going to see that a lot of human jobs are taken over with robots. And I I know that that's a terrifying thing. Um, but I think it's just inevitable. So, I want to take you back to the 1800s. Imagine I think a lot of us who

are listening to this podcast right now are like lamplighters. I don't know if you know what I'm talking about here, but a lamp lighter in the 1800s was somebody who would walk around every night with this big long stick with a wick on the end, and they would set the wick on fire and hold the stick up to the lamps that had gas in them. They'd light the gas, which would uh light the lamp in the city. And so, city lighting was all done by gas light. And uh funny story, I thought that you know the phrase gaslighting. Uh I I

thought it was people who used to be lamp lighters were called gaslighters. It actually turns out that that's from a movie. Well, actually that's not true. The movie came out in the 40s. In the 30s, there was a play about a man who tried to make his wife think she was crazy by uh continually turning the power down on the gas lights uh or or and and she and then denying that it happened. I'm really getting off track

here, but let's go back to lamp lighters. So, lamp lighters lost their jobs because of electricity. In 1879, Thomas Edison invented the incandescent light bulb that used electricity to light things. By the 1880s, these light bulbs were appearing in major cities and were were lighting the streets. And all sorts of people had complaints about the light that the the the light that was um litten by a lantern by gas was was much softer and electrical light was hard on our eyes. uh and and people would

complain about the new uh electricity that was coming out. Um and and electricity was dangerous. People would say, well, uh you know, they actually thought there was a a pervasive thought that electricity leaked out of the wires and there was a good chance that uh if you had electrical wires in your house that you could be electrocuted in your sleep. Um and you know, I don't think any cases of that happened, but a lot of people believed that. uh and there was a lot understandably so there was a lot of people who did not want electricity to take over the world. Now imagine your

world today without electricity. It's it's just a part of our lives just like I think the changes I'm going to talk about in a minute with AI are are going to be a part of our lives um whether we like it or not. So a lot of people didn't want electricity to happen. Let's go back even further to 1440. uh that's when the printing press was developed and people lost jobs there too. If you

were a scribe who uh this is how knowledge would be transferred is people would write it down by hand and would copy books uh and you know very few people could actually read because there weren't actually a lot of copies of books at that time. The printing press allowed us to spread knowledge way faster. Now when the printing press was developed uh apparently it took about 50 years for other printing presses to be used and then it took a couple of hundred years before it became main like commonplace that most people knew how to read and most people could get their information from print. when the in the time of the 1880s when or 1890s when electrical lighting started to happen, it took about 40 years before pretty much every household had electricity in it. Uh, and I think with AI, it's going to take about a decade before this technology is uh pervasive in pretty much every home. Now, electricity, you

know, like it made life easier for people. It it it it it allows us to stay up later and be more productive and use vacuums and washing machines and refrigerators. Like it it radically improved our life. Uh and you know, I think about how AI or electricity allowed um for factories to to be made. And maybe that's a good thing, maybe that's a bad thing. But uh if it wasn't

for electricity, we wouldn't have widespread automobiles like we have today that the factories were able to massproduce. They used to use steam production and then uh electrical engines made things uh work much much faster. Well, if you think about it, electricity, uh, if we didn't have the automobiles that we have today, I did some research and it turns out that it's estimated that vehicles since their creation have killed about 75 million people. So, electricity had some horrible consequences. Uh, and there were fires with electricity. Um, and so

I I think you you see what I'm I'm getting at is that there was a lot of negative to this new technology, yet it's pervasive in our lives today. Um, it's funny because when electricity started to become something that pretty much everybody had, that's where the phrase don't get left in the dark came from is if you were somebody who was not on board with electricity, you were probably behind and you had a disadvantage as compared to the rest of society. And I think that that's where we're going to be very soon with AI that um if you don't like AI, if you're just critical of AI, uh you know, rather than the people who accept it and try to figure out uh how to do good with it, uh you're going to be left in the dark, so to say. And I'm not completely naive, like I know that uh there's potential for bad to happen with AI. I think things are going to happen with our economy. I'm worried about the divide

between those who have technology and those who do not. Uh I think that AI will be used in war in ways that are hard to comprehend. Um but I also think that no matter what, like there's really nothing we can do to stop it. We can complain, we can argue, we can talk about the negatives, but regardless, it's it's going ahead. Now, I also think some of that's not fair. I think that

the power in creating AI lies in the hands of just a few corporations, massive corporations that are run on capitalism uh and require money. And so um you know this makes life unfair but also I think it is what it is like I can't see any scenario where we shut down the advancement of AI.

So, let me go on here to explain what I think the next decade is going to look like and how things are going to progress and how humanity is going to change and what I'm excited about. So, I talked about agents. We're going to start seeing more with agents and if you're in SEO, I would really be focusing on understanding agents. right now it's like it's difficult but eventually uh it's going to be the thing that everybody is going to need development help on. Um and I think that a lot of people who are jobless right now if you can just hang in there until uh businesses every business needs multiple agents. There's going to be

more than enough work for people who have that skill. The next big thing is wearables. So you've probably heard of Project Astra. I got to demo it at Google IO uh where uh I played Pictionary with Gemini and drew some things and Gemini guessed what it was and then uh Gem did Gemini draw something for me? I can't remember. But

uh regardless, Project Astra is where you can uh share the world in front of you with AI. And initially it'll be on our phones, but eventually it'll be in glasses. And that's not that far away. Meta already has glasses with AI in it. You can get Ray-B band glasses. And this

week I saw that a new version is coming out where not only will you be able to converse with AI in your glasses and say, "Hey, tell me more about this thing I'm looking at," but also uh there will be a screen that if you look down to the bottom right, you'll see a screen where you can get information from your glasses. And so Google has their version uh called Project Astra that will be coming out very very soon. Like I think it could be any day now that uh the majority of people who have Android phones should have access to project Astra. I don't know when the glasses are coming out, but I have heard that it should be this year. So that will change some things. It will change. I can

picture that I'm out in my yard and instead of me uh you know doing Google searches to figure out what is this bug on my plants, uh instead I'll just ask it of my glasses and my glasses will be able to identify. it probably will rely on Google Lens and will pull from websites as well as world knowledge to say, "Yeah, yeah, that looks like that's probably this type of bug and it's fine. Nothing to worry about." Or maybe it's this type of invasive parasite and uh you should really get a product and by the way, would you like me to connect with the nearest store that can sell it and deliver it to you? And you know, I never had to pick up a computer or a phone in order to do that. So, Project

Astra is going to change a lot about how we communicate in the world. The problem with uh AI and our glasses is that most of us don't really like doing voice search, including me. I I can't imagine walking around just talking to my glasses. Uh and uh I think that we won't have to do that for very long. So, Meta has this technology that they've been developing for a while and it's a wrist technology. If you right now put your

hands out in front of yourself and start typing your name. Imagine you're typing your name. As you're doing that, you're sending neural impulses down your arm and through your wrist into your fingers. And what this device does is it can determine what you are trying to type by uh how your fingers are moving. Eventually, you can move your fingers less and less and you can train your brain to send the signals for typing.

And so Meta says that we'll be able to type five times faster with our brains than we currently can with our fingers. Um, and you might not even need that. Uh, uh, there's other technology. I saw one where it looks at facial expressions. So you can just mouth the words that you were uh, thinking of of typing and AI will figure out what you were were trying to say. There will be

other techniques as well. And then of course some people will get neural implants. And I know that seems kind of out there. There's very few people right now that probably want to go and get a Neurolink implanted. Neurolink's not the only company that's doing uh brain computer interfaces. There's a lot of

really cool stuff that's happening. I read a story this week of a company that has a device that doesn't need invasive brain surgery to implant. uh it puts it in your jugular vein and it can pick up on the blood vessels uh that come from your brain and actually somehow decode thoughts from that which is pretty wild. Um I don't think these will be things where somebody can hack into and be like now I'm going to put thoughts in your brain. It'll be just like my phone that if I want to text my husband I pick up my phone I decide to open my messaging app I type what I want to type and I hit send. And I think it will be the same

thing that if I want to text my husband, I just think the thought to open up messaging and um you know, maybe I see a screen in front of me in my glasses. Uh I don't know if I if I need to have that and then I think what I'm going to type and then I think about hitting the send button and it goes to him. Now, that is kind of a wild thing to think about because the day will come where we will have all of humanity's information accessible in our brains. We used to transfer information years ago. If somebody wanted to know something, you had to learn it from somebody else. And

then we had print and then we had radio and television and the internet. And then we're going to have the stage where AI uh provides us information in our brains and we can communicate with anybody anywhere in our brains which I don't know what that does to mental health. Well, let me talk about health for a minute. This is one of the things I'm very excited about. You may have heard of AlphaFold. Alpha Fold is uh a

Google uh product that um is uh owned by Google's isomorphic labs and they have connections with certain pharmaceutical companies I believe Novartis uh and some others and they're going to be discovering drugs. AlphaFold does something called protein folding and it takes uh a PhD student who's learning about different proteins in the bo body. Apparently, it can take like 10 years to figure out all the configurations of one protein. And once you've figured that out and you know how it folds, then you can design drugs that bind with that protein. Well, alpha fold can do that in a very short amount of time. I can't

remember if it's minutes or hours, but it can do it very, very quickly. And so what they've realized is that there's a whole opportunity out here where uh AlphaFold can design drugs for almost any condition. And uh I think that that's terribly exciting. But I also think that the day will come where we don't need drugs. So let me share my vision. Whenever I'm at a conference uh

often I ask people this question when we're having a few drinks after the conference and I'm going to ask you this question too. If you could solve any problem in the world, what would it be? And it's very rare that people are like, "Oh, it's going to be money. Uh, you know, something that makes me a lot of money." People are good. People want to

solve sickness, disease, climate change, uh, poverty. There's, you know, everybody I talk to has this fantastic goal. Well, not everybody. Some people are like, "Huh, I never thought about that." I really think that it's in most of us to be able to solve big problems.

It's just that we don't have the resources to do it. Well, mine is I believe that uh and I don't know if it's me or just AI will solve pain and sickness for the vast majority of things. Now, some pain is necessary. If you break your arm, your body sends pain signals so that you don't use that arm while it's healing. But a lot of the time people have chronic pain that I really believe is the result of neural scripts. Uh I call them neural scripts.

They're basically that your brain has made this pattern of how it reacts to things. That is just not optimal. I think a lot of disease is that way too. We see uh I know a number of you who are listening to this have just chronic I don't feel well. Uh chronic being tired, having pain, joints are sore. I believe

all of that is mostly because of stress because our bodies were not meant to live in this world where we're constantly bombarded with information. And that is why I wonder what's going to happen as AI gets into our our our brains. Um, you know, we we need to figure out how to have time to rest. Well, right now I'm wearing this Google Pixel watch and it's attached to a Fitbit and if I get excited about something or if I get stressed about something, I get a notification on my watch that says, "We've noticed you're stressed or excited." Um, and it asks me to label it. It's funny because I've

been labeling this for like two years and I still haven't seen Google do anything with it or me get any information from it. But I'm sure that I'm teaching some machine learning system somewhere how to recognize when my body's signals are saying that something's wrong. And uh so if I label it as excited, then the watch says, "Gra, keep that feeling. Remember how that feels. Remember how you got there."

If I label it as stressed, then it offers to do uh to walk me through a relaxation exercise where it takes me through deep breathing and um you know, that can be very helpful. Well, I think that we can get to a point where AI in our bodies, whether it's in our brain, in our wearables, um, in some type of device, maybe our phones, uh, can recognize when our biological signals are when our BOF feedback is out of whack and what it takes to put us back in whack, if that's the right word. Um, and so I think that we will have a time where we are of optimal mental health and in most cases physical health as well. Uh, and maybe I'm being fanciful. I always find it fascinating to watch AI leaders. The vast majority of AI

leaders, if you see Demis Sabbath speak, he is a joyful man. And you would think that somebody who sees what's ahead, who sees where AI is taking the world, would be fearful. Uh and and yet all of these leaders seem to just have this joy and this excitement about them. I shouldn't say all. uh Jeffrey Hinton who is the uh one of the founders of AI really developed neural networks when you see him talk he's fearful about the future and he actually believes that AI could do damage uh to humanity that you know it reminds me of the time where uh where electricity was being used around the world and Thomas Edison who designed the light bulb uh actually I found a newspaper clipping from 1890 where he predicted did that one out of uh how many was it now? One out of 2,000 New Yorkers would

be killed by electricity if we eventually put alternating current into uh electricity, which is what we have today, and uh had a lot of fear about how electricity would harm society. So, I'm kind of going on a a a rabbit hole down a rabbit hole right now, but the vast majority of the AI leaders that I know really do believe that AI is changing our society for the better. So, what happens when we have AI in our brains or intertwined with our thought process? Like today, when I made this podcast, I made this podcast, but it wouldn't be the same without AI. I sat down with Chat GPT voice and uh talked back and forth about what I wanted to talk about and it gave me some feedback.

I had Gemini finish some sentences for me. Uh both of the tools did some research for me about electricity in the printing press and and stuff like that. Um and you know really what you're hearing is my thought that has been augmented by AI. I don't know if you've heard the story of Alph Go. So, Alph Go again is a Google uh product that came out of Deep Mind and it learned to play the game go. The game go is very very

complicated and it's not an easy one for a computer to solve. So, Demisabas tells this story about how when he developed AI uh the or the AI that he has been building, it started with Atari games. And when I heard the story, I was like, "Holy cow, that's how I learned as well." Uh, I used to play um, gosh, I loved my Atari. Uh, the game Pitfall. I

don't know if any of you remember it. You'd like take this little guy and jump across uh, on a vine and you had to land on the crocodile's head. Or was it an alligator? I'm not sure. And uh, and then end up on the other side and and if you missed, the alligator ate you or you drowned and then you had to do the whole thing over again. And each time you did

it, you would learn how to not make mistakes. And each time you got to the end, it would play this little thing and uh and then your dopamine level would go up and you'd want to do the next level and and learn again. Well, this is how AI learned and this is how Alph Go learned was by playing games against itself. And every time it won, it would learn that this was a good thinking pattern to have and when it lost, it would learn, okay, well, that something wasn't quite optimal in that thinking pattern. So, there was a a famous and there's a great documentary that I'd encourage you to watch. It's on YouTube

uh if you look up Alph Go and Deep Mind. And it tells the story of how Alph Go played against the world's champion in Go. And they tell this uh story of the infamous move 37. So, move 37, the computer was making a move and it made a move that no human would ever make. And you could tell that the the people the team behind Alph Go was like kind of worried. They're like, "What happened?

Was there a mistake?" You know, it was almost embarrassing the move that it made. And sure enough, by the end of the game, the computer won. And the reason it won was what was set up by this move 37. Move 37 was something no human had ever thought of before, at least as far as is in recorded history. And uh and so

this showed us that AI can come up with some innovative things. And now the game of go did not die when AI overtook it. In fact, it inspired many people to become better at go. Just like when uh AI started to play chess, it's not like it destroyed chess. It made people better at playing chess. AI is designed

to make people better. It has the potential to make us healthier and it will continue to innovate and to improve. Um I really really believe that we are headed into a world where AI makes our lives better. Now I know that doesn't help those of you who are out of a job right now and I know if I think back to the time of the lamp lighters you know it took like 40 years for technology to change so that uh the number of new jobs that were created with electricity was far greater than those who were lost but those who were lamp lighters at the time went through hardship and I know some of you are going through hardship right now. So I want to just share a few things on how I think uh you what I think you can do but just like the lamplighters I can't see where technology is going completely I can just give you my thoughts so the first thing I would say is if you are currently in a job I would encourage you to find AI find ways to bring AI into your business start with one little thing learn to vibe code learn to code with the help of AI whether you use chatbt a lot of people use claude I haven't talked about Claude. I I don't

know why I don't use it. I think I just really feel like one of either uh Google Chatt or uh Grock will be the AI that everybody uses and maybe it'll be a multitude. Uh but Claude does a great job of programming as well. The new Gemini 2.5 is available in cursor and a lot of people have said that it is by far the best. So uh that's something to

try as well. But I'd encourage you to try to solve a problem, try to create something. Um, Thomas Edison has this phrase where he said, "I have not failed 10,000 times. I've successfully found 10,000 ways that did that will not work." And so, I would encourage you to um just start doing things, trying to do things with AI, and knowing that you're going to fail. Uh, and knowing that, you

know, my first times that I tried to code things, it failed. But then when I tried to do it the next time, I didn't have to go through all those initial steps of figuring out what VS Code is and figuring out what, you know, what to paste where. Uh, and you'll get better each time that you try something. Uh, here's a a prompt that you can use in any of the tools. If you have access to a thinking model, actually, I think the best one to use is if you go to a studio.google.com, google.com in the

dropdown for models you can choose the latest version of Gemini which is Gemini 2.5 Pro experimental 0325 that stands for March 25th and uh when it was released and it's a thinking model and all of Gemini's models are going to be thinking models from this point on what that means is that it doesn't just spit out a response it takes some time to process the response which means that you get a better response so here's a prompt you can Hi, I want to learn how to use AI in a way that will make a significant difference in my life. Ask me questions one at a time to help us figure out what to learn and have a conversation with the AI about what you can do. Now, you know, it might say things that are completely out of whack and and doesn't make any sense. I've had some conversations like this where I'm like, "Okay, well, that wasn't helpful."

And then I've had other conversations that really have helped me figure out my direction and where I'm headed. Um, the next thing that I would recommend is that you stay up todate with what's happening in AI, which is a really hard thing to do. Like just this last week, so many things happened in AI. Uh, I do have a newsletter, mariehanes.com/newsletter. It used to be

heavyheavy into SEO. I still cover SEO at the end of the newsletter, but the main part of the newsletter, which is free, is for uh all that's happened in AI within the last week or so. Sometimes it takes me a couple weeks to get it out. Um, and so staying on top of what's happening is important because the people who understand how AI works and how AI is changing our world are going to be the most important people in the world. I believe now if you don't currently have a job and this is tough.

I I do believe that the time is coming where anybody with skills in the digital world will be in great demand. I mean, every business is going to need multiple agents and there will be a huge need for people who understand them. However, right now, if you're out of work, I I don't know what you do. I think some people will need to take other jobs that are not related to SEO and maybe work on learning AI in the background until the opportunities uh come out. I would recommend for some of you that you become an expert in AI in a particular area. Like let's say right now you do

SEO for dentists and you're finding that it's getting harder and harder uh to get a job doing SEO for dentists. Well, you could research how AI is changing dentistry. You could start a newsletter on it. You could write a blog on uh how AI is changing that particular industry and then become known as the go-to place for dentists uh as dentists over the next few years start trying to figure out how do I put AI into my practice? How do I use it to optimize my business and and make me more money? Um one thing

I would say is don't be afraid to share. We have made this culture where we like to criticize so much. I'm sure I'll get comments on this podcast uh you know saying oh you love AI when it's going to destroy lives and people just love to criticize and I what I would say is that there are far more people who get enjoyment out of what you share but just don't share and leave comments. So I would encourage you to uh to share what you learn. Um the next thing I would recommend is like I said before learn to vibe code uh because um I think coding is going to be very very important and I think eventually everybody is going to be able to uh make products with AI. Now

you could have some short-term income by uh developing products that you could sell. Uh a person I would encourage you to to watch on YouTube is Mark Louu. Mark Lou inspired me to uh create the tools that I'm creating with Search Console and he's got all sorts of advice on how you can make money with these. The thing is though, I don't think that's long term because I think a lot of these tools eventually everybody will have their own AI assistants that will just do it for you. Um and then I I just want to share a little bit of a personal story. My

husband has this saying and I I I didn't like it when he said it at first. And it's funny as I was recording this podcast, I recorded it for a full hour and then lost the entire recording and then uh David said the thing he always says, "Well, it's not happening to you, it's happening for you." I have been through a a really bad uh number of of years. A lot of bad stuff has happened that some of you heard the story of how Google Maps stranded me in the woods and I ended up spending the night in a a puddle uh and my Pixel phone died just as I was calling 911. And the cops laughed at me because my license plate at the time said, "Thank you, Google." I

got rid of that because people were cutting me off on the highway. At the same time, I had an undiagnosed 8 millimeter kidney stone. I had like so many things went wrong in my life and also I was running a business which uh I had 12 incredible employees that I laid off. Um and it was a really really difficult time for me. So that was 2022 and uh at the same time that's when chatbt came out and I believe that had my life been going in a great direction had I been making uh millions of dollars in a successful business then I would have continued in that direction and I wouldn't have spent all of this time studying AI and so I think everything happens for a reason and I think even when you're really down and uh struggling that there is hope because I thoroughly believe um that uh AI is going to improve our lives for the better. Uh the other thing that I would

highly recommend you do is learn to prompt, learn to communicate with language models. I have a new free email uh if you go to mariehannes.comprompts p r o m pts. Uh and sign up there. You'll get a free weekly email with something that can inspire you to prompt. You can learn

what language models are. uh do a little bit of introspection with them and uh learn, you know, how to make great images. Every week I'm going to send you an an interesting thing on how to prompt. I also have a community called the search bar where you can go completely for free. Again, community.mmariehannes.com and I write

all of me and some other great uh members write all of the cool stuff that's happening in AI so you can stay up todate in real time. There is a paid section as well for those of us who go deeper. We have brainstorming meetings to talk about how do we bring AI to our clients? How do we prosper from learning this uh new technology? Well, I have to say I I never know how to finish these episodes. I always uh have this great

time talking and then I get to the end and I'm like, oh, what do I say? So, I gave my episode notes to Gemini and asked Gemini to write the end. So, here's what Gemini said. We've talked about the massive AI investments and the grand future visions and it can feel distant from where we are now. Maybe just using prompts or feeling job anxiety. So, how do we get from here to

there? I think the answer is simpler and more profound than we realize. We are the bridge. We're the ones living through this shift, learning to connect today's tools with tomorrow's potential. Yes, disruption is happening, but disruption clears space. It demands the

human skills of directing this new intelligence of finding opportunities where our insight meets AI AI's power. So my final thought is this. This is my final thought or Geminis's actually I think it's intertwined. Don't just watch the change happen. Be a part of shaping it. Start

laying your stone on that bridge. Learn this new language of AI. Experiment. Try building something. Because the future isn't just something that arrives. It's

something we actively create. One prompt, one idea at a time. Thanks so much for listening and I wish you the best of luck with everything.