---
video_title: "All of the Changes in the Quality Rater Guidelines Jan 2025 Update"
video_id: 7vBIxJA6NaQ
channel_name: "Marie Haynes "
channel_id: UC5JCNbPrfBAhnVG1Cfx25qA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vBIxJA6NaQ
video_date: 2025-02-21
video_description: |
  The January 2025 update of Google's Quality Rater Guidelines had many important changes including sections on:
  -filler content
  -paraphrased content
  -Using AI in content creation
  -Expired domains
  -Scaled content abuse
  
  This was a live episode of Search News You Can Use filmed in The Search Bar.
  Buy My 2025 edition of my QRG checklist you can use to assess your site like a quality rater: 
  https://www.mariehaynes.com/products/qrg-workbook-2025/
  Join the Search Bar: 
  https://community.mariehaynes.com/
---
All right. Welcome to a live episode of Search News You Can Use with me, Dr. Marie Haynes. This is something I have not done before, gone live in my network in the search bar. Uh so, we'll see how it goes. I'm hoping

that I'm going to be able to uh to screen share. What we're going to do is we're going to talk about the quality rater guidelines, one of my favorite topics to talk about. Google's quality rater guidelines have updated uh recently in January. The last couple of years when the rater guidelines updated, there really wasn't that much worth talking about, but this time there is. There's there's a lot of really interesting stuff in these guidelines.

And so, we're going to go through that live. We're going to talk about filler content, uh about the importance of main content. Uh filler content is something that if you're a recipe site owner, you're really going to want to uh pay attention to. And um also stuff on expired domains, on scaled content abuse. There's so much that has been added. The most interesting thing I

think that was added to the rater guidelines is uh stuff on paraphrasing. So, we're going to talk about that as well. If you are here with me live in this webinar, uh I see as we're doing this right now, we've got uh quite a few of you here. There's a chat area. Um maybe if one of you could just say hello in the chat so then I know it's working.

Oh, look at that. Several people are typing. Uh okay, excellent. So, it's working. Um you're welcome to ask questions as I go along. And uh if I

don't cover your question, then at the end of this discussion, I'm going to have a whole Q&A section. I'm happy to stay as long as it takes to answer your questions uh as far as I can on the QRG. So, let me also say that if you're here on the call with me, at the end of this call before we go into the Q&A, I'm going to give you a code, a discount code uh where you can buy my new book. Uh some of you know, some of you have bought my previous versions of the quality rater guidelines checklist. I know some of you use it for site audits and uh and I I I'm amazed when I go to conferences and uh and see people say, you know, I I use your book all the time. I I really love that you find it

helpful. Um I completely rewrote the whole thing because uh there are so many changes in these quality rater guidelines. And so, uh that book will be going on for sale at uh $59.99. And um those of you who are on the call will get a 25% discount. And if you're a

Search Bar Pro member, part of the private community, which I'll share a little bit more about that in a minute, uh you get the book for free. So, uh more on that soon. So, let's jump right in and talk about uh the rater guidelines. Before I start screen sharing, I want to share uh a fair amount about why we care. Why it matters.

When these guidelines first came out, they they've been around for many years. They were hidden. They weren't something that Google would uh share with people. And in fact, there was one year when the guidelines got leaked. I I don't know how many of you remember this, but they got leaked and I had a leaked copy. And

I actually went out and bought the domain name leakqualityraterguidelines.com. And then it turns out that everybody who was posting stuff from the leaked guidelines uh got a little note from Google legal team saying, "Take it down." Um and then at one point, Google said, "You know what? Why don't we share these with everybody?" And it really

makes sense. I mean, what are you going to do? You're going to go and make your websites better. It's not like we're That's what Google wants. They want us to to make high-quality websites.

So, the guidelines are written for these people called quality raters. And Google uh you know what? I'm going to find a link and I'll put it here in the chat. Um there's a a document that uh you know what? I don't have it. I'll I'll have to

put it to another time. There's a document that Google published, uh a PDF, and uh somebody can find it. It's it starts with SQR G, and it's a PDF that Google published all about the uh rater guidelines, what the raters are for. And there is so much information. I would encourage you to read that alongside the guidelines themselves.

Um And they told us, now the last time Google published this, which has been a few years, that there are 16,000 quality raters. Now, that number may have changed. Thank you, Himel. Uh that looks like is it the one? Yes, I think that is the one.

Um 16,000 quality raters. That's a lot of people. These are people that are not directly employed by Google, but they're contracted out through companies. And you may have heard, I don't know if it was last year or the year before, that Google ended their contract with one of these companies. And um you know, a lot of people speculated, "Well, maybe it's because now they don't need people to rate the the quality of search results.

And maybe they're doing it all with AI." There's a fantastic article that Don Anderson wrote on Search Engine Land that talks about how eventually quality raters may be replaced with AI, uh which is kind of a scary thought, but it turns out that AI can in some cases do a better job than uh than humans. But these guidelines are written for these 16,000 people or however many they have now. And what they are are guidelines on rating search results. So, Google actually tells us in that document that I just mentioned that this is how it works. Let's say a Google engineer wants

to implement a new change to search. And they have this idea that, you know, if we implement this algorithm, it's going to make the quality of search results better. Well, what they'll do is they'll give that to the quality raters. They'll say, "Here's Google's current list of uh search rankings for" and they have a set of queries that they'll give to the the quality raters. And here's the new system with the engineers' uh changes put in it. And the raters go through

with and we'll look at some of this. There's a lot more in my book on the different scales that the raters use. They're rating page quality, which is synonymous with E-E-A-T. And they're rating needs met, which is so important, how well uh this meets the needs of searchers. And there's all sorts of questions on, you know, how would a rater know that? Uh there's a lot more

in my book on uh SEO in the Gemini era on on that. And I'm happy to answer questions again in the Q&A section. Um on how that works. But what happens is as the raters are rating, so they're saying, you know, uh this is more helpful or this site's more helpful, then let's say well, so then that produces a score. We learned in the DOJ versus Google trial testimonies that that score is called an IS score, information satisfaction.

And uh the IS score, if it's higher on this side, it means that the changes that the engineers suggested actually resulted in higher quality results. And so, Google balances well, the new change, you know, maybe it's going to make the search results slower. And you know, they weigh all of the different factors. Maybe it's going to cost a lot more. Uh and they weigh everything with the goal of making the the quality higher uh without, you know, uh ruining the um the speed at which search results come to to users. And so, the raters uh

are providing this score. Now, something never sat well with me in this whole process. I don't know how many engineers there are at Google. I mean, I'm sure there's quite a few. But 16,000 quality raters. They're paid, I believe,

uh last I heard on average, I think it's $15 an hour. Um imagine I just did some really quick napkin math. If you had if they worked 15 hours a week at $15 an hour, I believe you're looking at something like $3 million a week uh to have these people rate results. That's a lot for uh Google search engineer changes. Well, then I read in uh again, the DOJ versus Google trial, the Douglas Ord testimony. Uh that link is in the search

bar. If you cannot find it, reach out to me. I'll I'll uh you know what? I'm going to get it right now because I know I have that one handy. Uh cuz you probably have not read the Douglas Ord testimony, and it's worth setting aside uh some time to like several hours to to read it. Um I talk

all the time about the Pandu Nayak testimony, but this one talks a lot about how the machine learning systems work in search. And these machine learning systems um they are trying to produce uh a good high-quality algorithm. Well, at some point in this testimony, Douglas Ord talks about two sets of results. Remember I said there's uh the current results, and then there's the one that new engineer wants to to or an engineer wants to implement. Well, what they talk about uh uh Oh, Gagan said the reported contract for uh yeah, for quality raters was around $84 million. And that's just some of the

quality raters. Like, it's a lot that they spend on these quality raters. Um And so, uh the testimony talks about two sets of results that are shown to the raters. One they called frozen results, and that's the current search algorithm, I believe. It doesn't say that 100% for sure. But the other one is called

retrained results. And that's what kind of blew my mind because throughout the Pandu Nayak testimony and the Douglas Ord testimony, they talk repeatedly about how Google search is run by uh primarily by machine learning systems. Um I don't know how much to get into cuz we want to get into the rater guidelines. Uh but they are trained on click signals. They're trained on a multitude of signals where the goal is to be producing high-quality helpful results. So, the quality raters are not

just looking at changes that a human engineer wants to implement. They're also looking at what the machine learning system wants to implement as a new algorithm. And that's why many years ago Google employee Ben Gomes said in a CNBC article that the rater guidelines are not Google's algorithm, but they show where they want the algorithm to go. And so, if we focus on understanding the rater guidelines and even in Google's uh uh documentation on creating helpful content, they talk about how the um the rater guidelines uh is something that if we can align with the rater guidelines, then we align, they say, conceptually with what Google's algorithms are trying to reward. And I know uh SEOs are really good at pointing out areas where it doesn't work. And that's because it's

learning. It's machine learning systems. And so, they're getting better and better at uh learning what to uh to produce, but uh they're not perfect yet. So, when there are changes to the rater guidelines, we pay attention because many years ago, well, not many years ago, 2018, you remember the medic update that happened uh August 1st, 2018, that was a core update. And in July of 2018, Google did an update to the quality rater guidelines. And they didn't make

many changes, but they added three words in one part, safety of users. And I thought, well, that's kind of an odd thing to just add. Like, why bother rewriting these guidelines just to add safety of users? And sure enough, with the next uh core update, we saw all these changes related to EAT where medical content that was written lacking medical EAT, that was before the second E was added, for experience, um was uh was demoted. And so, when there's a change in the rater guidelines, it means that Google wants to be training their systems to be able to recognize these things algorithmically. So, that's that's the

whole reason why we pay attention. Um before I move on to the actual guidelines themselves, if you have a question about anything I've just said, feel free to pop it in the chat because I want to be sure that everybody kind of understands what's happening here. And let me get the guidelines up.

And we don't need the audio. All right. Oh, it looks like it's working. Uh what I did was I went through the guidelines and um and highlighted everything that's changed. I started off doing it with Gemini uh Gemini in AI Studio. And um

it uh it was good, but it actually turns out it was just faster for me to put the two versions. I'm going to put the rater guidelines in the chat. Here is the current version of the rater guidelines. And you can find the previous version on archive.org.

Uh and so, if you want to if you want to compare just like I did. Now, we're not going to go through every single change because we would be here for multiple hours. Uh and but the things that I've highlighted here are the things that have changed. So, some of them I don't care so much for. This is just something about using uh some browsers will block ads. The raters are

instructed to look at ads. Uh I remember years ago I don't know how many of you remember in the Moz Q&A forums uh a gentleman named Eagle who was one of my mentors. And he said to me, I don't ever turn your ad blocker off. He says, because I want you to see the um experience that users see. And so, uh so, this is raters are meant to look at pages with ad blockers off.

Um Ads are important uh in terms of user experience. We'll get to ads uh most likely in a minute, although I'm not sure if much has changed in terms of ads. There's a lot in my workbook on that. So, there if you have not read the guidelines, like there's a lot in here uh that's important. They added this line here about generative AI.

Pardon me. Generative AI is a type of machine learning model that can take what it's learned from the examples it has been provided. Now, the examples it has been provided, let's talk about machine learning. Uh I I forgot to mention something very, very important. And I'm going to search through This is my favorite line of the rater guidelines is that raters the ratings are used to improve search results by providing examples of helpful and unhelpful results for different searchers. This is how machine learning

works is we give examples of what's good and of what's not so good. And so, now let's say a quality rater visits your site. And you can tell that. You can go to GA4, you can look in the referral section. And if you look for rater hub, you probably have had raters visit your site. It means absolutely nothing to

your site. They are just very quickly looking at every single site in the SERPs that they've been given and very quickly rating them in terms of page quality needs met. That doesn't change the ranking of your website. It just helps provide Google. Like, let's say um some spammer uh created a website that uh and they faked EAT. We're going to

talk about how people did that in just a minute. Uh and and you can see that like this is not that should be ranking here. It's very low quality. That would get flagged as an unhelpful result. Uh and there's also a place where they talk about how the raters use a grid and document uh Oh, where is the grid? That's not the

one I was looking for. Here we go. A page quality grid to record your observations about the page quality characteristics of the landing page. They're basically saying, uh here's what's good about this page or here's what's bad about this page. And then I believe that that's used by AI as well to help create an algorithm that um does a better job at uh predicting what is helpful or not. Okay. So, I I uh I

wanted to make sure that I mentioned that. Let's get back to our our recording or our uh highlighting here. All right. So, it's new in the guidelines that Google uh said what generative AI is. They are not against generative AI. There is a

document that Google published that talks about their recommendations for AI. I'll give you that, too. AI use Google. Um guidelines. Because Google is not against using AI. In fact, if you can use AI to

make your content better, then go for it. Uh and I use AI all the time. I really love using Notebook LM. I'll take something like actually I used Notebook LM as I was writing my quality rater's book. It didn't write the whole book for me, but I would say things like, write a description of what's important about experience based on what's in this book. And uh and then it

helps me. I might I might edit what it gave me, but uh but it's not um it's it's fine to use AI. So, but obviously there are times where people use AI where it is not good. Uh this was changed and I thought this was interesting. They talk about the common uses of beneficial pages. Every page on

the web, in order to be high-quality, has to be beneficial for searchers. Uh they used This used to say to allow users to post questions for other users to answer. And they changed it to people. Now, that just might be Sometimes they make changes in the rater guidelines, they add punctuation, they just randomly kind of change a few words. I think this is significant. Who

in the chat I will be very impressed if any of you could mention There is a project that Google's coming out with that this is very relevant to. And if anybody can get it, I'll I'll shout you out. I'd be very, very impressed. It's not Project Astra. If you've been reading my notes, you'll know.

Somebody is typing. Because soon it's not going to be just people who are rapidly navigating the web. There's going to be uh And bots, yeah. You almost got it there. It's Project Mariner is is what it's called.

And uh I encourage you to look that up. If you're if you're reading my notes uh every week, you'll you know, I've been writing about it a fair amount. Project Mariner is an AI agent that will, and this is a Google thing that is happening. You might have heard of ChatGPT's or OpenAI's uh operator. It's the same as that. Although, I think

Google's often they seem like they're slower in getting things out. I think they have more responsibility to move safely because this is going to change things. Uh soon we will have AI agents that use our browser just like they are uh our employees. I picture that when I publish my newsletter, I can create an agent uh via Project Mariner that will proofread my newsletter, um go ahead and put it in the search bar, go ahead and open up my ConvertKit, write an email for me to send out to you, and uh and then present it to me for approval before it goes ahead ahead and hit send. And this will save so much time. We're

already seeing agents in use if you have used Google's deep research. You can only get deep research if you pay for Gemini advanced, which I think is worth paying for. You'll see all sorts of people say, "Well, I think ChatGPT is better." I have not used ChatGPT's deep research because that's part of the $200 a month program, which I haven't pulled the trigger on yet. But Gemini advanced does deep research, which goes out and it doesn't just find information on websites. It browses the website and

then from what it reads, it determines where to go next on the web and can produce this research on on many, many things. So anyways, I'm going too too long on this. This is not our biggest change, but our websites need to be It's interesting that they changed it to people because we still even though machines and agents are going to be browsing our websites, what Google needs is websites that are written for people is what I'm trying to say in a very long way. There's a ton in here on YMYL. If you're not sure about whether your topics are YMYL, there's a load of stuff if you just control F for YMYL in the guidelines.

There's a lot of guidance in here. All right, let's get to the next change. The good stuff's coming, I promise. So I'll just point out this. This is not new, but the the raters are given two scales to rate pages on. One is overall

page quality. In earlier versions of the quality rater guidelines, page quality was actually called EAT. They replaced multiple versions of like where it said EAT with page quality several years ago. So EAT and we've a lot of people we've been focused on author bios. The your author is still important and we in the book we go through a lot about understanding whether your author has the EAT to write things. It's not the

author bio that's important though. There needs to be connections that, you know, the person who created this content is qualified to to write this or at least for the subject matter is is important. And there are always questions on EAT. So if you have questions about that, again in the Q&A time we'll do that. So page quality.

Main content. We're going to talk about main content in a minute. Whenever you see MC in the guidelines, it stands for main content and Google wants to see that the main content was made with effort. They There was something I saw posted on social that Gary Illyes was from Google was at I think it was a lead as event in London and said that this year Google is really going to be focusing on originality and and and effort. Yes, as well, Renee. Effort is

the extent to which a human being actively worked to create satisfying content. That's not new, that's been in there for a while, but you'll see that there's some new stuff that we're we're going to get to soon. To go through the full amazingness of the rater guidelines would take forever. I do want to get to the new stuff. Let's keep going. Reputation.

In my book, I link to a GPT that I created that'll help you brainstorm on building your reputation. If you don't have the reputation for your topics, you can build it. You know, I used to be a veterinarian. Why am I talking to you about Google algorithms? Because I built the reputation for it. And so anybody

can build a reputation. Okay. Please tell me that there are highlighted stuff. There we go. Okay.

I'm not going to focus The next little bit is about deception. I think that most of you who are Did you practice talking to animals about SEO first? You know, my pets hear a lot of me talking about SEO. We won't go there though, I'll start sounding kind of crazy. They heard a lot of this talk too as my my cats know a lot about the rater guidelines now.

There is a lot about deception and your if your page is created just to make money and your primary purpose is not to help people, which I know is a really tough thing to judge, but this really I believe deception and you know, deceiving users, Google's mostly talking about really nefarious stuff, which I'm sure those of you in the chat are not are not doing. Now, here's where we get to some interesting stuff. Remember we talked about MC, the main content. Here are if any of these criteria apply, the page is to be given the rating of lowest in terms of of of quality. It used to say the main content is copied, auto generated, or otherwise created without adequate effort.

Now it says little to no effort. This is new, little to no originality. I'm going to repeat this multiple times because I know that some of you who are in this chat or in this call have this issue on your website. You have content that is original in terms of words. If I took your content and I copied and pasted it and put it into search, nobody else has written those words.

However, there's very little that has been added to the body of knowledge that exists in the web. And I I know it's kind of hard to grasp like how would Google know? Let me say that if I could take a piece of content and put it into ChatGPT or Gemini and say um "What in this content is original to this piece of content that a reader could not find elsewhere on the web?" Those tools can tell me. Now, you don't you know that when I do a search, Google's not going to be running every single page through Gemini to tell me what's original. However, have you tried

to get content indexed lately? I I When you get your content indexed, it gets tokenized. What that means is Google converts it into vectors. And if this is all Greek to you, there's a ton of stuff in the search bar paid area. We've been talking for forever about vectors. I love talking about vectors.

Your content gets transferred into into vectors, into tokens. And so as it gets indexed, that's what happens is Google learns to extract the things that are important. I think if I can ask ChatGPT if your content is original, the Google's guidance on helpful content, the very first point is whether it adds its original original research, insight, if it's an insightful. And so those things are what it takes to rank now. And this is why many of the sites that were impacted by the helpful content update, they were decent sites, they were good sites that if I looked at that site, I could learn stuff. However,

there are hundreds of other sites that talked on that same subject. So it says, "And the main content adds no value compared to similar pages on the web." This is something that is extremely important. And Renee says, "I think that a recipe site can suffer from this even after trying really hard." And I I thoroughly agree with you, Renee. And there's more that

is coming. I'm sure you've seen the bit about filler content. It is not good to be a recipe blogger right now. And I I think the reason is I'm not I'm really hesitating in how I say this because you if you know me, you know that I love recipe bloggers. I think they're some of the most amazing creative people, but also I use Gemini to get my recipes. This weekend Gemini

taught me how to make buns using I Is it called tangzhong? I never heard of it before. It's the way that in Asian recipes, you can make this thing with flour and water and mix it all together before you put it in the bread. They were so fluffy. And I know I could learn that from a website, but but you know, I'm using AI for all of my recipes. Now, I am ahead of the curve in

terms of using AI for things like that, but more and more people are going to do this. And and so I really feel for for recipe bloggers. And Gagan says, "Also, this originality part aligns with having more net new content on the web so that Google can further train Gemini to make it better." Yes. I hear people saying, "Well, we're going to run out of things for AI to to train on." And

now, let's say there's a new Google update. You know, what incentive do I have to write about the I just wrote about the December core update. If AI is just going to take my stuff and give it as an answer. Well, there are things that that I can add from my experience. There's things that only I can see that AI at this point can't determine. You know, I

have all of these clients that I can say, "Oh, this type of site was impacted, this and that." And me doing that puts me in the AI answer and improves my brand. If you ask ChatGPT or Gemini, "Who can I consult with about Google algorithm updates?" They generally recommend me along with other people. And that's because I'm creating this original and insightful content.

The rater guidelines say throughout the place that people I I would encourage you to do a control F and search for known for. You need to be known for your topic if you're going to be producing content on the web. Um Xavier, do we know if Google treats news sites and the rest of the internet the same way? Yeah, well, okay. So, there is there are different algorithms for news.

However, if you run a news site and you are we're going to get to paraphrasing. You know what? I'm going to come back to that question, Xavier, because it talks extensively about paraphrasing. Renee, do you have any thoughts on niches that will thrive under this? Yeah, like okay.

If you are a hobby if you have a hobby I was learning to do worm make worm tea. That sounds really bizarre, but my husband and I do composting composting and he we have worms in the compost and you can take the the worm poop turns into soil and you can use it as fertilizer and I learned that you can you can make worm tea out of like kind of like steeping this worm poop. I won't get into all the details and then use that as fertilizer for your plants. Well, I did deep research with Gemini and Gemini gave me this massive list of really cool websites of people who had pictures of like here's how I made the little tea bag. Here's you know, here's the container that I put it in. Like all of

these things I must have spent hours going through these websites. Now, I didn't purchase anything through affiliate links, but that's kind of how websites work. I do think that if you are in an area where you have skills that and you have knowledge that the web is not currently filled with then you can thrive under this. This originality also affects sites focusing on historical facts. I did a site review recently for a site that was used by many students because it was like an encyclopedia type site and it was devastated by core update after core update. The site had

no quality issues as far as I could see. It's just that it was its main point was to focus on information that already existed on the web. So, if your unique selling point is that you're good at putting information together, it's not enough. You need to be original. If the algo is different for different niches, there has to be different guidelines for scoring sites.

Well, keep in mind that what the machine learning systems are trying to do and it's not just one system is they are trying to find examples of like here's good content, here's good or bad content. So, let's say I show the guidelines thousands of examples of truly original content in multiple different niches and I show at the guidelines I show the the machine learning systems that and I show them examples of content that is just regurgitated from the rest of the web. I think that the machine learning systems can pick up the qualities of original content. I think again, if I can ask chat GPT is there anything original in this that doesn't exist on the rest of the web, it can pick that up. So, it's not like the algorithm knows every single niche. It's learning the signals

of what tends to make something original and helpful. One of the things I think works really well is statistics, is research. If you can do a survey, if you can do a study of some sort, then that's the type of thing that can be considered original. All right, we're going to do more on originality cuz that's just the start and if you're already upset, you're going to be more upset in a few minutes. Gag and also recently AI overviews showing side by side comparisons. Yeah,

for A versus B product reviews. Um I I posted about that in my notes last week, right? That you're seeing AI overviews now with products in them. I do work with a site that is an affiliate site that makes recommendations on products and there's almost no reason to go to this site now, you know, unless Google is pulling from that site, which they're not. They they were impacted. They came

to me because they were impacted by certain updates. Um so, let's say you have an affiliate website and and you're writing about, you know, here's what's great about dishwashers. I'll say dishwashers cuz mine just broke. And you know, you can get all the reviews on the web, you can get all these things, but like Google's already got that information. You need to be providing something that people would want to see even if they have read what's already on the web. There's a

patent I'll see if I I can find it here. A Google patent on something called information gain and that's something that I would encourage you to read where they can give Google says they can give a score to documents that says, well, if a reader has already read certain documents on this topic how much would they stand to gain from reading this document as well? And so, that's something that I think we're going to see more and more of is the importance of having unique unique content. Um okay, let's go. We're going to skip through the harmful, misleading, untrustworthy, you know, there's lots we could talk about here, but I that's not what I want to focus on in this top talk. Again, this is new

this part that I highlighted here about deceptive page purpose. I don't know why they added this new thing. It was very very similar to what was there before, so they may have just been clarifying some stuff. Um And they give some examples page with deliberately inaccurate information to promote products. So, I there must be some things that are going on in terms of I mean there's always different people trying to run different scams.

One of the things that that I did want to talk about here is oh yeah, is these sections here Let me move it up there. Relate to people who are trying to fake EAT and I did not think it was possible to fake EAT and I will some of you might remember probably about two years ago or so, I put on Twitter on X this example of like this great site that was demonstrating experience and it was an HVAC site that had like pictures from inside their their factory and all all these different things and it turns out that it was an elaborate elaborate fake. And it fooled me because I'm trained to to look at EAT just like Google did after reading you know, studying these guidelines for so long. What they did was they made fake LinkedIn profiles, they added a Yelp profile, they took pictures and they used Photoshop to put their logo on these pictures. Like they did all sorts of things to try to fake that they were a legitimate business and I believe they're not ranking anymore. I haven't

checked them recently. Um but it says, you know, a website might claim to have a physical brick and mortar store, but if in fact only exists online. That's significant. I have seen multiple times that sites that have been impacted by core updates often get outranked by sites with physical stores and it makes sense. Let's say you sell supplements online and you're getting outranked by a business that actually has physical stores where they sell supplements.

Well, those physical stores, they're dealing with customers every day. They're they know the questions that customers have. They have real world experience that you're not going to replicate. I saw some people saying, okay, well, maybe now the way to rank is to add a shop to my I and one well, I won't tell that example. I don't want to talk about how clients wanted to to spam, but and I don't want to you know, try to think of ways to manipulate because Google's getting better and better at determining who is legitimate. And

here's another one. A web page or offer website with fake owner or content creator profiles. Super interesting, right? We've had all of these discussions on whether author author bios matter for EAT and I remember many years ago, I worked with a site owner and they wanted to create these fake authors and link them to like actual scholar pages from authors and it didn't work well for them, but I'm sure some people are getting away with this type of thing. I would highly encourage you on your website to have actual pictures of you, of your team, of your facilities if that is appropriate and and so yes, Gag and and if Gag and says I also guess Google might be assuming if someone is selling products or services, it's in their best interest to provide the best possible info about their products or services. So,

you really really want to make it clear that you are legitimate people, that you're not just some kid in their basement who created a website for the sake of making money and I would highly encourage you to and I I know it's not there are negatives to having your face and your name online, but if you want to be selling things online, if you want to be advising people online, then Google wants to see that you are legitimately a real person. Xavier, there was a recent comment from John Mueller about the fact that people can spot SEO made content creator bios. And so, yeah, I mean, if I can look at a page and most of the time I can see whether it's fake or not, then I think Google can determine those patterns as well. If you're interested in more about this, I wrote an article on Spam Brain, which you can find just Google my name and Spam Brain. And to talk about how Google can find the patterns that tend to to come up with different spam tactics.

Factually inaccurate and deceptive information about creator expertise. And that's something I see all the time, especially in a lot of the sites that were impacted by the helpful content update. Not all of them, but a lot of them were like like let's say it's a gardening website and they'd be like, I've been gardening for 20 years. And I understand why we did it. I think I even preached to do that, you know, to tell users about your experience. But

what matters is that others are talking about your experience. And the reader guidelines, again, if you look up known for, I'm not going to do it now, but it's in the guidelines so many times. They talk about how the Knot is known for weddings. The Onion is known for satire and for humor. And then I wrote a blog post recently where I encourage you to go to Gemini and say, what is this website known for? What am

I known for? It doesn't always know everybody, but if you are not known by the language models, then it might be that you need to do more to get you out there and to get and I'm not just talking about like it's good to make a LinkedIn page. It's good to maybe even guest post, not for the links, but like if I write a post on Search Engine Land, there's a strict editorial guidelines there and you know, not just anybody can can do that. And so, that speaks somewhat to my expertise for SEO. But but really you want to be doing stuff that gets other people to talk about you, which is extremely difficult, especially if you're not creating something that's original.

I'm not going to focus too much on this. Pages with deceptively designed buttons or links. We've all seen those. I I don't know why Google hasn't dealt with this yet, but we've seen those pages where an ad says download and you click on an ad instead. And I'm sure that's not your issue.

But this can be and I think this is really important. Pages with a misleading title or a title that has nothing to do with the content on the page. And they say it's because people feel tricked. I think it's because the title is insanely important when it comes to AI understanding your page. I saw Joy Hawkins did a study recently where she experimented with making super long titles.

And I there's pros and cons to that. Like you want your users to be able to see your title and you know, I don't think you want to confuse your users. But it turns out that putting a lot of keywords in the title tag still actually can influence rankings. I'll tell you one of my things that I've written in multiple ones of my books that I like to do. I'm going to give you this is probably going to be like one of the best tips of the webinar right here is to take your article, when you're about to publish it, give it to Gemini. I like to

use Gemini in AI studio. I like the thinking models. I think that they do best at this. And say, what is the main most important thing that's in this article? What are three micro intents of the person who's going to be reading this article? Then write

me 10 lines of under I think it is 160 characters is what Google recommends for a title tag, I think. Write me 10 lines that include all of those. And Gemini will give you some title tags to think on. Often the AI title tags have a colon in them. I often like to take that out, but that's something to the title tag is very very important.

Regarding creator expertise, I doubt that might be a reason LinkedIn Pulse is getting a lot of visibility. Yeah, I I think the reason why LinkedIn gets visibility is because people click on it. You know, I think it's related to authority and because it sends a lot of click signals that people tend to engage with it. I saw there was something about a website that was impacted by helpful content system where it was Dungeons and Dragons content. And the content was fantastic, except that you know, if nobody was clicking on it from search because there were multiple sites that had the same information, then that's going to send signals that it's not the best one to have in search. And I I think Google

will fix this LinkedIn thing. I think we'll see less and less LinkedIn posts ranking. Oh, there you go. So, yeah, Xavier, you're talking about that case that I just talked about. Okay, let's keep going here.

We haven't even got to the good stuff yet and I've been rambling on. I'm not going to focus too long on this. Expired domain abuse really surprised me to see this in here because this is something that Google's been talking about for like decades. I'll tell you the story of back in the SEO chat forums days. That's where I learned SEO starting in 2008.

There was a gentleman named Fathom who has passed away now, but he talked repeatedly about using expired domains to to to rank on Google and it worked so well. He actually convinced me. This is why I'm kind of laughing here because he convinced me I made my own little PBN, my private blog network of expired domains. I bought up the Jewish Students Association website in Ottawa and and redirected it to my website and then I felt so sick about it cuz it just felt icky that I took it all down. But what they're talking about here, it's it's okay. What a lot of people do

is a business might buy a competitor's business or somebody who's gone out of out of business and redirect that domain to your site. If it makes sense for business reasons, that's not what Google's talking about here. It's really attempts to manipulate and you see they say like casino related content on a former elementary school site. What I do find interesting, I'm working with one site right now where their main competitor has uh bought up some domains that are related to theirs, but really they're not their domain. And I think that they will they will suffer because of this. Did

you get a lot of emails like high dear high DA opportunity? Yeah. Domain authority is something I mean, we know that domain authority is something that Moz made up to try to replicate page rank. And page rank doesn't even really exist like it used to exist now. Like the whole systems are are wildly different. So, it

it drives me crazy how much especially when new people come to learn SEO, how much emphasis there is put on links and domain authority. So, let's see here. Many forget Google was once a registrar as well. Yeah, you could buy domains on on Google and so I there's a patent I remember I think Bill Slawski talked about it where Google can look at your who is information. They can do all sorts of things to determine if a domain was used for other purposes in the past. And

Gagan said, yeah, expired domain abuse is mentioned in the March 2024 corrupted announcement from Elizabeth Tucker. I did not know that actually. Well, so there's there's more coming here. I'm going to leave this on the page while I read the next question cuz this is something we want to talk about. Blake, what are your thoughts on new companies that bought their domain not realizing it existed before and created their own company 5 to 10 years ago and it wasn't their intention to capitalize on expired domain. I really think I have not seen a

situation where I felt like Google got it wrong. I don't think you need to worry. Like they're really talking about attempts like strong attempts to manipulate and there are multiple signals. It's not like it's just that one signal. So, if you bought this expired domain that like used to be a museum and now you're trying to make it, you know, redirect to your site, that's not a big deal. Google will just

eliminate the signals from that. But if you also have many other signals that align with what people tend to do when they spam, then I get a little bit more concerned. One thing that I have seen multiple times is sometimes people buy a domain and they can't get it to rank anywhere and they set up Search Console and see that they have a manual action on this domain for pure spam. And if that happens, you can reply to the manual action and say, hey, I just bought this domain. I didn't know that it had this manual action on it and Google will remove it.

But but really if you're this is meant for people who are really trying to manipulate the system. So, I know there are like gray areas. Like let's say I, you know, some SEO company went out of business. I don't know. If I bought their their URL and redirected it to my site, I'm probably doing that for SEO reasons. I

think the worst that would happen there is if this new, you know, if Google's working on algorithmically trying to determine whether expired domains are passing signals to help my ranking, then they just neutralize them. Otherwise, they'd be penalizing sites like you know, they don't want to penalize sites by accident. Is Google even doing manual penalties for this anymore? It seems like this stuff is now baked into the algo. That's why I was like, I'm surprised that this was in like added to the rater guidelines because the rater guidelines, usually when something's added, it means that they're going to start working more on something algorithmically. So,

who knows? I I do think a lot of sites rank based on the authority of domains that they shouldn't be connected with, which leads us to this next section, site reputation abuse. You have probably heard this and the reason why is in I think it was September of last year of Google handed out a bunch of manual actions to newspaper sites. So, for example, at least we think that they were manual actions. I don't know that any of these sites voluntarily shared that they got a manual action.

But, they they had newspaper sites that had coupon subdomains and the coupon subdomain was actually run by a third party. And the reason why they used the newspaper was because of the authority of the newspaper. Now, I'm of two minds about this because you know, I don't think the whole domain should be penalized for that. I could see that Google might want to reduce the signals that help the the subdomain. But, you know, if a news company wants to make money like I don't know. That's a whole area for

for up for up for discussion, I I suppose. Now, this is something if you have questions about this, put them in the chat or we can talk about it in the Q&A. I do see people are typing because we could probably spend a full hour on this section. There are examples of things that are not considered site reputation abuse. Like, if you're using press release service, don't use press releases for the links. Like, many years

ago Matt Cutts said Google recognizes that. Can you share this highlighted doc? Yeah, I'll share that. a note and put I'll put that in the search bar after. I'll put it in the free area. Share the

highlighted doc. Google did say they want Yeah, they don't want to pass site-wide signals yet. Uh This line on first-party sites that's a branch out using freelance content is interesting for site reputation abuse. For freelance content, where is that? Oh, yeah. Examples of separate entities

include users of sites, users of that site, freelancers, white-label services, and content by people not employed directly by the host site. That actually is and then the last bullet.

Well, I think, you know, this something we might need to come back to because I feel like there's a lot in here and I don't know if my webinar, I hope it doesn't cut off at the hour mark. If it does, I'll I'll jump on live again, but could you say something more about a site that has sponsored content pages where say educational sites page to have special content on the pages and they link out to their organization website. But, there's nothing on this page to differentiate this from the non-sponsored content. Yeah, I mean, if you have sponsored content and it's not marked, like it's just good practice to say that it's Oh, they pay. Sorry, they pay to have it. Okay.

Yeah, if you have sponsored content, you need to mark it as sponsored content. It's If you're not that I mean, you could say, "Well, maybe Google wouldn't know." But, if they if their systems can determine that, then then that's something that would be a sign of trustworthiness that would be lacking. So, I would definitely want to mark that as sponsored. Again, Google specifically issued manual actions for freelance authors. One of my

clients was affected by this. Interesting. I'm trying to think of an example. Are they talking about parasite SEO? I don't really know.

If you have thoughts on that, put it in the in the in the chat because yeah, I think this is open to a lot of discussion. And again, I'm I'm welcome I welcome anybody who wants to chat about this. We'll we'll do that at the end. I'm just kind of worried I'm going to run out of time here and we haven't got to the good stuff yet. We're starting though. Scaled content

abuse. Creating an abundance of content with little effort or originality, with no editing or manual creation is often the defining attribute of many spammy websites. Scaled content abuse is something that I predict is going to rock the internet. Now, there are many people who are creating copious amounts of content. Sometimes with AI, sometimes probably still with AI, but it used to be something that people did even before AI could write articles. And the reason

why you're doing it is because you're trying to improve topical authority. One of the ways, if you ask Gemini how to improve your E-A-T and ChatGPT, one of the first things that they'll say is to create content surrounding your topics. You need to have a lot of content on your topics to show that you are an authority on your topics in most cases. And I did I did some work for Time and they did a investigation into a site that was ranking that should not have and it turns out that they um had all sorts of scaled content. They had little clusters of topics with everything there is to know about each of those topics in multiple articles. And now, they ended up

getting, I believe, manually penalized. But, Google is going to to to start going after sites that produce large amount of content. And I don't want to say things negative against, you know, people who are using this practice of building topical authority. I I believe you can build topical authority by creating clusters of helpful content. But, many people are creating clusters of AI-generated content and it works really well. I have

a theory, it's kind of a tin hat theory, so I wouldn't go spreading it, but I actually believe that Google let AI-generated content thrive on the internet for a while because then it helped to feed Not that they want to feed their AI with AI-generated content, but it helps fill in the gaps for where Google might have been lacking. And I think that a lot of black hat spammers have, you know, flooded the internet with everything there is to know on their topic and that's soon about to stop. Rene, Delish may publish 30 articles a day. You know, it depends. Like, I think a lot of sites are publishing way too many articles and the thing is, you know, you publish like 100 articles and maybe one of them is is a hit and then, oh well, you know, at least that one is kind of like buying stocks, right? Like it

you win from the winners and then you just cut the losers loose. Except that if you have like 99 non-winners on your site, then those all contribute to your quality signals. So, so you know, that practice may not be working so well. Now, if Delish publishes 30 articles a day and they're getting well received by people, I think they have a big enough audience that, you know, perhaps they are all high quality. I don't know. I haven't

reviewed them. Do you think that migrating a part of your website to create a niche can also come under scaled content abuse, even if the content had good traffic on your main website? I mean, no, depending on the the scale. Um If you like I had this problem and I don't know if I handled it right where like my website is about SEO and I wanted to write stuff about AI that wasn't really in the realm of SEO. So, I started a new website that's, you know, ai.com

for AI. I still don't know if that was the right thing to do. You know, maybe I should have kept that all on my website. But, I think that that's fine. You know, if you writing on a topic and then realize that, holy cow, like I have so much here, this should be its own website or its own subdomain, I think that's fine. However, it does talk here

about multiple websites. Let's see here. We'll we'll see that in a minute that and I see people getting still today manual actions for thin content. And the thin content manual actions are they're not very well explained because sometimes it'll be for a website that has like 100 different websites on like the best dental school, the best medical receptionist school, the best like all like hundreds of different websites that really should have been just one. And so, it's really intent to manipulate. But like if you have a good

reason, I think that that's fine. So, let's let's go through here. Scaled content could be using AI as a low-effort way to produce many pages that add the little little to no value for website visitors. And um I think this is important as compared to other pages on the same topic. Something that I would recommend that you do, and this is in the book, is um that you if you take your article that you've written and you say, "If this was removed from the web, would people complain?"

Like if this was removed from the web, what valuable information would no longer exist on the web? And I think that a lot of the time a lot of us are writing articles that like are really just rehashing everything that was on the web. It's one of the reasons why I stopped publishing my free newsletter on my website because the free newsletter was just rehashing what everybody already wrote, which is fine to do for a newsletter except that Google doesn't want to rank something that's just a rehash of what people already wrote. Scraping feeds to generate pages, probably most of you are not doing that, although I have seen that. Stitching and combining content from different web pages, maybe that was my newsletter. I

don't know. This is it. Creating multiple sites with the intent of hiding the scaled nature of the content. Again, if you have a few sites that are loosely related, I'm not worried. You're not going to get scaled content abuse. There

are professionals who do this by the millions that you know make so much money off of here's something a tactic that works. Now let's make you know thousands of different variations of this website. And so, that's something that hopefully Google will will start working on soon. Okay, again, I think multiple sites part is coming from a single media company trying to create multiple sites and talking about the same topic. They're trying to occupy all the top positions.

That might be as well, too. I think that that that does still happen. Yeah, I don't think this makes little sense to or no sense to a reader but contains search keywords. I don't think it's a huge issue for most sites. So, this is the part that I really really want to focus on.

Main content created with little to no effort, little to no originality, and little to no added value for website visitors. And this and this is to be the called the lowest quality content. So, originality again is the thing. But here's the thing that is I think the word of the day for this webinar, although I haven't mentioned it that much yet, but it should be one of the most important things is paraphrased. The previous version of the Raider guidelines used the word paraphrased or versions of it, paraphrasing, it was two or three times. It's in there 32 or 33

times now in this version. And so, paraphrased is something that I see a lot. Let's say you are you have a website that focuses on seniors, and you want to write an article on diabetes. Which is really something you shouldn't do anyways because you're like probably lacking the E-E-A-T for that. But just for the sake of example, let's say you have that. You're going to go

out and you're going to get like you're not going to add anything new. You're just going to be taking everything that's already written on diabetes and rewriting it. And so, if you are just paraphrasing what's already written, then that's a problem. Now, where I'm I'm thinking Renee, I'll I'll go call your site out because I don't know what to think about this. Renee has a recipe website. And

she's got recipes that are unique, but you've also got a lot of content that's kind of like the same as what other people have written, you know? And it's really really hard to look at that and go, "Well, you know, there is this like there's this little part that I added my personality to it. I added my you know images to it." And I think what matters is again, that information gain patent that if you if a reader had and this is a good exercise to do if you're not sure if your content would be considered paraphrased is do a search for your main keyword and look at the first five results, whether it's an AI overview, whether it's a website, whether it's a serp feature, a people also ask, you know, popular products carousel, and look at maybe write down three things that a user's going to learn from that. Then open up your page and see is there anything that is new that a reader would still want to read? Like if they read

all these other things, would they still want to take the time to read my content? Now, if you do have something that's unique and you're like, "Yeah, cuz my piece talks about how to do it in this way that nobody else talks about." Then make that the main content. We're going to talk about filler content and moving the main content up to the top in a minute. And yeah, Renee said you included a ton of people also ask questions in our content because we thought that was good to do. Let me talk

about that. First of all, if you're using people also ask to get ideas for your content, it's not necessarily wrong to do that. What this is a I used to preach it as well is you know, you take your topic and then you look at the people also ask results for ideas of what to include in that page. The problem is Google's already got content for those people also ask questions. So, unless you can add something original, you're just paraphrasing what the web has said. And

a large number of sites that were impacted by the helpful content system had this tactic. Why? Here's the thing. Renee, you said now it feels silly. It wasn't silly because this is how Google used to work. Is pages that had a

multitude of things that were related to the topic would look good to search engines. And so, that used to work. And then I believe part of HCU was to make it so that sites that were optimized more for search engines than thinking of the users first. I mean, it is helpful to the users to read related questions, but I think a lot of us did that more for the sake of ranking than for actually speaking to your audience. So, paraphrased is something that is very important. Again, little to no effort.

And you might go, "Well, how would Google know if effort's been put into content?" It's possible Google doesn't know. It's just that people like content that's had effort put into it. And we know that Google's machine learning systems are trained on um on click signals. And so, what people like is something that contributes to to rankings. Let's see here.

I think we're almost getting through it here. Yeah. Licensed or syndicated content is not considered copied. I see a lot of people talk about how it's not fair that this syndicated content on Yahoo News is ranking above the original source. If you syndicate your content, that's the risk that you take.

And so, and I think that that happens because not because Google couldn't figure out who the original source was. It's just that the systems have predicted that more people are going to click on it when it's on Yahoo News. So, let's see here. Um next. Content on a web page may be paraphrased paraphrased from another source.

We will consider main content to be paraphrased if it contains content that is unoriginal and exists on other pages with different wording, organization, or phrasing. People can paraphrase content manually by rewriting the content from other sources using different words, and sometimes automated tools can be used as well. So, this is something that you know is is very important. Now, let's say you have like a lot of I can think of a number of sites, including some that I'm working with, that your entire blog is essentially paraphrased from the rest of the web. What do you do? It's very difficult because it's not

like you can just cut that content and now all the rest of your site is good. We don't know whether and Google recommends against getting rid of old content unless it really clearly was created just for SEO purposes only. There are some blogs where I do recommend that where you can see like there's zero value, people never visited this content, and it was never useful to anyone, then that's a case where you might want to be getting rid of some of that old blog content. Is FAQ still important for ranking or does it only provide credibility in helping with ranking? I think if I'm going to put FAQ, there's a few reasons. One is

if it legitimately are the questions that my users want to know. So, I'll put you know FAQ on I think I put FAQs on my December core update post, and they were not taken from any keyword research. They were the questions that were frequently asked of me. And so, that's a good reason to put FAQ. If your motivation is to try to make your content look better to search engines, uh then no. However, sometimes

you can still, with schema markup, I have still seen Google uh use FAQs in um in search features. So, uh you know, I I I would still mark it up. Uh schema is a whole topic that could be a a couple hours on its own as well. Um but I don't think I actually think uh FAQ was important for rankings and Google emphasized marking it up so that we could teach their systems what the frequently asked questions about topics were. Um so, yeah, I would use FAQs if it makes sense for your uh users.

Um oh, and then here's some examples and of uh content that is copied or paraphrased. There's a lot of new stuff here. Laura, they say originality, but at the same time Google wants consensus. So, if you divert too much, you will not rank. How do you draw a line? Consensus

matters mostly for YMYL content. Uh I don't know if we'll get into consensus in here. It is in the workbook. Um where it matters is, let's say I decided to start a blog on uh vaccines, on a controversial subject, and I write all of this stuff saying that vaccines don't work, blah blah blah blah. I'm not saying that that's my opinion. I'm just saying, let's say I

wanted to do that. Um that goes against the general scientific consensus. Now, does that mean that Google only wants things that go aligned with consensus, you know, like they're almost censoring what we can say? No. Unless you are a reputable agency that's known for uh not agency, a reputable um entity uh that's known and respected for talking talking on these topics, then if you have a lot of content that goes against consensus, uh then that can be seen as a sign of low quality. Now, uh

in terms of like, let's say you're a recipe site and you're like, you know, I everybody says to make your bread with this, but I like to use this ingredient. That's totally fine. Like, uh that's not um something that should cause problems. However, uh in the last version of the rater guidelines, one of the things Google added was stuff about accuracy. I wrote an article about how does Google know uh whether content is accurate, uh and they don't. But I think they're

they're getting there. And I think Actually, Renee, I'm going to pick on you again. I'm sorry. I know I know that you're okay with this. Um we looked up one of her recipes and uh she had like different ingredients than somebody like than the consensus. Uh and

then there were people in the comments saying, well, this recipe didn't work. Um which like it happens, you know. Uh so, I think that Google wants to not necessarily to determine what's accurate or what's in aligned with what everybody else says, but if you differ from what everybody else says, there has to kind of be some evidence, either externally or like on the comments on your page, uh that makes that difference uh worthy of reading, if that makes sense. Right? Uh okay, so, let's see here. Oh, and we

talked about news. Um so, these lines were already in the guidelines, the ones that aren't highlighted. Uh content copied from a changing source, such as a search results page or a newsfeed. So, if you have um let's say you're a business and you have a section for news, uh that's fine to have on your website, but you might want to no-index that content. Uh if you have a large amount of your content is essentially just copied from newsfeeds, then uh that's not something that you want to have in Google search results.

So, if you think about it, like if I'm searching for news on that topic, I don't want to see your paraphrased version of the news. Uh I want to kind of find the original source if that's possible. Um Okay, and then paraphrased more here. Uh And now Now, this is important. However, the lowest rating is required when all or almost all of the main content on the page is paraphrased. Uh and so, um you

know, it's not like if I have a little section, like when I write about a core update, I'm going to write some of the same stuff that Barry Schwartz writes. Like, you have to cover the topic. Um but the main part of my uh article should be the part where I add value. When I wrote that December core update piece, uh I wrote about how to determine whether you were impacted, cuz that's something that I know from my experience. Uh and so, that's uh kind of the main content there.

Um okay, let's uh move on here. There's some instructions here on how quality raters are to be to figure out if stuff is is copied or paraphrased. I don't I'm I'm going to skip over this. I will put this in the search bar for you, though. If you strongly suspect the page you are evaluating is not the original source, consider it likely to be copied or paraphrased.

All right. Now, we got a bunch of examples. We still got some good stuff to get to. A ton of examples. Oop.

Oh, yeah. So, they Oops. They made some changes in some of the examples where uh they added uh little to no originality and little to no added value for website visitors. Um it used to say little to no manual curation, which was interesting because uh when I made my newsletter, like, I don't know that my newsletter was considered um low-quality content, but uh but it was manually curated, but still wouldn't be something that you'd want to see on a search page. Uh so, let's find the next tidbit.

Here's one example uh that was added. Let me see if I can share. I can share this tab. Yeah. Uh this is a pretty obvious example of um a page that uh is written by AI.

If you uh it's actually kind of funny to um uh to do uh a search on Google for as a large language model. Um even if you search in Google Scholar, it's kind of scary how many uh times AI-generated stuff is in there. So, uh you know, if you have as a large language model written in your uh documents, then that's uh probably something you want to take out. Uh but this article was uh one that they basically wrote just uh a bunch of stuff with um with AI in order to create a ton of scaled content. Also, uh it was rated lowest because it's a YMYL medical article and lacking uh EAT. Uh here's

another example, and like when you look at these, they're all super obvious that they're not high quality. Like, this is This might actually be one that was an expired domain, too. New Zealand rabbit breeder, and then uh I thought, well, what's wrong with writing about like rabbits have ovaries, but uh this actually is not about rabbit ovaries, it's about uh ovarian cancer in people, which um clearly like doesn't make sense to have on that website. Uh and I don't think there's a lot to be learned here. Forgive me for skipping through this quickly, but um uh I want to get to Q&A, cuz we've been going forever.

Uh let's see here. Expired domain abuse is another example where uh this the site used to be rural schools, and um and now is a gambling site. The site reputation abuse. I'm going to skip this. I I want to get to the good stuff here. There's another scaled

content. It was very similar to the the previous one. All right, here we go. More main content is created with low effort, low originality, and low added value. Uh this is very similar to before. Um some examples of low effort

is if you're just social media reposts with little additional comment or discussion. I see that all the time, and it's still I saw in my Discover feed today something about Taylor Swift at the Super Bowl, and I'm like, I already saw all that on social media, and the the news article didn't add anything of value to it. Um and I think that we're going to be seeing a lot of news websites that are essentially just copying Reddit and social media uh not do well. Um pages with content from other sources, repinned images, that's interesting. And you have a Taylor Swift article to open after reading this. There's really not

much to know, Renee. Uh you know, uh I gosh, people are fascinated with her. Um and her team didn't win, so, you know, it is what it is. What a boring game. Well, not a boring game. We won't talk

Super Bowl. Uh okay, um best lists based on existing reviews and lists with little original content. Now, if you use the word best in your title tags, I would really caution, if those pages have seen drops in the last couple of years, get best out of there. Those pages, if you're talking about a product and you're using the word best, then um you are uh judged under the product reviews uh uh algorithm, and that's something that is very very strict and so this is something that I think you know we're going to be seeing again if Google put it into the QRG it means that they likely are trying to work on this algorithmically. So they really really want people to be creating original content. Um

let's see here. Here we go filler. This is where we are at for filler. Uh the main content of a page should support its purpose. Um website owners and content creators should place the most helpful and essential main content near the top of the page so that visitors can immediately access it.

I'm going to pause there because that's something I've been writing about for a long time, right? Whatever okay so the main content in the um workbook it starts off with understanding the purpose of the page. Your purpose every page has a purpose and your purpose might be if it's a recipe site is usually to help people make a recipe. If your purpose is to help people understand this Google update you know which part of the page is the original content the main content that people are trying to find. You don't want them to have to read through uh how do what is a core update how do core updates happen? I'm guilty of this

too. I often have written way too much um and so I'm going to read that again. The main content of a page should support its purpose. Website owners and content creators should place the most helpful and essential main content near the top of the page so visitors can immediately access it. Um I think if you're a recipe website it's okay to have a jump to recipe button but like I understand so I I saw Casey Markee who works with a lot of recipe websites he said they tested putting the recipe card at the top of the page and it cut revenue by 78%.

78%. This is why I feel awful for recipe site owners because but then on the other hand a lot of recipe sites like you got to scroll through ads and stuff that is really really difficult and that's not what I came to the page for and so this is something that you know we're going to see Google doing more to fit to get people to find the content that they're looking for. Um would you say this is also for universities like best universities based on ranking data? That's a really good question. Um let's see here. Um

Yeah. I do unless you're adding something of value. Now the something of value could be like if you've made them into charts if you've made them into helpful graphs but if you're just uh collating data and putting it together in one place I think that that's what Google's talking about. I don't know for certain though and that's again something we could we might have to do several webinars on on these different topics. TLDR section at the top I think it could be that could be main content.

I sometimes what I like to do is at least make it obvious that what the reader wants is on this page and I don't think it has to be like right at the top. Like if you have an intro paragraph and it doesn't cover the main purpose of the page like as long as the user can quickly find what they're they're coming there for and this is part of Google's page experience guidelines as well is is is the main content easy to find. A high quality page has the most helpful main content placed most prominently. Content that supports the page purpose without directly contributing to the primary goal can be included but should be lower on the page in a less prominent position. For example on recipe pages the recipe itself and important supporting content directly related to the recipe should be prominently displayed near the top of the website.

Website owners are going to be furious at Google. For good reason but also I think the web is changing. Like I said I use AI for all of my recipes now. And I think that eventually we know that an AI version of search is coming soon and I think that eventually that's what's going to happen. So unless you are you have an established reputation and people come to you specifically for your website your recipes I I believe that is going to be very difficult to be a recipe blogger.

Yeah Gaggan I find it interesting that they specifically mentioned recipe sites and and they had to know that this is going to cause problems because honestly like there's no reason to publish a recipe site if you if if 78% of your revenue is cut. I don't know if that's the case for everybody but like I said that's what Casey Markee said. Um sometimes main content includes filler low effort content that adds little value and doesn't directly support the purpose of the page. We're going to see that in one of the examples here. Um let's see here. This is all basically

saying the same. Ads this isn't specifically targeted at recipe sites but it can be any site. Ads it's okay to have ads on your page. Google knows that if we're going to create content for the web a lot of people depend on ads. Uh but ads that make it difficult for the user to efficiently access the information they want from this page should typically be given a low rating. There's stuff in

here about interstitials as well although it says if the interstitial like that's where you have like a big full did that help if I I did the rectangle there if it covers the whole page it says if it's easy to close probably you don't need to call call that low quality. Um Okay we are almost through. Exaggerated or mildly misleading information about the website or content creator. We talked about that earlier where websites were trying to fake their EAT and so it's not enough to just say I'm an expert I've been doing this forever. You really really need to have other people talking about you and I would say that link building should return to what link building used to be many years ago and that's creating stuff that's actually good enough to get people to link to which is like I know some of you are saying well that's virtually impossible nobody would link to my site and this is where I question you know do you have original content that when we look at what exists on the the rest of the web that people still want to seek out your content as well.

Um Anyone know what page is that bit about the best in the QRG? Oh I'll I'll have to find that after for you Eamonn. If you can't find it I'll help you there in a moment. Okay. Let's see. I'm going to get some of

these examples. Um This was we won't go through all of these. A discussion page that's just summarizing a discussion a forum statement. Again a lot of news sites will just summarize what was said on Reddit and then that's their their main article. Okay here's the part that got people angry.

A large quantity this is a recipe site I'm going to look at it in just a minute. A large quantity of prominent filler makes it difficult to find the helpful main content. Ads supplemental content and filler main content distract from the helpful main content. So what they're saying here is the jump to recipe button is hard to find so that kind of makes me feel that having a jump to recipe link is something that is a good thing. Um and then there's a large amount of content that's not related to this as well and you're going to see what it is in just a minute.

Let's get this up here. Okay. Kind of sucks if you're in the QRG as I had a client once that had me reach out to Google to ask if they could get them out of the QRG. They're still in there as an example of low quality content. Um okay so here's about making butter beer.

I mean that's a pretty cool picture. Now here's something I like to do. I don't know if this will work if I Yeah I'm going to look at it as if we were looking at it on mobile. Oh it won't work as a PDF unfortunately. Okay.

Um what I like to do is see how many scrolls is it until I get to the thing that uh that um the user wanted to find. So if I did a search for butter beer I probably want to know how to make it you know. Uh so I'm going to scroll down and I see here's their latest recipes. There is a jump to recipe button but I think users expect to see it at the top. Uh here's some stuff about this filler.

I'll definitely be whipping up a batch for my next marathon. You can make it two ways. You can add caramel. I mean that tells me something. Does tell me the ingredients but not the amounts. There's a picture which like it

might be helpful, but I still haven't got to the part that I really wanted. There's a call to action here. Um, you know, there's other things you could do. I think the image is good. Like I wouldn't have called this a low quality page. Uh, where can you find it? Now,

uh, at Universal Studios. And that's because, um, I believe, yeah, they have, uh, affiliate links to, uh, to to purchase things at Universal Studios. There's nothing wrong with having affiliate links, but if it is taking prominence over the thing that the user came there for, then, um, then that's not good. And so we're still scrolling. Uh, oh, looks like this ad, uh, you might have to close it to actually read that part of the content. Um, and then,

like it just keeps going and going until there's more recipes, and then we get to the recipe card, which really is like standard practice. I think the recipe's here. There we go. On how to make it, which actually looks kind of yummy. So, uh, don't be mad at me if, uh, if you're mad at at this. This is, uh, Google's

example. And if we go back here uh, to what they say, they're like, "A higher rating could be appropriate if the page were better organized, the recipe was prominently placed and easy to find, and there was less filler supplemental content and ads distracting from the helpful main content." Uh, yeah. You're not mad at all, Renee. I knew that. Thank you.

All right. And I think there's another example as well. Yeah, Google was running a test with some big recipe sites where they paid them directly, and they showed the entire recipe, uh, in the SERPs. I do believe Google had some, uh, relationships with recipe sites. I don't know how you get that relationship, uh, where they would actually pay for recipe content that would be featured, um, uh, in the search results. So, uh, I

don't know a lot of details about that, though. Question from Renee. Oh, you're still typing. So, does Google just want sites without ads to rank? It's not the ads that are the problem. It's when the ads are

annoying. Uh, let me go back to this, uh, recipe page. This ad here. Now, the page obviously isn't live, but there are many sites where, like recipe sites, where the ads get on top of what you're trying to see, and even some of them jump, and, uh, and, you know, like the ads are in the way of the user experience. Uh, but then, yeah, to make money with ads, you have to make it long. This is exactly the point. Like I

think Google is saying there's a ton of recipe sites that were only created to make money off of the web. Which, again, don't get don't get upset at me because I I know some people are going to be upset with this because this is your livelihood. Like for many years, Google gave us this opportunity where we could, uh, create content and support that content with ads. There's a video that I shared, uh, in the search bar a while back, uh, with Sergey Brin talking to a bunch people at a hackathon. And, uh, he said, "For many year for 25 years, we had this great thing." I'm paraphrasing, but this great

thing where we could give people search for free, um, uh, provided by advertising, by the money for advertising. And I think that that's going to end. Um, now, AI will make ways to make new ads, uh, but I think that the day of display ads that, uh, cover content and that require, uh, a long amount of scrolls are going to end as, uh, a revenue generating, uh, signal. And that's why, um, I I think that, uh, a lot of recipe sites are really going to struggle. Uh, okay. I'm going to

keep going here. We are almost done.

What are your thoughts on all of the page one high ranking affiliate marketing sites that were helpful being destroyed? I've seen examples of sites that were great even after this happened, but added a few affiliate links, and then their site was pulled off Google. I personally haven't seen a case where the affiliate links are what caused uh, a site to be removed. However, a lot of these helpful sites, if you look at them in conjunction with what already exists, they're not more helpful than those. And I've gotten in trouble for saying some of this, so I'm not going to pick out any particular site.

Uh, but a lot of them, like if you look at, uh, for example, a travel site, and you know, maybe it's got original expertise. It's got a like original experience. You've actually taken your own photos. But also, there's TripAdvisor that has 400 comments from real people there. Uh, and then there's some gigantic brand known for travel. And by the time you

get to the article that has the original experience, the, um, that that post, like even though it it's helpful in isolation, very few people chose to read it. So, I really don't think Google's against affiliate links. Um, as long as you have And actually, Google's got really good documentation on creating affiliate content. You need to have original and insightful, uh, content alongside that. Um, Oh, yeah. And Gagan's got a good point

that, uh, Sundar Pichai in recent recent earning calls, uh, they did talk about putting more ads in, uh, Gemini in the chatbot. It's probably not going to happen this year, he said. Uh, but ads will still be there, but I think much of how we do ads, we'll look back at ads today, uh, kind of like we look at the yellow pages. Um, I think that agents will be ads. I think that, uh, uh, you know, instead of me advertising, uh, I've got a new book. You should buy my

book. Uh, I might advertise an agent that says, "Communicate with, um, uh, with my agent about the helpful content system." And, uh, and then that would be something that I would pay money for as an ad, and it would be useful to, uh, to the user to have a chatbot that's been trained on my book. Like I I I think that ads will change. Uh, okay, let's go back to the writer guidelines. I thought there was

another example that I wanted to share. Although, let's see. Scroll faster. And then we'll, uh, we've kind of been doing Q&A all throughout. Well, I may have missed it, uh, uh, That's fine. Um, it'll be in the book.

So, okay. You know what? I think I'm I'm going to end it there and, um, end the, at least the presentation part here. Let me get I'll stop screen sharing and and, uh, get back to talking with you guys. Um, What do you think? Like the writer

guidelines, uh, are like I've never seen this many changes in the guidelines. That's why I was like, all right, I need to do a an episode. And also, I wanted to get back to podcast. I didn't know I'd do a 2-hour-long episode. Um, I see some of you are typing, so we'll, uh, we'll just kind of babble. Go, "Oh, you

know what? Before we do that, let me get you the link in case you want to buy the book." Uh, and this will only be up for 48 hours. The book is, uh, $60, and this will get you 25% off. Although, if you are a, um, Search Bar Pro member that you pay the $42 a month, uh, there's a new section that will be launching this week in the Search Bar, uh, called the Learning Hub.

And all of my books will be in there. Um, including, uh, my most recent, uh, SEO in the Gemini era. And, uh, I don't think the full, um, course will be in there that I that I made, but, uh, components of it will as well. And, uh, right now, the joining the Search Bar is $42 a month. Do we have a fantastic community? Many of you are here in the

discussions. Uh, we are having twice monthly meetings now. Uh, we're going to talk about creating agents with Vertex AI. And we talk about all of the latest that's happening with AI and search. Uh, and they are such fantastic meetings.

Not like this with the chat, uh, but everybody's here. We can all, uh, converse together, and and they're really good. So, as, uh, more information gets put in the, uh, the Search Bar, uh, in the Learning Hub, then the price will go up. But, uh, if you jump in now at 42, then you you maintain that price. Um, the free book link to subscribers, that's going to be for just the Search Bar Pro members.

Uh, and, um, you know what? I'll probably do the discount for those who pay for the, uh, Marie's notes as well. So, okay. I can't help but think, to your point, that the web is changing. For example, perhaps recipe blogs won't rank on Google anymore because it isn't a good platform for recipe blogs. However, it

may be better for discovery platforms like MSN, Google Discover, and even Pinterest or Facebook. I think Discover I rarely see recipes on my Discover feed. That's interesting. I think if you have a really, really good, uh, unique and insightful recipe, it could rank on Discover. And yeah, I mean, if you're having success on other platforms, then go for it. Um, but I think you're right.

I think search, uh, is becoming less and less I mean, imagine, we didn't talk about Project Astra. Also, nobody told me that my hair was sticking up. Um, we didn't talk about Project Astra, which is, uh, glasses that are coming with AI in it. So, uh pretty soon like I'm going to open my fridge and I'm going to say, "Gemini, what can we make in here?" And the recipe's going to pop up like in front of my face and then I can just ask questions about the recipe.

Like I'm not going to be going to websites in order to uh to write recipe or to read recipes. Um maybe search will be just for businesses. Uh yeah. And I you know actually, what was that phrase from Liz Reed? She said recently in an interview something I'm going to misquote her, but uh that search Google's mission is to organize the world's information and make it accessible to all, which is not the same as organizing websites.

And um I think that we're we're seeing a big shift. I knew that the shift was starting when the helpful content system started in uh 2022. And that's when uh I uh started focusing on trying to understand machine learning because the entirety of search is changing. Uh and we're going to see Google Lens uh change things. And uh other changes are coming to search. Again, there's this AI model

that's coming to search. And um uh that's going to change how a lot of things work. So, I don't want to be uh terrifying people because I know like if you're in this call, you have an invested uh vested interest in uh understanding search and doing well. If you are currently doing well with search, unless you're actively like finding ways to trick Google, then I would say you're going to continue to do well. Like keep doing what you're doing, focus on creating original and insightful content, uh and things that are uh are going to be helping your users. What the

helpful content guidance that Google published a little while back, they added something that said, "Do you have an existing or intended audience?" I don't know why they said intended because who creates content without an intended audience? But do you have an existing audience is important. Are you creating content for an audience that comes to you? Or are you creating content for search in the hopes that you get an audience?

And there's not It's not necessarily wrong to do that, but if that's your primary audience, uh then that window for creating content from search is very small unless you can create something that is uh unique, original, and insightful. Um all right, we'll take a couple more questions and then uh I think my battery's going to run out on my PC, so or on my computer, so I'm going to have to shut her down soon. This was good though. I um With that, are they saying search audience is disappearing? Well, you know, in the earnings call, they actually said that there is more. Like

search is increasing uh year over year. Uh and more and more people are using the AI features in search, which they do have data to show that. Uh so, I think a lot of websites are uh are are not needed. And I actually think that Google used us. I I looked back many years ago, there was a Matt Cutts video uh that really encouraged people to write content on niche subjects. He actually

called them niche blogs. And uh you know, I think what Google needed was they wanted all of the information about all of the things so that that we could build this not we, that Google could build this AI. Uh and and so I think we all worked for Google in creating these websites. It It's SEO's not dead. Um websites are not dead, but a lot of types of websites uh uh are going to be really struggling, I think, in the months to come. Uh a food

blogger recovered from HCU, and among other changes, she removed every healthy word from her entire website. Is that something we should consider doing? Well, I'd have to see the situation, but sometimes but that's more of a core update thing. If you um if you have uh claims to health and you are lacking the credentials, then that's an E-A-T thing. And uh it can impact you with core updates. But the if she was

impacted by the September helpful content update, then that wasn't related to that. Sometimes, if you make widespread changes across your site, it can result in some uh improvements. And the what remains to see is if it sticks. So, I don't know. Um I I don't know that I would go, you know, simply removing healthy from uh every post. Uh I'd have

to look into that more to to give you more thoughts on that. Uh with AI features added, do you think review or listicle websites have any purpose or room left for ranking? This is really interesting because if you ask ChatGPT search things, they rely heavily on uh listicle type articles. If you ask for who are the best SEOs, it always pulls up uh and a lot of the time like it's even people who don't do SEO. It's like, "Oh, John Mueller and uh Barry Schwartz and um uh and it's It's because it comes from lists. So, um

those are to some extent necessary, at least for ChatGPT. I don't know about Gemini. Uh but again, it all comes down to originality. If you're just saying like you have a guitar website and you're like, "Here's the top 10 guitars." Like unless that's data that comes from your store or like if it's just stuff that you've gathered from around the web to say like, "Here's the most uh purchased guitars this year."

It might not be enough. Like if there's enough people who are like, "Wow, that's so interesting. I want to click on that and read that." I guess that's good. Uh but and I saw this with the There was another site that was impacted by HCU and it was quite quite vocal about it.

Um that was talking about gaming content and uh and a lot of the posts were, you know, the top 10 uh PS5 games of the year. And like that might be okay, but uh I don't know about you. Like I don't go searching for the top 10 uh games. So, I think some of that content, you know, used to rank well. Uh and I I think that we're going to see it do less and less.

Um I guess it's almost like if someone had non-search-based audience, people who don't search for sites' content, but seek it everywhere on socials and engage with it frequently. Again, I would really encourage you to in the rater guidelines to do a search for known for uh and it it really is something that um uh is a the biggest component of E-E-A-T. Well, trust probably is the biggest, but reputation for your topics is important. I think I'm going to end it here, guys, mostly because I see that my battery's about to die. So, uh wow, we did uh a lot of discussion here. Um I

thoroughly enjoyed doing this. I have almost no voice left, I think. I can feel it uh going. Um I will later this afternoon put the uh highlighted version of the QRG in the free area of the search bar. If you have any questions about joining the paid areas, you know, do reach out to me. And uh if you have

any questions about the book as well, then uh uh reach out to me as well. Um and uh I'm going to be doing more guides like this as well, uh and lots more stuff. I want to focus on talking to uh to you, my audience, rather than doing more podcasts for uh for other people. Uh cuz boy, I love to to chat about Google and about AI. So, thanks so much uh for watching and being a part of this, and uh I wish you the best of luck with everything.