---
video_title: "Build an OKF brain like mine!"
video_id: esYAIA6lU-s
channel_name: "Marie Haynes "
channel_id: UC5JCNbPrfBAhnVG1Cfx25qA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=esYAIA6lU-s
video_date: 2026-06-26T15:02:37+00:00
video_description: |
  In my last video, I introduced the concept of Google's Open Knowledge Format (OKF). Today, I'm showing you exactly what I've built with it. I have created a personal brain that I use every day to automate complex SEO tasks, generate proposals, and analyze Google search updates. We walk through the structure of an OKF file, including the YAML frontmatter and how it differs from traditional RAG. If you want to make your data and processes agent-ready, my hope is that what I'm building will help you build your own OKF brain.
  
  Blog post on this: https://www.mariehaynes.com/build-an-okf-brain-like-mine/
  
  To build something similar, give these links to your agent (Claude Code / Cowork, ChatGPT Codex or my favourite, Google's Antigravity) and try this prompt:
  
  "I want to build an OKF system similar to Marie's. Read these links and then give me some ideas of what this would look like. Then, ask me questions one at a time so that together, we can decide what we want to build:
  
  https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/data-analytics/how-the-open-knowledge-format-can-improve-data-sharing/
  
  https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/knowledge-catalog/blob/main/okf/SPEC.md 
  
  https://gist.github.com/karpathy/442a6bf555914893e9891c11519de94f
  
  https://www.mariehaynes.com/okf/
  
  https://youtu.be/esYAIA6lU-s"
  
  Timestamps:
  ===========
  
  0:00 - Introduction to my OKF personal brain project
  0:54 - Accessing Google's OKF documentation links
  1:27 - The power of OKF's standardized structure
  2:30 - Explaining YAML front matter requirements
  3:42 - OKF playbooks versus skills.mmd files
  4:55 - The basic structure of my OKF brain
  6:17 - How OKF differs from standard RAG
  7:34 - Creating custom playbooks for client work
  9:03 - AI will boost productivity, not replace jobs
  10:19 - Storing Google SEO documentation as references
  11:05 - Seeing the OKF knowledge graph in action
  12:36 - Inspecting a markdown file on AI overviews
  14:05 - Ingesting new documentation into the OKF brain
  16:44 - Approving the agent's OKF update plan
  18:03 - Reviewing the newly created markdown reference
  18:52 - Asking the OKF brain to summarize data
  20:02 - Using OKF for community newsletters
  21:38 - Why Google remains an AI leader
  22:01 - Getting started with coding agents and OKF
---
My last video was the most popular one I've ever made talking about OKF. And if you've noticed, I haven't published another video since then. And that's because I've been working on my OKF. So what I wanted to do today is show you what I've built. I built my own little personal brain. I've also built a few other things with OKF. I think it's absolutely the most amazing thing. If you missed it, I would recommend going back to watch the video where I break down what Google's open knowledge format is. But just in case, let's give you a little bit of a summary. By the way, this is my brain that you see on the screen here, at least the start of it. I'm going to dive into this and show you more of it in just a minute. And I'm using this every day in my work. So I'm going to show you how I'm using that. And more importantly, I'll give you the tools that you need so that you can create something similar yourself. This is Google's documentation, the links to this and the other things that Google published. I'll put down in the description of this video. And in a minute, I'll give you instructions to give this to your language model so that you can create something similar. Makes an OKF powerful is that it follows a standard structure. And it's a really simple structure. A lot of the comments in my last video were saying, this is nothing new. I've created Markdown vials for agents to follow and Google stole my idea. What Google did was make it into a standard, make it so that if I gave you my OKF files, which I'm going to show you in just a minute, your agent could just go and read them because it is a standard. So this is the recommended structure that you use for these files. And don't worry if this doesn't make sense because you can just give this to your language model and say, follow the instructions that are in here. That's what I did. I'm not natively a coder. I learned started learning to code with chat GPT years ago, a few years ago. I said, can you tell me what VS code is? And we went from there. And today, the things that I'm creating, I'm not selling software, but I'm using tools in my work that's allowing me to do things that would take me weeks to do and do them in just days. It's absolutely amazing. So they recommend this structure that there's an index. MD stands for Markdown. Markdown is just a really simple way to put text. And there's special symbols that are used for when something is bolded, when something is aheading. And so it's just a really standardized way to do things that you, these are optional. Almost all of it is optional. The thing that's required is that you have this, what they call YAML front matter. I don't even know if I'm saying that right. Gemini says that most people say YAML, not YAML. So that's what we're going to call it. And the front matter is just the matter that's at the front of your files. Basically, when the agent comes in, we're going to walk through a path that an agent would take. It can say, Oh, here's what I need to find. And here's what's in this file. So you'll see that every file needs to have some type of a type. I'm going to show you what types I've used in my OKF. And then the rest of this is kind of optional. You really should have a title for each of your files and a description. And you know, you can, you can add tags. If you add tags and it makes it really easy for your files to connect together. And that's how you get the knowledge graph. Like I have in my brain and then timestamps are good as well. And then anything below this in the body of your file is completely optional. So the YAML front matter essentially says to the agent, here's what's in this file. And then the rest can be instructions for your agent. I have to say I'm a little bit confused still about the difference between an OKF and a skills. MD. I think that you can have I do have skills in my OKF shortly after I created my brain. I said to anti gravity because I was creating this brain with anti gravity. We'll have to stop now because I have to go generate this proposal for a potential client. And anti gravity said, well, Marie, this is why we built the OKF. And so we put together the steps that I would take for my proposal and, and made that a playbook in my OKF. And the playbook told the agent. So in my case, my agent was anti gravity. Yours might be clawed. It might be a local model that you use. The steps that needed to happen. And the next time that I go to generate a proposal, we can do it very, very quickly because that knowledge is in my OKF. I think that those skills, the steps that I gave the agent could also be a skills. MD file. I have a little bit of confusion. If you know the difference between skills and what we're creating in our open knowledge format, then please do leave a comment below because we're all trying to learn this as we go along. So here's the very basic structure for the OKF. That is my brain. You can see that I have an index file. I have a log file, which says everything that my agent has chosen to do. And then I have these different types. We have concepts. It really bothers me that anti gravity spelled entities wrong. Will I don't even know that I need entities as a type I might change that playbooks, references and systems. These come from some of the examples that Google gave us, but your types can be anything. The very first OKF that I created, I had far too many types. It kind of reminds me of when I first started blogging with WordPress, and I couldn't understand whether something should be a category or a tag types are essentially the very high level categories that you want to filter things by. And you'll see in a minute how I filter my types in my brain. And this is the index file. I'm using this within the anti gravity interface. The index file. So let's say I gave you my OKF bundle. I gave you my brain. And you can then have your agent, whatever it is that you use for AI, go to my brain. And because it's a standardized format, it will know it'll see on the index file what it is. All right, this is a directory listing for progressive disclosure. Basically, the index file is saying to the agent, here are all the things that are in this brain. The difference between OKF and REC, retrieval augmented generation is all of these things that I have in my brain. I could just dump into the context window for Gemini. Gemini has this massive context window where you could put in a couple of full sized books into the context window. And Gemini is really good at picking out the parts that are needed to answer its question. However, that uses a lot of tokens to do that. So the beauty of OKF is that it can look at your, this is basically like a directory of what's in my directories. And we can see that I have concepts. Remember, we saw that folder. These concepts, I'm going to show you how they got generated because I didn't put these in here, which is the wild thing. I just gave my brain information that I said, I want to keep this as a reference. And it broke down into concepts. And so we have concepts about the agent payments protocol, the agent to agent protocol, all of these things that I might reference when I'm talking to a client or doing my work. Then we have the entities, which again, they've spelled wrong. I got to ask anti-gravity to fix that. And these are again, I don't know that I need entities in here. This is the interesting part, the playbooks, the playbooks. Some of them are ones that I created. For example, I created a playbook that is my communication voice. And the reason why I did this is that when we did our proposal, the system tried to make it sound like a big corporate business and said, we will do this and our team will blah, blah, blah. And so I have to say that when you work with, I mean, see, you're just working with Marie and use I instead of we and, and then we speak in a fairly casual tone, you know, kind of tone it down in terms of business, speak and corporate speak, things like that. So I put that in as a, as a playbook, but some of my playbooks as well are instructions. This is the one that I'm really excited about. And I used this for a client, a checkpoint procedure for analyzing site impact after a Google update. As I'm recording this, Google's rolling out a spam update. I had a client that had some sites that improved with the last core update and some that declined and we created this playbook. Now, it took me a couple of days to make this playbook, but now I have it there. And then I went to another client and said to anti gravity, can you run a Google update analysis for this client? And instead of it taking me two days to do it, it produced a report that I was very happy with. And so this is the way that we're going to do our work moving forward. When people say that AI is going to take jobs, I, you know, I love two minds about that. I do think that there are some jobs that are going to be lost because AI advances, but I also think that people who use AI will not, I'm not going to lose my job at least at this point, maybe at some point in the future, I'm not going to lose my job because of AI. I'm going to be more productive because of AI. I'm going to be able to do more things. I don't have to rely now when I see a piece of information that I want to put into my brain, I don't have to rely on my biological hardware to remember things. Instead, my brain has access to far more than my biological brain has. And so this type of system and what I should say that what I'm creating with, okay, if I don't know if this is the way to do it, this is just the way that I'm doing it, but it is making me more productive. It's making me smarter. It's making me able to do more for my clients, which will make them more productive and eventually we'll get to a system where my clients have access to my OKF. So they have all of the intelligence in my brain and then we'll be making their own OKFs. So this is going to really expand. I also have a section in my OKF. I don't know if you'll need this in yours for references. These are all mostly Google articles that Google has published. I took the entirety of the Google SEO starter guide. If you're in SEO and you haven't read the starter guide, that is the thing that you should be reading to do SEO. And so now when I go to my OKF and I use an agent to access my OKF, I can get a quote from anywhere from any of these Google documentation. I also set up a thing. This isn't OKF. This is just part of the software I created that does a regular check on these documents to see if Google updated anything. And sure enough, I got a notification yesterday that Google updated the documentation on Google updates. So because there was a spam update yesterday. OK, let's jump in to actually see the OKF in action. All right, I know this looks like a big mess. This is just after a few days of me creating things. Each one of these dots here is a mark down file in my brain. So let's see if we can find one where I can explain what's happening here to you. You'll see here down in the bottom left that these are the playbooks. So are not the playbooks. These are the types that I created and we've got concepts, entities, systems, playbooks and references. And I can actually just look at individual ones so we can see that I have these different playbooks. Some of these I didn't create my brain created. This is one Google has guidance on assessing your content. And so my brain decided to create this. I'm going to show you as well that my brain just doesn't do things on its own. I have to give it permission. And this is something that you can set up. Let's look at this node here, AI overviews. And you can see that I love that. I love just kind of moving things around in here. This is in the spec documentation for the OKF. There is information on how to set up a knowledge graph view. Like I have again, just give it to your agent. I don't know how this was created. It just was created. And we can see the AI overviews. They, oh, I ended up clicking on it. It links to a bunch of different concepts that are related. So now let's actually look at the mark down file itself. If we were looking at the actual file structure, this is the YAML front matter. The title is AI overviews. There's a little description, AI generated summaries at the top of Google search results. And then we have these tags. I think it's funny that it added SGE. You can always know when somebody is using a language model because it seems to reference SGE search generative experiences, what we first called AI overviews. And I could decide to just remove that. That's, you know, I could if I want, although I think it's good to reference back to what it was known as historically. Now, here is a bunch of information. If I asked my brain, which we will do in a minute, to tell me what AI overviews are, it will pull from this information. So instead of doing reg across the entirety of the knowledge that I know, it does reg across this one mark down file. So it is relatively fast. You'll see that it does take some time to figure out which mark down file needs to go to. And I think that that can be improved over time. I think one day we'll look back at the first things that we created with OKF and realize, how primitive they are, but hey, we have to start somewhere. And so we'll see all of these interesting things, the impact on user behavior, the AI overviews, how to look at them through the Chrome sidebar. There's a ton of stuff that as I do something, my brain updates. So let's actually show the brain in action. Now this here, this chat part of my brain is not actually the OKF. It uses the OKF, the OKF is the knowledge. This is my agent. Your agent, I could do this from within anti-gravity, but we built this thing where I said, look, I want to be able to ingest something. And so actually, let's start by doing that. So I saw on search engine roundtable today that Google had updated the documentation on the new feature that they have in search console that allows you to choose how they use how AI can use your content. And so normally, you know, I would read this and I would summarize it myself, but instead what we're going to do today is we're going to give it to my OKF agent. I could just put the link in, but instead I'm going to say ingest this and give it the link. And you can see it says agent is thinking and it's reading the file. It's reading the index because it needs to know where it's going to put it. So here's the interesting thing. I've seen a lot of people talking about OKF saying that they're creating entire markdown versions of their website where every page is its individual page in a markdown file in the OKF. I don't think that that's the right way to do it. I think where the power comes is where we break things down into concepts. And so here's what my agent has said. It's analyzed the new documentation and it's proposing a plan to me. I asked it to do this. And if you are building your own OKF, I would recommend that you give it the transcript to this video you're watching now and say build something like Marie did because this isn't in Google spec documentation. I didn't want the OKF to just go build its own brain because sometimes some of the things it wants to put in there aren't quite right. And so I'll read through this. It's going to create a new reference, meaning that there is a new document. I could ask it to track that reference. I don't really care so much if this documentation changes. So I'm not going to do that. And it's got a description. It will detail will include the include exclude and inherit options. It's going to update. This is the really interesting part update reference. So we already have a concept in our play or our concept in our OKF called AI features in Google search. It's going to add something to that to connect it to this new concept that we've created. It's going to update the concept about AI overviews and about AI mode and then and then more. So I put this instead of me saying yes, go ahead. I made a button and I'm going to say go ahead with the plan. So now our agent is thinking again, it's reading some of the references and it will make these changes. And second, it's going to show us what changes it made. It's creating a new concept search generative AI control guide. Interesting. OK. So now in the future, well, I'll show you in a second how we're going to use this information. So now my agent tells me what it did. And it created a new reference, which I'm going to show you that in just a minute. And tells me what's in this reference. I usually skim through this just to make sure that there's not something that I'm like, whoa, actually, I want it to be this way. It's almost always right. I should mention the model that I'm using here. I'm using through Google's API, the Gemini API. I'm using Gemini Flash, a three flash preview. There is a newer model. There's 3.5 flash. It's a little bit more expensive to do that. And I find that three flash preview works really, really well. So I have made that a rule within the integrity to always use that model. So that's what it's using. It updated the reference AI features in Google search. It updated these concepts, different concepts. And then it says, is there anything else you would like me to analyze or update in your brain? So let's actually look at this new reference that it created. And here it is. We have in markdown this new file. So this lives on my computer. I do also have this backup to GitHub. And I make regular backups of it every single day. So that if something goes wrong and my program overrides my brain or I lose my computer or something like that, then I still have access to my brain on GitHub. And we can see that it's added key features to this documentation, the timeline. It pulled out the interesting things that we would want to know. And then it also has sources. Now let's actually look, let's actually ask the brain for information on these new controls. So let's say what are, you know, right in one paragraph, because this is how I would use it in a report for a client report, a description of the new AI controls we have in search console. Now we can see the agent is thinking it's reading the index. It figures out that, oh, it actually figured out right away that it needed to go to that guide that we created. Now sometimes it goes to multiple sources to generate something. And it wrote, Google has introduced a new search generative AI control within search console, allowing website owners to manage how their content is utilized across AI powered features. And then it gives me all of these things. And so yeah, it's not adding anything new to my brain. I don't know if I should create a separate agent for querying the brain and putting stuff into the brain, but this seems to work well for me now. I also created something that I'll show you probably in another video that takes all of the stories that are put into my community, the search bar. If you're not aware of my community, we, you know what, let me show it to you. Myself and other members of the community document pretty much everything that's happening in search and in AI that's interesting. So if you want to be ahead of the curve in staying up to date and what's happening, then everything that is important is in this community community.mariehans.com. This is totally free. By the way, there is a paid area that is fantastic. We have a meeting soon. I got to wrap up this video because we're going to be talking about the new agentic resource discovery protocol that Google made. Again, I'll probably make a video on that as well. And the reason why I'm showing you this is that I want to make these personalized versions of newsletter because nobody other than me and maybe you are as geeky as me and is obsessed with what's happening in AI. And you I spend hours every day. And so what I'm doing with an OKF for my community is taking the API that comes from mighty networks that makes my community. Putting all of these stories into an OKF with a little bit of human in the loop curation. And then I should be able to make it so that it can make a personalized version of newsletter so that you get just the stories that you need. We'll see how that works. I'm telling you OKF is absolutely amazing. There are a lot of things we can do with it. I really hope that you're experimenting with it. And if you want to get started, then take the links in the description below. Give it to Claude to chat you be T codex to my favorite to anti gravity. I know people are saying Google's behind. I know people are leaving Google. I thoroughly, thoroughly believe that Google is like the tortoise in the hair is slowly moving towards being the world's leader in AI. They already are the world's leader in AI. That's probably a topic for another video. I really would encourage you to get used to using anti gravity because it is so absolutely amazing. So you can give your coding agent whatever it is instructions. You don't have to know how to code. You can actually tell it. I don't know how to code, but I want to build something that does this. I'll tell you my first version of the OKF that I built. It saved everything in Markdown. It displayed everything in Markdown, but it didn't actually save it to Markdown files. And I had to start over again. You probably will have to take a few shots at doing this, but that's OK because this is a skill that we're learning in being able to use this new technology to create things that will make us more useful, more helpful, more productive, and to be more excited about the work that we do. So I hope you've enjoyed that. Please share below in the comments what you're doing with OKF because this is the start of something really exciting.