---
video_title: "Is an incline treadmill just as hard to run on as a hill?"
video_id: matUCqoiSGk
channel_name: "Steve Mould"
channel_id: UCEIwxahdLz7bap-VDs9h35A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=matUCqoiSGk
video_date: 2025-04-30
video_description: |
  Visit kiwico.com and use the code STEVEMOULD to get 50% of your first month of KiwiCo
---
is running on an incline treadmill just as hard as running on a hill with the same incline? Well, surely not because on the incline treadmill, you're not lifting your body up through Earth's gravitational field. You're not giving yourself gravitational potential energy. But, it turns out that this topic is somewhat controversial, so I had to test it. I got my robotics friend to build me this toy car that reports its power consumption to my phone. And although it

was slightly harder on the hill, it was certainly within the margins of error and certainly nowhere near enough to account for the change in gravitational potential energy on the hill. And actually, it turns out that the physics tells us that the experience should be the same on the incline treadmill and the hill, assuming no air resistance. Thanks to Galilean relativity that tells us we can switch to the reference frame of the surface of the treadmill and all the physics should stay the same. Funnily enough, this whole thing started because of a KiwiCo project I was doing with my kids. One of the monthly STEM crates that we get delivered was this delivery robot. And because KiwiCo

encourages experimentation, we ended up testing this thing on hills and ramps and treadmills and all sorts of things. With KiwiCo, everything you need for the project is in the box. There's no running to the shops. The instructions are great. The replay value is great. Go

to kiwico.com/stevemoulde to get 50% off your first crate. So, what do you think? Is an incline treadmill just as hard to run on as a hill? Because according to Galileo, your legs don't care. So long as the ground

is moving downwards at the same rate relative to your feet.