---
video_title: "Nature’s Optical Illusion"
video_id: B_PCZiNlmPw
channel_name: "Steve Mould"
channel_id: UCEIwxahdLz7bap-VDs9h35A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B_PCZiNlmPw
video_date: 2025-09-12T15:00:21+00:00
video_description: |
  Sign up for Onshape and get up to 6 months of the professional version for free at https://Onshape.pro/SteveMould
  
  3D zoetropes based on the golden ratio were first invented and designed by John Edmark. You can find his fascinating work here: https://www.johnedmark.com and on his instagram: https://www.instagram.com/john.edmark
  
  Ben Sparks's video on Numberphile: https://youtu.be/sj8Sg8qnjOg
  
  Here's where you can buy Novatropes: https://www.novatropes.com
  
  Play with my zoetrope design: http://onshape.pro/zoetrope-design . It'll say "view only", just sign in to make an editable copy.
  
  Or here's the STL file if you just want to print it: https://stevemould.com/logo-zoetrope
  
  Here's that webpage for exploring animated seed spirals: https://stevemould.com/seed-spirals
  
  You can buy my books here:
  https://stevemould.com/books
  
  You can support me on Patreon and get access to the exclusive Discord:
  https://www.patreon.com/stevemould
  
  Twitter: http://twitter.com/moulds
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/stevemouldscience/
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/stevemouldscience/
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/stevemould
  Buy nerdy maths things: http://mathsgear.co.uk
---
This is just a cactus spinning on a CD, but look what happens when I change the shutter speed of my camera. It kind of looks like the cactus is shrinking or something. It also works with pine cones and succulents. But why do all these things in nature seem to grow when you spin them or if you change the speed they seem to shrink instead? Well, you might already have guessed that it only looks this way through a camera. Though it is possible

to get it working for the naked eye. I'll explain how later because it's actually something you can make for yourself or buy if you want it to actually look nice. I'm projecting. So it works kind of like a zoetrope but with more interesting maths. The way this traditional zoetrope works is as the slits go past your eye, you're shown a brief flash of the picture on the opposite side and each one of the pictures is a frame from an animation.

You can make 3D zoetropes by throwing away the black drum with the slits in it then arranging your 3D models in a circle. Without the black drum you have to rely on the frame rate of your camera to make it work. You just have to spin your zoetrope at the right speed so that every time your camera takes a frame the zoetrope has moved around by one frame. By the way, it doesn't have to be 3D. Look at these vinyl records. This is the

Fire and Stone album by Prince Fatty. This is a special edition Lion King album. This one's the Rolling Stones. But look, there's something really different going on between this vinyl record and this cactus. So how does the cactus animation actually work? Now

nature's a bit messy and imperfect so I printed out this plastic flower that mimic the layout of real plants but without any of those imperfections. Like nature's nice and everything but this plastic flower is just geometrically perfect. Isn't that amazing? It's like the flower's opening up, but it's just constant, just new petals appearing all the time. So, we need to know what is this pattern? Why does it appear in

nature? And why does it appear to shrink and grow when you spin it? Well, no one can answer those first two questions better than Ben Sparks. So, I'll leave a link in the description to his video, but here's the TL DW. Right, so imagine you're a plant and you're making seeds.

You've got some kind of molecular machinery that builds the seed which then pops out. And then that molecular machinery turns through some angle and then pops out another seed. Right? Turn, seed, turn, seed, turn, seed. Then you get a seed. You get a seed. The seeds

drift out from that central point at some minute velocity. And so, you end up with this pattern forming. The question is, what's the best angle to turn through between each new seed coming out? In this example, I set the angle to 2/5 of a full turn. So, it's sort of doing that thing you do when you draw a pentagram. But look, it's an inefficient

use of space because there's all these gaps. So, what angle should this seed building plant machinery turn through between each seed for the most efficient use of space? Well, it turns out to be a full circle divided by the golden ratio. We'll call that the golden angle. It works because the golden ratio is the most irrational number, but you really are going to have to speak to Ben Sparks if you want to understand why that's the criteria. It's not just seeds, by the

way, it's leaves and petals and other things that often follow this pattern. But does it have to be the golden ratio for this growing, shrinking animation to work? Like I designed this plant that turns through 2/5 of a turn between each petal, each petal being my channel logo. And look, you can animate it by spinning it. So, do we really need the golden ratio here? By the way, I used to build

a lot of my 3D models just using primitives in the 3D printer slicing software, but I made this thing in Onshape. I also made this thing and this. You know when you learn how to use a new tool and it's exciting because you feel like there's all these possibilities. I had that when I was learning Onshape. So, I'm more than happy to recommend it to you. If you're

an engineer or even just a hobbyist watching this video, then here's what they want you to know. If it's not obvious already, they're sponsoring this video. Onshape is a professional-grade CAD system and PDM built for businesses. Onshape is entirely in the cloud, so you access it through a browser. Here's one that's important. Real-time simultaneous

collaboration, like I had people helping me with this plant design. No IT setup, runs on any device, you don't have to install anything. All changes are tracked, it's got a Git-type system, you can revert all the way back to the beginning. You can even branch and merge like you do in Git as well. And you know, it never crashes because it lives in the browser. You're not going to

suddenly lose what you were working on. It means as a business, you can focus on the CAD, not the CAD system. The promo on this one is really good. If you go to onshape.pro/stevemould, you'll get 6 months of the professional version for free. The link is also in

the description, so check out Onshape today. Now, this is really fun because the design is parametric, I can just one parameter, which is the angle that it turns through when it generates each new petal, and look, suddenly I've got that golden ratio spiral. Actually, I'll leave a link to this Onshape project in the description, so you can have a play with it yourself. I'm sure I've not gone about it in the smartest way cuz I'm still learning. So, if you are a CAD person, I'll take any constructive criticism you have. But back to that

question of whether the golden ratio is needed for this growing shrinking animation. To figure it out, I built this little website where you can play with the various parameters. It's cool, isn't it? I'll leave a link in the description so you can have a play with it yourself. Look, you can set the frame rate and the angle it turns through between each frame. And so finally, we

have everything we need to explain why a spinning cactus looks like it's growing or shrinking. Consider just one seed in this spiral. It's already traveled some distance from the center. All the other seeds are either further away or closer to the center. But which two seeds are most similar to this one in terms of how far it is from the center? Well, that

would be the seed that emerged just before it and the seed that emerged just after it. Now, we know that the seed-making machinery turns through an angle of 222° between each seed. That's 360 / the golden ratio. That means if we turn this whole thing around through 222°, it appears as though this seed has just moved outwards slightly. Or if we turn 222° in the opposite direction, it's as if this seed moves inwards slightly. Of

course, turning through this angle clockwise is the same as turning through this angle anticlockwise. But anyway, this is how we animate the spiral. By turning through this angle for each frame, the seeds appear to drift outwards. And look, if I change the angle turned between each frame very slightly, the whole thing appears to turn slowly as well as shrink. But if you wanted to, you could also speed up the animation by turning through two lots of 222°. Turning through 444° is

the same as turning through 84° because you can just subtract the 360° that gets you back to where you started. And you can keep speeding up the animation by turning through more multiples of the golden angle. Of course, the golden angle is an irrational number. in reality. It's not 222 degrees exactly.

And that means something quite interesting. It doesn't matter how many times I turn through this golden angle, it'll never get back to the original position. So there are an infinite number of speed options when you animate a natural object like this. Contrast that to a normal zoetrope or my five-spoked plant. You can keep speeding it up, but eventually you wrap back around to the start again. So instead of

turning through one frame for each flash of the camera, you're turning through a full turn plus one frame. But the result's the same. Another way of saying that is when you spin a cactus, there are as many frames in the animation as there are seeds or petals or spikes or whatever. And if this was a perfect fractal, that would mean infinitely many different frames. Compare that to a normal zoetrope where there are, well, that many frames. What's really cool

though is if when you're watching the animation, you fix on just one of those seeds or spikes or petals, you will see every single seed on this plant. Every single seed visits that location. So the golden ratio definitely makes it better. So anyway, it's a bit of a trade-off. With a normal zoetrope, you've got all this freedom of movement, but with a natural zoetrope, you only have the shrinking and growing, but you have all these different speed options. But what if you

could combine the two? Well, that's what Brendan Keeber did with this design. The tentacles turn through a small angle with each new frame, so it looks like it's spinning. A few of his designs do that actually. I really like this Romanesco broccoli because it's a fractal. I mentioned earlier that you

only see the effect in camera, but that it's possible to make it work for the naked eye. And you do that with a strobe light, which is what's going on with this novatrope's device. This ring of LEDs flashes at about 40 hertz, and then the speed of the spinning shape is fixed so that it turns through the golden angle for every flash of the strobe. I actually had a chat with Brandon who makes and sells these novatropes things. And there's a few really cool details.

For example, this motor is a standard motor from a CD player. So he designed these parts to have the same hole size and thickness as a CD. So in the same way that a CD clicks satisfyingly into a CD player, these things click onto the spinning base. I actually correctly guessed the way that this device maintains the right speed. There's a gap here in the LED ring because in the gap there's an infrared light and an infrared sensor. When these spokes pass

over the sensor, they receive a lot more of that reflected infrared light back. And so that can be used as a signal to maintain the right speed. If you do buy a novatropes dock, I've made my logo design available as an STL as well. Link's in the description for that if you want to add it to your collection. Just bear in mind that novatropes is a small company. So if you all rush over

there and order a load of stuff, you might need to be a little bit patient with fulfillment. But there you go. That is why a spinning cactus looks like it's growing and shrinking. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe. And the

algorithm thinks you'd enjoy this video next.