---
video_title: "The stroboscopic effect and rolling shutter"
video_id: LLlghvxVoH0
channel_name: "Steve Mould"
channel_id: UCEIwxahdLz7bap-VDs9h35A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LLlghvxVoH0
video_date: 2025-07-10
video_description: |
  Visit kiwico.com and use the code STEVEMOULD to get 50% off your first monthly KiwiCo crate
---
My kids just stumbled upon two of my favorite phenomena when they tried to take a video of this spinning thing that they'd made. I'm talking about the stroboscopic effect and the rolling shutter effect. Luckily, they were outside in bright sunlight at the time, otherwise it wouldn't have worked. I'll explain why in a second, but if you want to try it for yourself, here's what you're looking for. This is the Spin Art Crate from KiwiCo, by the way.

It's incredible. And it's rotating at about 30 turns per second, and my camera is filming at about 30 frames per second. So, every time the phone snaps a new frame, the disc has spun around a full turn, and so it looks the same as the previous frame. And if every frame looks the same, well, it looks like the disc isn't spinning at all. But we noticed that sometimes it looks like it's slowly spinning one way or the other. So, me and the kids connected it

up to a bench power supply to see what would happen if we spun it faster or slower. That's so cool. It's incredible, like And we discovered that if it spins slightly faster than 30 rotations per second, it looks like it's slowly spinning clockwise, but if it's spinning slightly slower than 30 rotations per second, it looks like it's very slowly spinning anticlockwise. Honestly, this is the main reason I've been getting KiwiCo all these years. Every crate is always a launch pad into all sorts of other explorations. It definitely helps

that the projects themselves are really low friction, like everything you need is in the box. That's amazing. And the instructions are really well thought out. So, as a parent, I've still got energy to spare when the kids ask follow-on questions. Why does that look weirder?

Like, what have you done to make it look weirder? There's a great offer on this one if you're interested. Go to kiwico.com/stevemould to get 50% off your first crate. But what about that rolling shutter artifact? See how the disc is all spread

out at the bottom and squished at the top? That's because when your camera takes a picture, it doesn't do all the pixels simultaneously. Instead, it quickly scans from the top to the bottom. It's almost instantaneous, so you don't notice it for slow-moving things, but here it becomes obvious. The reason you need to be outside in bright sunlight, by the way, is because your phone decides for you how long to leave the shutter open for each frame based on how bright the scene is. In low light,

the shutter will be open for most of the frame and the movement will be smeared out, but in bright sunlight, the shutter is opened for just a tiny fraction of a second and you get this nice crisp image. Try it for yourself with an electric fan or maybe grab the Spin Art Crate from KiwiCo. These look like actual pictures you'd find in an art gallery. Yeah, we can put that on the wall somewhere. bunch of these and then just put them on the wall. So I can find