---
video_title: "The EpiPen Chain Reaction"
video_id: CfhsW1kaa2Q
channel_name: "Steve Mould"
channel_id: UCEIwxahdLz7bap-VDs9h35A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CfhsW1kaa2Q
video_date: 2025-07-31
video_description: |
  Try AnyDesk today: https://anydesk.com/stevemould
  
  An EpiPen executes 3 mechanisms in quick succession when you press the tip against your thigh.
  
  You can buy my books here:
  https://stevemould.com/books
  
  You can support me on Patreon and get access to the exclusive Discord:
  https://www.patreon.com/stevemould
  
  just like these amazing people:
  
  Glenn Watson
  Peter Turner
  Joël van der Loo
  Matthew Cocke
  Mark Brouwer
  Deneb
  
  Twitter: http://twitter.com/moulds
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/stevemouldscience/
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/stevemouldscience/
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/stevemould
  Buy nerdy maths things: http://mathsgear.co.uk
---
Step one, jab the EpiPen into your thigh. Oh, that's all the steps. Well, I hope you enjoyed this video explaining how an EpiPen It is just one step, but under the plastic, it's actually three distinct mechanisms that trigger each other in quick succession without any additional input from you. No button pressing, no dial turning. You don't even need to keep it charged because it doesn't have a battery. Though it does

have a store of energy that never drains. And all of this inside a package that's barely wider than a syringe. Auto-injectors are really cool. Actually, the non-EpiPen auto-injectors are arguably cooler than EpiPen because, well, they don't engage in price gouging. But I only have access to EpiPen, so this video is about the EpiPen mechanism specifically. We

figured it out by cutting one of these things in half, and then to make the mechanism super clear for video, we built this working scaled-up model. This is an expired EpiPen, by the way. We're not out here destroying working EpiPens. Also, don't try this at home.

Okay, so this is the safety. I've taken that out. Here's what I think happens. You push this end into your leg, and that's going to push against uh this surface here cuz you can see that there's a bit of give there. So, I think when this gets pushed into here, there's something inside this mechanism that will then release this spring here. This

is all going to shoot that way. Oh, wow. So, that's powerful. It's bent the uh needle, which I guess is in there. I assume this rubber kind of can just get squished when it's being deployed correctly. This is the spring. God, it's

really stiff. So, inside here was this thing. That would have been over there like that. You have to push it past this is like nubbing, you know. So, these can't move in. When this comes out, this

could be squeezed and then pushed through that hole. And now, if the spring was in there, that's now free to just move. This orange thing needs to be able to move this way to cover the needle once the needle is deployed. Can feel there's a spring in there. Maybe when this gets pushed in, that somehow releases a mechanism inside here. Ooh, those tabs

in there, maybe they get pushed out when the syringe gets pushed in there. So, here's what we've discovered. It's actually kind of two steps for the user because they have to remove the blue safety cap first. Actually, on that point, I massively oversimplified the real instructions at the beginning of this video for comic effect. Actually, should we do an official disclaimer?

Probably. This video is for non-medical educational purposes only. I'm not a doctor. Always consult a healthcare professional and read the official instructions or patient information leaflet before using an EpiPen or any auto injector. Okay, so you move the safety cap and then what you're really doing is using your leg to push the orange tip into the device. And that's

what triggers the three things. First, it fires the needle, then it delivers the dose of adrenaline, and then it covers the needle to make it safe. The sequence is powered by this spring here, which is incredibly stiff. And it starts off in the device compressed, so it's like an enormous store of energy. But what's stopping that spring from expanding and releasing that energy before you press it against your thigh?

Well, look, when the device is at rest, the spring is pushing against the plunger here. Right now, the plunger can't move, so nothing happens. Let's figure out why the plunger can't move, though. Well, it's actually a little bit confusing because the plunger carries on up here through the center of the spring. It's not important from a mechanical point of view that the plunger goes through the middle of the spring. It's just that's how it's done

here. The important thing is the shape of this end of the plunger. See how it's got these bits sticking out? In other words, the plunger is wider here, and it's too wide to fit through this hole. Now, in principle, we can make this end of the plunger thinner by pinching it.

So, let's do that and see what happens. So, the needle is fired when this end of the plunger is pinched so that it's small enough to get through this hole. But, how is it that pressing the orange tip against your thigh leads to this thing getting pinched? By the way, this is how the safety cap works. With the safety cap in place, this end of the plunger can't be pinched. Right, let's

see what happens when we push on the orange tip. Well, the orange tip pushes this thing backwards, which pushes this thing backwards. But, this is the thing that's holding the lip of the plunger in place, the thing with a too small hole. So, when that's pushed backwards, the lip of the plunger is pushed backwards as well. And crucially, the lip is then pushed against this block here. Here's

what that looks like in slow motion. Honestly, it's still not super clear, so I built a 2D version. If you like 2D versions of mechanisms, consider subscribing because that's kind of my thing. Also, stick around to the end to find out why this room is so weird. So, in 2D, you can't have a spring wrapping around something. So, in this version, there

are now two springs, one either side. This is the plunger, and this is the hole that's too big for the plunger to get through. Okay, so the most important thing is these sloped surfaces here. So, when everything gets pushed up against this block, these corners are now pushing those sloped surfaces inwards. That's how the end of the plunger gets pinched, and that's really the heart of this part of the mechanism. It's the inclined

plane. It was the inclined plane all along. So, with the end of the plunger pinched, it can now fit through that hole, and there's nothing to stop the spring from expanding. Remember, the spring is pushing against the plunger, so when the spring expands, it pushes the plunger forward, which sounds like it's going to squirt adrenaline, but that doesn't happen yet. That's because the whole syringe is free to move. So,

it all just moves forwards together. But, what happens when the tip of the needle comes into contact with your thigh? Now, the spring is pushing against two things. It's pushing the plunger into the syringe, and via the syringe, it's pushing the needle into your skin. The needle goes into your thigh first because it requires less force than pushing the adrenaline through this really thin needle. And

there's probably some additional friction where the seal of the plunger meets the glass of the syringe. But, in any case, getting the needle into your thigh is the easier task, and the spring does the easy task first. So, that's the first mechanism. The needle is deployed. By the way, when you use an EpiPen, you never actually see the needle, which is amazing, really. But, that's the third

mechanism. So, we're getting ahead of ourselves. The next thing we need to do is deliver the adrenaline. And this bit's really easy. Once the needle is in your leg, the spring keeps pushing, but it can't push the syringe forward any further because it's reached the end of the pen. So, instead, it pushes the

plunger into the syringe. When this wide part of the plunger reaches the opening of the glass, it can't go any further because it's wider than the opening. And so, this is the dose that you get. In a real EpiPen, that's 0.3 ml. That's the

intended dose. So, why is there all this additional adrenaline in the syringe? There's 1.7 ml left after use. It's certainly not intended for repeated dosing because this is a single-use device. Honestly, I've struggled to find

a good explanation for this additional adrenaline. But, the most plausible reason seems to be to prevent the plunger bottoming out violently against the glass. In other words, the extra adrenaline is like a mechanical buffer to protect the glass from breaking. But, anyway, that's how the adrenaline is delivered. That's mechanism number two. I mean, you

could argue that mechanism one and mechanism two are the same mechanism, but like they happen at different things. They serve different purposes. Look, I'm not going to justify it. One mechanism, two mechanisms, it doesn't matter. The point is that's it.

Job done. I'll just leave this needle here on the ground. Stop. We need to make that needle safe. Good point, orange tip of the EpiPen, but how? Well,

first of all, it's crucial that the orange tip doesn't come out until after the adrenaline has been delivered. And look, when the EpiPen is at rest, the orange tip can't move. I can feel that it wants to. And that's because of another spring in here, but it's locked in place by these tabs. Here they are on the scaled-up model. It's still quite

hard to see, so I've cut a bit more of the orange tip away, and there it is. You can see it much better. You can also see that that tab is hinged here and is actually part of a larger piece that extends into the inside of the pen. Now, look what happens when I push this in. It moves that tab out of the way.

This bit here is just a spring. Not a spring in the usual sense of a coil of wire, but just a bit of plastic that resists being straightened out. All that does is give some resistance to this thing being pressed, so the orange tip doesn't deploy too early. But, when the syringe is pushed forwards into this part of the pen, these two levers are pushed in, which moves these two tabs out of the way, and so now orange tip can move forwards. This spring is relatively weak, so orange tip isn't deployed until you remove the pen from your leg. And the final part of the

mechanism is that once the orange tip is all the way out, these two bits spring out sideways, and that prevents the orange tip from sliding back into the pen. You know, you used to have to carry adrenaline and the syringe separately in a little pack, and remember how to put it all together and use it in an emergency when you're having an anaphylactic reaction. But, by hiding all those mechanisms behind one simple action anyone can administer the medication, even a child. So, speak to your doctor today about anything but EpiPen. Their prices are artificially inflated and there are other brands out there that are much cheaper and work just as well. So, the reason I can't

walk through my house without ducking is because this part of the house was built in the 1600s. People were shorter back then. That's not why ceilings were lower back then. In fact, ceilings were higher in the Middle Ages until they invented these. Chimneys. Without having to worry

about smoke accumulation, they can make the ceilings lower, making it easier and cheaper to heat. It's retrofitted with central heating now, of course, but they didn't have radiators back then. The other thing this room didn't have back then was Wi-Fi and it still doesn't have it 400 years later. I'm working on it. It's just difficult cuz it's listed and you try and drill hole. The point is, I

often find myself on 4G. For example, here I'm on my laptop in my studio on 4G, but I need to be on my editing PC, which is in the new part of the house and on Wi-Fi. But, thanks to the sponsor of this video, AnyDesk, it's as if I'm on my PC on the Wi-Fi in my house. AnyDesk is remote desktop software. The reason the lag is lower, the frame rate is higher, and the audio pass-through is crisper than options I've tried in the past is all down to compression.

AnyDesk's compression algorithm just really squeezes that data. Like, I feel sorry for the data in some ways. But, it's not just about who can compress data the most. Like, you can compress data as much as you want. The problem is still look nice when you decompress it at the other end. That's the great thing

about AnyDesk. It makes the data really, really small, but when they end biggen the data at the other end, it still looks nice and it still sounds nice. The other difference with AnyDesk is it works between all the major desktop and mobile operating systems. So, you could access your PC from your iPad, for example. Look, I'm setting a job going on my PC from my Android phone because I can't be bothered to get up off the sofa. Connections are end-to-end

encrypted, which means no one can sniff out any of the data that's passing between the two devices. And when I say end-to-end encrypted, I mean end-to-end encrypted by Germans. It's a German company, it's German software, and Germans really care about privacy. Like it's almost weird. Did I mention that it's free? It's completely free

forever for personal use. They just hope that you'll enjoy it so much you'll recommend it to your boss, because they make money from business subscriptions. So if you have any need for remote desktop software, give AnyDesk a try. The URL is anydesk.com/stevemould.

That really helps me out, because they know that I sent you. The link is also in the description, so check out AnyDesk today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe. And the algorithm thinks you'll enjoy this video next.