---
video_title: "Treadmill vs. Real Hill: Which is harder to run"
video_id: PAOpkv0fpik
channel_name: "Steve Mould"
channel_id: UCEIwxahdLz7bap-VDs9h35A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PAOpkv0fpik
video_date: 2025-04-10
video_description: |
  Click the link https://www.kiwico.com/stevemould and use the code 
  STEVEMOULD to get 50% of your first month at KiwiCo. 
  
  Thanks to Galilean relativity it should be just as hard to run on an inclined treadmill as it is to run on a hill of the same incline. But you don't gain gravitational potential energy on a treadmill, so can it really be true?
  
  You can buy my books here:
  https://stevemould.com/books
  
  You can support me on Patreon and get access to the exclusive Discord:
  https://www.patreon.com/stevemould
  
  Twitter: http://twitter.com/moulds
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/stevemouldscience/
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/stevemouldscience/
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/stevemould
  Buy nerdy maths things: http://mathsgear.co.uk
  
  0:00 Introduction 
  2:50 Building the vehicle 
  3:28 Components of the car
  4:41 Galilean relativity
  5:55 Train analogy 
  9:42 Infinite ladder analogy 
  11:22 Ladder experiment 
  14:30 What about energy?! 
  15:15 Leg muscles 
  15:52 The experiment 
  17:56 The data 
  18:31 Flat Earth parody 
  21:07 Analysing the data 
  25:37 Sponsor message
---
I remember a while back seeing someone at the gym on an incline treadmill and thinking, "Well, yeah, but it's actually not much harder than running on a regular treadmill because you're not lifting your body up through Earth's gravitational field." But, is that actually right? What do you think? Actually, I'm glad we're making a video about this because that's the only time I've ever been to the gym and I'm still paying monthly. But, anyway, my thinking is if you're on an incline treadmill, you're not actually giving yourself any gravitational potential energy, so it shouldn't be much harder. Like, yes,

you're having to raise your foot higher a little bit with each step, but your foot isn't actually pushing your body up through gravity. In other words, running on a hill with the same incline should be much harder than running on the incline treadmill. But, then I got an email from Antoine Gustin saying that he got into a debate about it online. And in the email, he said, "Of course, you and I both know that running on an incline treadmill is the same as running on a hill with the same incline." Obviously, assuming that wind resistance is negligible and the surfaces are the same and so on. But, like,

the way he said that, like, you know enough about physics for this to be obvious was the implication. And that really gave me pause. Like, maybe I didn't think about this deeply enough when I dismissed the incline treadmill. So, I gave it some more thought and I talked about it on a podcast. That's the podcast of Unnecessary Detail, by the way, if you're interested. And then I

thought no more of it because although myself of what I thought the right answer was, it seemed like it would be a big challenge to actually test it quantitatively. Like, how can you accurately measure the amount of energy someone expends running on a treadmill and running on a hill? Maybe we could use like a heart rate tracker and all that sort of stuff, but you know, they're not super accurate and there's a lot of confounding factors. But, then I was doing some robotics with my kids. It's this simple little thing with two wheels that are powered separately with this remote control. And so, you know,

you push both buttons to go forwards. If you want to turn, you press only one of the buttons and so on. And as always with these things, we ended up experimenting way beyond the instructions. Like we started testing is it powerful enough to go up an incline? What if you put it on a treadmill? And

all these sorts of things. And in that moment, I remembered the question about the incline treadmill. And suddenly this seemed like maybe this is a way we could prove one way or the other if it's easier or harder or the same on a hill versus an incline treadmill. Because we can quantitatively measure the amount of energy used by an electric motor that's powering a vehicle uphill or on a treadmill. Like we measured the volts and the amps, and that gives us the power consumption. This is the delivery

robot crate from KiwiCo, by the way. They're the sponsor of this video. I'll tell you a bit more about them later. So, I started looking for someone who could help me build a vehicle that would go at a fixed speed that we can set where we can measure the power consumption of just the wheels and that will go in a straight line on its own. And that's when I thought of Jared Rebo, just the person for the job. I work in

ecosystem restoration, designing drones that plant trees. The seeds are just dropping out of the drone. What's the name of the company? Aseed. Aseed. And

while we're talking about companies, this is where we are. A1 Skate Ramps. For all your skate ramp needs. They built us this thing just for today and then it's going to be taken apart again. I ended up completely abandoning the toy car's propulsion system, which is why there are so many components on here. We

have the high-tech speaker dampening system in the form of some electrical tape. Because we don't like the beeping. Cuz the beeping's loud. These are Arduino compatible microcontrollers called Teensys. The reason there's two of them is I wanted one of the devices to control the propulsion system and the propulsion system's having its power metered, whereas the other device is controlling the steering and radio interface. Because we just want one

number, which is the power in pushing it forwards. Correct. We have a Bluetooth radio module called an HC06. This is how we're controlling it from our phone, but also how we're collecting data. We then have two motor drivers.

And we have a current sensor. Probably second most important part of the system. Each of these things here is an emitter and a receiver. They're just detecting the white line. So there you go. That is

Jared's incredible vehicle. Wait, I've got an idea. Hold on one second. Now, don't tell me that I don't treat my sponsors well. Look at that. It's now branded.

Kiwi Co, it's the delivery box. And now we can also transport things to the top of a ramp. Now, before we actually run the test, I want to see if I can persuade you, just with reasoning, that it's just as hard to run an inclined treadmill as it is to run on a hill with the same incline. But even if you're totally convinced by the end, I hope that, just like me, you'll want to see it confirmed experimentally. For the same reason that astronauts took a hammer and a feather to the moon, just to make sure that they did indeed fall at the same rate in a vacuum. How about

that? Okay, so here's how I reasoned through it on the podcast. Actually, this is a bit more refined than what I said on the podcast, but it's a thought experiment involving running down a train carriage. Have you ever had that experience where you're sitting on a train in a station, and when you look out the window, you see that the train next to you is moving, and you think, wait, is our train moving or is that train moving? And you have to look at something else, like the track or the platform, to figure out which one it is.

And the reason you have that experience goes back to a fundamental principle of physics. This one goes all the way back to Galileo. It's Galilean relativity. And we know from this principle that if you were sealed in a box with no windows, there is no experiment that you could do inside that box that would tell you how fast the box and you are moving. Practically speaking, you can tell that a train is moving because you're jostling about a little bit on the slight unevenness in the tracks, and you can hear the clickety-clack of the wheels, and of course you can look out the window. But if you threw a ball up

in the air, it would behave just as if you threw a ball up in the air when the train was stationary. It wouldn't go shooting down the carriage. It would land back in your hand again. And similarly, if you ran down the train carriage, it wouldn't be harder to run in the same direction that the train is going and easier to run in the opposite direction. So long as the train isn't accelerating or decelerating, so long as it's going at a constant speed, the experience of running down a train carriage is the same regardless of the speed that the train is going. And

in that sense, running down a train carriage is the same experience as running along the ground. So imagine that you're running down a train carriage, but the train is moving in the opposite direction at the same speed that you're running. So now you are stationary relative to the ground outside. So imagine just outside the train carriage there's someone on the ground running on a treadmill, and the treadmill happens to be turning at the same speed as the train. So you're both stationary relative to the earth, and you're both running along a surface that is moving backwards under your feet. And

so the two of you are having identical experiences. In other words, it's just as hard to run on a treadmill on the ground as it is to run through a train carriage that is moving backwards at the same speed that you're running. And because it's impossible to tell whether a train carriage is moving or not without looking out the window, thanks to Galilean relativity, it must also be just as easy to run through a moving train carriage as it is to run through a stationary train carriage. And running through a stationary train must be just as hard as running along stationary ground. And so, if you string that all together, running on a treadmill is just as hard as running along the ground. If

you're not convinced that these two experiences are identical from an energy point of view, then we can incrementally simplify the train until it's more and more like the treadmill. So, we can remove the walls, the roof, we can loop the surface around so it comes back underneath. If they were different experiences to begin with, at what point in that transition do they become the same? Well, the answer is that they were always the same. So, so far we've established that running on a flat treadmill is just as hard as running along the ground, which is not the thing we were trying to prove, but it's a useful thing to establish. And

interestingly enough, the flat treadmill question was also emailed to me by someone called Charles Raisin because his engineer friends were convinced that it would be harder to run on the ground. But now we've established that in fact they are the same, let's now imagine that the train is on an inclined track. Now, of course it's much harder to run through the train carriage because you're running up a slope. But just like before, there's no way to tell if the train is stationary or moving at a constant speed up the inclined track, or in fact down the inclined track. The experience of running up the train will be the same so long as the train isn't accelerating or decelerating. And so we

can make the same argument. Imagine the train is moving down the slope at the same speed that the person is running up inside the carriage, and there's a person on the inclined treadmill outside. And of course they're having the same experience. So, running on an inclined treadmill is the same as running up through an inclined train that is moving downhill, which is the same as running up through an inclined train that is stationary, which is the same as running up a hill. So, an inclined treadmill is just as hard to run on as a hill. Again, we're making

lots of simplifying assumptions like there's no air resistance and the surfaces are the same and things like that. And no, I don't know whether that's convinced you or not. What's really nice about this question is it can be tackled from like three or four different angles. And actually I'd like to do all of them because different approaches click with different people. You know, uh with the inclined treadmill and the hill, there's this horizontal component to the motion which complicates things a little bit and so why don't we get rid of that? Let's just

imagine instead climbing up a ladder. So imagine there's a ladder inside an elevator that is currently stationary. So climbing up that ladder should feel the same as climbing up a stationary ladder on the ground. But what if we now have the elevator descending as you're climbing and it's descending at the same rate that you're climbing upwards? So now you're climbing up a ladder but your height isn't increasing at all. So

you're not having to lift your body up through Earth's gravitational field. So will that be easier? Well, you can ask yourself what's it like to stand in an elevator. Well, when the elevator first starts moving, you get that strange feeling in your stomach because temporarily you feel lighter. But that feeling only lasts during the acceleration part of the elevator journey. Once the elevator is moving

downwards at a constant speed, you feel normal again and you can test that with some bathroom scales. Look, when the elevator starts going down, it appears as though my weight goes down temporarily but for the rest of the journey my weight is normal. This is just Galilean relativity again. If the elevator has no windows, there's no experiment that you can do inside the elevator that will tell you how fast it's moving so long as it's not accelerating or decelerating. That means that if you were to climb up the ladder while the elevator was moving downwards at the same rate, it should feel just the same as if the elevator was stationary. So even though in that

scenario, your height isn't changing, you're not moving upwards through Earth's gravitational field, it should be just as hard as if you were moving up through Earth's gravitational field. Up a ladder on the ground. Now before we get to the big experiment with the autonomous rover that Jared built, I actually think this one with the ladder is worth testing at least qualitatively. It's tricky to get a ladder inside an elevator and the problem you have is you very quickly reach the top of the ladder because of the amount of space you have in a typical elevator. But actually, the elevator surrounding the ladder is a bit of a distraction. What you need is just

a really long ladder that's slowly moving downwards. It doesn't matter whether it has an elevator around it or not. That sounds even harder to arrange, a really long ladder that's slowly moving downwards. Except here at Rocker in Lakeside, they've got one of these. It's a rotating climbing wall. So, when

you get on it, the weight of your body causes it to rotate and you can set the speed with this dial here. So, we can climb a ladder without increasing our height or we can lock it off and climb a ladder in the traditional way where our height does go up and we can compare the two. Now, I broke my fibula. So, instead, producer Lily's going to climb up the ladder. For the next climb, the ladder will be stationary, but we need to make sure that the climbing speed is roughly the same in both tests. So, we

analyzed the footage to figure out the speed and then we used a metronome app to keep Lily in time for the next climb. I mean, apart from the fact that my arms are tired from doing it The first time. Yeah. time. It's pretty similar, pretty much the same.

Okay. With my flawed reasoning when I was first thinking about it, it should be super easy. Yeah. Because the In my mind, the hard thing is you're giving yourself gravitational potential energy by lifting yourself up. And when the thing was rotating, you weren't doing that at all. So, that should have been

really easy. Mhm. But to your mind, they were about as hard. Yeah. I also tried it actually, but hopping up on my good leg. And I agree

that the two scenarios feel equally difficult. The train argument and the elevator argument might not be convincing to you. Maybe because it relies on a principle of physics that's kind of abstract. And regardless of what Galileo thinks about elevators, if you're on an inclined treadmill, you're not fighting gravity in the same way that you fight gravity when you're running up a hill. But is that right?

Well, look, we've already anthropomorphized gravity a little bit by talking about fighting it. So, let's carry on in that vein. The thing about gravity is it wants you to be in free fall. It wants you to be accelerating downwards faster and faster. And if you're not doing that, then you're fighting gravity. Like if I put a ball

on an inclined treadmill, look, I can hold it there until the ball is spinning fast enough to keep it in place on the treadmill. But when I remove my support, the ball is still going to roll down the treadmill. Just as if I removed support from a stationary ball on a stationary treadmill. The fact that the treadmill is moving makes no difference. That's because there's always going to be a component of the weight of the ball pointing back down the slope of the treadmill. And actually that's something

I can feel on this treadmill when I'm running on it. Because actually this isn't designed to be on an incline. And with the power off, when I step on it, my foot slips underneath and I have to run faster and faster and faster just to stay on the thing. Gravity wants me to accelerate downwards. It wants me to be in free fall. And so even when I'm

stationary, I'm fighting it. And actually while we've got this set up, it's really useful because we do need to do some energy accounting. Like when you run up a hill, you do actually gain gravitational potential energy. But if you have to expend the same amount of energy when you're on an inclined treadmill as I'm arguing, then where does all that expended energy go? Well, as we can see with this treadmill, it gets faster and faster and faster up until a point. Because there is some

friction in the bearings of this conveyor belt. And it's that friction that stops me having to run just faster and faster and faster forever. And so that's where the energy goes. If I'm running up a hill, the energy goes into gravitational potential energy. But if I'm running on an inclined treadmill, it goes into the friction in the bearings and it goes out as heat. One final final

way of thinking about it is what are your extensor muscles doing in your legs? Well, they're pushing against a force through your foot. That force is the weight of your body. And whether your foot is stationary on the ground or whether it's moving down and backwards at a constant speed, that force will always be your weight. The force would only be less than your weight if you were accelerating downwards, if you weren't fighting gravity. So, in your

leg, your extensor muscle is working against a constant force, your weight, over the full extent of that movement. So, the energy expended by that muscle should be the same in both scenarios. But, like I say, we should really test it. Enable motor reset. And away it goes. An absolutely

flawless getaway. But, the big question that looms over this entire spectacle, which car uses the most energy? Is it the ramp car locked in a relentless uphill struggle? Or is it the treadmill car, an automotive Sisyphus endlessly running yet going nowhere? Strap in, folks, because this isn't just a race, it's a battle against gravity itself.

It's worth saying that Jared traveled a really long way with his creation, and we only had one day to film. So, it was a bit nerve-racking, but the tech all worked perfectly. Well, except the Bluetooth module, which kind of dropped characters every so often. But, brilliantly, the way Jared built it, all the correct data is recorded on the chip, so that if anything goes wrong with the Bluetooth, well, we might lose some data points, but the data won't be wrong. We're actually only interested in the power consumption once the car is up to speed. That's because there actually

is a difference between running on a ramp and running on an incline treadmill, but only at the very beginning and at the very end. That's because on the ramp, the car is gaining kinetic energy at the very beginning, and so we should expect more energy to be used at that point. Whereas on the treadmill, the car never gains any kinetic energy, so the power consumption should be constant all the way through. Interestingly enough, the fact that extra energy is required on the ramp at the very beginning because you're gaining kinetic energy doesn't actually mean that it's harder overall. That's because it actually helps you at the very end of your run. When you want to

stop running uphill, the momentum that you have will carry you a little bit further up the hill even after you've stopped expending energy. And so the boost you get at the end should cancel out the extra energy you had to expend at the beginning. But in any case, we're ignoring all of that and we're just comparing the steady state condition in both tests. We ran the test loads of times on the treadmill and loads of times on the ramp. And really all that's left to do is analyze the data. Nice.

Pretty sure of your head popping up at the end, Jared. So look, this is the data from one of the treadmill runs and it's a plot of energy used in joules against time passed in seconds. And so the slope of this graph is the power consumption. And it's really easy, you can just do a line of best fit. And look, it shows you the equation. The steepness is 9.1. And so

the car is using 9.1 watts of power. And we expect this power consumption to be the same the ramp. We expect the steepness of the slope to be about nine. So let's take a look at some ramp data. I mean,

you know, it's this um Enrico, we don't see the graph. Can you lift up the lift up the graph way above the bottom of the screen? Interesting. Interesting, yeah. So it's harder to go up the ramp.

By about 1 watt. And that's really consistent over like loads and loads of tests that we did. It's always about 9 watts on the treadmill and about 10 watts on the ramp. It's really annoying. By the way, in case you didn't spot it, the reason I was wearing a beanie in the previous shot is because I was doing a parody of a clip from a documentary about flat-earthers. I won't play the

clip because it's copyright. It's called Behind the Curve if you want to look it up, but the chances are you've seen it on YouTube or somewhere else. But anyway, the flat-earthers do an experiment and they don't get the result that they want. Obviously, a parody isn't funny if you have to explain it, but the reason I put it in there is because you know, when I got this result that it's harder for the car on the ramp than on the treadmill, my first thought was how can I explain this away? How can I explain away this result that disagrees with what I believe? And

that's exactly what the flat-earth people did in this documentary. I guess my point is I have empathy now for these people. And I I want to be very clear that I don't have any sympathy for their point of view. Like, I don't think there's any credibility in the idea that the Earth is flat. What I'm saying is I understand that feeling.

And it's very natural for even, you know, for for scientists to feel like, "Okay, I got this result that I didn't want. Um what did I do wrong? Cuz I must I must be right." You know, you know, you could argue that yes, but Steve's belief is grounded in hard-won knowledge based on empiricism and his belief doesn't rely on a global conspiracy to be credible. And I agree, of course, but the point is the feeling is the same. You know, I think it's all

too easy to mock. But if we really want to change people's minds, whether it's flat-earth people or, you know, anyone who has an unorthodox view of science, then maybe leading with empathy is a good start. But what about this incline treadmill? Okay, so I will just go through my thinking of like how I can explain away that one watt, but I just I I want you to know that I'm open-minded. And I'm open to hearing reason. But look, here's a couple of

reasons why this where where where this one extra watt may have come from. So look, one of the issues we have is wind resistance, the thing we said we would ignore in the thought experiment. It should be harder to go up the ramp because you're traveling through air. I didn't think it'd be very much though. So to try and figure out roughly what the difference would be, I ran the car on a flat treadmill and on flat ground.

The data isn't particularly clean to be honest, but I mean maybe about 0.4 of a watt that that explains away. The other thing that we know is happening is that on the incline treadmill the wheels are slipping sometimes. We know that because we have to increase the RPM of the wheels when we incline the treadmill. But we know that the treadmill isn't going any faster in the incline position because we put a mark on the treadmill and we counted the number of frames for the mark to move a certain distance and it's the same whether it's horizontal or inclined. So we know the wheels are

having to turn faster on the incline for the car to stay put. So the wheels must be slipping. What that means is on the treadmill the car isn't traveling as far across the surface of the treadmill. Like it's not traversing as much of the rubber surface as it would if the wheels weren't slipping. Now if we assume that the wheels weren't slipping on the ramp, which by the way is a total assumption.

They might be slipping the same amount, might be slipping more, who knows. But if the wheels weren't slipping on the ramp, then it's traversing more of the ramp surface than the treadmill surface in the same amount of time. So according to my explanation we should expect more energy to be expended on the ramp because the wheels aren't slipping. The RPMs on the flat treadmill were 155, the RPMs on the incline were 160. That's about a 3% increase. If we naively apply

that to the full 9 watts of power, then we expect an additional about 0.3 watts of power for the wheels not to slipping on the ramp. And actually, if you take the average of all the tests that we did, the difference is about 0.8, 0.9.

So, again, in principle, Cool. we can explain away pretty much the entire power difference just with the slipping of the wheels and air resistance. But, these are all very rough calculations, you know, based on assumptions. We need to improve the experiment to figure out if that's actually what's going on. Unfortunately, though, that ramp no longer exists, but hopefully at some point in the future, I can do some more experimentation. But,

by the way, saying, "Well, we need to go back and do more experiments." That's exactly what the flat Earth people said in the documentary. So, actually, there's one final thing to consider about this extra 1 watt. So, the counter theory is that the car will expend more energy going up the ramp because it's raising itself up through Earth's gravitational field. If that were the case, how much more power should we expect the car to consume on the ramp versus the treadmill? When we

tried it on just a flat surface, uh where it wasn't fighting gravity to at all, it was like was it four? Four? Yeah, it was We were looking at the difference was three for flat and seven on a approximate tilt. So, if there's a there should be a 3-watt difference if um you're fighting gravity on the ramp, but you're not fighting gravity on the treadmill. And in fact, because we know the speed of the car and the steepness of the ramp and the distance traveled and the mass of the car, we can work out the rate of change of gravitational energy as the car goes up the ramp. And

it's about 4 W. So, the counter explanation expects a difference of 4 W between the inclined treadmill and the ramp. But, experimentally, we only see a difference of 4 W between a flat treadmill and an inclined treadmill. In other words, the degree to which the inclined treadmill is harder than a flat treadmill is consistent with an inclined treadmill being just as hard as a ramp of the same incline. So, what I'm saying is the results are more damning for the counter explanation than for my explanation.

So, anyway, that's where we are. Have I convinced you? Have I not convinced you? Let me know in the comments either way. By the way, this is why I'm still subscribed to KiwiCo. It's

something I always do with the kids. Like, the kids could do it on their own, but it's just such a joy to do with them. And every time we do it, we go way beyond the instructions in the box. And it all comes from them, you know, because they're so invested in this thing that they've built. They're coming up with all these ways to like test it, extend it, break it, fix it. Like,

learning STEM skills is the main selling point, I suppose, but for me, having a regular monthly delivery that sparks all this exploration is just so valuable. And actually, that's something that KiwiCo is really leaning into. Look at these different components. These are actually interoperable between different KiwiCo projects. So, after a few months, you'll have all this kit that you can combine in different ways. And if your

kids are anything like mine, they'll have the maddest ideas of what to do with it. We subscribe to KiwiCo Labs, where the projects are all about STEM. The delivery robot was one of the projects we got recently. I'm more about KiwiCo Labs, obviously, but there are other clubs. Like, there's one for art, there's one for world discovery.

Whichever one you choose, everything you need is in the box. No last-minute running to the shops. The instructions are great, the replay value is great, and if you go to kiwico.com/stevemould, you'll get 50% off your first crate. The link is also in the description, so check out KiwiCo today. I hope you

enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe, and the algorithm thinks you'll enjoy this video next.

Hello.