---
video_title: "Hooded Seals are amazing!"
video_id: R8swv0V5BOQ
channel_name: "Steve Mould"
channel_id: UCEIwxahdLz7bap-VDs9h35A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R8swv0V5BOQ
video_date: 2026-08-28
video_description: |
  I’ve been working on an idea for about a year, and it’s finally ready to show you. Maybe you’ve heard of this amazing animal called the Hooded Seal. 
  
  The male has an incredible mating display where it inflates a giant red membrane out of its left nostril! When I told my kids about it, they thought it was the most amazing thing they had ever heard of. 
  
  Ever since, I’ve been trying to turn the hooded seal into a plushie with an actual inflating red nose bubble. Well I’ve finally navigated all the design constraints that come with soft toy manufacturing and perfected all the little details, and I’m proud to say it’s ready for preorder! 
  
  I know this isn’t my typical subject matter but I’m a huge fan of biology behind the scenes, and this has been a bit of a passion project. So I hope you’ll take a look and consider placing an order. 
  
  Get one for your kids, or stick one on your coffee table, it’s a brilliant conversation starter! https://shop.stevemould.com/
  
  More information on hooded seals and efforts to protect them: 
  
  Hooded seals live far up north in the Arctic. The sea ice there is disappearing faster than almost anywhere else on Earth, which is why they are now classified as endangered. 
  
  When you add this plushie to your cart, you have the option to include a donation of 5%, 10% or 25%, or you can skip it. All donations go straight to the 90 North Foundation, a charity campaigning to turn the Central Arctic Ocean (about 2.8 million square kilometres of water around the North Pole) into a proper marine reserve. It's the fastest-warming, fastest-acidifying ocean on the planet, and as the ice retreats, it's opening up to fishing boats, cargo ships and mining vessels that couldn't get there before. 
  
  90 North works with real scientists to make the case for protecting it before it's too late.
---
What if when humans got in a fight with each other, instead of sizing up like that, they blew a big red bubble out of their nose instead? Not sure if that would be better or worse, to be honest, but it's what the hooded seal does. It also blows a big red bubble out of its nose as a way to attract females. They have a special membrane in their nostril that they can inflate with air. I love this animal so much that I designed this plushy. It's premium, it's weighty, and

when you squeeze the head, a big [snorts] red bubble comes out. And you can pre-order one now. Go to shop.stevemold.com to get yours. I'd love this to be a

collectible item, so let me know what weird animal display would you like to see in plushy form next?