---
video_title: "This Device Goes Past Equilibrium"
video_id: NvkZaWLe0Sk
channel_name: "Steve Mould"
channel_id: UCEIwxahdLz7bap-VDs9h35A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NvkZaWLe0Sk
video_date: 2026-08-22
video_description: |
  Learn more about the Jane Street internship at https://jane-st.co/internships2027-SteveMould
  
  Counterflow heat exchangers are really counterintuitive because they can swap the temperature of two liquids.
  
  Get the Hooded Seal Plushie with actuating nose bubble: https://shop.stevemould.com
  
  You can buy my books here:
  https://stevemould.com/books
  
  You can support me on Patreon and get access to the exclusive Discord:
  https://www.patreon.com/stevemould
  
  Twitter: http://twitter.com/moulds
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/stevemouldscience/
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/stevemouldscience/
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/stevemould
  Buy nerdy maths things: http://mathsgear.co.uk
---
Mhm, nice warm cup of tea. Mhm. It's coming out cold. And my soft drink is coming out hot. Oh, look, it's because our straws are intertwined.

The temperatures are equalizing. Hold on. Mhm. It's worse than that. Your drink is now colder than my drink. So, the

temperatures equalized and then somehow carried on going. But, that's impossible, right? Well, I certainly thought it would be impossible when I heard about these devices called counterflow heat exchangers. But, they work and they're used all over the place and in the legs of this duck. So, here's the setup. I've got two containers, one

of hot liquid dyed red, one of cold liquid dyed blue. When I open these valves, the liquid is going to pass through these tubes and come out the end here. And they're going to go through some circuitous route through this device that I've pixelated. There's no heat pump or anything in there, by the way. There's no power to it or anything like that. And the liquids aren't

allowed to mix inside the device. But, the tubes are allowed to get real friendly in there. So, of course, thermal energy is going to flow from the hot liquid to the cold liquid via these touching tubes. And so, their temperatures are going to get closer and closer together. But, of course, they can never go beyond equal temperature because if you've got two liquids that are the same temperature, why would one spontaneously get hotter and the other spontaneously colder? That would break

the second law of thermodynamics. But, given that I'm subtly framing your expectations, we should probably wait and see. All right, let that run for a bit. Okay, so. The liquid that is at like dangerously hot to touch is now lukewarm and the liquid that was cold is now painfully hot. So, this was the

colder liquid and now it's the hotter liquid. And look, you can see that really nicely on the thermal imaging camera. See how the hot and cold places have switched over. And we know the liquids haven't switched because, well, I dyed them red and blue so that you know there's no trickery, so no tomfoolery. So, the blue liquid started at 13.2 degrees. The hot liquid started

at 75.3 degrees. But, the blue liquid ended up 52 degrees and the red liquid ended up 36 degrees. So, this is called a counterflow heat exchanger. And this particular one is based on a design that's used by people who brew their own beer. So, at some point in the process

you need to cool down your brew. And you could do that by running like a coil of copper pipe through an ice bath and then pumping your brew through the copper pipe. But, if you did it that way, the best you can hope for is that the brew and the water in the bath would move towards like the average temperature of the two. But, with this device, the cold water goes in through this tube, which ends up like in the outer clear tube that surrounds the inner copper tube, goes through this spiral and then comes out here. And the hot brew goes into this tube, which is the inner copper tube. So, that goes through the middle

and comes out uh through here. The spiral of thin copper wire is just there to stop the inner tube and the outer tube touching. So, perhaps you can see why this is called a counterflow heat exchanger because the cold water is going in this direction, but the hot water is going in the opposite direction. This is quite cool like I found some color-changing dye. So, when it's hot, it's pink and when it's cold, it's purple. And look, you

can actually see just about the point in the spirally thing where it changes from one to the other. The geometry makes it tricky to get your head around how this thing works. So, of course, I built a 2D version. And you can see it's got these four ports. And intuitively, you might think, right, these are the input ports, and these are the output ports. But,

that's parallel flow. And if we did it that way, the best we could hope for is that they both reach some average temperature. What we want is counterflow. So, actually, these are the input ports, and these are the output ports. And incredibly, when you do that simple swap of the ports, you can go beyond the average temperature. And look

at that, the hottest input has now become the coldest input, and the coldest input has now become the hottest input. I mean, honestly, in the 2D version, it's not great. They only just flip hottest and coldest positions because, well, it's just not very efficient, especially compared to the curly whirly version. It still feels pretty counterintuitive, though. So, I knocked up this quick simulation, which hopefully means we can see what's going on kind of step by step. So, hot water

flows into the top channel, cold water flows into the bottom channel. Heat is conducted from the hot to the cold. So, the hot gets colder, the cold gets hotter, and they approach an average temperature. And with this parallel flow, that's the best you can hope for. But, let's see what happens if we switch the direction of the cold flow. So, we'll

set it up like this. We've got hot water flowing through the top channel. The bottom channel isn't flowing at the moment, and it's full of hot water at the same temperature. But, when we open the valve, cold water starts to flow through here. Look, and you can see now there is some thermal exchange going on.

So, this is giving heat to this, which means this is colder and this is now hotter than it would be before. But look, the cold water continues to flow. There's some colder water here, which is cooling the hot flow down like even further back, meaning that by the time you get to the end here, like it's even colder. All right, and that's going to keep happening. Right here, it's stealing thermal energy. Here it's stealing

thermal energy. So, all the way along this is getting cooler and cooler, and all the way along in this direction, the bottom channel is getting warmer and warmer until essentially they're flipped. And crucially, there's no point at which you have thermal energy flowing from a cold place to a hot place. Like at every point along this flow path, the top channel is always a little bit hotter than the cold channel. You can even see that in real life with the color change dye in the 2D model. The left-hand channel is always

colder than the right-hand channel, but they managed to switch places because they're flowing in the opposite direction. We're never trying to push thermal energy from a cold place to a hot place. So, we're never breaking the second law of thermodynamics. This is a cool little graph, actually. The red line is the temperature along the length of the top channel, and the blue line is the temperature along the length of the bottom channel from left to right. The

gray line is the temperature of the wall in between the two. And so, you can see it's not perfect because by the end the red channel isn't quite as cold as the cold channel where it started and vice versa. But you can improve things if I slow the flow rate. So, you can see the lines are getting closer together because now they've got more time to exchange heat. Whereas if I increase the flow rate, so these lines diverge, and actually, it stops working. So, the top channel

remains the hottest even by the end. Actually, this graph is really nice because it illustrates the problem with our intuition that we had at the beginning. Like at the beginning, we imagine we've got a liquid at this temperature and a liquid at this temperature, and as time goes on, this temperature goes up and this temperature goes down. And look, eventually they cross in the middle, but thermodynamically, we know that that can't happen. All they can do is approach a common temperature. And, you

know, the only way to get thermal energy to flow from cold to hot is to go backwards in time. But, water flowing in this direction backwards in time is equivalent to water flowing in this direction forwards in time. And if we're flipping the direction of time, then we just flip the direction of the blue line on this graph, and now suddenly, we have something that works. We have the counterflow heat exchanger. It's not just used in home brew kits, obviously it's used all over industry. This one's

from inside a combi boiler. The water spreads out over these plates, so there's loads of surface area. And these ridges promote turbulent flow, which improves heat exchange even more. Something very similar to this is used in pasteurization, where you need to heat milk to kill bugs. But then, you need to cool it back down again. And if

you do that by counterflow with the incoming cold unpasteurized milk, then you get that milk pretty much all the way to where you need it to be temperature-wise without having to add any additional energy into the system. It's not always heat you're exchanging, either. Like, there's a counterflow exchanger in your kidneys that exchanges salt and urea. But my favorite example from nature might actually be bird feet. See, this is a large surface area to lose heat from, isn't it? That means

that if this Hey, come on. If the duck Listen. The duck pancake If this duck was standing on ice, then it could get really cold, especially if it's just pumping warm blood down to its feet from its body. So, instead of doing that directly, the returning cold blood actually splits into a mesh that surrounds the blood that's coming down from the body. So, that by the time that >> [snorts] >> arterial blood reaches the feet, it's already really cold. In penguins,

it's even more pronounced, obviously, and even humans do it to some extent when they're trying to prevent heat loss through their extremities when it's cold. But, sometimes actually, it's not about trying to prevent heat loss, it's about trying to keep a part of the body cold. And that's exactly what the pampiniform plexus is for, which when you think about it, is pretty nuts. And I've just got to tell you about this thing that's like a perfect analogy of counterflow heat exchange. It's called countercurrent rinsing. It's a way of

rinsing raw materials that come out of mines in a way that just saves a ton of water. So, you've got a series of tanks with a supply of fresh water coming in at one end, and you've got a supply of dirty ore coming in at the other end. And just like with a heat exchanger, you've got fairly clean ore being rinsed in fully clean water at one end, and you've got maximally dirty ore being rinsed in almost maximally dirty water at the other end. So, it's counterflow exchange, but for dirt instead of heat. There's even an analogy in financial markets where you've got like shares or whatever flowing in one direction and cash flowing in another direction, and you've got a series of intermediary traders in the middle. Each intermediary

has a price it'll sell at and a price it'll buy at. That's called the spread, and it's equivalent to the gap between the red and blue lines in this graph. It's weird though, isn't it, that this counterflow structure seems to appear in all these disparate places. They're really fun to look for. And if you enjoy finding structures in weird places like financial markets, then you might be interested in the sponsor of this video, Jane Street, because their 2027 internship program is now open for applications. Jane Street is a

quantitative trading firm, and they're currently offering internships in their New York, London, Singapore, and Hong Kong offices. They've got internships focusing on quantitative trading, machine learning, programmable hardware, statistics, and many more. I've met loads of people from Jane Street over the years, and the thing that stands out is that well, first of all, they're really passionate about what they do. But maybe the thing that's important for you is they love sharing knowledge. And the combination means that it's just an amazing place for an internship. It's a

paid internship, by the way, and travel and accommodation are covered as well. It doesn't matter where you're from. Last year's internships had people from 32 different countries, and you don't need a background in finance. In fact, a lot of people currently working at Jane Street started exactly where you are now. But if you're intellectually curious, and you enjoy solving problems with other people, then I know you'll fit right in. Check

out the link in the description to explore all the internship opportunities that are available this year. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe, and the algorithm thinks you'll enjoy this video next.