---
video_title: "The Anti Trampoline Effect"
video_id: EP1mYq8hLIY
channel_name: "Steve Mould"
channel_id: UCEIwxahdLz7bap-VDs9h35A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EP1mYq8hLIY
video_date: 2026-06-25T15:30:19+00:00
video_description: |
  Click this link https://www.hensonshaving.com/stevemould and use the
  code stevemould to receive 100 free blades with the purchase of your AL13 razor
  
  When you combine a bouncy surface with a bouncy ball, you might kill the bounce! You have to tune their vibrations!
  
  Dr Andy Wright at the University of St Andrews contacted me after watching the atomic trampoline video (https://youtu.be/QpuCtzdvix4) because some of the questions I had in the video had been answered by a couple of final year projects he had run (completed by undergraduates Connor Richardson and Sam Edwards). They found they could tune their model of a golf ball and club to give a perfect bounce or a rubbish bounce. Andy kindly shared the simulation code from these projects, and my animations were built animations on top of that.
  
  The simulation software is here: https://stevemould.com/bounce
  
  You can buy my books here:
  https://stevemould.com/books
  
  You can support me on Patreon and get access to the exclusive Discord:
  https://www.patreon.com/stevemould
  
  Twitter: http://twitter.com/moulds
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/stevemouldscience/
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/stevemouldscience/
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/stevemould
  Buy nerdy maths things: http://mathsgear.co.uk
---
What happens when you combine a really bouncy ball with a really bouncy surface? It stops dead. But look, if I tweak it slightly, now it's a really good bounce. This is when I realised I don't really understand bouncing. Because it turns out if you want to maximize bounce, it's not enough to just combine two really bouncy things. But what I found really surprising was that when I try to find the optimum bounce using mass, I ended up generating fractals. First, I want to be clear about what we're doing in this video. Like, I've shown you really bouncy things before, like the atomic trampoline and what maybe you've seen an advert for the world's bounce, just ball or whatever. But that type of optimisation isn't what we're dealing with here. Like, those examples are about avoiding energy loss during the bounce. So the atomic trampoline minimises plastic deformation, the super-bancy balls minimise internal friction during the collision. But the thing is, this bouncy ball and this bouncy surface are both really good at retaining energy. So what went wrong here? Well, look at this ball bearing on this rubber sheet. The ball is really hard and the surface is really flexible and that gives you a really good bounce. And with the super-bancy ball, the ground is really hard but the ball is really flexible and that gives you a good bounce as well. The problem seems to arise when you have a ball and a surface that are similarly flexible. For example, all bees are really flexible and so is this rubber sheet. And right now the combination is super-bancy. But if I add a little bit of weight to the rubber sheet, or suddenly it all goes wrong, and that's why I built this contraption. To try and figure out what's going on. See, it's when I change the weight that it goes from a good bounce to a bad bounce. It's weird, isn't it? Actually, this particular configuration is quite fun because what gravity pulls the ball back down and it gets a kind of second kick, which is such an odd behaviour. By the way, this is somewhat related to how children typically injure themselves on a trampoline. A child can often get an unexpected second kick if there are other people on the trampoline. Before I show you what I figured out with this device, I also had a good chat with the professor of the author of this paper. In the paper, they're thinking about it in terms of a golf ball and a golf club. And basically, there were a whole lot of simulations where they simplify it down to four things. The mass of the ball, the stiffness of the ball, the mass of the golf club, and the stiffness of the golf club. And when I say stiffness, I mean in the spring sense. So like, if a spring is hard to stretch, then it's a stiff spring. If it's easy to stretch, then it's a less stiff spring. And a golf ball and a golf club are in some sense springy, so we talk about stiffness. Anyway, when they ran a whole lot of simulations where they kept three things constant and varied the fourth thing, they discovered something really surprising. See, in this graph, they're varying the mass of the golf club while keeping everything else fixed. And the height of the curve is how good the bounce was. Specifically, it's the velocity of the ball when it leaves the club. And you can see how the quality of the bounce what goes up and down as the mass varies. So you get an optimal bounce for these masses. But if you change the mass of the ball to one of these masses, what you'd actually get a terrible bounce. To see what's going on, I built this simulation that represents the model that they were using in the paper. It means we can see actually what's physically going on with different examples. So this is the mass of the ball. This spring represents the stiffness of the ball. This is the mass of the club and this spring represents the stiffness of the club. Let's see what happens. If we set the mass of the club to be about twice the mass of the ball, so the ball engages with the club, it starts to squish. But also, the club is being pushed now, so that starts to squish as well. Crucially, look, the ball disengages from the club when the club is at almost maximum squish. But keep watching because that maybe the club will catch up with the ball and it'll give it a second kick. No, it just missed. Crucially, though, look, see how much vibrational energy there is in the club. That vibration is energy locked away in the club that could have been given to the ball but wasn't. So this represents a bad bounce. Let's compare that to when the mass of the club is about two-thirds of the mass of the ball. So again, the ball starts to squish and then the club starts to squish as well. Right, the club is now at maximum squish. The ball didn't disengage this time because the spring is still compressed. So as the club spring is re-expanding, it's actually working hard against the mass of the ball because the spring is still compressed and that's slowing it down at just the right rate. So that when the ball finally disengages, look, the club mass is at rest, at its rest length. That means there's no vibrational energy left in the club. So all of the energy went into the kinetic energy of the ball. This is a perfect bounce. But if you look at the graph in the paper, you can see that actually there are lots of points of maximum bounce. So let's also look at when the club mass is about one-sixth of the mass of the ball. So it really is the same situation except if you watch the club mass, actually, it goes through multiple oscillations before that perfect separation that we saw before. And it turns out that when you do the mass, you get quite a simple result that actually, hopefully, makes some intuitive sense. So it's all about the natural oscillation of the club. See, the club naturally oscillates like this over time. But because it's being pushed by the ball throughout the whole collision, this graph of position gets skewed like this. Now, what I'm showing you is a perfect bounce. Because look, the club is back at its rest position at the end of the collision. That tells us that there's no energy stored in the spring at the end of the collision. But also notice that the graph of position is flat at the end. So we know there's no kinetic energy in the club mass either. Now you'll notice that the club mass has gone through two and a half oscillations. But let's stiffen the spring so it oscillates faster. It's still a perfect bounce, but now it's gone through three and a half oscillations. And there's a perfect bounce at four and a half oscillations and so on. And look, if you go through a whole number of oscillations, that's when you get a perfectly bad bounce. How does that compare to the natural oscillation of the ball? Well, the ball always goes through exactly half a oscillation during the collision because well, it's not sticky. So here's the simple rule. The club needs to go through a whole number of oscillations plus a half in the time it takes the ball to go through half an oscillation if you want to get a good bounce. If you want a bad bounce, just go for a whole number of oscillations. In general though, the surface needs to jiggle faster than the ball for interesting things to happen. But in reality, it's hard to find a combination of ball and surface where the surface vibrates faster than the ball, but not loads faster. In my setup, the ball always vibrates faster than the surface. Doesn't matter what I tried in terms of springs and everything. But clearly, interesting things still happen. I think that's because we made some simplifying assumptions. But actually, there is another issue. See, in the simulation, some energy can be left behind in the oscillating surface, as we've seen. But you can see in this footage that you can also end up with oscillation energy left in the ball. But actually, because of the way this simulation is put together, there's no way to account for oscillation energy left behind in the ball because this spring doesn't have any mass. So it can only oscillate when it's in contact with another mass. In other words, during the collision. So I decided to make my own simulation. In this version, the mass of the ball is split in two. So the ball can now oscillate on its own. Honestly, I'm not sure whether it's a reasonable model of reality, but I just want to show you what happens when you explore it, because some of it's really interesting. So I can vary the stiffness of the springs and the masses, or I can sweep through one of those values to get a plot. So look, you can see here, this is a lot like the graph from the paper. So look, I can select a maximum and then play that. That's satisfying, isn't it? Let's look at a bad one. Actually, look at the worst one over here. That's awful. In the plot, you can also see the number of collisions. So it's interesting isn't that the collisions go up and up. This is the internal vibrational energy of the ball after the collision. It doesn't actually get that high. So what we can do is sweep two things at once if we want to try and say, optimize the amount of jiggle in the ball after the collision. We'll vary the mass of the golf club and the spring constant of the golf club. So here's a heat map showing how good the balance is. That I go here. This is a good balance. See what that looks like. That's good in it. And then here's a really bad balance, let's say. And if we switch to the internal energy, there's a high point right here. So this is where we end up with lots of internal energy in the ball at the end. Look at that. That is a terrible balance. Most of the energy is in the ball. But interestingly, there's some structure down here. Let's do it a different sweep, the mass of the club and the stiffness of the club. Look at that. Almost like a fractal. Maybe it is a fractal. Like if I zoom in here, isn't that weird? But anyway, an unexpected fractal appears. Something else I discovered that matches real life. Like if there are several collisions within a bounce, are you only looking at what happens after the first collision or do you count all the collisions? This is a perfect example. Look, it stops there. There's a terrible bounce. But then on the second kick, it's an amazing bounce. And I got something like this in my studio. Look at that. It's a terrible bounce. The ball stops dead. But moments later, it gets a second kick. So how does this compare to reality? To compare to the model, I don't need to worry about weighing things or calculating the stiffness. Because I can just measure the period of oscillation from the video. Okay, so we're interested in how many times does the surface oscillate during half an oscillation of the ball? The model from the paper predicts good bounces at one and a half, two and a half, three and a half, and so on. But I was never able to get the surface to oscillate fast enough to explore that, though I did get quite close. In our data, the surface only ever goes through a fraction of an oscillation during the collision. This is where the model from the paper predicts the good and bad bounces will be. And these are our good and bad bounces marked in green and red. We never get into the interesting region because my surface is too slow. But clearly the data doesn't match what's going on at the boring end either. But here's the cool thing. In my version of the simulation, interesting things can happen when the surface oscillates slower than the ball. In fact, it's basically a mirror image when you look at it on a log scale so that you get good and bad bounces when the surface oscillates faster than the ball. And good and bad bounces when the ball oscillates faster than the surface. In reality, it's more complicated than that for several reasons. And our data doesn't really fit this model either. But what's clear is the model is very spiky. Like, you don't have to change very much for the quality of the bands to change drastically. And our data is also very spiky. So our data has roughly the right character, but I'm not sure we can claim much more than that. One cool thing about both of these models is they predict what should happen for a really bouncy ball on concrete or a steel ball bearing on a rubber sheet. See, this is a plot of how good the bounces as the stiffness of the surface increases. And the line still goes up and down in that counter-intuitive way. But as the stiffness increases, actually that effect gets less and less until it eventually just flattens out. In other words, if you've got a squishy ball and a concrete floor, you don't need to worry about comparing their periods of oscillation. And then you're back to just worrying about dissipation through internal friction and things like that. And the same is true if you've got a stiff ball and a squishy surface. So if you want to find the bounces combination of ball and surface, you can't just combine the two bounces things you own. You have to tune their vibrations as well. Otherwise, you could end up with a dud. I messed up while making this video and I want to share the story with you as a cautionary tale. So I wanted this surface to vibrate faster than the ball vibrates. So I ended up buying like stiffer and stiffer springs, but nothing was working. The frequency of this thing barely shifted at all. It got to the point where I had to print this part in a stronger plastic. And I was using these nuts to like tension the springs, which just took ages. I've actually realized the problem. The stiffer springs were heavier and so adding mass to the oscillator, which was counteracting the additional stiffness of the oscillator. The thing that eventually worked was undlowing this part so I could slide it up and down and then clipping it in place at different spring extensions. But the surprising thing is that this is an almost perfect analogy for cartridge raises. I want to be clear that's a segue, not a crowbar. The difference being that the link is actually really strong to good link. It's a strong link. I mean you'd be the judge. Look okay here's the thing. The problem with plastic cartridges is there's always going to be a little bit of give in the blade. So you get an inconsistent shave. To counteract that, manufacturers just add more blades in the hope of catching more hairs during each pass. But the first blade will cut some hairs. So the subsequent blades will be scraping against skin in certain places, leading to irritation. So then they have to make the blades deliberately more springy, which makes the shave worse. So they add even more blades. Guess at the point where there are so many blades, you have to add a lubricating strip to overcome the friction. And people over time learn to press really hard. And so you also have to add a post-shave balm and things like that. Complexity piled on top of complexity just because the manufacturers weren't able to implement the simple fix at the very beginning of just holding a single blade really firmly. Because you can never do that with plastic. The solution is to not buy cartridge races. Instead by a precision engineered aluminum handle that holds a single blade firmly in exactly the right position at exactly the right angle. And if you're going to do that, may I humbly suggest the sponsor of this video, Henson shaving. With the Henson AL13, the training wheels are off. You don't press hard. You can learn the shape of your face because you can actually feel it. And you end up with an actually enjoyable shave. No lubricating strip, no after-shave balm. The handle is more expensive. But you are only ever buy it once. And the blades are pennies. So it actually ends up being cheaper after just a few months. Go to hensonshaving.com for a slash Steve mold and use code SteveMolder checkout to get 103 blades with your purchase of a Henson AL13. That's equivalent to about three or four years of irritation free shaving. The link is also in the description. So check out Hensonshaving today. Hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe. And the algorithm thinks you'll enjoy this video next.