---
video_title: "The \"Perpetual Motion\" Pump That Actually Works"
video_id: k3Q9UWWiPsQ
channel_name: "Steve Mould"
channel_id: UCEIwxahdLz7bap-VDs9h35A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k3Q9UWWiPsQ
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Use my code STEVEMOULD to get 50% off your first monthly crate at https://kiwico.com/stevemould
  
  Ram pumps are probably my most requested topic. But getting a transparent one working was really hard. When I understood them a lot better.
  
  Get the Hooded Seal Plushie with actuating nose bubble: https://shop.stevemould.com
  
  Water Power Technologies: https://waterpoweredtechnologies.com for all your ram pump needs!
  
  Practical Engineering's excellent ram pump video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zFdyqTGx32A
  
  My Wirtz pump video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wCxRHueX6jQ
  
  You can buy my books here:
  https://stevemould.com/books
  
  You can support me on Patreon and get access to the exclusive Discord:
  https://www.patreon.com/stevemould
  
  just like these amazing people:
  
  Twitter: http://twitter.com/moulds
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/stevemouldscience/
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/stevemouldscience/
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/stevemould
  Buy nerdy maths things: http://mathsgear.co.uk
---
Da da la da da la. I've got two devices here that appear to defy gravity. They have a container of water that appears to be able to push the contents up and back into itself so it can keep going forever. In other words, a free energy device because, you know, I could add a little turbine here to generate electricity. This one is a trick, but this one is real. I'll explain at the end of the

video the trick behind this one, but the main focus for this video is this device. Now, I thought I understood how these things work after watching Grady's excellent video over on Practical Engineering, but there was one niggling thing that I didn't understand that made it much harder to build this 2D version. And when I eventually got it working, my understanding had changed quite a bit. But first, what is this thing and why isn't it a free energy device? Well, it's called a ram pump and it has a very specific use case. If you live at the top of this

hill and you don't have a supply of water, you could pump it from this river here. But what if you didn't have a supply of electricity either? Well, one solution is the Wirtz pump, link in the description for that video, but the other solution is a ram pump. >> Did you go and tell the kids to stop screaming? Just for like a little bit.

>> So, a ram pump makes use of water hammer, which is that thing that happens when you've got water traveling through a pipe at some speed and you force it to come to a stop by, for example, closing the tap faucet. But where does all that kinetic energy go that the water had? Well, if you have a water hammer problem in your house, then you know that that energy goes into the clanking sound of the pipes as they move around. But where is the water hammer inside a ram pump? Well, let's look at this 2D version that I built. This tank is acting as the

supply of river water. See how the level here is above this valve. So, there's some pressure being supplied to the valve. In an actual stream or river, there's no tank, of course. You get that pressure from having a supply pipe that goes far enough upstream that you get that elevation and that pressure. So,

think of the tank as a stand-in for a long pipe in a stream. To see where the water hammer happens, just ignore all this gubbins for a minute and notice what happens when I open this waste water valve with my finger. So, now water is flowing out of here and it's being supplied by the tank. So, we have water flowing through this tube. So, we've got all this mass of water that has some velocity now, which means it's got kinetic energy. So, when I let the

valve close, where does all that kinetic energy go? Well, it has to be dumped somehow. And that's water hammer. One easy way to think about how a ram pump utilizes water hammer is just to say, "What if the water didn't have to suddenly come to a stop when you close the valve because you've given it another escape route?" And that's exactly what this valve is for. It's the

delivery valve. And ignoring this air vessel for a second, you can see that water flowing through this valve will flow up this tube. And the cool thing is this water can go higher than the level of water in the tank. I mean, it's not just a cool thing. It's like the whole point of a ram pump.

It is still cool, though, because this is the point where it starts to feel a little bit like a perpetual motion machine. And we will need to do some accounting before the end of the video to sort that out. But, the question is, "How high can the water go up in this pipe?" Because if it wasn't for the water hammer, the water would only ever get this high. Because look, that's how high the water is in the tank. You can't

get any higher than that. The only way to push water higher is to have higher pressure. And that's why the analysis has to get a little bit more nuanced than just we've given the water hammer an escape route. To really see what's going on, you have to analyze the system in terms of pressure. Now, normally when you're trying to figure out how a system like this works, you assume that water is incompressible. See how I can

compress the air in this syringe, but I can't compress a syringe full of water. You typically say, "Okay, water's incompressible." >> Right, exactly. >> But if you tried to model the ram pump like that, I think I think you'd fail. >> Of course, in reality, water is compressible. It's just it's so much

harder to compress than air. But for the sake of visualizing it, let's assume that water is easy to compress. So, now you can see how all this mass of water that's got all this momentum is just going to keep going by crushing all the water in front of it. It's going to squeeze it and compress it. That means the pressure there is going to go up.

And there's actually a really simple relationship between the speed of the water coming in and the extra pressure it adds when you force it to stop. It's just the density of water times the speed of the water times the wave speed. To see what wave speed is, notice that the pressure increases here first, and then that pile kind of propagates backwards. It's the speed of that propagation that is the wave speed. So, in this system, when the valve is open, the water is traveling at about 0.025

m/s. And we know the density of water. Now, the wave speed in a thick copper pipe would just be the speed of sound in water, about 1 and 1/2 km/s. But in our setup, the speed is decided by the flexibility of the pipe. I won't say the maths out loud in case Matt Parker appears, but I reckon it's about 100 m per second. And so, water hammer adds a

pressure of 2,500 Pa, and that can push the water about 25 cm. So, let's look at a full cycle of this ram pump. So, the waste valve closes, you get this spike in pressure, which pushes water up through this delivery tube. But, the pressure doesn't stay high forever, because eventually all this compressed water will re-expand back up the supply pipe. And when the pressure in here drops below the pressure felt from that delivery pipe, well, the flow stops.

But, it was that flow of water that was holding this valve open. So, it closes. And that's what we want. We push the water up at high pressure, but we don't let it fall back down again. Now, originally I opened this valve by pushing it down with my finger, but once the ram pump is running on its own, that valve actually opens by falling under its own weight. Actually, in my case, I

couldn't get the valve heavy enough, so I'm also pressing down on it with an elastic strip. But, anyway, when the waste valve falls open, water can once again flow through this pipe, building up more and more kinetic energy. Now, the whole time that water is flowing through this valve, it's applying a drag force to the valve. And at a certain speed, that drag force is enough to drag the valve closed. And so, the cycle continues. So, I learned all of that

from Grady, but there's a part of the explanation that I just could never figure out. How are you? >> Good. How are you? >> It's a little while ago that you made a ram pump video.

>> It was a long time ago. >> There's a little bit where I don't understand what's happening. Because here's the thing, when I analyzed the forces on the waste valve, it seemed to me that once the valve shuts, it should never open again. Because think about it, you've always got at least this much pressure pushing on the valve. Sometimes it goes higher than that because of water hammer, but this is the baseline. So, the area of the

valve is about 60 square millimeters, the pressure is 4,000 pascals, so the force is about a quarter of a Newton, which means for the valve to fall open, it needs to overcome that force. It needs to weigh that many Newtons. In other words, about 25 grams. Clearly, it doesn't weigh anywhere near that. And if you do the same calculation for commercial ram pumps, those valves don't either. So, there must be something else

going on. >> I just put weights on the waste valve. >> You could do it with weights, or you could put a spring on it or something like that. So, that it's open even when it's got delivery head. What I've discovered is that isn't true. Fact that

it stays closed, and you have to push it open, tells you that it's not heavy enough. >> They call it hydraulic transients. Only a few people really understand. The ram pump is basically that stuff put into practice. >> Yeah. Okay, so we have to analyze it in

terms of like a shock wave, almost like a pressure wave. Because although water is compressible, it's really hard to compress, which means shock waves travel really quickly. Essentially, it's the speed of sound again, except maybe slower because our pipes are flexible and all that stuff. It's actually a really nice analogy for the flow of water when you have to include the compressibility of it. And that is to think about a sluice.

So, water is flowing through this channel. It's not a pipe, it's open at the top. And instead of suddenly closing a valve, we're suddenly closing a sluice gate. And you can see how the kinetic energy of all this water continues to push forwards, and the pressure builds up here. And as it piles up, that additional pressure is felt further and further back in the stream. Eventually,

it reaches the delivery valve, and at that point it starts pushing water up through it. But, how long does the system stay in this high-pressure state? Well, remember, it's being compressed by water behind it that has kinetic energy. But, as that front of high pressure moves further and further back, it reaches this top surface. And there is no kinetic energy behind it anymore to keep it compressed. So, now, as we said

earlier, that tube of compressed water re-expands. Not only does that lower the pressure, but crucially, as it expands, it's gaining kinetic energy back in this direction. Meaning that when normal pressure is reached, well, it carries on going under its own momentum. At which point, the water starts to be stretched. So, the pressure goes down. And it's

only then, when the pressure goes below normal pressure, that the waste valve is able to reopen. And actually, if you did just make the valve heavy enough to open under normal pressure, well, then the drag force wouldn't be able to overcome that weight, and it would never close again. This also explains why my 2D version works so poorly, because you can only deliver water to the delivery pipe while the pressure is high. And the pressure is only high for as long as it takes this high-pressure front to travel from here to here. And because that front travels close to the speed of sound, that's an incredibly short amount of time. I didn't realize all this

nuance when I built this thing. Fortunately, I know a company that has a lot of experience building ram pumps. And they very kindly built me a transparent one that can really shift a decent amount of water. I really wanted to show you this working in an actual stream, but it's August 2026 in the UK, so there are no streams. That means we're using a tank to represent a stream for this one as well. So, this ram pump

was made by a company called Water Powered Technologies, and they explained to me that for every meter of supply head, you need 5 m of supply pipe if you want the delivery valve to stay open for a useful amount of time. A couple of details about ram pumps that I really like. When the waste valve shuts, it's like a positive feedback loop because as the gap narrows, the drag force increases. So, it accelerates and really slams shut, which is important for the water hammer to be effective. Actually, one of Water Powered Technologies ram pump products uses the Venturi effect to close the waste valve instead of drag, which is really interesting. They're not

paying me at all for this video, but I'm really grateful for their help. So, if you have any interest in ram pumps at all, check them out. Link in the description. The other cool thing is this pocket of air called a pressure vessel. It's there to smooth out the spikes in pressure.

Because air is really compressible, it can absorb that sudden inrush of water and then slowly deliver it to the delivery pipe after the valve shuts. I think it might improve the efficiency of the ram pump as well. I haven't worked that bit out yet, but I think it's mostly about saving wear and tear from pressure spikes. What I do know is that ram pumps can work without that pressure vessel. Now, I promised I'd show you how this thing works because if you take it at face value, it is a free energy device. You could put a little turbine

in there and generate electricity forever. But if you look around the back, well, this tube is actually being supplied from a tank up here and this tube is just going out to a tank down there. So, why isn't the ram pump a free energy device? Well, it's because it steals kinetic energy from the river water and turns it into gravitational potential energy for the water in the delivery pipe. It's much cleverer than that, though. Like this simple pipe also

converts kinetic energy into gravitational potential energy, but it only gets the water this high. The trick with the ram pump is that it throws a lot of water away through the waste pipe and that water, on average, travels much slower than it would have done if it hadn't passed through the ram pump. So, it's stealing kinetic energy from a lot of water to raise a small amount of water very high. Oh, what a glorious feat. Here's a question though, where does the energy that powers the ram pump ultimately come from? Like, we have

flowing rivers because we have rain, and we have rain because water evaporates from the ocean and forms clouds. And the reason water evaporates from the ocean is because it's warmed by the sun, which means, in a very circuitous way, it's powered by the sun. So, although a ram pump isn't a free energy device, the energy is free. So, I think this might be a common story for science nerds growing up. Like, there's a certain age where you start to think about perpetual motion even if you don't know that's what it's called. Like, for

me, I used to wonder, what if a fan was blowing on a turbine that generated electricity to power the fan? Would that just go forever? But then, as you start to tinker with things in the real world, you begin to develop an intuition that maybe a device that's powered by itself is not possible in some way. You might not gain a full understanding of why until much later in life, but that intuition from tinkering is really important. Which is just one of the reasons that I continue to subscribe to the sponsor of this video, KiwiCo. KiwiCo is a subscription

service where your kids get an exciting STEM project in the post every month. It's play-tested like crazy, the instructions are great, everything you need's in the box, so you never end up having to stop halfway through or anything like that. My youngest son has started doing KiwiCo Crates now, and it's amazing to see how he's developed over the years. This crate is the Rivet Press. Nice. Look at that. And in terms

of like tinkering to gain an intuition for the world, this one's really good for gaining an understanding of mechanical advantage and realizing that the extra force you get isn't free. The other thing I really love about KiwiCo is the replay value. Because the kids have made these things themselves, they're actually really motivated to play with it again and again. You know, me and the kids are always making stuff from scrap bits of wood and spare parts or whatever, but knowing that something is going to arrive in the post once a month where everything just works is a really welcome change of pace. If you're interested, the offer on this one is really good. If you go to

kiwico.com/stevemould and use code stevemould, you'll get 50% off your first month's crate. The link is also in the description, so check out KiwiCo today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe. And the algorithm thinks

you'll enjoy this video next. And then, happy again. >> [laughter]