---
video_title: "The Liquid Hammer Toy You Can't Buy"
video_id: RWbCC6f_k1c
channel_name: "Steve Mould"
channel_id: UCEIwxahdLz7bap-VDs9h35A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RWbCC6f_k1c
video_date: 2026-01-23T20:08:55+00:00
video_description: |
  Click https://www.kiwico.com/stevemould to get 50% off your first
  monthly KiwiCo crate
  
  Collapsing cavitation bubbles aren't very well understood. They make a strange sound and a flash of light. But why?
  
  Get the Hooded Seal Plushie with actuating nose bubble: https://shop.stevemould.com
  
  Chinese Spouting Bowl: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0yVEXRM_3xc
  Practical Engineering - Water Hammer: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xoLmVFAFjn4
  
  Twitter: http://twitter.com/moulds
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/stevemouldscience/
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/stevemouldscience/
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/stevemould
  Buy nerdy maths things: http://mathsgear.co.uk
---
Cheers. >> Cheers. Interestingly, you can make that clink sound on your own with a single glass and nothing inside but pure water. And all you have to do is shake it. Like this.

>> Or like this. >> The glass needs to be a special shape. Though if you do get the shape right, not only do you get that clack sound, you also get a flash of light at the bottom there. The camera isn't picking it up and actually I can't see it with my eyes either. But I believe it is possible to film that flash >> Yes.

>> using this weird camera that makes me look a bit like an alien. I've been trying to get hold of one of these things for so long. It's an old Victorian curiosity called a water hammer. There's a company in America that sells them but they don't ship to the UK. So I've been looking for someone to make one for me. Eventually I found

Terry Adams and actually I got her to make two. The reason I got her to make two is well, listen to this one. That makes the standard sloshing sound that you would expect. But this one makes that weird smacking sound. And interestingly, they both contain only water. So, what's the difference? Well,

this one only contains water in the casual sense. Like this glass doesn't contain any sugar. It doesn't contain any flavorings. It only contains water. But if you wanted to be pedantic, you could say, "Well, it also contains air."

And that's true for this one. It contains water and it contains air. Whereas this only contains water in the strict sense. You've got water here and here it's a vacuum. It's not a perfect vacuum because some of the water will evaporate so you've got water vapor in there but it's a tiny amount. It's very

close to a to a What it means is when you slam the tube down and suddenly stop, the glass stops moving, but the water keeps going because it has momentum. And crucially, there's no air in the way to slow it down or break it up. So, it races towards the end of the glass vial and slams into the bottom unimpeded, making a clap sound, a bit like clapping your hands together. But actually, there's a bit more going on, which I didn't realize until I filmed it in slow motion. The water seems to bounce off the glass a little bit. So, like there's a rebound, and so

a second gap appears briefly after the first impact. That's called a cavitation bubble. You even get a second bounce, which is cool. And look here, on the rebounds, any cavities that happen to be floating around expand and collapse. So strange. Interestingly, the slosh sound

you get with the vial that also has water in it is related to why raindrops have a maximum size. With the slosh tube, as I'm calling it, the air seems to push the water to one side, and so it sort of sloshes into the bottom of the vial. But in general, as everything's moving around in there, the air breaks up larger bodies of water into smaller droplets. And a similar thing happens when water falls out of the sky. Droplets grow in size when they collide and merge, but to see what happens when they fall, I've tried to recreate a kind of terminal velocity scenario here with a pipette and a hairdryer. See how this

oversized drop is eventually broken up by the air pushing into it from below. But below a certain size, surface tension is enough to hold the droplet together against the force from the air. And it turns out the maximum size of a raindrop is about 8 mm. But anyway, that's why this sounds more like rain and less like someone clapping. Interestingly enough, the water hammer toy got its name before that water hammer sound you get in domestic plumbing.

Though they are somewhat related. This hammer sound depends on water being incompressible. If it was squishy, you wouldn't get that sharp sound when it hit the glass. Similarly, when you close a tap or a faucet in your house, all the incompressible water in your pipes is forced to come to a sudden stop, and so you get a bang. Practical Engineering already did a great video on that kind of water hammer, so I'll leave a link to that in the description. Interestingly, you

don't need a sealed vial to experience this water hammer effect for yourself. All you need is a bottle half full of water and a mallet. And if you can hit the top of the bottle hard enough, and if the glass moves downwards fast enough, it actually leaves the water behind. So, you end up with what's called a cavitation bubble at the bottom. >> Wow.

>> Yeah. And just like with the water hammer tube, when the water comes down again and hits the bottom of the bottle, it makes that clack sound. Don't actually do it though, because if the water hits the bottom of the bottle with too much force, it can actually break the bottle. The reason the water bottle breaks, but this vial doesn't, is because, well, all we have here is the weight of the water pushing back down on the bottom of the vial. But in the case of the bottle, you also have all the atmospheric pressure pushing down on that water as well. So,

it slams into the bottom of the bottle not just with the weight of the water, but with the weight of all the atmosphere above our heads. >> I didn't know you had a high-speed camera. Can I have a go? >> Bit of a tangent, but something I always wanted to try. What if when the water was slamming back down onto the bottom of the bottle, there was a tiny hole in the bottom of the bottle? Would you get

like an incredibly powerful jet coming out of that hole? Of course, if there was a hole in the bottom of the bottle from the beginning, then you wouldn't get a vacuum cavitation in the first place because air would just rush in through the hole. So, what I've got here is a bit of rubber gently stuck over the hole like a little valve. Let's see what happens. Unfortunately, the bottle still breaks, which is a shame because I was hoping that maybe we could turn it into some kind of powerful jet cutter or something like that, but I guess cavitation bubbles just aren't useful.

>> What about pistol shrimp? >> Oh, yeah. >> What about those boat cleaners? >> Hey. >> What about mist makers?

>> Actually, ultrasonic mist makers are really cool. What happens in an ultrasonic mist maker is there's a piezoelectric speaker, essentially, that vibrates millions of times per second, so it's ultrasonic. And those vibrations travel up through the water until they get to the surface. When they reach the surface, they create these ripples in the same way that this speaker is creating ripples on the surface of the water here. And if you increase the amplitude of the vibrations, then the ripples get taller until they're so tall that they break off into droplets. It's

the same principle behind the Chinese spouting bowl. Link in the description for that video. And you can do a similar thing with a cup of tea in a polystyrene cup. Crucially though, the size of the ripples depend on the frequency of the sound. So, lower tones that have longer wavelengths produce wider ripples, whereas high-frequency sounds like ultrasound have teeny-tiny wavelengths, and so they produce teeny-tiny ripples.

And so, when those teeny-tiny ripples break up into drops, the drops are teeny-tiny. And so, you get a fine mist. So far, that has nothing to do with cavitation, but it turns out you do need cavitation bubbles collapsing at the surface of that piezoelectric speaker if you want to get any mist at all. And that's because the cavitation bubbles, in a roundabout way, focus all that sound energy into a small enough point that you can actually launch these tiny droplets. So, you can imagine this piezoelectric disk moving up and down millions of times per second. And that's

far too fast for the water to be able to keep up. So, when the disk moves up, it pushes the water up, but when it moves back down again, it leaves the water behind. It creates these vacuum cavitation bubbles. And crucially, these bubbles are being pressed from all sides. So, when they collapse, they draw water in from above, but they also draw water in from the sides, which means you have this net movement of water upwards.

The water's being pushed upwards, and then water's being drawn in from the sides to replace it. That creates a mini fountain above the piezoelectric speaker, this kind of rounded cone shape. And it's that cone that focuses the wave energy just to the very tip, and only when it's focused in that way, do you have enough amplitude for the droplets to snap off from those ripples. Now, I mentioned earlier that the flash of light you get at the bottom of this vial is too dim to see, but my friend Andrea Seller has a slightly different version of this thing. >> This is the little plank tube that I made. It's You made that?

>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm I'm pretty >> You've got some good skills, guys. >> No, I used to have better skills than I do.

>> It has two unique features that might make the flash visible. >> And what it's got is phosphoric acid. Yeah. And And if you look at it, it's clearly not water. It's more viscous than that.

>> Acid has a much lower vapor pressure. All that means is there's much less vapor in this part of the tube. It's much closer to a vacuum. What that means is there's even less impeding the motion of the liquid. So, when it hits the glass, it hits harder. The second thing

it has is a constriction. >> Why is there a constriction? Why does it get narrower? >> So, the fluid comes in with the momentum. >> Right, yeah.

>> The tube narrowing sort of accelerates it. >> It's actually the principle behind this pool toy that you used to be able to buy. You can't get them anymore, but look, I 3D printed this miniature version. I mean, you push it into the water, the water jets out of the top. But anyway, the result is that this tube has a much faster liquid and a much better vacuum. So, the impact is a lot

more energetic. And the more energetic the impact, the brighter the flash, which is why it's possible, even with the naked eye, to see this flash. >> Oh, who would have thought so? Oh, yeah, loads. >> Whoa.

>> That's cool. >> This is the best we managed to get on camera with the ISO jacked right up and the aperture open all the way. It's still very faint, but then I had an idea. I need a full-spectrum camera, stat. Okay, before I show you the results that we got when we switched out to this weird-sounding camera, where does this flash come from, anyway? Well,

in Andrea's tube, there's a tiny bit of xenon gas. So, when the cavity collapses, there's a little bit of xenon being crushed together. And this is happening at supersonic speed, so there's no time for thermal energy to escape. The xenon gets so hot that it turns into a plasma. In other words, electrons are torn from the outer shells. So, electrons and xenon ions are

whizzing around like crazy. And when an electron flies near a xenon ion, it slows down a bit. And when a charged particle like an electron loses energy in this way, it's released as a photon of light. This is called Bremsstrahlung radiation, and it's the leading theory for why you get a flash. Okay, but here's the cool part. This is the

spectrum of Bremsstrahlung radiation, and this is what gave me the idea for how we might be able to get a much better shot of that flash. See how most of the spectrum is in the ultraviolet? Human vision can only see this part here. So, most of it, which is in the ultraviolet, we can't see. And because digital cameras want to mimic human eyes, digital cameras can only see this part, too. But here's the thing, the

silicon of a digital camera sensor is actually naturally sensitive to all this spectrum. So, camera manufacturers have to add filters that cut out this part and this part so that things end up looking the same as how our eyes see things. But, if you remove that filter, what you're left with is known as a full spectrum camera. Unfortunately, the glass of the tube actually blocks everything below this wavelength. By switching to a full spectrum camera, we gain this little bit of spectrum here that we wouldn't have otherwise. It is

only a small range of wavelengths that we're adding, but it accounts for a huge amount of light because the spectrum ramps up into the ultraviolet. And look, there it is. How cool is that? Wow.

>> That's pretty good. >> good. >> It's quite dark, I think. There. There you go.

>> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> There. >> I did not know you had a full spectrum camera. Can I have a go?

>> [music] >> The pipes in our house also make a whistling sound sometimes, only when we run the hot tap, though. My son thought that maybe there was one of those farting valve things in the pipes. If you're wondering what a farting valve is, it's one of these. And if you're wondering why my son is coming up with funny names for valves, it's because, well, a couple of these turned up in the most recent KiwiCo Crate. KiwiCo is a subscription box where your kids get an exciting STEM projects in the post every month. It's

play-tested like crazy, so there's never any glitches or roadblocks like having to go to the shops for supplies. And the instructions are really clear and the kids just love it. One of the best things about being a parent is watching your kids develop skills, like watching them slowly getting to reading or whatever. And one of the cool things about KiwiCo is we've been watching our kids develop engineering skills, like tool use and mechanical intuition, which is amazing to see. And it's something that they really want to do. Like I

often find myself saying, "Sorry, kids. You can't do KiwiCo right now because Daddy has to film this one." This is KiwiCo's take on the bottle rocket, by the way, and it's cool cuz it's not just about pressure, there's chemistry in there as well. But after we discovered that valves can fart, we spent hours trying to track down the source of the sound in our own pipes. In the end, we discovered that the winding sound was caused by vortex shedding.

You know, it's like this every month. You think it's just going to be a STEM project in a box, and the next thing you know, you're in the attic with your ear up against a pipe. And I love it. Go to kiwico.com/stevemould and use code stevemould at checkout to get 50% off your first monthly craze.

The link is also in the description, so check out KiwiCo today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe, and the algorithm thinks you'll enjoy this video next.