---
video_title: "The Truth About the Tesla Autopilot Crash"
video_id: KexEKoTZyVw
channel_name: "TheMightyKappa"
channel_id: UC8hW9rmwJhW5pUujsYjosaw
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KexEKoTZyVw
video_date: 2026-06-21T01:32:40+00:00
video_description: |
  The recent Tesla Autopilot crash has everyone asking the same question: was it driver error, or did Full Self-Driving / Autopilot fail? In this video, we are breaking down the camera footage 
  Let me know in the comments: Do you trust Tesla Autopilot / FSD, or do you keep it turned off? 
  
  If you found this breakdown helpful, don't forget to hit that LIKE button and SUBSCRIBE for more
  
  #Tesla #Autopilot #TeslaCrash #FSD #Model3 #ModelY #ElectricVehicles
  
  Is Tesla Autopilot safe
  Tesla Autopilot crash breakdown
  What happened in the Tesla crash
  Tesla Autopilot news
---
Tesla has a serious problem. So what we got here is we got a news from ABC news. Unfortunately, a 76 year old woman was killed after a Tesla crash into her home. So let's jump right into the article and then we'll have a little chat at the end here. Now to a Tesla, allegedly on autopilot crashing into a home near Houston. A 76 year old woman was killed. A authority say the car failed to make a right turn and was traveling at a high rate of speed. Here's ABC's Alex Porsche. Tonight, question swirling over this Tesla. The driver saying he was using autopilot moments before a deadly crash into a home. Authorities say this blue model three caught on a doorbell camera was traveling at a high rate of speed Friday night. It passed through an intersection and moments later. That boom was the car slamming into the brick exterior of a home. I guess it's really tall if the Tesla was on autopilot. So we're digging into that. That's a line of investigation for sure. The Harris County Sheriff's Office says a 76 year old woman was inside. She was later pronounced dead. The driver, 44 year old Michael Butler, told police he was using the car's automated driving assistance system at the time of the deadly crash. Deputy say he was taken to the hospital and showed no signs of intoxication. He's cooperating with the investigation and has not been charged. It's the second incident involving Tesla's in Texas in roughly two months. In mid April, a Tesla driver said his car's autopilot suddenly accelerated through a railroad gate, narrowly missing a fast approaching train. That driver said he had the full self-driving feature engaged at the time of the incident. Now we've reached out to Tesla and have not yet heard back. Wait, all right, Alex, appreciate. Thank you very much. So first off, it's absolutely horrible that a 76 year old woman lost her life. I've been driving Teslas for about 10 years now. And I've never had the experience on autopilot or full self-driving of a car driving at that rate of speed. In moment, that was ridiculously fast. How fast that car was going in the community in a neighborhood. That thing was flying. And that's why I hit that house so hard and that's why that woman lost her life. Now, was the car in autopilot was it in full self-driving? We don't know. Tesla's going to definitely pull the logs from the vehicle and just basically like a computer on wheels, right guys. So they're going to pull the logs. They're going to see what exactly was going on. Was the accelerator being pressed? Was it a brake being pressed? Was autopilot was full self-driving on? And they'll be able to see what happens. Most of the time in these cases, Tesla pulls the log, they have the data, and it is human error. Another point though is that there is huge confusion and it's mostly Tesla's fault as to what to call this software. So just to highlight all the different names that Tesla has brought since they started working on full self-driving, there's autopilot, there's basic autopilot, there's enhanced autopilot, there's full self-driving capability, there's full self-driving, just full self-driving, there's full self-driving beta, there's full self-driving, supervi, there's now auto steer, there's navigate on autopilot, there's now navigate on auto steer, there's traffic aware cruise control, and I think those are all the ones that Tesla's kind of used throughout the years. So it's causing huge confusion. I don't really blame the media for saying that the car was on autopilot or saying that the car was on full self-driving. Full self-driving doesn't even exist anymore, it's full self-driving supervised now. So it's not really the media's fault that they're misinterpreting what exactly is going on. It's a lot of confusion from Tesla, and they've never really issued a press release or anything like that to clear up the confusion. That's the way exactly what is what in their vehicles. It's even confusing for me. So we'll see what happens here. Probably I suspect that this guy confused the break for the gas, or he simply was speeding through a community and he was driving recklessly. So that's that. So hopefully these things don't happen again in the future. We'll see where it goes. Let me know in the comments what you guys think. Do you guys think that this computer may be somehow failed? Or do you guys think that this is just human error? I'm sure we're going to find out in probably two to three months once Tesla releases that information to the lawyers.