---
video_title: "In 2007, Elon Musk Predicted Everything (Rare Lost Interview)"
video_id: xyCOvT1Y5YQ
channel_name: "TheMightyKappa"
channel_id: UC8hW9rmwJhW5pUujsYjosaw
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xyCOvT1Y5YQ
video_date: 2026-03-12T14:16:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Before the rockets landed and the EVs took over the world, there was this 2007 interview. Watch as Elon Musk dismisses the threat of legacy giants like Lockheed Martin and Boeing to focus on disrupting the supercar market. But the real highlight? When pressed about the 'Billionaire Space Race' against Bezos and Branson, Musk delivers one of the most legendary lines in tech history: 'We have no competition.'
  
  Increased Speed to save you time
  Added Captions 
  
  Source:
  Musk on PBS thread on NASA Space Flight Forum 01/04/2007
  
  #ElonMusk, #Tesla, #SpaceX, #TechHistory, #RareInterview, #ElonMusk2007, #YoungElonMusk, #BusinessMotivation, #Innovation, #futuretech
---
thank you so much for being with us here at Wired Science. Thank you for having me. I need to first lay a little bit of a foundation here. Two days into your physics program at Stanford University, you quit school to start a company called ZIP to a media company, which is sold a few years later for a poultry $307 million. Then four years later, eBay buys PayPal. Is that correct? A company that you established or helped to establish is one of the founders? I have a few others, yeah. And now you've taken those two enormous successes and you've set your ambition on space. How did you go from online payment systems to building a spaceship, essentially? Well, when I graduated from college, there were three areas that I thought would be most impactful to the future of humanity. The three were the internet space exploration and then changing the economy from a mine and burn hydrocarbon based economy to one, which is solar electric, which I think is going to be the primary, but not exclusive means of energy and transportation. Have we screwed it up so badly here on this planet that our only hope is to build a new civilization out there? No, not at all. Actually, I'm quite optimistic about the future of humanity on Earth. You are? Yeah, absolutely. So what is the benefit to humanity then to inhabit Mars, which is really what is an ambition of yours? Well, I think if you consider two paths, one where we are forever confined to Earth and the other where we are space-frying civilization out exploring the stars, I think the latter is far more exciting and we're as often a richer and more diverse human experience. How can you do that better than NASA? Well, NASA is a customer of ours. So there's a confusion in the public mind that perhaps a company like SpaceX is competing with NASA, but in fact, NASA is a customer of ours. So we're actually providing services to NASA, launch services. And when the shuttle retires in 2010, since the starting in 2011, SpaceX's rocket will replace the space shuttle in sourcing the space station with astronauts and cargo transportation. The name of your rocket ship is called the Falcon Explorer. Is that it? Well, the Falcon 9. The Falcon 9 is the rocket. And then the spaceship is Dragon. Dragon. So the Falcon 9 rocket lifts the Dragon spaceship and the Dragon spaceship is what goes to the space station and then returns to Earth. So it transports the Falcon as almost cargo? So the Falcon 9 is kind of like the semi, or something like that. And it turns, the Falcon 9 booster rocket takes the Dragon spaceship to space and drops it off. Then it goes to the space station, but it ducks with the space station, transfers astronauts or resupplying a cargo, whatever in the case may be, and then the Dragon spacecraft returns to Earth. Reading some of the speeches that you have given in your career, and how will you be like that? You're practically 23 years. You're 23 years old. I'm actually 12. You're 12. I was going to say, you look terrific. But you have said that we got lost along the way with our space program. What did you mean by that? Right. I think that was some of my congressional testimony. I gave a few speeches to Congress. Well, what I mean by that is, in 1969, we were able to go to the moon. And here we are over three decades later, and we can barely get to low with orbit. And I think by any measure, that is a step backwards. Is that for a lack of leadership or technology? I think we made the wrong technological choices. And I think there was also a lack of a will at the highest levels of government to take the next step and go, at least, stay on the moon and perhaps build a base there, and then go beyond the moon to Mars. And if you look at the news articles in the late 60s, early 70s, the expectation was that by now, in the 24th century, we would have a moon base and probably even a Mars base. And I think if you'd asked anyone at that point in time, whether we would be unable to go to the moon and have not been to Mars, I think they would think you're crazy. Do we need a leadership in that realm? Do we need a John F. Kennedy who sets a goal for us? When he said, one day a man will walk on the moon? Do we need that kind of leadership for this technology to move forward in that big step? I do think it's very important the president set the priority and determine the goal that we as nation will pull the spire to. And George Bush has his pluses and minuses, but at least one plus is that he has helped to steer the space program in a direction that more or less makes sense. The only thing I would argue with is that, I don't think we should be going back to the moon. I think we should be focused on Mars. I think we saw the... You think that's a mistake focusing on the moon? I do think we should rather be focused on Mars. The moon is kind of like the Arctic. It's just a very barren place, very little resources, it's small. It's not really a place that we can establish another human civilization. There's a feeling of been there done that too with the moon. Yeah, he saw that movie of the 60s, and the remake's never as good. Did we really go to the moon? Yes, we definitely wanted to check. We did, we definitely wanted to check. The government is incapable of suppressing a conspiracy of that nature. Of that nature, it's okay, good. This ambition to explore space. Absolutely, that's the point. There's quite a bit of competition out there. There's Jeff Bezos with Blue Origin. There's Richard Branson with his Virgin Galactic. And I'm not talking about NASA either. There's Paul Allen. There's the European Space Agency in Boeing and Lockheed Martin, the Chinese, the Russians. Let's just throw all of them into the same... Everyone's doing it. A competitive field. How is space sex different? How do you think you'll sort of surpass them? Well, you've listed a wide range of entities there, and I think the differences are really different, depending upon which one you're referring to. Well, let me ask you this question. Who is your competition? We have no serious competition. Not. Not presently. Who's chasing you? Well, if you mean chasing in half and has a serious chance of catching, then I think none that I'm aware of. And then, Bonson, you guys can have a hack then. Well, what Branson is doing, by the way, I'm a great admirer of Branson, is really a much smaller technological challenge. So their craft would be sub-oval. So it would go to about Mach 3. Our craft is orbital. It goes to Mach 25. So 25 times is speed of sound. But that doesn't describe the whole scale of difficulty, because the energy required to get those velocities, scales is the square of the velocity. So to do what Branson is doing, you need to say about nine units of energy. To do what we're doing, you need 625 units of energy. The difference is monumental. And then when you re-enter, you have to burn off all that energy, so that doubles the problem, really. So what Branson is doing for a technological standpoint, is building something that can cross the English channel. What we're building is something that can so can navigate the globe. It's a very different scale of technological difficulty. I still think what he's doing is great. And by the way, I bought a ticket on his effort. Yeah, yeah. So I still think it's great, but it's not in the same league technologically. So you're not particularly worried. So you're not about that. No, the things that worry me are, are we going to make a mistake? The things that can really hurt face X are, our own foolishness, our own errors can hurt us. But not in another competition that I'm aware of. So generally, you're worried about what's in front of you, not the other guy. And in fact, you probably don't think about them in terms of how they criticize you or what they think about you. I don't think there's much criticism. I mean, Boeing and Lockheed, of course, that they were criticized. But I don't think any of the entrepreneurial guys would criticize what we're doing. And it's certainly possible that I think what Jeff Bezos is working on could ultimately, I mean, he does have aspirations to get to over and beyond. It's just that what they're doing right now is sub-album and at the sort of lower technology level. What I think about it's face X is really entirely, what are we doing to ensure that our rocket is going to be successful and that we are truly optimizing the cost and ensuring higher liability. I mean, that's just a very, very difficult problem. There's a reason why there's an automatic expression about rocket science being hard. It really is really hard. So rocket science really is rocket science. Yeah. It looks hard and it's harder than it looks. What's the big goal here? What's the long-term plan? Well, but the long-term ultimate objective that the Holy Grail is we would like to help make life multi-planetary. That's really what we would like to do. So establish societies on as many planets as possible? Well, yeah, well, I think there's only one possibility, but yeah, I mean, even if we can just go from one planet to two, I think that's a pretty big step. And you'll start with Wilmares. Mars is the only viable planet. A viable planet. So multi-planetary life? Yeah. Help make life multi-planetary. I think that's an important thing. I don't think your goal's big enough. Huh. Yeah. It's ambitious. Well, like I said, we don't expect it to do it single-handedly, but we certainly would like to help make it happen. It's fair to say you've made a fortune. Yeah, I think so. By any reasonable standard, yeah. And those who work in science, probably understand your trajectory. But there are those who are watching who would think, if I made that money, I'd sit on a beach, I'd drink beer, and I would just watch the sunset, kind of like a corona beer commercial. Have you ever thought about that as a career option? You know, I find that really pretty boring. So that would be torture if I had to do that every day. That would really be pretty awful for me. Is there something about startup businesses that really fuels your desire to work? Well, I guess, I really need to be preoccupied with something. And if I'm just sort of sitting there relaxing, I can only do that for a very short period of time, and then it becomes unbearable. Although startups definitely have their highs and lows. As a friend of mine who has good phrase, you know, a startup business is like eating glass and staring into the abyss. What is the criteria that you was to have for yourself for a startup? Me and why one business over another? Yeah. Well, for me, it's always about, does this, does what I'm doing matter? If we are successful, does it matter to the world? And so there are easy ways to make money than starting a rocket company or a, say, a car company. Or even when I started an internet company, because when I started the first internet company, nobody had made any money, and it wasn't clear that anyone would make any money. It was simply from the perspective of the internet being a very important thing and something that needed to be built. And so I wanted to help hold it. Well, you touch upon something that's interesting. Is that there is a, that benefiting humanity is a very integral part of your criteria, no matter what you're starting up. Yes, absolutely. Really? Not everybody has that as a prime interest. No, I think that's probably relatively unusual. Although there are many people that I know in Silicon Valley for whom that is a significant motivation. You said in your endeavor here to explore space that we are committed to failing in a new way, if nothing else. What did you mean by that? It was just how it sounds. Well, I mean, we're committed to succeed, really. But if we do fail, I would hope that we at least add to the body of knowledge such that those who follow may make fewer mistakes. Now, if Mars were not enough, you are busy here on Earth. The world is not enough. That's right, where are you? Where are we? Have you no limits, my friend? Here on Earth, you are establishing a presence, certainly, with Tesla Motors. Tell us a little bit about that. This is your electric car company, correct? This is no hybrid car you could buy on a car lot. This thing goes from 0 to 16, four seconds. Is that right? Absolutely. 0 to 16, under four seconds. It's faster, a better acceleration than any Porsche currently in production and any Ferrari except the Enzo. And it's twice the energy efficiency of a Prius. So you really have the model high ground and you get to leave the Ferrari guy in your dust. Well, let me ask the obvious, well, and you don't look like one of those guys who's trying too hard in Ferrari. Absolutely. Yeah. You don't look like a jerk, you know? You don't look. You're not bright, banana, yellow, Lamborghini, or absolutely. I mean, there's something I should point out about Tesla, which is, we didn't, Tesla is the first car is a sports car. Not because we think the world lacks for a sports car. But because it is the right entry point for the market. If you have a new technology, the right place to enter is high-unit cost low-unit volume. It just is, you know, when a new cellphone comes out or a new laptop or some new thing, tends to be expensive at first because they're figuring out all the issues and it takes time to optimize. And then over time, that technology will become cheaper and cheaper. And so the Model 2 of Tesla, I'm going to be leaving ahead here. But Model 2 of Tesla is a $49,000 four-door five-passenger sedan. And that's going to be, obviously, a much broader market segment that can make use of that car. And then Model 3 is intended to be around a $30,000 price point. And so that's really affordable by almost everyone. Who can buy a new car. So the idea is to drive to a mass market as rapidly as possible. But only at the pace at which the technology matures. So is Henry Ford, someone you admire? Well, I think Henry Ford made some very important contributions to business and obviously moving manufacturing line and that sort of thing. So I think he certainly was a bit of an odd duck, but certainly not worthy. But the interesting Tesla is not from the perspective of the world needs another car company. It's more from the perspective of we have a very important environmental problem that needs to be addressed, which is driven by the burning of fossil fuels and the increasing CO2 concentration in the atmosphere and global climate change, which I think is going to be one of the most significant issues of the 20th century. And the only way to really get around that in my view is really with an electric vehicle. And then you need to pair that up with a zero-mission power generation method such as solar power. I think a solar power is going to be a really big deal. Tesla is not a hybrid car. Tesla is pure electric. Pure electric. So help connect the dots for me. Why aren't we seeing Tesla cars on the car lots then? What's keeping the momentum yet? So we're just finishing up the development right now. And anybody can buy this. Yes. Well, actually, we've almost sold out of 2007 production. So if somebody does want to buy next year's model, they've been act quickly. One of the primary complaints about hybrid vehicles is they're not fast enough. You seem to overcome it. You won't have any trouble with this. In fact, really, it's cool. There's something uniquely better about electric vehicles, which is that the torque response is immediate. So if you want to pass someone, I mean, the response to the car is very immediate. It's more fun to drive an electric car than it is to drive a gasoline car. You know, I was going to say that Tesla, the car, the name of the car company, is no coincidence. Is it? We'd explain a little bit about that. Right. The company's named after Nicola Tesla, who was an inventor. He was originally from the area of Yugoslavia in Europe, but he moved to America when he was young and was an inventor of the AC induction motor and invented a lot of the principles of magnetism. So he was a great man, a great great inventor, and so the company's named an honor of him. So these cars, the Tesla Roadster, the first issue of the Tesla Roadster, available in 2007. Yes. In the spring, the summer? How do you get on the waiting list? Well, you buy the car. You basically put down a deposit. And we've actually, can you do that through the web? Yeah, we'll have, by the way, customer centers all around the country. So we'll have one in L.A., one of the various cargo, Miami, New York, and eventually a nationwide customer centers, where somebody does want to see the car in person, take a test drive, or see the car being worked on. I mean, we have this idea for the way that the car is a service that it should be a really pleasant experience. So we have, you know, somewhere between like a Starbucks and an Apple store. So you go and you'd see the car being caused by a work done behind a glass partition. That would be your car you're watching? Yeah, or somebody else's. OK. But it's really clean. It's really clean, present, bright. We sort of a coffee bar available. And it's just a, we really want to have a very pleasant experience that you don't typically get if you go into a dealership. Have you heard from Toyota? Have you heard from General Motors and Ford saying, you used the company for sale? Nobody's actually made a formal offer. But the interest, you know, I think one of the biggest values that Tesla can provide is serving as an example to the rest of the auto industry. Because right now, the auto industry, the big car companies believe that a viable electric vehicle is not possible and be even if it was people and buy it. So we need to show that neither of those are true. That the technology works. That people want to buy it. And that will be the most effective way of really driving change in the, in the industries by serving as an example in that manner. And if we were to sell the company to one of the big car companies, I think it would really slow things down. You think so? Absolutely. You're very busy, enterprising, the part of your company that will explore space. You're very busy with this car company. Where do you find time to be CEO of two companies that size? Well, I should correct you that. I'm CEO of SpaceX. And I'm chairman of SpaceX. And that is really my day job. So I spend 80% of my time on SpaceX. OK. I am the chairman and the principal owner of Tesla Motors. But I do not run it on a daily basis. You don't run that on a daily basis. Well, that was really the question. How do you run those two large enterprises on a daily basis? I use it a couple of phone calls for the Tesla folks. How's it going? I'm busy without her space right now. You guys got that covered. I spent about two to three days a month on Tesla related business. And almost all the rest of the time is on SpaceX. So SpaceX is very much my day to day job. And then I provide product guidance, strategic guidance, and obviously funding for Tesla. Like Steve Jobs, right? So he runs Apple on a daily basis. But he also has oversight over Pixar. It's kind of like that. And in your day to day, and this is one of those silly lifestyle questions. But how early do you get up in the morning? And where do you go to work? Physically, is it an office? Yeah, I go to work at SpaceX. So the space is up in the morning. You know, I'm not an early morning person. For young engineers and for inventors and creators, they can sleep until 10 or 11. We have no fixed hours at SpaceX. I mean, my personally, I tend to get up around 730 or 8 and be on the office around 9930. But then I tend to state about 8 PM. College students across America are saying, oh, Brad, I thought he was going to say noon. But then you go into an office and you sit in a separate office away from those who are working or do you sit with them? No, I just have a cubicle at SpaceX. You have a cubicle. And are you surrounded by your colleagues there? Yeah, absolutely. What is your hope in terms of the impact you will leave on culture, this civilization, this world, global civilization? What is it that you hope to leave here? Well, I think what I'd like to do is help solve some important problems. So I think in a small way, I helped build the internet. And then with respect to the global warring problem, the transition from away from oil and other hydrocarbons to something which is clean and sustainable. I hope to have an impact there. And then with respect to space, I hope to have an impact in helping make humanity a multi-planet species. Elon Musk, thank you so much for being with us at Wioscience. Let me get us straight. CEO of SpaceX and Chairman of Tesla Motors. Yeah, I got other titles, but that's about right. I think that you're doing it very well.