---
video_title: "SpaceX IPO Why I'm Going All In (This Changes Everything)"
video_id: DZTrSOyDss4
channel_name: "TheMightyKappa"
channel_id: UC8hW9rmwJhW5pUujsYjosaw
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DZTrSOyDss4
video_date: 2026-06-07T00:38:02+00:00
video_description: |
  Why I won't make the same mistake again
  
  #ElonMusk, #Tesla, #SpaceX, #TechHistory, #RareInterview, #ElonMusk2007, #YoungElonMusk, #BusinessMotivation, #Innovation, #futuretech
---
So I think I've made the decision that I might be going all in on SpaceX. Now before I give you the background on why I'm making this decision, this kind of starts all the way back in high school of grade 9 and actually starts with Tesla. So back in the day, you know, this was before Tesla even was an IPO. You know, they were a small company. I knew about them in high school. Nobody really knew they even existed at that point. But I had a feeling that this company was going to be the next big thing. You know, waiting for public transit on the side of the road, being a young kid, and seeing the occasional model S or Model X drive by. I always used to think of myself, wow, what a beautiful piece of tech. You know, one day I'm going to have one. What a great company. And now of course, you know, back in high school, I had no money. I was financially illiterate. I knew stocks existed, but I didn't really know how to buy stocks. That's probably something you did at a bank, you had to speak with a financial advisor or whatever. You know, fast forward, high school's finished, university's done, became more financially illiterate. But just like normally everyone else, you finish school and you're kind of broke. I took a risk. I moved from my original city, moved across the country, started fresh, no job, no money, living in an Airbnb. And I actually took $10,000 worth of debt back in probably early 2020. I put about $10,000 in and that $10,000 turned into $50,000 in about three years time. So that was a huge risk. And obviously it paid off using debt is extremely even more risky to do that. But I believed in the company and they were doing great things. And I was able to use that money actually as a down payment on my first house. So I always look back on the time that like, what if back in high school, I knew about Tesla. I was working a part-time job cleaning toilets. But if I took that money then and I put it into Tesla so many years earlier, I wouldn't be making this video today and I certainly wouldn't be working. I probably would be retired. So I truly think that the same story is repeating itself now with the SpaceX IPO and it now joining the stock market. And of course, to be clear, I'm not a financial advisor. You can do whatever you want with your money. I'm just sharing my experience. But I'm telling my story of how I was financially illiterate. Took some risks in my life and I came out better on the other side. Now this video is not going to talk about the financials of SpaceX and why Elon Musk is a bad guy or he's a good guy or how SpaceX is overvalued, you're overpaying, maybe it's a pump and dump, whatever it is, that's not what this video is going to tell you about what you should or shouldn't do. And a lot of the negativity that Elon Musk gets and SpaceX gets fundamentally, it's probably true. But really, personally for me, it doesn't matter. How can you put a price tag on sending rocket ships to space, on sending robots on rocket ships to the moon, on creating satellite internet, on all this AI stuff, on data chips, etc. And it keeps going on and on. Things are changing so fast that I'm willing to bet in the next 10 years, we're probably going to have robots walking around, doing our laundry and our chores and robot tax season, whatever else there is. Now the problem that we have is, you know, foam all or fear of missing out. I look back and I regret not investing in Tesla earlier. But I also don't penalize myself either because I didn't have the knowledge back then not how to do it. I don't want to look back in the next 10 years or 20 years and say to myself, oh shit, why did I not spend the money that I had invested in SpaceX and just hold. I basically don't want to make the same mistake I did with Tesla IPO, with this SpaceX IPO. Now the internet is forever. And 10 years time we'll be able to come back, look at this video and see if I was right or if I was wrong on where the price of SpaceX will go. The only difference is that some of us will be rich or some of us will still be busy talking about Elon Musk and how bad its companies are. Basically what I'm trying to say is that similar how I use that $10,000 in Tesla stock back in the day when I was broke, we have to take risks in our life. We have to get out of our comfort zone. Now with investing there's safer places to put your money like index funds, ETFs and whatnot which majority of my finances are in. But you have to take a little bit more risks in your life. You have to go against the current. You can't do what everyone else is doing and expect to get on top. Now 10 years time I'll come back and I might be right, might be wrong, but at least I won't be living with that regret of what if I didn't or what if I didn't or would my life be or would your life be. So it's hard decision to make, right? I play the lottery every week, a couple books here, a couple of bucks there, I never win. The chance of winning is almost pretty much zero but there is still that chance of maybe one day I'll get lucky. And I think I have a higher chance of being lucky with SpaceX than I have with the lottery. So I'm probably more comfortable with at least putting my money in stocks and having it there and holding it long periods of time and hopefully coming up on top. But what do you guys think? Do you guys think the SpaceX IPO is a good buy, long term? Or do you think it's just overvalued? Too risky. For me I'm going to take the leap of faith, invest in it and see where it goes. We'll see.