---
video_title: "I Spend $0 on Gas Driving My Car Every Day – Thanks Elon Musk"
video_id: oe9RkTPDHBA
channel_name: "TheMightyKappa"
channel_id: UC8hW9rmwJhW5pUujsYjosaw
channel_category: "People & Blogs"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oe9RkTPDHBA
video_date: 2026-06-08T00:23:26+00:00
video_description: |
  I never pay for gas or charging
  
  #ElonMusk, #Tesla, #SpaceX, #TechHistory, #RareInterview, #ElonMusk2007, #YoungElonMusk, #BusinessMotivation, #Innovation, #futuretech
---
So I pretty much never have to pay for fuel or even to charge my electric car. It's making a significant amount of savings in my monthly budget. And actually a lot of people don't know that with early Tesla Model X's and actually Model X's, around the 2016 to 2017 range, you can actually pick up a car that has free supercharging for life. Now, what does that mean? So basically, every time I go to charge my car, I don't pay anything. It's absolutely free for as long as I have this vehicle. So here's about how much I've saved in the past month just the supercharging my car. Technically, the more you supercharge, the more you save, and that can actually lead to you paying off more in charging costs than what you actually paid for the car itself. These 2016, 2017 Tesla Model X's and X's, you can pick them up pretty cheap now under 30,000 American or Canadian. This particular one that I got, I got it with 60,000 kilometers, which is about 42-ish thousand miles. And I got a pretty good deal on it. Not only does it include free supercharging, but it also includes free internet, basically free LTE data. So I can stream Spotify or Apple Music or whatever it is, right off the car without putting a hotspot on my phone. So that's another perk with these old cars. It's a six-seater, so two in the front, two in the middle, and two in the back. I used to drive a Tesla Model 3, but needed to upgrade because the Model 3's a little bit tight now when you have two kids, and especially two car seats. So we decided to get a bigger vehicle like that. The doors are definitely the feature on this nine-year-old vehicle. Still get lots of people turning their necks to take a look, lots of kids make comments, and even other families make comments. It's definitely much easier, but kids in and out of this type of car, especially with these Falcon wing doors. So it's definitely still awesome on that. Is this something that's right for you? It really depends. I mean, you gotta do your research on these cars. Not every 2016 or 2017 Model S or Model X will have free supercharging available. Another thing you gotta consider is do you even live near a supercharger? If you need to charge your car, where is the closest one? Does a supercharger have any amenities you can use while you're charging your car? Oftentimes, the older cars, they don't charge as fast as a new Model Y would. So you're gonna have to be spending some time committing to charging the car. So maybe 30, 45 minutes at the supercharger that you're gonna have to stay at if you wanna take advantage of not paying for fuel or electricity. In my situation, thankfully the supercharger's not too far of a drive. And there's actually a grocery store right there. So I'm able to get a little bit of grocery shopping done while my car's charging. When it's all done, I hit back home. So you gotta do a little bit of research on that. Another thing to consider too is that these cars are out of warranty. So if you have any mechanical issues, any battery issues, you'll be on the hook for that. But it all depends on how long you wanna use the car for. Generally speaking, the longer you have a vehicle, the more kilometers or miles you put on it, you'll come out ahead. And even more so if you're not paying for any electricity on the car itself too. So for me personally, I go about once a week to fill up the Tesla. And this is primarily a family vehicle for commuting in the city, taking the kids to school, going grocery shopping, seeing friends, things like that. So at the 75D, it doesn't have that much range. You can definitely find a bigger battery. I think they come in 90, 90 kilowatts and also 100 kilowatts. So you can shop around and get a bigger battery, which is gonna have more range. So you're spending less time at the supercharger. Another big thing too is even if your Tesla doesn't have free supercharging, there's definitely tips and tricks that you can. You do to decrease, again, amount of money that you're spending on charging the car. So look on plug share, see what's around. When I had my Model 3, there was actually a local university that had fast chargers. And it was actually $1 an hour to fill up your basically charge your car. So it basically cost my Model 3 a dollar to fill the tank. So I would actually do that before I got the free supercharging with Tesla on this Model X. So there's definitely ways to do it. If your energy company does low overnight rates, and you actually have a home charging setup, that's probably the most convenient. That's gonna cost you $1 a cup of dollars or whatever to fill up your battery. My situation's a little bit unique. I don't have home charging, so I'm completely taking advantage of the situation with the public chargers and Tesla. But overall, honestly, coming from 2023, Model 3 to a 2017 Model X, even though it's technically a downgrade in the year of the vehicle, just the amount of space that my family has gained in this car is actually made it an upgrade for us. The fact that we're not paying for charging anymore is a huge plus. The fact that we can go on road trips and not pay for any fuel, that's massive now. So there's definitely a lot of pros. Definitely always a chance that one day we're gonna wake up and there might be notification on the screen saying that the battery is shot and needs to be replaced. That's a risk that you gotta take with these old cars, right? Hopefully not. Hopefully we get a lot of value out of it and we don't have to deal with that, but we'll see what happens. Yeah, if you have any questions about buying an old Tesla, free supercharging, things like that, feel free to leave a comment more than happy to help, but definitely do your research. It is a big decision to jump into one of these old Teslas. But if you picked the right one, it can be extremely rewarding and I definitely do recommend it if you're looking to get some more space.