---
video_title: "Transforme Livros em Skills no Claude Code (PASSO A PASSO)"
video_id: fngCoTyJoV4
channel_name: "Anderson Adelino | IA e Automações"
channel_id: UCI5WcISxqiFfoh4mse1s-HA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fngCoTyJoV4
video_date: 2026-06-09T20:04:59+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Se você quer aprender Claude Code do Zero, esse é o caminho: https://claude.zenithonacademy.com.br?src=fngCoTyJoV4
  👉 Entre no nosso grupo GRATUITO de Claude Code: https://claude.zenithonacademy.com.br/grupo
  🚀 VPS da Hostgator que recomendo: https://www.hostgator.com.br/52675-13-3-12.html
  
  Repositório da Skill: https://github.com/virgiliojr94/book-to-skill
  
  Você lê um livro incrível... e em 3 meses esqueceu tudo. A Book to Skill transforma qualquer PDF em um mentor de IA que conhece cada página do que você já leu, disponível a qualquer momento no Claude Code.
  
  Com essa skill open source (quase 5 mil estrelas no GitHub), você converte qualquer livro em arquivos markdown estruturados: skill.md, cheat sheet, glossário, patterns e capítulos por tema. O resultado é consulta rápida, sem gastar tokens lendo centenas de páginas de uma vez e sem risco de alucinação.
  
  No vídeo mostro a diferença entre RAG e Skill, por que jogar o PDF direto no Claude não resolve e demonstro ao vivo com o Manual de Epicteto e A Psicologia Financeira.
  
  ⏱️ Timestamps
  00:00 Introdução
  00:20 Repositório no Github
  00:53 Livros viram conhecimento morto
  03:07 Estrutura da Skill
  05:59 Por que não usar o pdf direto
  06:42 Skill vs RAG
  07:45 Operação Claude Code
  08:18 Estrutura no VS Code
  11:42 Manual de Epicteto
  15:28 Convertendo um livro em Skill
  
  📧 Parcerias e serviços: contato@zenithonacademy.com.br
---
I found a skill that transforms any book into a reusable skill for Claude. But what really caught my attention wasn't the final result, it was the architecture it creates to organize and reuse this knowledge. And in this video I'm going to show you exactly how it works. This is the repository of our skill that we're going to be using, Book to Skill. It already has almost 5 thousand stars here on GitHub, so it's growing rapidly.

The name of the skill is this one, Book to Skill. And here you can see some information from the creators, right? It talks here about the files they create, concepts behind all of this. I'll leave it in the description in case you want to check it out more carefully. But I'm going to summarize this here in a more simplified and more visual way for you.

Starting with the problem that this skill promises to solve. It takes into consideration people like me, for example, who has already read several books. But even though I find that book amazing, right? That I find that book really very important, after a few months I've already forgotten that content, right? And I end up forgetting, for example, some important concepts.

And when I want to review the book, it becomes more complicated, right? Because you're going to have to search for where that quote was, for example, inside that book. Sometimes you just want to find that concept and you ended up losing that concept there at that moment. Plus at the moment when you're, for example, focused on studying about personal finance, you've read 10 books about personal finance, you see that those 10 books are important books for you. But man, if you were to collect concepts from each one separately, it's complicated.

So, that's a problem, right? You read the book, you forgot, you don't remember where that information was. So you're going to search, for example, in the PDF, it's time-consuming, many pages, or in the book itself, right? You're going to check your notes, but they're already messy, it's hard to find. Then you're going to ask the AI, you go to ChatGPT or Claude, and ask that information, and it might hallucinate or even get it wrong.

And a solution to that is this skill, the Book to Skill. This skill, it's going to be your mentor expert always available. So, imagine that it's like that mentor you have who knows everything about the books you've already read. And you're going to ask him that specific information, you're going to ask for suggestions, you're going to ask for ideas, you're going to tell about the situations that are happening to you at that moment, and he's going to advise you according to the book, not with the knowledge from defending the AI. So, the process is you take a file, which can be a PDF, right?

So, you search for that file on the internet, about that PDF, for example, from that book. If you don't have it, scan and upload it, anyway. Claude is going to extract, Claude is going to extract the content, is going to do an analysis, and based on that, it's going to create well-organized files about that content, about the book, transforming it into a reusable skill. So, in the end, it transforms that PDF with dozens of pages into files in well-structured Markdown. And the organization of this here, man, is very cool.

So, let's go. First, it's going to transform the skill.md file, right? It's one of the files it creates. It's the skill.md, which is mandatory in

all types of skills, right? If you already know skills, already know the skill.md, it creates this file, which is the manifest of the skill, right? So, it's going to inform about the author, about the work, about the central frameworks, how to use, right? When you're going to use this skill.

This information, what that book is about, that specific book. So, it's a general overview of what that is and how much you're going to be using it. Then, it creates a file called cheat.md, which is a quick reference. So, inside there, it's going to list principles and heuristics ready to apply.

So, if you want a file where you're going to have a step-by-step of things that are applicable, a checklist to be applied, a step-by-step, practical things, it's going to be in this file here. So, it's going to take all the advice it's going to transform that file with practical, applicable things. Then, it also creates this other file here, called patterns.md, which are the usage patterns. usage.

So, they're like routes you can be following. For example, when x, then do y according to the author. So, he's going to take various situations that can occur and how to solve that situation according to the author of that book. Then, it also creates a glossary.md, which is the glossary.

So, it creates there exact terms from the author with the precise definition. So, various terms mentioned throughout that entire book. It's going to create these terms and with the advice on the side. So, it also serves as a kind of dictionary there with your books. And it also creates a folder organized by Markdown files according to the chapters, right?

So, he also has here a file per chapter, which are the frameworks detailed by theme. So, it organizes each chapter too with information, right? That is, in general, all of this here transforms into something organized to be easy to use and easy to navigate. So, the logic, in a general way, is that we have the skill.md, which is being the entry point.

From that, the cheat sheet and the patterns already cover 80% of the cases of quick use, which are these guys here. So, 80% of quick use, they already cover. Now, if he sees the need for something more deep, then he's going to consult the chapters, which are denser files, but also organized and broken up. So, that's going to prevent him from reading a complete file, read that entire PDF complete. A book has 300 pages, he's going to read 300 pages at once, which would be exactly a problem.

You might think, no, it's just me taking the PDF and it works. Man, if you do this here, first that the context is huge, and the chance of it hallucinating is very high, because you're going to give hundreds of lines for it to read at once, it's going to spend a lot of tokens just reading. So, it asks a question and it's already gone the half of Claude's session, because it's going to read the entire PDF to give you an answer. Plus every question you're going to ask, it's going to have to read that PDF again completely. So, man, this doesn't exist, this doesn't even have it.

This is crazy. Now, with skill, no. It's going to have something structured, fewer tokens and much fewer tokens really, right? A quick and reusable query. And just one detail here, a quick observation before we go to the practice, is don't confuse this skill with a RAG, right?

RAG, it's used in case you want to search for specific passages. It's something, it's a semantic search, right, that it's going to be doing there. You're going to put a phrase, it's going to search for that phrase in similar points inside the RAG and it's going to bring you text from what is similar. It's like asking you to find a phrase or a specific term there inside. Then, okay, RAG.

Now, if you want Claude to act as really the author of the work, that gives you insights, as if your author really, with that knowledge, then it's skill. RAG doesn't solve that problem, right? Anyway, now that I've already shown you the concept behind it, you've already understood more or less how it's going to work, let's go to the practice, right? First, I'm going to show you here in my VS Code a book that I've already transformed into a skill. I'm going to show you how he did it and then I'll show you how to do it in practice with the Zero book.

Quick pause. If this video is helping you, then pay attention. Everything I show on my channel about Claude Code, I teach well chewed in my training Operation Claude Code. There are several modules, there are already more than 60 lessons. From zero until you run an automation on the cloud 24 hours a day.

Besides framework, path, skills, MCPs, routines, even website construction. The course is not just theory, it's really hands-on. You're going to start from zero and you're already going to come out of there with silly automations. The course link is pinned here in the first comment and it's also in the description. Anyway, back to the video.

So, I'm here with my VS Code open. And I have here two folders and a CLAUDE.md file. I'm going to explain for you all this structure that I use. If you want to download all that file here, that file archive that I called my project, containing the .claude, which contains the skills, that

temporary folder and the CLAUDE.md, which is the Claude prompt here. I'm also going to explain for you. If you guys want to follow, here in the description and in the pinned comment, there's going to be a link to my free Claude Code group on WhatsApp. In the description of that group, there's my templates hub.

All the free materials I release are there. You just access it, you put the URL of that video here, then it appears there the file for you to download. Right? It's very simple. Then you download all that material here in a zip for you to be reusing.

Right? It's cool. The skill itself, when you download the skill, you can take the URL of the repository, throw it here in Claude, open here the Claude chat here, which is what I did. I took it here and said, look, download that skill here on my project locally. It has to be in that directory.

Then I said the name of the directory, archive, and he downloaded it. So, he downloads it here that file, that folder .claude, and inside there's a folder called skills. Inside there's a folder called book to skill, which is, in fact, where the skill is, with a file called skill.md, right?

So, all this here is the skill. And here inside there are scripts, scripts in Python, which is the question of conversion, distraction, PDF and everything else. Everything is part of the skill, okay? And the CLAUDE.md was created by me along with...

Claude created it, obviously, but I asked him to create it according to my way of using it. So, I said here, look, you're an assistant for book knowledge and your role is not to summarize books, but to help the user apply, connect and reason with the frameworks, principles and mental models extracted from the works. Don't act like a general assistant. Every response should be anchored in a available book skill. And here there are some instructions.

So, basically, I'm telling how Claude should behave, right? I don't think the skill by itself is already sufficient. I want the project itself, within this project, to act this way, as a reading assistant for me. And whenever I put a new book here, it automatically updates the CLAUDE.md, showing here the available skills, right?

Here there's a part called tmp, which means temporary. And here I put the PDF file that I want to convert, right? And here I can delete already, because this, the Epictetus Manual, the guy is a very good book, it was the last book that I read. It's a philosophical book, that talks about Stoicism, right? In the view of Epictetus, very good.

Very complex, so I found it very interesting to use it as an example. So, I thought on the internet here now a PDF, downloaded the PDF and then I put it here, right? This guy here. I'm not sure if it's the same edition of the book that I have physically, maybe not, but anyway, it's the Epictetus Manual, Bielyem edition too, and it's all here. It has 96 pages total, and many pages too that are Greek.

So, in the end, the book is short, has about 50 pages, right? Okay, and then I asked him to transform the book, the Epictetus Manual, into a skill. And he transformed it, look here, Epictetus Manual. In a moment I'm going to show, I'm going to take another PDF here and transform it into a skill, you'll see there the step-by-step to do it. But what I want to show you here now is that he transformed it.

He created those files that I showed you in the image a while ago, created a part called Chapters, and here, each markdown file part called Chapters, and here, each markdown file of this here is a chapter that he created. And let's explore. First, the skill.md. So, here he's going to explain what this book is about, the Claude is going to know if he needs to use this book or not from that markdown file, okay?

I'm going to give the description. Knowledge base, then here the name, the Greek word here would be Epictetus Manual. Use when applying the dichotomy of control, dealing with adversity, examining judgments, understanding roles and relationships, or studying practical Stoicism. Perfect. Here, information about the book, how to use this skill, central frameworks and mental models.

So, here there's a whole summary, it has less than 200 lines. So, it's the first file he's going to read, after the CLAUDE.md, which is the main one, right? Then he's going to read the skill here. And then, depending on what's needed, with what you told him, he is going to read the other files.

So, we have here the cheat sheet, which are the references. So, here he has here a root question. Use everything. Is that my responsibility? Yes, take care, act, choose.

No, nothing is for me. Diagram, decision, table, rules, exam of stage, signs of progress, before any big commitment. So, they are general guidelines from the book. Here, they're...

What is the glossary, right? They are terms that Epictetus uses throughout the book. For example, dogma. Opinion formed about a representation can be correct or incorrect. It's the true cause of suffering, not the external event.

And here it references that this is part of chapter 2. And here we have the patterns and techniques that he cites. All of this here are, in fact, like lessons, teachings. For example, the dichotomy of control. When to use before any action, desire or emotional reaction.

How? Trade-offs, the preface to action, the naming of quality, anyway. And here we have the chapters, where we have the main idea, induced frameworks and various other structures main idea, induced frameworks and various other structures here inside. But anyway, cool, everything organized. Let's see if it works, how would it work.

I'm going to ask a question for Claude. I'm not even going to mention that I want him to consult the Epictetus Manual. Let's see how it comes out. I'm going to say I have a very important meeting tomorrow, I'm nervous, and how should I act to control that nervousness. Something simple.

Let's see how he's going to react to this. Tomorrow I have a very important meeting and I want you to tell me what I can be doing to deal with the anxiety I'm feeling. Something simple. Let me ask a question for Claude. I'm not going to mention that I want him to consult the Epictetus Manual here.

Let's see how it goes. I'm going to tell him I have a very important meeting tomorrow, I'm nervous, and how should I act to control that nervousness. Something simple. Let's see how he's going to react to this. Tomorrow I have a very important meeting and I want you to tell me what I can do to deal with the anxiety I'm feeling.

And look, he already called the skill correctly, right? Of course, there's only one skill here, but he already called the skill. Epictetus Manual. From that he's reading the relevant chapters for anxiety and anticipation. Three frameworks applied to that.

And here he already gave me the answer. Anxiety before the meeting via Epictetus. So, from that, he already gave me here some actions to be done. Here he talks about what to do tonight concretely. Prepare what's your responsibility.

Apply the premeditation. Meditate on the terrible scenarios. Don't flee the worst case scenario. Put it before your eyes. Examine it.

Most anxieties shrivel when you look at them directly. And Epictetus would say, the meeting has no power over you. The judgment you make about it does. That judgment is yours and, therefore, can be changed. So, interesting, right?

Of course, a book. Now, imagine if I had 50 books here of various topics. Things start to get interesting, don't they? Not really? I added here another PDF of another book called The Psychology of Money.

It's more of a finance book, but it also has a psychology approach too that I myself don't suggest. Very good book too. But then it already goes, it's a But then it already goes, it's a different category from the Epictetus Manual, right? So, here's the PDF. Cool.

It's exactly the same edition that I have the physical. Anyway. And let's create a skill from that book. So, I'm going to put an at sign here. Here, look.

I marked the book. Perfect. After it's transformed into a skill, people, that here can be deleted, right? Or you can also just leave it as a reference to know the books you have here, but, anyway, this here can be erased. That's why I put the part called TMP.

And I'm going to talk to him here, look. Transform. Transform this book into a skill. Just that. Bypass.

And Enter. And it has a step by step to be followed to transform that into a skill in the right way. He already called the skill here. Book to Skill. PDF exists.

I need to identify the content type before extracting. What kind of content does this book have? Is it text, technical or I don't know. Technical would be that book that has lots of tables, you know? That it's a scientific article.

Anyway. Then it's not necessary because it's going to use a library that can extract better those tables. Since it's a very dense book, then I'm going to go here as text, right? And I even put it as recommended. Then I don't know if he put it as recommended because it's a standard of his or if it's because he already understood that this book would be this anyway, right?

I believe it's that second option. And really, the same way as the Epictetus Manual was, right? I also marked it as text because it's very dense text. It has some tables, but nothing that will impact translating our table. Because the table is already just a presentation that's already been written.

So, I'm going to mark it here. Now it's already using some Python script to be able to do the extraction of the text from that PDF. Done the extraction, now it's going to be reading, in fact, the content. This takes a while, right? Really something around 5 minutes there to be able to do all of that because it is going to read all the content.

And look at how interesting the information he brings here. He said that there are 20 chapters plus intro, plus postscript equal 22 sessions. And here he gives an estimated cost to do the full conversion. Words, approximately 61 thousand. Tokens, so how many tokens approximately the reading of the entire book has.

Estimated tokens. Input, Output. And here he gives an estimated cost. Here if you're going to use the API, right? In our case here.

But, he already shows here the amount of would spend approximately that here to be able to do that conversion. And that's here, if you're going to use the Haiku. Estimated time, 6 to 10 minutes. And here the files that will be generated. And here ask some questions.

What am I going to use this skill for? Apply the framework at work? Think with the mental models? Reference chapters and concepts? All of the above, all of the above.

And yes, generate full skill or just analyze? I want to generate the full skill. And cool, now it's waiting. I expect him to finish the work here. And when it's done, I'm back.

Finished successfully. It ended up taking more than 10 minutes to be able to do it. There were 22 chapters. So, it took a bit longer. I already observed here that he ended up creating the skill inside the root directory of .claude.

Look. And not here in that project. So, guidance was missing here in CLAUDE.md to prevent that from happening. But that's not a problem.

It's just use it here for him. I already sent here for him that the skill is triggered in this directory. I'm here. And I updated the CLAUDE.md with that rule.

Ask to update, in case. Done, problem solved. He already put here Psychology of Money Housel. And let's see how he built it. So, here he put the skill.

The description. Financial Management. Investment Direction. Savings. Composition.

Financial Survival. Volatility. Psychology of Money. Cool. Here the Glossary.

Here the Cheat Sheet. Quite a lot. And here the chapters, right? Look. Lots of content.

Each content with a specific framework. And doing a quick test here, right? For example. Ah, I have a debt of 10 thousand reais. How to proceed?

And that he gave some information. According to what's in the book. He said, including, that there's nothing about debt liquidation directly. But, there are some frameworks that are surgical. In that case.

He gives some guidelines here. And a sequence of action. To be done. And in case you want. And have interest.

Of... Besides using this skill. You can also integrate your Claude Code with Obsidian.

Like a kind of second brain, right? For YouTube videos and everything. I have a video that I recorded. Just click here and access. And I stop here.

I thank you very much for watching this video until here. And I see you in the next videos. Thanks!