---
video_title: "Claude Code + Graphify = COMBINAÇÃO ABSURDA"
video_id: 8vPLgzSrWHw
channel_name: "Anderson Adelino | IA e Automações"
channel_id: UCI5WcISxqiFfoh4mse1s-HA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8vPLgzSrWHw
video_date: 2026-06-19T16:09:48+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Se você quer aprender Claude Code do Zero, esse é o caminho: https://claude.zenithonacademy.com.br?src=8vPLgzSrWHw
  👉 Entre no nosso grupo GRATUITO de Claude Code: https://claude.zenithonacademy.com.br/grupo
  🚀 VPS da Hostgator que recomendo: https://www.hostgator.com.br/52675-13-3-12.html
  
  Repositório: https://github.com/safishamsi/graphify
  
  O Claude Code desperdiça até 71x mais tokens do que precisa quando lê projetos grandes. O Graphify resolve isso transformando seu código em um grafo de conhecimento navegável, de graça.
  
  Neste vídeo mostro como o Graphify funciona na prática: do conceito ao grafo de relações, passando pela comparação com RAG, instalação em 2 passos e uma demo com um projeto real clonado do GitHub. Sem Graphify, o Claude abre arquivo por arquivo às cegas. Com Graphify, ele navega por comunidades de código e encontra exatamente o que precisa em segundos, com muito menos tokens.
  
  Instala uma vez por projeto, configura o CLAUDE.md e pronto: toda pergunta que você fizer passa pelo grafo antes de ler um único arquivo.
  
  ⏱️ Timestamps
  00:00 Introdução
  00:46 Como a IA entende um projeto
  01:47 Sem Graphify vs Com Graphify
  03:24 Tudo vira conexões
  03:45 RAG vs Graphify
  04:52 Operação Claude Code
  05:26 Instalação do Graphify
  07:16 Usando o Graphify em um projeto real
  
  📧 Parcerias e serviços: contato@zenithonacademy.com.br
---
This is the complete map of a system I built using Claude Code. And the most interesting thing is that this was not drawn manually. A tool analyzed the entire application and transformed the project into a knowledge graph just like you're seeing here on screen. Each one of these dots represents a part of the system. Each line represents a real relationship between components.

Now imagine an AI being able to navigate through this entire map instead of reading several files one by one. That's exactly what this tool does. Its name is Graphify. And then you ask me, okay, but why is this important? Don't worry, I'm going to explain it.

Let's start with the conceptual part first, to show you how it works. And then we'll move on to the practical part, deal? Alright, let's go. Starting with a very important question. How does AI understand a project?

So imagine you have a huge project you're building, a system, a SaaS, something really complex with lots of files, right? So imagine this project has, like, five files, documentation, PDFs, images, a database, everything tied to that project. And every time you ask your Claude Code to do something, there's some uncertainty, a problem of where to start. So it starts reading multiple files. Even though there's the CLAUDE.md,

right, which is a file that belongs to Claude Code, it still needs to keep reading lots and lots of files to understand the project. Sometimes it reads files that have nothing to do with what it actually needs, so it reads things that make no sense, just piling up tokens, right? And that ends up costing more time and more tokens. As I said, the name of the tool is Graphify - I almost forgot to show you the repository here on GitHub. So this is the repository, it already has almost 70 thousand stars on GitHub.

I'll leave the link to this repository in the description if you want to check it out, alright? So here it has the full step-by-step, how it works and everything, right? But you don't need to worry about every single command, not all of them, okay? You'll understand why. Coming back here to Excalidraw, comparing Claude Code without Graphify and with Graphify, it looks like this: without Graphify it uses Grep, which is a file-reading search - it opens a file, then opens another file, then opens another file, and it ends up getting lost with so many files it needs to read.

Of course it gets to the result, it can get there, but it reads many files that are often unnecessary before reaching the answer. With Graphify, for example, it has a graph - that visualization I showed with multiple dots connecting, like an Obsidian, where all those dots have groupings, which it calls communities, that group together and contain correlations, so each class, each function, has correlation with other things. So it can group the front-end, API, database, the authentication part, in a clustered way, and with that Claude can find what it needs much more easily. Oh, it wants to know something related to the authentication part, so it can already reach the relevant files right away. So in the end, everything becomes connections - Graphify transforms loose information into a relationship graph, so for example, the authentication service can make these links with the front-end, with the endpoints of the API, with documentation, with configurations, all of this resulting in much better responses, with less text and more precision.

And making a quick comparison of Graphify with RAG - you might end up confusing the two, but they're not the same thing. RAG does similarity searches, so there's the embedding it does in the background, and it searches by similarity. For example, let's say I ask Claude how the login works in that system. So if I have a RAG here, for example, it will search by similarity - it will look for things related to login, authentication, and then it might find documents that are relevant to that, since it searches by words and contexts, returns chunks and text, depending on the content quality - it might end up missing important relationships, because it searches for the text block most similar to what I asked. Whereas with Graphify it's different - the search is not based on text, but on relationships. So if

I ask it how the login works, it understands the relationships - those dots - finds the entire necessary path, all the necessary relationships, and it knows exactly where it needs to read, what it needs to do. Quick break - if this video is helping you, pay attention. Everything I show on my channel about Claude Code, I teach in depth in my training: Operation Claude Code - there are several modules, already over 60 classes, from zero until you have an automation running in the cloud 24 hours a day, including framework paths, skills, MCPs, routines, even website building. The course is not just theory - it's truly hands-on. You start from zero and you'll leave with ready-made automations.

The course link is pinned here in the first comment and also in the description. Anyway, let's get back to the video. Now that you understand how it works, let's move to the installation part, and then I'll show a practical case - I'll clone a repository from GitHub, some project, and we'll use Graphify here in practice so you can see how this thing works. Looking here in the repository, down in the installation section, it says: step 1, install the package - so we can use this command here, and with that it will install. Step 2, register skills with the AI. One interesting thing

here is that it also has its own skill, meaning I don't need to know exactly how the commands work internally. All these commands here - look - I don't need to know this, or these ones here, all the commands - I don't need to know this. I don't need to create documentation for it, because the project itself already ships with a skill. So when I install all of this, I can do the skill installation globally, and in every project I open where I want to implement Graphify, I just need to ask Claude to do it, deal? So let's do the following - I'll copy this command here, press Windows R, open the command prompt, and run it here - I right-clicked with the right button, I'm using Windows, to paste the command, press enter, and it does the installation.

In my case here, it showed that it's already installed and didn't do anything, because I already have it installed. In your case it'll do the full installation. After that you'll copy the command: graphify install, then you paste it here, press enter, and this little command will appear for you - this means it's going to be installed. It'll place a reference in the .claude/skills file, referencing SKILL.md -

meaning it'll actually install the necessary skill to give context to your Claude. Once that's done, you've already got Graphify installed. Now to use it in a project, you do the following - I cloned the Odysseus project here and opened VSCode to show you in a more visual way. I'll even open the Claude chat here. That Odysseus is a project of ours that I downloaded to test - I didn't even test it properly, so if you want, I can even bring a video about it after I actually test it and see how it works, but it's here - I cloned the repository of Odysseus, it's here on my computer, and there are many pages, many files, so we can use it as an example. I'll put it

in bypass mode and keep the Sonnet model, and I'll ask Claude to run Graphify inside this repository, inside this project. So I gave the following command: run Graphify on this project - and look, it already automatically called the Graphify skill, so it already knows how to execute things here inside. While it's running its procedure, it already created a folder called graphify-out - there's already a JSON file here, some other files here - so this is the folder it uses to create its files and organize things. Let's wait - when it finishes I'll come back. Here it asked me a question: which subfolder will I run Graphify on? I'll

use the full project - this will take more time, more tokens, but this is something we only do once per project. Completed successfully! Look at this - God Nodes, which are the most connected nodes: connection, auth manager, chat message - there are many things here. There are functions without classes, where it groups things together, and there's other information here that it provides. Now if you want to visualize the graph, just come here - when you open the folder called graphify-out, there are several files here. There's one

called graph.html - that's this one here. So just right-click on it, copy path, then go to your browser, press ctrl+v, enter, and there you go - it opens the graph. Look at this - this is a huge project - it has 777 nodes, 777 communities. So if I zoom in, you'll start to see the amount of things, of connections inside. Look - now

this is important: this graph itself is just a nice way to visualize - for example for me and you to open it and go "oh wow, that's cool." In practice, it's not by using this pretty graph that Claude sees the connections, okay. Either way, it's interesting to see. One important thing to do as well: imagine you went and changed the code - you changed the code, changed something. Is it possible to update the graph?

Yes it is. There's a command that does that. But you can ask Claude to update the CLAUDE.md file. In this case there's no CLAUDE.md file, but it

creates the CLAUDE.md file, informing it that whenever there's any change in the code, it should, in addition to updating the CLAUDE.md, also update Graphify. You can also put in the CLAUDE.md that whenever you make any update or ask any question about the code, it should use Graphify by default too, because it might end up not using it if you just ask it without any context. So I'll do that here

for you to see how it works. Claude, I want you to create a CLAUDE .md file - I saw that this project doesn't have one yet - and in it I want you to specify that whenever there's any change in the code, like me making changes, you update Graphify automatically, okay, and also update the CLAUDE.md at the same time. And whenever I ask you anything about the code, or ask you to make any changes, you first check Graphify before doing anything - that's what he put here in the transcript of what it does, but anyway - here it is, Graphify, okay, enter, and let's wait for it to build the file. Done - it created

the CLAUDE.md. It added three rules here - look - that it specified. Here's the CLAUDE.md, and it added three rules: first rule - Graphify first. Before any

question or change, it runs the Graphify query to consult. Then, rule two: automatic update. And rule three: CLAUDE.md updates together. Awesome. And

let's run a test - let's see this working in practice. Opening another session - in this other session, I'll ask a question. Claude, I want you to explain how the integration of this system works with the calendar, because I saw that Odysseus has a connection where it can integrate easily with the calendar, for example, right? So I'll ask this question - let's see if it can pull some information about this. Good sign - it is using Graphify for this. And

done - here's the answer. Look at this: the integration has three independent layers - it has local storage with SQLite, cloud via HTTP, bidirectional WebDAV sync, and four: we can manage the calendar. It explained how it works and walked through the flow. And it was very fast - that search it did here didn't need to read dozens and dozens of files to reach this conclusion. It used Graphify, saw which files had a correlation with this, and after that it knew exactly which files were responsible for it - only then did it read that file. And if you like

having Claude Code connected to knowledge bases, you'll find a video I recorded interesting - where I show how you can turn books into reusable skills for Claude Code. So if you're interested, I'll leave the video here for you to click and watch.