---
video_title: "Desvendando os Limites de Uso do Google Antigravity (e como superar)"
video_id: CmyeDB3MBBw
channel_name: "Anderson Adelino | IA e Automações"
channel_id: UCI5WcISxqiFfoh4mse1s-HA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CmyeDB3MBBw
video_date: 2026-03-24T00:16:12+00:00
video_description: |
  Já imaginou ser barrado por 7 dias no Google Antigravity depois de apenas 40 minutos de uso? Isso é totalmente frustrante.
  
  Neste vídeo, você vai aprender a superar esses bloqueios de forma prática e direta. Vamos te mostrar o que fazer para não ser pego de surpresa e continuar usando o Google Antigravity sem interrupções.
  
  👉 Acesse a Zenithon Academy: https://www.zenithonacademy.com.br/?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=video&utm_content=CmyeDB3MBBw
  
  👉 Entre na Comunidade Gratuita agora: https://grupo.zenithonacademy.com.br/?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=video&utm_content=CmyeDB3MBBw
  
  🚀 VPS da Hostgator que recomendo: https://www.hostgator.com.br/52675-13-3-12.html
  
  Minutos:
  00:00 - Introdução e o problema dos bloqueios
  00:31 - Por que isso acontece e como o Antigravity funciona
  05:45 - Passo a passo para evitar os bloqueios
  08:01 - Solução 1: Combinação de modelos
  09:50 - Solução 2: Limitar o tamanho do contexto
  11:44 - Solução 3: Limpeza de contexto
  13:14 - Solução 4: Resumo de Trabalho
  18:17 - Solução 5: Ferramentas externas para Planejamento
  
  Comenta aí o que você achou e se já passou por isso. Vamos trocar umas ideias!
  
  #antigravity #inteligenciaartificial #ia #vibecoding
---
Are you tired of getting blocked every time on Google Antigravity? You're there developing your system, everything's looking great, and then out of nowhere you get a 7-day ban right to your face. I know how frustrating that is, but don't worry — in this video I'm going to show you how this blocking system works so you understand how it works — all this token dynamics and what you need to do to get around it once and for all. So stay until the end, because the solution is in this video. Alright, let's go everyone — the first thing I want you to know is that Google is not transparent when it comes to numbers.

So it doesn't officially show you how many tokens you have, whether on the free plan, on Pro, or on Ultra — it doesn't show you, got it? It only mentions it when you're about to buy a plan. You get more credits on this other plan, you get even more credits, but it's not transparent about telling you exactly how much you have. However, the community ran several tests, did several analyses, and from that they came up with numbers that should be a very close approximation of what it really is. And I brought those numbers here to discuss with you before I show you practical tips on how you can use them to reduce your token consumption.

First I want you to understand this. So first: Google does not officially show the numbers. Second point: in Google Antigravity there are three types of pools. Within each pool there are units that you can spend, and you can be spending one while the others you can spend later. So one pool that exists is the Claude pool, and it contains the Sonnet and Opus models, alright?

So they're together, right? If you use either of these models and start using it, you will be spending from the Claude pool. A second pool is the Gemini pool, which has inside it 3.1 Pro and Flash. However, here they are separate, right?

There's a pool for 3.1 and there's a pool for Flash. So at the end of the day, there are three pools you can be using. That means if you exhaust the entire Claude pool, your tokens are gone and it only resets in a week, for example — you still have the 3.1 pool. Used that up?

You still have Flash, got it? So there are three pools for you to use. Ok, and now let's talk about these units, alright? These units exist in two types of cycles, right? That you can be using.

Those that reset every five hours and those that reset every seven days, alright? So approximately, in the five-hour sprint, every five hours it refills that sprint — that amount, those units — there are about 250 units you can spend within those five hours. Once you've used the 250 units, you have to wait for the next five hours to reset those 250, got it? And you also have a seven- day quota, which contains approximately 2,800 units, alright? Both are consumed simultaneously, right?

So if you're coding right now, let's say you spent 100 units — in the five-hour sprint you'll have 150 left and in the seven-day you'll have 2, 700, right? Five hours pass, it resets to 250 — but the seven-day counter stays at 2, 700, it only resets in seven days, got it? So they're separate. Note: on the free plan you don't have this five-hour sprint, you only have the seven-day one, got it? So you can keep spending — once the seven days are up and you've used it all, it only resets after seven days, right?

So for those using the free plan with multiple accounts — five Google accounts, for example — pay attention to this. You spread them out — for example, each account has a different reset day, and then you can rotate between them smoothly. On the Pro plan, it works as shown in the image. On the Ultra plan, on the Google Antigravity side, they say that in Ultra they removed the seven-day quota, so they only have the five-hour one. So they have the five-hour pool, and every five hours they keep spending, spending, spending — and there's no weekly limit, right?

I saw this on the Google Antigravity page. Got it? There we go. Now let's talk about model weights. Each model has a different weight, right?

It has a different weight in terms of how much it normally consumes. As a baseline, we use Sonnet here, which is what we use in most cases, right? I want to build a page, build a system — I use Sonnet as default, so it's the default model most used by the community. Sonnet has a great ability to reach results faster than Gemini 3.1 Pro.

Got it? So it ends up being the default. Opus is much more powerful than Sonnet, but it costs eight times more. That's where a big problem comes in — sometimes it happens that you use two five-hour sprints, but you've already burned through your entire seven-day quota, and you can't figure out why. Because you're there coding, and you already started using Opus right from the start on something very heavy — it ends up burning through those 250 units, and it deducts from the seven- day quota.

So when you check, you've burned through the five- hour sprint, and in the seven-day you've already burned a thousand. Then the five-hour sprint resets, you go back in, burn it again, it resets, burn double — now it's gone, you have to wait a week. That's why you're going to have to pay attention to these tips I'm going to share in a moment. Got it? So Opus should only be used for something very specific — like a task where you can see there's a lot of complexity, and Sonnet just won't cut it.

Because as a default, you use Sonnet. In the Gemini side, we have 3. 1, which is also the standard model in Gemini — Sonnet's done, I'll switch to 3.1. It costs a bit more — about 1.5x — but it's also

very good. It's just that Sonnet tends to be more efficient in the tests I ran, but Gemini 3.1 Pro is also very good. So it ends up being a fallback — when Sonnet runs out, you start using 3.1 Pro.

And then we have Flash, right? Flash consumes 10 times less — it's very cheap, right? But it can't be used for things that require reasoning — something complex where you want it to think before executing. Flash is great when you already know exactly what needs to be done, right? For example, you want to change some text that's on the page and some colors, or you detected that there's a privacy policy bug in Supabase, and you know it needs to be fixed — so you go to Flash and say: hey, I want you to fix the RLS for these tables, for example.

It'll fix it for you. So, things where you already know how to solve it — send to Flash. And it can do it perfectly, very quickly, and spending very little. Alright? Perfect.

So here are some examples. 3 hours in agentic mode can block you for a total of 7 days, right? So that's concerning. Be careful with this — Flash is your escape route, right? Completely blocked? Switch here first.

So, Claude's done? Come here to Gemini 3.1, and for simpler things, come here to Flash. Got it? So I think I managed to give you this general overview here.

Now that you understand how the units work, the question arises. What do I need to do to spend fewer units and be able to use my Google Antigravity for longer? The first solution is to combine your models. Something simple, but it makes all the difference. You need to be very clear about what each model is going to do.

So don't make the mistake of, for any simple thing you want to resolve, coming here and using 3.1 Pro, or using Claude — which, by the way, mine just ran out here, but in a little while, about an hour or so, it resets. But look — it's about to reset, but I still have 3.1 Pro available, right? So, rotate your models.

You want to do something initial, right? Want to start the project the best way? You come here and use Sonnet, right? Keep using Sonnet. Spotted a simple bug, something minor that can be fixed quickly?

Use Flash — or there's some issue that came up that you know how to solve, right? It's just that doing it manually would take a while — so you come to the model and say: look, do this, this and this, solve this problem here — use Flash to do it. Simple things — keep using Flash, don't solve everything with Sonnet. Then keep using Sonnet, keep using Sonnet. Sonnet runs out — then start using Gemini 3.1 Pro, keeping that

dynamic between 3.1 Pro and Flash, got it? Keep doing this and you'll already cut down your spending significantly, right? Because I already see people using 3.1 Pro or Sonnet 4 .6 for everything. Even Opus — do a

GitHub push for me, for example — using 3.1 Pro for that. That'll burn tokens — Flash can handle that problem, you know? It can solve that problem, and it will consume 10 times less, got it? Second solution: limit the context size.

How so? If you come here and ask the AI agent, for example, to modify things in the public folder — where there are SVG images, for example — and you do it generically, you're going to spend more tokens — because what happens here? The AI will read the files, it will look at what's inside. You come to it and say: I want you to do this thing — generically — and it'll start reading all the files, all the files, read everything just to then give an answer. And at the end of the day, it'll only change one single thing.

So — do you know which file or which folder it's going to touch? For example, you know it's going to touch the public folder? Then come here, type an @ symbol, you can specify the folder, you can work with the directory — come here to the directory, make it clearer — where is public? There you go — and then you come here and give the instruction. Meaning, it will only have the public folder as context.

It won't start reading all the other folders. You want it to do something related to MCP? Come here — and say you want to work on post-hoc, which is the analytics folder. And you want it to do something specific — so you give it context here with an @, you know? Terminal — you want it, for example, to solve some specific problem in the terminal — come here and pass the terminal to it.

So, give context. Actually — don't give context, limit the context. If you specify the folder or the file it needs to work on — knowing which one it is — that'll reduce consumption, because it'll focus only on that, you know? Instead of it reading all the files to resolve one simple thing. Third solution — this makes a big difference — is to do a context cleanup frequently.

What does that mean? Clearing the memory. When we're here chatting, we open a chat — I'll even send a "hey, how's it going?" here. I'm wasting tokens for no reason, look.

I opened a chat here, I'm talking to the AI, right? I keep chatting, I ask it to do this thing for me, fix something else — then what usually happens? We go in and want to add a new feature to the project. You're going to build something and you want to create a new function, a new feature. So you tell it: I want to do this here — it comes in and does it.

Then you go in the same chat: now do this, now do this. Stop and think — it's reading your entire conversation history before answering — stuff that's already been solved, that it didn't even need to know. This wastes a lot of tokens — and can even hurt its performance, because it'll try to use as context something that has nothing to do with it. So when I say context cleanup, open a chat to do one specific thing. You want to improve, for example, the design of your site?

Open a chat and start improving the design of the site. Design improved? Come here, new conversation — and delete, delete, delete the old conversation. Done. Start a new conversation.

Now you're going to talk about the database, for example. This is going to change your game a lot. Doing this context cleanup. Fourth thing — something I see few people talking about. Something I call a work summary.

What is a work summary? You come here in your project — you can create a folder here, inside the project, a little folder. You can call it "summaries", for example. And here you'll organize, for example, the files. Or you can even create an MD file.

It doesn't matter much how you do it. You can come here and create a file called "work_summary.md". And what does that mean? Every time you finish a function, create a new feature, fix a bug — anything new you do — you ask the AI to save, update your work summary.

This will give it better context. So the next AI you open will first read your work summary. It'll see what you did, what was done before. With that, it'll already have much better context and will get up to speed much faster. Because sometimes you're running into some problem that an old chat knew how to solve.

You deleted that chat because you did the context cleanup. Then you open another chat and the new chat starts having the same problem. So to solve this type of problem, you create a work summary. You can create an MD file like this, you can create a folder and create inside it an MD file with work summary rules. And you explain, for example, every time you create a new feature, create a file inside the folder with the name and the date it was done.

For example, it puts in the report. It's a place where the AIs, the agents, come in, read what was done before, and document it. All that documentation of what was done. And then, instead of the AI having to go through file by file of everything done here, it consults the work summary and already knows what was done here. Deal?

Fifth solution.

Use external AI tools to do the planning. Planning burns a lot of tokens, a lot of units, because it's planning, it's processing. But you can do this in an external chat. You can do it using Claude, you can do it using GPT, you can do it using Manus. You can use another AI — chat with it about what you want to do, your initial project — ask it to generate, for example, a file called PRD, which is all the guidelines the project will have.

In other words, you've already saved effort. Already saved effort. I want a new feature — what should I do? You go there and explain. So, before planning, you can plan using an external tool.

I like using this one, which is Arena.AI. What does this platform do? It's a hub for us to keep testing AIs, testing which are the best models and more. So, we have here, for example — let me show you — it's called Rankings, of the best models for each thing — just scrolling through.

Anyway, it's a really cool tool — you can use models like, for example, Opus 4.6 with extended thinking mode, for free. There's a battle mode here — come here to Direct, and you can choose a model — for example, Opus 4.6. And here I chat with it — for example: I want you to create a step-by-step guide on how to run a script that organizes my downloads folder, for example.

So, it'll work. I didn't pay anything here — I'm using Opus 4.6. It comes here and starts building the project. So, I can ask it to generate a prompt, a PRD file, to send here to Antigravity, and it'll already have everything running.

And you can use this throughout the project too. 3.1 ran out, Sonnet ran out, I'm only left with Flash. I have this problem. You grab the problem, send it to the external chat — it then asks it to send a prompt — and that prompt you bring here and send to Flash — Flash goes ahead and does it for you.

So, you can do a lot with this — you can save quite a few tokens too, doing this, look at that. It's all here, you see? It's the most powerful model from Claude, from Anthropic, right now. So that's it, everyone — I ended up talking a lot here. I'll make another video to explain more about these topics and share more tips.

I hope this video contributes to your projects, contributes to your learning. So if you liked it, subscribe, drop a like — and if a "hype" option appears for you, hype this video — it'll help me a lot. So I'll wrap up here — see you in the next videos. Thanks!