---
video_title: "Stephen the Great - The Final Years of a Legend (1492–1504)"
video_id: j4tI811T1xM
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j4tI811T1xM
video_date: 2025-05-05T11:31:34+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦Get Early Access to our videos:
  www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  
  The Last Years of Stephen the Great (1492–1504): War, Legacy & Decline
  
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  ♦Script: Skylar Gordon
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  00:00 Succession Crisis and Setfan's Strategy
  01:15 Alliances and Plots Against Stfan
  02:16 War with Poland and Turn of the Tides
  04:45 Stefan's Legacy and Rule
  06:40 End of Polish Suzerainty and Renewed Conflicts
  08:13 Setfan's Final Years and Last Regret
  
  #History #Documentary
---
The succession crises that had occurred in the Ottoman Empire and the Kingdom of Hungary must have had Stefan eying Poland with great anticipation after the announcement of King Kazamir's passing. Whether he was hoping to see another struggle for power as he'd taken advantage of with Sultan Mehmed's death, or worried about what such a war could entail as in the case of King Khorvinus's death would be his little secret, but either way, no crisis took place. John Albert would take Kazamir's throne in Poland while his younger brother Alexander would be crowned in Lithuania, the Prince of Moldavia, now just had to determine how he would react. Throughout Stefan's entire reign thus far, he had shown his remarkable intellect and strategic abilities when it came to handling foreign affairs. He knew at all times to keep a close watch on all of his neighbours and lean in favour of whoever would benefit him and his principality best at the time. Thus, the Voivod lacked a strong immediate reaction to the changes in Poland and Lithuania, knowing that he had friends in Moscow, Hungary and part-time allies in Poland and the Ottoman Empire there was no reason to stir the pot just yet, but when Kazamir's sons decided to meet in Lucha in the spring of 1494, Stefan paid close attention. The aim of the meeting between Vladislav Hungry, John of Poland and Alexander of Lithuania was to plan a joint campaign against the Ottoman Empire, which they all could now agree was their shared foe. This spirit of cooperation was, however, quickly tainted by John Albert's own ideas, particularly concerning Moldavia. Despite Vladislav's friendship with the nearby Voivod, John wanted to overthrow Stefan in favour of Kazamir's other son, Ziggasmund, an heir of Suspicion would soon make its way to the Moldavian prince himself who thus began to distrust the new king of Poland. Stefan, being the observant man he was, believes that John Albert wanted to strengthen his control over Moldavia, and when John shortly launched an attack on the Ottoman's occupying Kilea and Chetata Alba, these fears seemed to be confirmed. Despite a notable effort to stop the Polish king, Stefan was unable to interfere with the campaign and subsequently turned to his ally in Moscow for assistance. Ivan III was quick to back his ally and friend and thus reached out to Alexander of Lithuania with a request that he stay out of his brother's war. Possibly due to the shared opinions of many Lithuanian nobles, Alexander agreed to steer clear of the conflict and thus saves Stefan from an added threat. This still wasn't enough to change the mind of John Albert, though, and by the summer of 1497, Polish troops broke down the door into Moldavia. Stefan had seen this coming, having made sure to remain on good terms with Sultan Biazi, the incursion allows the Moldavian prince to receive a few hundred men in arms from the Ottoman Empire to aid his territory's defense, meanwhile attempting to end the conflict from both angles. John sent his chancellor, a man by the name of Isaac, to meet with the Polish king and diplomatically request an end to the assault. If John Albert had been a man of diplomacy, his skills at it had surely lapsed at this time, as he responded to Isaac's request by throwing him in prison. The war consequently raged on, as the Poles now pushed deeper into Moldavia. They were expecting additional tutonic troops to arrive any day, but Stefan himself was welcoming over 10,000 Hungarians onto his side, thanks to John's brother across the border. The Polish king was alone, and the Moldavians had the backing of both Hungary and the Ottomans, as well as health. The Polish troops were contrastingly blindsided by a plague outbreak, and their ongoing siege not Stefan's defenses were crumbling to dust. By the end of October, the tables had turned, and the Voivode was ruthlessly chasing his invaders out, either they left Moldavian soil or died on it. A string of Moldavian raids into Poland reinforced the points in case anyone had misunderstood, and John Albert was now faced with the facts that many before him had two leans the hard way. John wasn't going anywhere. A new alliance was soon created between Hungary, Poland and Moldavia, with Stefan further securing his standing as more than just an average prince among kings. By now though, the crafty Moldavian was aging, and had already begun grooming his son, Bokdan, to take his throne in the coming years. The Voivode had reigned for decades over a period of relative stability for his people, particularly in contrast to the rapid changes of authority in neighboring Velakia. To oust Stefan of Moldavia from power would have been as easy as ripping the stars from the sky, and his people, in many cases, adored him. He was viewed by many boyares as cruel and tyrannical, but by the peasantry often as their guardian and a just ruler. This discrepancy may come from his tendency to reward those who supported his strong central government, which often included the lower classes of nobility over the entitled boyares. He was undeniably seen as a supporter of the church nonetheless, as he had many new churches constructed, rewarded the church with lands, and encouraged monasticism. His view on foreigners, however, would serve often as another reason to critique the long reigning prince, as he was not afraid to persecute certain groups such as Hussites, Roma, and Jews. Contrarily though, Stefan was often found to look to experts from outside his borders when it came to expanding his understanding of topics such as politics and the like. It's possible that his involvement with these foreigners helped contribute to his inatibility to play puppet master with his neighbors, moving kings and emperors against each other and in favor of himself, like pieces on a chessboard. His awareness and political genius were startling, and a pillar of his reign and ability to maintain power so unwaveringly. His abilities at war were no less dazzling, however, and necessary. If the Voivode himself is to be believed, he fought three dozen battles and won 34 of them. He often had help from his allies in the form of manpower which cannot be ignored, but neither can the simple facts that his cleverness and resourcefulness is the reason why he managed to always have aid. Stefan's reputation had been set, but his time as Prince of Moldavia was not over yet. He was tasked with guiding his son in the same direction as Heedgon all these years. One of Bogdan's first and most crucial acts as Stefan's co-ruler was to aid in the re-negotiation of peace with Poland, and as of 1499, the end of Polish suzerainty over Moldavia. A year later, the father and son duo would cease paying tribute to the Sultan and send words to Venice with an offer to join the Ottoman Venetian War and a request for a doctor to help treat Stefan's declining health. Mateo Muriano, a Venetian physician, was sent in response to Stefan's request, but Moldavian attempts to re-engage in war with the Ottomans failed, and efforts to retake Kaliya and Chittata Alba came up short. Over the next few years, clashes with the Ottomans, Tartars and Poles would follow, but peace was eventually made again in 1503, and Stefan agreed to once more pay a yearly tribute to the Ottoman Empire. Before his death, the Voivode would press his son on the issue, insisting that he too continued to pay their share to the Sultan, and with Stefan's doctor now deceased, a new request went out for another in hopes of extending his own rule for just a little longer, but the prince was old, drained after so many decades of war and politics. His leg, which had never healed after his clash with Vlad Dracula over his beloved Kaliya was no longer the worst of his ailments, he was fading away, and he could. He had left his mark over 47 years of Voivode ship, he had prepared his son to take over his duties, and there was nothing left for him to do. It is only a shame that he died on July 2nd, 1504, knowing that Kaliya still remained out of Moldavian hands. It may very well have been, Stefan the Great's only regret.