---
video_title: "The War That Redefined the U.S. and Mexico"
video_id: PUvHqLi3ZRQ
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PUvHqLi3ZRQ
video_date: 2025-08-04T12:19:39+00:00
video_description: |
  Get your very detailed History map here: https://knowledgia.co
  Beautifully crafted, designed to stand out in any room, and perfect for anyone who loves history.
  
  ♦Get ACCESS to our exclusive videos and EARLY ACCESS to our public ones here:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  How did the Mexican-American War Happen?
  
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
---
How did the Mexican-American War actually happen? Who were the heroes of the conflict? How did America win and end up with vast new lands that represent around a quarter of today's continental U.S.? In this opening video, we'll see the factors that led to war in the first place will also introduce many of our most important characters and see the first blood spilled in a war that would define the history of North America. Mexico was still a relatively young nation when the war broke out. It had only declared independence in 1821 and was still struggling with the growing pains of a new nation. Initially, it was an empire, but that barely lasted three years before being replaced by the first Mexican Republic, before being reorganized again with a new constitution into a new centralist republic in 1835. Political stability was not exactly a feature of Mexico in this period. There were several reasons for this. The Mexican War of Independence had been long and destructive, with infrastructure and agriculture suffering immense damage throughout the struggle. The Spanish Imperial Administration had always been very centralized compared to the British in the American colonies, so the removal of the Spanish proved extremely disruptive to economic and social stability. The Spanish dominance of administration, business and land ownership also meant Mexico did not have a large reservoir of experienced leaders or administrators to take over after independence. As a result, newly independent Mexico was characterized by ineffective and unstable leadership that constantly fell prey to abuses, coups and internal conflict. Political unrest made economic development difficult, while economic hardship made the appetite for political change intense. It was a self-defeating cycle that prevented Mexico achieving the stability or prosperity of its northern neighbor. In such an unstable political environment, it is no surprise that singularly strong leaders with military power rose to prominence. These military leaders or cadillo dominated affairs, and none more so than Antonio Lopez de Santa Ana. Santa Ana had risen to fame during the fight for independence, and his charisma, coupled with his military skill, had secured him an interesting but unstable career. In the turbulent early years of Mexican politics, Santa Ana rose, fell, retired and returned multiple times. He had overthrown more than one Mexican government, led armies against multiple rebellions, and fended off invasions from Spanish and French enemies alike. In just one year, from 1843 to 1844, he was dictator, then president, then toppled and forced into exile. His interesting life had made him many enemies, and cost him a leg, but he was by far the most important figure in Mexico by the time the Mexican-American War broke out. In contrast to Mexico, the United States of America was a symbol of relative stability and order. The bold democratic constitution it had implemented had stood for over 50 years, and the political system had avoided coups or civil wars so far. The false lines were there that bitter divides between pro-slavery and anti-slavery states had proven a difficult gap to bridge, and by the 1840s tensions between the two were running high. The U.S. had its fair share of political violence, election day riots, political debates breaking out into brawls, and vicious rhetoric that turned policy disagreements into warfare between good and evil was absolutely a feature. However, the U.S. avoided the coups and regional civil wars that had plagued Mexico at least so far. But the simmering issue of slavery aside, the U.S. was clearly a rising rich nation. It had continued to expand westward, adding multiple new states and territories, although this process was hampered by desire to maintain the balance between the number of pro-freedom and pro-slavery senators. The U.S. therefore had access to vast stretches of bountiful land brimming with resources and agricultural potential. Armed dissettlers and militias were generally successful at displacing the Native American presence in those disputed lands and paving the way for their own expansion. The U.S. was thoroughly in the grip of manifest destiny, in which they believed they had a god-given right to land in the new world no matter who else claimed it. America's rapid economic growth had required industrialization, which forced Americans seeking frontier life to move ever further westward for the independent life they had dreamed of. To the west, the U.S. eagerly eyed California, which Mexico held as Alta California. California offered many things the U.S. might want, chiefly good agricultural land for the ever-flowing stream of settlers and access to the Pacific coast and its valuable trade opportunities. Settlers had yet to strike gold in California, but the land was still too tempting to ignore. It was perhaps inevitable that two large, territorially ambitious neighbors would come to blows, but other factors made hostility much easier. With American Protestants in Mexican Catholics sharing a mutual distaste for each other, both saw the other as misguided, if not outright heretics and had no trouble justifying violence against them. Also relevant was race. The United States at the time could be seen as a society structured around racial hierarchies, where Europeans had significant social, cultural, political, and economic power. Non-white populations, including African Americans and Native Americans, faced marginalization. In the south of the country, slavery was a key institution that kept millions of African Americans in bondage, and even in the north, free African Americans encountered widespread social and legal discrimination. Mexico, in contrast, was more of a multi-ethnic state with a population that often reflected a mix of European, African, and indigenous heritage. However, the Mexican political system sought with varying degrees of success to integrate and represent these groups. Racial perceptions at the time also played a role in shaping attitudes toward the conflict, with some Americans viewing some Mexicans as culturally and racially distinct, influenced to some degree the public support for the war. Various abuses by Mexican officials against U.S. travelers and trading ships and Mexican ports had also boosted tensions. State-supported piracy of American vessels was also a serious problem, with multiple ships and their goods being taken and even some crews being captured. At least 95 instances of capture or attack by Mexicans on American ships were recorded in the 1830s and 40s. The problem was so bad that President Andrew Jackson even suggested going to war over it, but in the end, the U.S. settled for reparation payments, but Mexico could not afford to keep up with them. Ultimately, the relationship between these two American countries can be best understood by looking at Texas. Texas was settled by the Spanish before it was settled by Anglo-Americans, but the United States had a claim to at least some of it thanks to the Louisiana purchase. Unfortunately, Spain and the U.S. could not agree on where exactly the border lay. The U.S. placed it at the Rio Grande. The Spanish much further to the east, each arrangement gave the advocating power more land. In 1819, the U.S. and Spain settled on the Sabine River as the border and exchanged for Spain recognizing American control of Florida. This was the border at Mexican independence, with Texas firmly under Mexico's claim. However, there were relatively few Mexican settlers in Texas, or California for that matter. Under the Spanish, settlement usually followed a pattern of small numbers of Europeans imposing themselves as a new elite, a top existing indigenous communities. This had worked well in Mexico proper with its vast existing population, but the more sparsely populated Texas was not so suitable for this model. Therefore, the Spanish had allowed American settlers in instead shortly before Mexican independence. American settlers rushed in by the thousands, realizing that Texas would soon be populated by mostly Americans, Mexico tried to ban American settlements in 1830, but they could not enforce that law effectively. By 1835, Texas was home to 40,000 settlers who had no real attachment to Mexico. Naturally, they rebelled. The Texas Revolution saw the outnumbered Texans defy Mexico and its president Santa Ana to assert their independence. Despite some early victories for the Mexicans, most famously at the siege of the Alamo in 1836, where Santa Ana's slaughter of the defending garrison secured his reputation as a monstrous butcher to the Americans, the Texans rallied, and managed to defeat the Mexicans and capture Santa Ana. In exchange for his life, Santa Ana withdrew his forces south of the Rio Grande. The Republic of Texas had earned its independence, although Mexico refused to recognize it. The Texan Revolution was closely watched in the US. They had great sympathy for their co-ethnic in Texas, and Santa Ana's brutality towards them created an atmosphere of hatred and disgust at their neighbor in the south. More importantly, the Texans wanted to be admitted to the United States, and many Americans agreed with them. Texas' pro-slavery culture and concerns about antagonizing Mexico prevented this for a decade. These concerns were overpowered by the expansionist zeal of James K. Polt, who swept to victory in the 1844 election on the promise of territorial expansion. Texas was top of the agenda, and was formally admitted as the 28th state in December 1845. Having never recognized Texas' independence, Mexico did not recognize its annexation by the US either. As far as they were concerned, the annexation of Texas was the theft of thousands of square miles of territory. It also meant that Mexico did not recognize Texas' claimed border at the Rio Grande. It was this disputed border region that would lead the two powers to open war. Mexico did not take the annexation lightly. When the news reached Mexico City, the Mexican Foreign Minister wrote a scathing letter to the Americans, calling the annexation of Texas, quote, as offensive to Mexico as it is derogatory to the honor of the American Union, and ominously warned that diplomatic relations between the two countries cannot be continued. The US response was polite, but firm. They hoped that relations would stay cordial, but told the Mexican government in no uncertain terms that the decision was final that Mexico had to respect Texas' choice. However, it was clear to most that the annexation had put the two nations on the path to war. The popular mood in both countries was one of hostility and insult. Ideologically, it was impossible for it to be anything else. American beliefs in manifest destiny, Protestantism, and racial supremacy meant that they could never realistically abandon Texas, which had fought for independence against different Catholic power. Meanwhile, Mexican ideas of nationalism had encompassed all of Mexico at the time of independence. To accept Texas' annexation would be to undermine the very idea of Mexican nationhood. In such a volatile political climate, accepting Texas' loss was an unsurvivable position, and indeed, despite all the conflicts and disagreements of Mexican politics, practically no one suggested giving up on Texas. Anticipating hostilities, the US had sent thousands of troops to Texas in summer of 1845, months before the annexation was finalized, under the command of General and Future President Zachary Taylor. Taylor was a decorated and experienced military man, and his presence indicated that the US was all but expecting war to break out. In early 1846, Taylor and his troops were ordered to set themselves up along the Rio Grande directly opposite the Mexican army stationed at Manimuros. It was deliberately provocative. The Mexican's demanded Taylor withdrawal from what Mexico still considered its territory. Taylor responded by ordering the Navy to blockade the river and cut the Mexican army off from supplies. Taylor had also been constructing a fort later known as Fort Texas, to which the Mexicans responded by sending cavalry forces to patrol and provoke around the US position. Technically, the two nations were still not at war, but these actions were everything short of open fighting. They would not have to wait long, though. On April 25, Mexican General Mariano Aresta sent a 2000 strong cavalry force across the Rio Grande to set up an ambush. When a 70-man patrol under Captain Seth Thornton stumbled into it, the Mexicans fired the first shots of the war. Fourteen Americans were quickly killed and the rest, including Captain Thornton, were captured. The Thornton affair marks the opening of hostilities between the two nations. Word reached General Taylor quickly, who in turn sent words to Washington. It would take a while for news to reach them, though, so Taylor had to act quickly on his own authority. Aresta sees the chance to begin bombarding the American Fort Texas, but his real goal was to lure General Taylor into defeat him in a pitched battle. It succeeded, with Taylor's forces meeting the Mexicans of Palo Alto on May 8th, but the Aresta had miscalculated. Taylor had spotted the Mexican positions ahead of time, and it set up his forces to meet them at range. The American cannons were of higher quality, with better trained crew, better animals to haul them, and more importantly, better range. When the bombardment started, the Mexicans struggled to hit the Americans effectively, but the American cannons had no trouble tearing through their Mexican targets. The American cannons also outraged the Mexican infantry, who tried to advance closer only to be torn apart. Aresta tried waiting out the artillery, but after hours of non-stop fire, his men were becoming restless and angry. Mexican cavalry tried to outflank the guns, but were cut to pieces as they struggled through the marshy terrain, and his infantry charges failed to make significant progress in the face of American cannon fire. By the end of the day, over 100 Mexicans laid dead, alongside nine Americans. Aresta had failed to achieve the victory he wanted, but Taylor had been blocked from rushing to Fort Texas' aid. Aresta withdrew to a new defensive position at Risacca de Palma, hoping that the narrow ravine and tree cover would negate the American artillery advantage. The next morning, Taylor's forces advanced against them. Aresta had negated the American artillery. They claimed far fewer lives than they had the day before, but he created new problems. The American bombardment was more intimidating than it was deadly, but after the disaster of the previous day, Mexican morale was fragile and vulnerable to such intimidation. Successful flanking maneuvers from American troops and limited visibility in the rough terrain that left detachments of Mexican soldiers isolated and confused, caused a panic, and Aresta's line crumbled. Most of the Mexican troops retreated to the river, where they found there weren't enough boats to quickly carry every man over. The officers managed to wrangle most soldiers back into order long enough to ferry their men back over the river, but the men who survived were demoralized straight days of defeat. The Battle of Risacca de Palma left 150 Mexicans dead, and a similar number had deserted in the chaos. The Americans had a fraction of those casualties, and the victory was a tremendous morale boost for them. Taylor was able to relieve the besieged garrison at Fort Texas and send words to Washington that, while war had yet to be declared, America had got the better of its first engagements. When word had reached Washington of the Thornton affair, Polk was quick to summon his cabinet, as far as they were concerned, declaring war was just a formality for Congress. Polk made an emotional appeal upon the deaths of Thornton's men, and outlines the wider abuses Mexico had inflicted upon Texas and the United States. It was less a request and more a statement of what was already the truth. Mexico has passed the boundary of the United States, has invaded our territory and shed American blood upon the American soil. She has proclaimed that hostilities have commenced and that the two nations are now at war. Congress debated not overweathered to declare war, but what kind of war? More restrained congressmen called for a defensive strategy and wanted to approve only enough funding and resources to protect American territory. Others wanted a more total offensive. Jacob Brinkerhoff of Ohio led the charge, calling for America to conduct a war in such a manner that our enemy shall be at once crushed and to fully instantly at once bring them to our feet. A small handful still urged for peace. There were a few who had accepted Mexico's territorial claims and believed Polk and Taylor were the provocateurs by insisting upon the Rio Grande. The war declaration bills sailed through approval in the House, and on May 13th, he was passed in the Senate in a vote of 40-2. Meanwhile in Mexico, President Mariano Paredes on popular in domestic affairs and humiliated by the early defeats was forced to resign his position. Over in Cuba, where he had been living in exile since his last fall from power, Santa Ana knew it was time to return. Santa Ana made contact with the Americans, promising to reach a peaceful settlement over the disputed territory and to bring a quick end to the war. President Polk believed him and ordered the American Navy to allow Santa Ana to return. In retrospect, one has to wonder how Polk could ever believe such a ploy. Santa Ana immediately backtracked on his promises to the Americans and swore to defend his homeland. Many clamored for him to resume the presidency, with his immense popularity with the troops and his proven military experience, he was an obvious choice, but Santa Ana chose to allow his ally. Jose Mariano Salas to hold the office while he focused his attention on the battlefield. Mexico had stumbled in its first few engagements, but Santa Ana's arrival promised to put things back in order. Those in Washington who had hoped for a quick and easy war were about to be severely disappointed. If you'd like to help us keep creating and get early access to our videos behind the scenes content and other perks, consider becoming a member right here on YouTube or joining us on Patreon. Every bit of support helps, and as always, thank you so much for watching.