---
video_title: "The History of Mexico After Independence"
video_id: haB7dEvOIAc
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=haB7dEvOIAc
video_date: 2025-08-29T14:16:53+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦To learn for free on Brilliant, go to https://brilliant.org/Knowledgia/ . You’ll also get 20% off an annual premium subscription.
  
  Get your very detailed History map here: https://knowledgia.co
  Beautifully crafted, designed to stand out in any room, and perfect for anyone who loves history.
  ♦Get ACCESS to our exclusive videos and EARLY ACCESS to our public ones here:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  The History of Mexico After Independence 
  
  
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  This video was sponsored by Brilliant
  Chapters
  00:00 Mexico's Independence: Civil Strife, Foreign Conflict, Dictatorship, Revolution
  01:13 Santa Anna Rallies Republicans, Pressures Augustine to Resign ️
  02:48 Mexican Territory: California, New Mexico, Texas Transformation
  04:37 Texan Revolution: Santa Anna's Alamo Siege, San Antonio (1836) ️
  06:36 Santa Ana's Exile, Reformers Urge Change: Central Government
  07:52 Reform War: America Backs Reformers, European Powers Sympathize
  09:21 Pfiio Diaz Overthrows Sebastian Lero de Tahada: Dictator
  10:34 Diaz's Policies: Wealth, Modernity & Resentment Against Upper Class
  11:41 Mexican Revolution of 1910: Mado's Arrest, Rebellion & Diaz's Army Surrender
  14:03 PRI's Reform Program: Nationalization of Mexico's Oil Industry in 1938 ️
  15:39 Mexico's Economic Turbulence: Oil Crisis, Inflation & Unemployment Problems
  16:48 Mexico's Free Market Strategy: NAFTA, Zapatista Rebellion & Military Campaign ️
  19:29 Mexico's Pride: Indigenous Identification, Heritage & Modern Archaeology ️
---
In 1821, Mexico stepped forth as an independent nation, free from foreign rule for the first time in 300 years. However, its adventure into independence would bring civil strife, foreign conflict, dictatorship, and revolution, before it could become the nation we know today. In this video, we follow Mexico's path since independence, and the many trials and tribulations the nation endured to reach the modern day. The independence fight had seen conservative monarchists like Augustine Day, Iterbide, and Republican radicals like Vincent Carrero join forces against Spain. But with their common enemy gone, it was only a matter of time before these two incompatible factions came to blows. Iterbide and the monarchists initially had the upper hand, declaring him Emperor Augustine I of the Mexican Empire in May 1822. Republicans and the Mexican Congress couldn't tolerate this for long, and when the Emperor dismissed Congress to rule by decree in October 1822, they had their pretext for another revolt. Carrero led the way, but another general named Antonio Lopez de Santa Ana also became a powerful voice. Santa Ana rallied the Republicans around himself, and pressured Augustine to resign in December 1822. The Mexican Empire was soon replaced by the first Mexican Republic, but it would be anything but smooth sailing. Over a decade of unrest and conflict had decimated Mexico's land and economy, and they had no experience in running a government. There were things to celebrate. A new constitution asserting the equality of all races in Mexico was implemented in 1824, and slavery was abolished in 1829. But the new nation was plagued with unrest. The emperor veered between the centralists who favored a strong central government and the federalists who wanted more regional power. Standing amidst all of this was Santa Ana, a charismatic and intelligent man with national hero status, and the loyalty of the army. His story was as turbulent as that of his early nation. He became president in 1833, and again in 1834, 1839, 1841, 1843, 1844, 1847, and 1853. Each time exiled by political rivals, only to be ushered back in again soon after. Racked by political instability, Mexico was ill-equipped to deal with the external threats it faced, or the problems in the wider imperial territories it had inherited from Spain. Thanks to the Spanish Empire, Mexican territory extended as far as California, New Mexico, and Texas. But Mexican settlement there was low. Instead, it was American settlers who were fast transforming the population of these regions, and the Mexicans believed it was only a matter of time before the Americans in these territories tried to rebel. That is exactly what happened in Texas in 1835. This video is sponsored by Brilliant. Brilliant is an interactive learning platform designed to sharpen your thinking with thousands of amazing lessons across math, science, computer science data, and even AI. What makes Brilliant so powerful is the way it teaches through active problem solving. Rather than sitting back and watching boring lectures with Brilliant, you'll work through interactive and visual challenges that make complex ideas feel very simple and clear. This method isn't just fun, but it's proven to be up to six times more effective than passively watching videos. One of my favorite courses is Visual Algebra, which transforms tricky and complicated equations into intuitive, easy to understand visuals. This process is perfect, whether you are refreshing old skills or building a solid foundation for more advanced math. Brilliant breaks learning into small, daily challenges. You can do any time on your phone or computer. Helping you stay consistent and move towards your goals. Bit by bit. So whether you are curious about learning Python, diving into AI or revisiting algebra, Brilliant makes the journey approachable and rewarding. Head over to brilliant.org slash Nilegia or simply scan the QR code on screen to try Brilliant for free, plus enjoy 20% off an annual premium membership. Santa Ana marched north to put down the Texan Revolution that same year. He spared no quarter for the rebels. Famously after the 13-day siege of the Alamo at San Antonio in February and March 1836, Santa Ana ordered the deaths of every defending soldier left in the Alamo. The brief taste of victory for Mexico turned bitter, as the Alamo became a rallying cry for the Texan rebels that only hardened their resistance. Weeks later, Santa Ana was defeated at the Battle of San Jacinto in April 1836, where he was captured by Texan forces and was forced to retreat, ending Mexican control of Texas. U.S. support for Texas enraged the Mexicans, as did the admission of Texas as a U.S. state in 1845. Mexico considered the annexation a virtual act of war, both sides rushed troops to the border, and Mexican troops opened fire on American soldiers who had crossed into disputed territory, beginning the Mexican-American war. The war proved a disaster for Mexico. Small groups of Americans took New Mexico and California, while Santa Ana and the main Mexican forces tried to repulse a U.S. invasion from the north. After a series of defeats, most notably, the Battle of Buena Vista, in February 1847, the Americans opened a second front of the war by invading along the Gulf Coast. The Mexicans waged a losing fight against the Americans as they marched inland, resulting in the American siege and capture of Mexico City. In September 1847, Mexico had no choice but to seek peace. The Treaty of Guadalupe, Hidalgo, permanently surrendered California and knew Mexico to the United States and defined the border between the two great nations of North America. Defeat in the Mexican-American war was a sobering blow to the young nation. Santa Ana was scapegoated and experienced yet another period of exile, while reformers urged a change. A more powerful central government, separation of church and state, and a stronger justice system. The church and the military stood to lose out in these reforms, which compelled them to invite Santa Ana back for his final stint in power in 1853. Santa Ana's final presidential term was one of centralization. He expanded the army and made demands for a perpetual dictatorship that pushed things too far. In late 1854, liberal reformers launched a rebellion against him, ousting him for the final time, and seizing control of government with a new reforming zeal. The next few years were a period of change, known as the La Reforma. Under the successive liberal governments of Juan Alvarez, Ignacio Commonfort, and Bonito Juarez, the remnants of Spanish colonialism were swept away. With a massive reduction in power of the church and military, protections for freedom of speech and the press, and the redistribution of church land. This triggered a new civil war in 1857, known as the Reform War, with America backing the reformers, led by Bonito Juarez, and most European powers, sympathizing with the conservatives. The former reformists prevailed in the resulting war, following the Battle of Calpapán in 1860. But that victory was short-lived thanks to the French, who invaded in 1862, and installed Maximilian I as emperor in Mexico City. Juarez and the Republicans continued a government from the north. In cities like El Paso del Norte, now Ciudad Juarez, while Maximilian spent six years ruling as a surprisingly liberal ruler, which cost him most of his conservative support. This second Mexican empire lasted only until 1867, when Republican rebels captured and executed Maximilian, and sent the French packing from the continent. Bonito Juarez returned to the presidency, to begin a period of recovery for Mexico. He worked on modernizing the economy, by expanding the railways, reworking tariffs, adopting the metric system, and setting up telegraph networks for faster communication. He also finalized the firm separation between church and state that kept religion out of politics. By his death in 1872, he had enshrined himself as a national hero. In 1876, Juarez's successor, Sebastian Lerdo de Tajada, was overthrown in a rebellion led by Porfirio Diaz, who had installed himself as an effective dictator over Mexico. Liberty, order, and progress had been the watchwords of Juarez's age, but Diaz dropped it down to just order and progress. A loss of liberty was the price to be paid for the latter, too. Diaz argued. Diaz surrounded himself with a circle of elite scientists, artists, economists, and other intellectuals, known as the Cientificos, who advised him on the creation of what they thought would be a perfect society. Diaz's approach was Pan Opole, bread or stick, where those who went along with his reform programs would be rewarded with privileges. Intellectuals could expect cushy jobs in the expanding bureaucracy, while military and religious elites could find favor by supporting Diaz's policies. Meanwhile, opponents of his rule faced exclusion, intimidation, arrest, and in some cases execution. Through his bread and stick approach, Diaz secured his regime for 35 long years. In some ways, Diaz's policies were successful. Mexico did become much wealthier, and many hallmarks of modernity, like electricity and the oil industry, took off. But this new wealth was heavily concentrated in the elites. The regular people continued to be relatively poor, with few rights, long working hours, and a stagnant or declining standard of living that caused building resentment against the upper class. Diaz was popular at first, but as the unequal consequences of his policies became apparent later in his long reign, protest movements emerged. By 1900, radical groups, like the anarchist regeneration movement of Ricardo Flores Magon, agitated for resistance and the overthrow of the aging dictator. By 1908, Diaz was facing significant domestic and international criticism, which led him to make vague promises about transitioning back to democracy. Optimism for change was short-lived, though. In the lead-up to the promised 1910 election, it looked like the political outsider, Francisco Madero, would defeat Diaz's chosen candidate, so Diaz had Madero arrested. The Diaz controlled the Electoral College, declared Diaz president again, but he did not anticipate Madero escaping jail and calling on his supporters to rise up in rebellion in October, 1910. The Mexican Revolution of 1910 pitted Diaz's federalist armies against the revolutionaries. Diaz's army was outdated, low on morale, and lacking experience, while the revolutionaries were animated with the fire of political revolution. After a series of stinging defeats, Diaz's army surrendered in May 1911, and Diaz himself finally resigned and fled to France. Diaz's fall was only the beginning of the chaos. The next few years of Mexican politics was a mess of conspiracy, short-lived governments, and civil war. Madero held the presidency for just 15 months before being overthrown and executed by the commander of his own military, Victoriano Huerta, regional rebellions immediately erupted, and the U.S. landed an occupation force at Veracruz to put pressure on Huerta to resign, which he did in July 1914. Unfortunately, the anti-Huerta factions immediately started fighting each other, triggering a new wave of open warfare and destruction that ripped across Mexico. Although civil war was still raging, by 1917, Venastiano Caranza had asserted himself as the president in practice, and launched a new constitution to put his revolutionary ideals into practice. He ordered the redistribution of land away from the elites of Diaz's day, renewed restrictions on the church, established universal state-funded secular education, and protected the rights of workers through the enforcement of an eight-hour working day. The 1917 constitution remains in place in Mexico to this day. Alas, Caranza didn't have the same staying power, toppled by his former ally, Alvaro Obragon, in 1920, and killed. Obragon's presidency marked the end of serious fighting, but a sort of soft revolution continued, as Obragon and his successors in the institutional revolutionary party implemented a program of reform through the 20s and 30s. Most famously, the nationalization of Mexico's oil industry in 1938, the PRI would remain in power for many decades. After 1940, however, some of their policies did moderate, and the advent of World War II helped open a new chapter in Mexican history. Mexico was a vital supplier of raw materials to the United States, and with global industry oriented towards war instead of trade, Mexico experienced a rapid development of its own industries to fill the gap. Mexico declared war on Germany in 1942, following U-boat attacks on its ships, and sent fighter squadrons to fly missions in the Pacific theater, but aside from the deaths of seven pilots, the effects of World War II in Mexico were almost entirely positive. The industrial boom that the war inspired allowed Mexico to enter the post-war world with a thriving industry and soon a soaring population. Under the unbroken leadership of the PRI, Mexico experienced consistent economic and social advancement in the following years. Standards of living rows, voting rights were extended to women and infrastructure projects, such as hydroelectric dams and airports, propelled Mexico into the modern age. However, the long reign of the PRI began hitting turbulence in the 1980s. Much of Mexico's prosperity rested upon the profits from its nationalized oil industry and massive international loans, but that left it vulnerable to the 1982 oil crisis, where oil prices collapsed, and Mexico struggled to cover its debts. Domestic economic problems, like high inflation and unemployment, undermined confidence in the PRI, and for the first time serious political opposition emerged, with the Partido de la Revolución de Mécratica, PRD on the left, and the Partido de Ación popular, Pan on the right. The government was racked by inefficiency, and nothing showed that more strongly than the Mexico City earthquake on September 19, 1985, which killed thousands of people and devastated the capital. The government's response was sluggish, emergency relief was slow on the scene, and it took years to repair damage that other countries could repair in a fraction of the time. In the 1990s, change was needed. The PRI pivoted towards an aggressive free market economic strategy, such as joining the North American Free Trade Agreement, NAFTA in 1992, but not everyone welcomed this shift. Most famously, the Zapatista National Liberation Army, believing that the PRI had betrayed the ideals that had placed it in power back in the 1920s, declared open rebellion in Chiapas, and tried to found their own independent regional government. The Mexican government began an unpopular military campaign to shut down the rebellion, which not only failed to reassert government control, but led to hundreds of civilian deaths. Further cuts to government spending were deeply unpopular, and despite the economy starting to improve by the late 1990s, the PRI's reputation could not recover. In the 2000 presidential election, the PRI's 71-year rule came to an end, with the election of the right-wing pan candidate Vincent Fox. For most people though, the new government didn't really mean much change. Mexico stepped into the new millennium with a broad continuation of the policies and problems of the previous one, and the country continued to wrestle with inflation and unemployment with some success. If there's two problems that define Mexico for outsiders in the 21st century, it's the cartels and immigration. Cartels existed in Mexico for decades, but the collapse of their rivals elsewhere in Latin America through the 1990s allowed the Mexican cartels to fill the void. Then there's people migration. Every year, millions of Mexicans enter the United States legally and illegally seeking a better life, and the Mexican border is the entry point for immigrants from elsewhere in Latin America and beyond. This movement into America has often been beneficial for Mexico, with immigrants sending money back to Mexico, from higher paying jobs. However, like many countries, Mexico struggles with so-called brain drain, where highly skilled people are likely to leave Mexico for better paying work in the US, depriving it of valuable human capital. But while its problems are well-known, Mexico's strengths are also apparent. As of 2025, it has the 10th largest population and 12th largest economy in the world, with most economists expecting it to enjoy significant growth in the coming decades. With this optimism for the future, comes a pride in the past. Indigenous identification has risen from 13% in 2000 to over 19% in 2020, as more Mexicans embrace with the pride of their native heritage that had once been ignored. And modern archaeology continues to unravel the fascinating history of Mexico stretching back thousands of years.