---
video_title: "How Rome Finally Conquered Greece"
video_id: 7b4Jy64xW5k
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7b4Jy64xW5k
video_date: 2025-04-27T11:00:11+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦Check out HistoryMarche : @HistoryMarche 
  ♦Get Early Access to our videos:
   https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
   https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  
  When Greece Fell to Rome: The Battle of Cynoscephalae
  
  
  ♦Please consider SUBSCRIBING: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  00:00 Scotasa Awakes: Ominous Weather and Escalating Tensions
  03:11 Alexander’s Legacy & The Shifting Balance of Power
  06:07 The Rise of Rome and the First Macedonian War
  10:11 Philip V’s Ambitions Spark Renewed Conflict
  13:37 Diplomacy Fails: Marches, Sieges & Forming Alliances
  20:51 The Battle of Cynoscephalae: Strategy & Chaos in the Fog
  31:52 Aftermath: Rome’s Victory and the End of Macedonian Power
---
The inhabitants of Scotasa woke up to yet another morning of downpour and fog. The inclement weather was unusual for this time of year in Thessaly. The local Agara was deserted, the marketplace and shops closed. As most residents chose to stay inside. The lone fixture in the empty amphitheater were a group of local children running around the stage. Wooden swords in their hands, feathers and plumes stuck in their hats, all imitating their legendary hero, Alexander the Great. But their play was cut short. As ground tremors could be felt throughout the town. Their soon turned into a rumble. As just to the east, the armies of Philip of Macedon and Flaminionus race towards Scotasa. With a intended to do battle to end the second Macedonian war. Roughly one century before the battle of Sinecephaly, Macedon, under the young king Alexander the Great conquered the entirety of the Persian Empire in just a few years taking revenge for their previous encounters on the Greek mainland. But after all of those achievements, Alexander died in 323 BC at just 32 years old. After the Macedonian Empire collapsed, a series of conflicts started to happen between Alexander the Great Generals over the rule of his vast empire following the king's death. The generals established local Greek dynasties in Greece, Egypt, Persia and Asia Minor that became rivals to each other. Alexander achieved something no one before him did besides destroying the Persian Empire and going as far as India through his conquests, the Greek culture, language, architecture, philosophy and morals were spread across the Middle East and Central Asia. Alexander himself learned the values of Greek philosophy from Aristotle himself. Aristotle was a student of Plato and Plato in turn was a student of Socrates. These personalities were the base of Greece culture and they will inspire Rome in the next centuries. Greek civilization was one of the most influential in ancient times, especially in the whole Mediterranean basin as the Greeks had many colonies on the coasts for centuries, including in the Italian peninsula, where the Greeks entered in direct contact with the early Romans who were more and more influenced by the Hellenistic culture particularly after their future endeavor in Greece. Even though by the year 300 BC, Rome was still a regional power in Italy after 50 years and new power emerged in Europe, the Roman Republic controlled almost all of the Italian peninsula and became a rival of Carthage which they defeated in the First Punic War. The unresolved strategic competition between Rome and Carthage led to the eruption of the Second Punic War in 218 BC. The emblematic Hannibal who considered Alexander of Macedonian the greatest general of all time managed to execute a tremendous campaign in Italy defeating the Romans in multiple battles after he crossed the Alps with his North African elephants. One of those battles was in Caini in 216 BC. After that battle, the Macedonian king Philip V pledged his support to Hannibal, thus initiating the first Macedonian war against Rome in 215 BC. Four years later, Rome had contained the threats of Macedonia by allying with the Italian League, an anti-Massadonian coalition of Greek states in 205 BC. The first Macedonian war ended with a negotiated peace. One year later, King Tallahmey, the fourth filipancer of Egypt, died. Now Philip V of Macedon and Antilcus the Great of the Celicid Empire decided to work together and exploit the weakness of the Tolo-Make kingdom and subsequently signed a secret pact defining spheres of interest and gaining each ruler new lands. The Macedonian king had expansionist ideas and threatened not just the Tolo-Make realms, but other territories that were part of the neighboring kingdoms. In 201 BC, Philip launched a campaign into Asia Minor besieging the Tolo-Make city of Samos and capturing Maletus. His success at taking other cities concerned the state of Rhodes and King Atilus, the first of Pergamon. As tensions grew in the area, considering Macedon a real danger, the kingdom of Pergamon and state of Rhodes sent an appeal to the rising power of Rome, which had just emerged victorious from the Second Punic War against Carthage. But Philip's recent ideas and actions in Thrace and Asia Minor didn't threaten any Roman interests in the area. The actions of the Macedonians were instead pointed directly against the southern Greek states as Philip supported some raids in Attica against the Athenians. Shortly after sending the appeal, King Atilus, the first of Pergamon, arrived in Athens with Rhodian ambassadors and convinced the Athenians to declare war on Macedon. Because of the embassies that the Romans received from Pergamon, Rhodes and Athens, in addition to some separate reports, Rome began to consider throwing their hat into the ring as well and becoming directly involved in the region. The assembly that had the legal power to make such declarations of war was called together. Most of the assembly members rejected the proposed war, mainly because of war weariness, given that Rome had just finished a costly war against Carthage not long before, which had left southern Italy in a bit of a chaotic state. But at a second session, due to a statement made by consul Publius Sopisius Galba comparing the power of Macedon to past invaders of Italy such as Hannibal of Carthage, the assembly was convinced to vote for a war against the Macedonians. As the Romans ready for war yet again, Philip was unwavering in his mission for expansion and currently maintained a siege at the city of Abidos, while its ally and Tiocus was busy on his own campaign across parts of the Middle East. This absence left more room for Philip's greed and proved as further motivation for the Romans to intervene before the Macedonian power could become an even larger threat. Rome first aims to dissuade Philip from any further aggression and Marcus Leppidus, a Roman ambassador, was eventually able to catch up with the Macedonian king during the siege of Abidos and the two began to discuss Rome's terms and potential options for checking Macedonian expansion. Leppidus urged the king to refrain from attacking any more territories or possessions belonging to Tolemie and further encouraged him to meet with the leaders of both Rhodes and Pergamon to make peace. Philip was agitated by this demand and insisted that he had not once violated the terms of the prior peace with the Romans, the meeting declined into a heated argument of semantics, as the Macedonian king became more stubborn in his stance. Rome's plea for a nonviolent resolution was painfully in vain and the discussion finally came to a rough end. This was the start of the Second Macedonian War. Rome had two main objectives with their entrance into military conflict with Macedon. One, they were determined to inflict enough of a crushing defeat on Philip and his troops that the king would have no choice other than to give up his expansionist policies and would be forced to follow the command of the Romans from that point forward. Furthermore, they wanted to make an ally out of the Greeks. The Romans were strategic in their relationship with Greece and they intended to represent themselves as liberators and protectors of Greek freedom. For Philip, the starts of this war may have been due to a drastic underestimation of Roman aims. Many believe that the Macedonian king was unaware of the effort that Rome was willing to put into stopping his expansion and he likely wasn't expecting the reaction of Antiochus either, who had also received a set of terms from Rome which he agreed to. It's only did this put an end to Antiochus' campaign against Egypt, but it also severed his alliance with Philip and the Macedonian endeavors. Upon his successful return from Abidos, Philip was a bit surprised to find that Galba and two legions of the Roman army had already landed in a pyrus, deciding to address the newest threat later. He oddly aimed his attention away from Galba and his roughly 20,000 men had instead turned towards the Peloponnese. Meanwhile, the Romans were wasting no time in their own offensive. As Galba led his men on raids through the Illyrian countryside, a second Roman force arrived in Athens at the request of the Athenians themselves who had been under siege by Philip under the command of Claudius Chento. These 1,000 men and 20 ships came to the Athenians' aid, but were shortly distracted by a plea from the exiled citizens of Calcus to assist them there. Claudius led his men there and launched an incursion into Calcus which proved triumphant. The Romans inflicted heavy casualties, and Philip became aware of the attack. Rushing to Calcus with a force of 5,000 men, including 300 cavalry troops, but he was too late. Claudius and his men had already withdrawn, prompting the Macedonians to make a frantic journey back to Athens where they had hoped to prevent any further losses. When Philip and his troops arrived at the city walls, they became locked in battle against a coalition of Athenian and Atalid forces, which the Macedonians routed before setting fire to various tombs and sanctuaries outside the gate, unwilling to stay in any one place for long as he became progressively aware of the growing Roman threat. Philip now changed course and headed for Corinth, and then Argus. Here he found that assembly held by the Achaean League, the overconfident king attempted to win over the attendees through a bribe of support against Nabus of Sparta, but he was devastatingly unsuccessful. On relenting nonetheless, Philip changed his course yet again, and now met up with one of his generals and an additional 2,000 men. The Macedonians decided to continue on and launch three separate assaults throughout the Ateca region, particularly on Athens, Paris and Elusus, but none were prosperous. By this time, the situation for the Macedonians was becoming more precarious, and Philip decided to begin preparations for the primary clash with the Romans. Both Rome and Macedon tried to form diplomatic ties with the Atalian League, hoping that they could turn that into military support, but neither side made headway, and the league remains neutral for the time being. But Rome was not without allies. Through the previous campaigns under Galba, while Philip was busy elsewhere, the Romans had gained support from other Greek city-states. As winter came to an end, Philip recalled his troops from up north and took his full force of 20,000 men and 4,000 cavalry troops to the west to a hill near the Roman campsite. Vileus to Poulis, who had previously replaced Galba during the prior Roman advancements, was now replaced by a vastly intelligent and well-equipped Roman consul. Flamininos was incredibly tactful and also spoke fluent Greek, which made him an ideal candidate for war in Greece. He was also a strategic negotiator and quickly demanded to meet with the king of Macedon, face to face. The men and their negotiators now approached one another, along the Aeos River, and negotiations began. Philip was quick to aim for a compromise with the Romans, as he was in no form looking to back down despite the growing danger the Roman general, however, had his own plan. There was no real goal on the part of Flamininos after all of creating peace. Contrarily, he seemingly intended to anger the Macedonian, and so he did. Declining any inkling of a compromise, Flamininos demanded that Philip pay reparations to every Greek city that he had brought harm to throughout his campaign and went even further with the requirements that the king must relinquish all of his Hellenic possessions, including Thessaly, which had been under Macedonian authority for nearly two centuries. The Macedonian king was predictably disgusted by these proposed terms and abruptly ended negotiation talks. Both men returned to their armies, and the Roman general was swift to make his next move, sending a portion of his men up to skirmish with the Macedonian troops at their camp. He then ordered the second group of roughly 4,300 to take a path around the mountains, out of view of the Macedonians. Philip and his men were perilously preoccupied with the first group of Roman attackers. It wasn't until the second Roman force was in position that the Macedonians became aware of the danger they were in. Flamininos now pushed forward with more aggression, as the second portion of his troops did the same, nearly trapping the Macedonians between them. Philip was forced to make a hasty retreat with as many men as he could, but 2,000 Macedonians and all of their baggage was lost nonetheless. The confidence of Philip's soldiers had been plundered. The king and the surviving dean moralized men fled to Thessaly, but the Romans shortly followed. By this time, some of Macedon's once allies or neighboring neutral powers had now pledged their allegiance to the Romans, while others still refused to support either side. Flamininos soon reached Thessaly and rapidly attacked, meanwhile his allies of Atolia and Athomania launched their own assaults from the south and the west. This new campaign was not a complete failure, but not a victory either, and Flamininos soon became trapped in a conflict at a tracks, which puts up an unexpected fight against the Roman siege. The Roman general was eventually forced to abandon his goals at a tracks, but was still able to redirect his troops toward a successful siege at Atolia more to the south and went to Thessaly to reach some support from there too. As a lull in the war came with the winter months, Macedonia's long time allies of the Achaean League now made their decision to join the clash on behalf of the Romans. It appeared that Flamininos' success was inspiring more support for Rome and Philip was forced to take up a new strategy. It was either a compromised peace or a final battle. In November of 198 BC, the Macedonians in a surprising twist requested peace talks with the Romans. Desperate to save what success he had managed to create thus far, the Macedonian king was fully aware of the questionable position he was in. The Roman general agreed to negotiate once again, possibly because his time as console was nearing its end, and he wished to solidify his own success. So a new meeting was held at Nacea. This time, the Romans insisted that Philip give up his Illyrian territories as well as those in Greece, and Macedon would also be required to return all possessions they had seized from Tolemie. Flamininos was not the only adversary at this conference though. Representatives from other Greek city-states, Rhodes, the Achaeans, Atoleans and King Atoleus were also present and had their own demands to be met. Atoleus simply wanted reparations. The Achaeans wanted Philip to hand over Corinth and Argus. Rhodes insisted that the Macedonian cease from continuing any advances into Asia and the Hallas point, and the Atoleans would settle for no less than the returning of every single city that had been taken from them by the Macedonians. Philip was actually open to a possible compromise or a full acceptance of all of these terms, but he refused to give up his fortresses in Calcus, Arrow Corinth and Dematrius. Philip proposed that the Roman Senate take a vote on the fate of the undecided terms, but the situation quickly deteriorated and no conclusion could be reached, leaving a continuation of war as the only remaining option. There would be no peace between the Romans and Macedonians. It was now clear to both sides that this dispute could only end one way. More conflict and bloodshed was inevitable. War was the only path forward at a winner would finally be declared after a final battle. In a few months, the battle of Cinecephaly was about to begin. After the utter failure of the conference in 197 BC, peace was no longer an option between Philip of Macedon and the Roman Republic. The end of the Second Macedonian War was yet to come. The King knew that he was at a disadvantage against the sheer force of the Romans and their allies. On willing to back down, he called upon the able-bodied men, elderly veterans and young miners to join the growing campaign, extending his plea to allies and mercenaries from Thrace, Illyria and Crete, building up his force to around 25,000. As the host converged on Larissa, Philip grew in confidence, now that he could match the Romans in the field. Meanwhile, Flamininus lost a part of his army when King Atalus suffered a stroke and had to withdraw from the campaign back to Pergamon. But the Roman general could count on reinforcements from Italy and the support of the Boician League, Italy, Apollonia, Athomania and mercenaries from Crete, building up his coalition to around 26,000 troops and some 20 war elephants. By mid-June, preparations for the campaign were complete. Where that Philip departed from Larissa, Flamininus marched north into Thessaly to meet him. Grey skies glowered down over Thessaly as the two armies closed in. The heavy rain created miserable conditions for the troops on the march while the fog decreased visibility, making both commanders nervous. Spheratic clashes broke out between scouting parties and the men in the columns were kept on high alert. Upon reaching the outskirts of the town of Ferry, Flamininus made camp while Philip stopped a short distance away, settling in for the night. The inclement weather persisted, churning up the soil in the surrounding fields. Neither commander was pleased that the prospects of fighting in muddy conditions and poor visibility the next day and both made preparations to break camp. At first light, the two armies left their camps in hopes of finding good fighting ground and replenishing their food stockpiles. Philip took a north-western route, looking to resupply his men at the town of Scotassa and outmaneuver the Romans. This took him through the sinacepheli hills, where the numerous streams would serve as a reliable source of fresh water for the troops. Flamininus anticipated the move and marshaled his army west to intercept the Macedonians. He hoped that the more direct and easier route south of the ridge line would allow him to reach Scotassa first. But the visibility worsened still. A heavy fog enveloped the lowlands around sinacepheli, making it impossible to see anything beyond just a few meters. Flamininus came upon the temple of Thetus, where he learns that he still had some 10 kilometers to go before he reached Scotassa. Despite a distance given the weather conditions and the fact that nighttime was fast approaching, furthermore, a nighttime march would have been risky in case they stumbled upon the Macedonians. Realizing that it made little sense to continue marching blindly, the Roman general ordered the troops to make camp at sunset. With such poor visibility, some of his troops became rather disoriented and being an enemy territory under these conditions must have been unnerving. But Flamininus made sure to double the centuries around the camp perimeter, in case of attack. Across the line of hills, Philip faced far fewer problems with orientation thanks to having facelians in his ranks, but the difficulty of not being able to see forced him to stop the column and encamp near the town of Malambium. Despite his concerns that the Romans could attack suddenly out of the mist, the priority for the Macedonian king were supplies for his troops. The small settlement could not provision his entire army, but the locals were able to provide the essentials to continue the journey towards Scotassa the next day. At dawn, Philip ordered the men to array outside the camp in preparation to continue the march. He sent out half of his troops to Forage, with strict orders not to venture far from the camp in case the enemy appeared. While the rain did finally stop, Philip was unsure about another day of marching in thick fog. To avoid any surprises, he dispersed some of the light infantry to inspect the road ahead and attempt to locate the Romans from a top a ridge to the south. While the main army waited for scouting reports at the bottom of the slope, the Macedonian light infantry ascended towards the crest of the hill. Above the fog, from where they hoped, they would be able to spot the Romans. Little did they know. Just on the other side of the hill, Flemineness sent his own scouting contingent of Valedes towards the top of the ridge. He too struggled with poor visibility and was unsure about marching on with such poor visibility without knowing where the enemy was. The opposing contingents ran into each other and a spontaneous chaotic clash erupted on the ridge. Both parties quickly sent word back to their commanders, informing them of the situation atop the hill. Flemineness was impressively prepared for such a surprise and promptly sent out the Aitolian cavalry and more light infantry to reinforce the hill while preparing the rest of the column for battle. In contrast, Philip was not quite as ready and with some delay, he scrambled together a contingent of mercenaries and Thessalyan cavalry to join the melee, ordering his philax to array for battle. Meanwhile, on the ridge, losses mounted for both sides and the disorganized skirmish, but the Macedonian light infantry were getting the better of the Romans, driving them back down the slope. However, with support arriving, Flemineness's advanced force began to regain lost ground and the fighting moved back towards the top. By now, the main Roman army was almost in full battle order, with cavalry, elephants and two legions on the right, while Flemineness took command of the two legions and remaining forces on the left. Back on the ridge, Philip's men suffered badly, but were themselves reinforced not long after. The bloody skirmish was fast turning into an intense battle and the Romans were again pushed down, this time to the bottom of the hillside taking heavy casualties in the process. With half of his philax units, around 8,000 strong Philip ordered at assault, compels to reinforce the men at the time. The remaining 8,000 phalanxes lagged behind and were yet to form in battle order, but were nonetheless tasked with joining the attack, still lacking cohesion. Fight at first being reluctant to commit his phalanjites into the broken hilly terrain, Philip was encouraged by the success of his troops on the ridge and felt he had to press the advantage. Word reached Flemineness, that the Macedonian assault had begun. He orders the legionaries forward to aid the embattled Romans on the left. The right flank is ordered to stay behind, in anticipation of more enemy troops coming across the hill. With the full force of the legions, the advanced party of the Macedonians is quickly thrown back, the moderately armoured peltists were no match for the Roman heavy infantry. As Philip crested the ridge, he saw Flemineness advancing up the slope and attacked straight away. The downward momentum and the weight of the deep phalanx formation drove back the Romans. The wall of Sarisis cracked open the frontal rows of the manoples, with many of the fallen trampled to death by the advancing block of phalanjites. By this time, the sun had started to beam through the fog and the mist was beginning to dissipate. Flemineness could now see that his men were losing the fight. The Roman coalition was in trouble. Worse, as the Macedonian push continued, Philip's remaining phalanx formations started coming over the ridge. Flemineness reacted quickly, ordering the Roman right to advance towards the incoming enemy. He personally joined the attack, wanting to strike the phalanx on Philip's side while they were still disorganized and in marching formation. The ground shook as the elephants led the Roman assault, with the legions and cavalry following close behind. Having rushed to join the battle, the Macedonian phalanx sacrificed its cohesion, and now they didn't have enough time to form their strong formation. The force of the elephant charge ripped through their lines, causing absolute mayhem, shattering their communications. As the manoples and cavalry closed in, most of the Macedonian phalanx were caught with their spears raised, and they soon fell apart, unable to stop the onslaught of the legions. During the counterattack, an unnamed Roman Tribune turned towards the left and realized that the Macedonians were winning the fight there. He used his authority to gather some 20 manoples and fall back to assist the left. The initiative of the unnamed Tribune was the deciding moment in the battle. The agile manoples were able to reform and charge Philip's center from the flank and rear. The rigid, forward-facing phalanx formation was caught completely by surprise and were now trapped. The morale of those Macedonians who survived this sudden onslaught was crushed and they quickly raised their seresses to signal to the enemy that they were surrendering. The Romans, however, proceeded to hack them to pieces, either unfamiliar that the raised serissa meant surrender, or they simply wanted to annihilate the enemy. Philip gathered the rest of the Macedonian right and fled the field. The Romans reportedly had only 700 dead, though this figure was quite likely higher due to the severity of the fighting. The Macedonians, meanwhile, suffered heavy casualties. Some 8,000 perished and 5,000 were taken prisoner, King Philip escaped, but the defeat would put him in a humiliating position. After their victory, Rome had a commanding position during peace negotiations to end the second Macedonian war. The treaty allowed King Philip of Macedon to keep his kingdom, but he had to give up all other possessions in Greece and Asia, pay 1000 silver talents to the Roman Republic, and had to send his son to Rome as a hostage. Macedon effectively became a Roman puppet. Huge thanks to History Marsh for teaming up with us on this video. Be sure to check out his channel, it's definitely worth a look. Big thanks to our amazing patrons for making this video possible. Your support means the world to us. If you'd like to help us keep creating and get early access to our videos behind the scenes content and other perks, consider becoming a member right here on YouTube or joining us on Patreon. Every bit of support helps. And as always, thank you so much for watching.