---
video_title: "How the British-American War of 1812 Actually Ended"
video_id: 4PQJlABIUh0
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4PQJlABIUh0
video_date: 2025-12-31T16:45:00+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦Use code FEBRUARY50 for 50% off any digital product: https://knowledgia.co/collections/great-historical-digital-maps
  
  
  ♦Late 1814. Washington DC is in ashes. Multiple British armies are on US soil. Having vanquished Napoleon, the full might of a battle-hardened British Empire is now arrayed against the United States of America. 
  
  The final act of the War of 1812 was shaping up to be a devastating end for the United States…
  
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
---
Late 1814. Washington, DC is in ashes. Multiple British armies are on US soil. Having vanquished Napoleon, the full might of a battle-hardened British Empire is now arrayed against the United States of America. The final act of the War of 1812 was shaping up to be a devastating end for the United States… In late August, Governor-General George Provost of Canada had crossed into New York with a fresh army. The British had hoped that the sympathetic Federalists of New England might flock to join

them, just as America had hoped the Canadians would turn on the British back in 1812. The British were mistaken too and didn’t receive the sudden surge of local support they hoped for. But even if they had, it wouldn’t have mattered. The Royal Navy ruled the seas, but its dominion over Lake Champlain, which was necessary to maintain supply lines for Prevost’s army, was not so strong. On September 11th, 1814, a British naval contingent attacked the 14 American vessels defending Plattsburgh on Lake Champlain, expecting an easy victory. The Americans had anchored themselves near the shore and forced

the British to come at them on their own terms. The waiting American guns tore the British fleet to pieces, killing hundreds of sailors, including the fleet’s captain, George Downie, and forcing the British ships to surrender. The Battle of Plattsburgh destroyed the supply lines Prevost needed for his invasion, and he was forced to retreat back to Canada. Meanwhile, after burning Washington, the British marched onwards to Baltimore. On September 12th, they forced a landing at North Point near the city and routed the American defenders, but at the cost of General Robert Ross’ life. The loss of one of their key commanders did

not slow them down, though, and British troops advanced upon Baltimore itself, where the Americans had holed up inside Fort McHenry. Early in the morning of September 13th, the Royal Navy opened fire on Fort McHenry. Over the next 24 hours, they hurled 1,500 shells at it, battering its defenders with enough firepower to level a city. It was almost a miracle that the walls held and the defenders suffered only light casualties. As the smoke cleared and the guns fell silent on September 14th, the American flag still waved defiantly above the fort. The site of that star-spangled banner inspired one eyewitness named

Francis Scott Key to write a poem named after that flag, which became the US national anthem. Britain’s failure to break Fort McHenry halted their offensive in its tracks. On September 15th, they were forced to retreat, ending their campaign in Virginia. In the space of 4 days, America had turned back both of Britain’s assaults in the northeast...

America’s victory at the Battle of Baltimore was a relief, but America was still in a dire state. Morale was low - US troops had a desertion rate of 12% - and the Secretary of War, John Armstrong, had to resign 2 weeks later because confidence in his leadership had totally collapsed. On top of that, in the words of Treasury Secretary George Campbell, the nation’s finances had suffered “every kind of embarrassment.” He too resigned in October 1814, unable to scrape together the $50 million needed to cover the country’s expenses. As a result, the US defaulted on its debts for the first and only time in its history that November.

For the Republicans, it was a nightmare so awful that they voted to raise taxes. For the Federalists, it was practically free ammunition. ‘The Republicans have ruined the country by driving us into a war we cannot win’ was an easy pitch to make. Their despair over the state of the war was so intense that in December, representatives of the Federalists in New England met at Hartford for a landmark conference where they harshly condemned the conduct of the war and Madison’s administration. They argued that the failures spoke to deeper structural problems in the US government and proposed a sweeping set of amendments that would be the most radical shakeup in the US government since the Constitution had been ratified. They called for the elimination of the 3/5ths clause,

which gave more representation to slave states who had voted for the war, wanted to ban the admission of new states, eliminate government embargo power, require a supermajority for war declarations, and limit Presidents to a single term. The declaration was signed and sent to Washington in January 1815. However, unknown to the Federalists, events had been transpiring that would radically change things by the time that declaration arrived. While the war had been raging, Madison had always been searching for a peaceful solution. In March 1813, Russia had offered to mediate negotiations between America and Britain.

The US ambassador to Russia, future President John Quincy Adams, was happy to accept such a proposal, but Britain declined. They didn’t need Russia getting involved. They did, however, agree to negotiate in Belgium. Madison ordered Adams to meet with the British at Ghent in August 1814 and sent over several other delegates, including Henry Clay of Kentucky and Jonathan Russell of Rhode Island, to support him. The negotiations spanned 4 long months, but the American delegation was probably one of the best diplomatic teams ever assembled. Intelligent,

persuasive, and impossible to intimidate, they were a league apart from the British negotiating team, none of whom were particularly noteworthy or accomplished since every good diplomat was too busy dealing with the fallout of the Napoleonic Wars to bother with the American sideshow. Britain’s initial demands were harsh: a permanent Indian reservation in the Northwest, American demilitarization in the Great Lakes, handing Maine to the British, and giving them trade privileges in the Mississippi. The British were surprised when the Americans turned them down. The British then tried to delay until word of a clear British victory could cow the Americans into submission, but that failed too. The Americans were completely unfazed by news of Washington, DC being burned down. If anything, the opposite happened.

News of American victories at Plattsburgh and Baltimore shook British confidence instead. Eventually, the British decided they were, quote, "not likely to attain any glory or renown at all commensurate to the inconvenience it will occasion,” from extending the war in America. On Christmas Eve 1814, the two teams signed the Treaty of Ghent, agreeing to make peace and restore all territory to what it had been before the war began. There wasn’t even an acknowledgement of the trade disputes or impressment that had triggered the war - both sides just wanted it over with. Alas, news travelled slowly across the Atlantic, and there was a third complication to the situation to consider: Andrew Jackson… In April 1814, fresh British troops had arrived on the Gulf Coast ready to attack the US on another front. General Edward Packenham landed expecting to meet with

his Red Stick Indian allies, only to learn about their crushing defeat at Horseshoe Bend weeks earlier. There weren’t enough Indians left to support their planned attacks, so the British and Indians decided to harass American positions instead while waiting for reinforcements. Thanks to the war in Europe, Spain and Britain were cautious allies, so Spain allowed Britain to operate out of Pensacola in Spanish Florida. Andrew Jackson wasn’t going to let that stand. On November 7th, 1814, he stormed across the border with 4,000 men and attacked Pensacola. It was the first time the US

had invaded Spanish territory. The Spanish surrendered the city after a short fight, since they weren’t keen on the British being in the city either, while the British and the Indians were forced to withdraw but suffered minimal casualties. Jackson’s attack at Pensacola re-energised that theatre of the war in its eleventh hour. After withdrawing from Spanish Florida, Jackson took his men back to New Orleans, where he knew the British would strike next. Admiral Alexander Cocrahne and General Pakenham were indeed preparing an invasion at the mouth of the Mississippi, even as negotiators in Belgium were ironing out peace terms.

On January 8th, 1815, as those peace terms were sailing across the Atlantic, Pakenham’s forces landed on the shoreline just outside New Orleans. Jackson had spent the last two months fortifying the city for an assault, and when 8,000 British troops appeared outside the walls, they found out how well he’d prepared for them. Casualties were high and very lopsided. 300 British soldiers, including General Packenham, were killed, 1,200 were injured, and 500 were captured. Before the sun had even set, the British had retreated. The Americans lost just 12 men.

The Battle of New Orleans was the most decisive American victory of the entire war, and Andrew Jackson became the greatest American military hero of his day. News of the victory arrived in Washington some days later and quickly spread across the US to much celebration. The timing couldn’t have been better. The New Orleans news dropped days before the New England Federalists published their Hartford Declaration condemning the war and making demands to reform the government. With American morale sky high after the victory, the Federalist statement couldn’t have had a more hostile audience. The declaration was seen as spiteful, out of touch, and even

traitorous, and damaged the Federalist Party’s reputation so badly that it never recovered. The party of Washington and Hamilton would limp on for a few more years before vanishing into history. It also preceded news of the Treaty of Ghent, which reached Washington on February 13th, 1815. Many Americans falsely believed that America had compelled the British to peace after New Orleans and were totally unaware of the negotiations that had actually led to the treaty. No one was eager to correct the misunderstanding, least of all President Madison or the Republicans, who declared it a tremendous victory for the United States… While it raged, the War of 1812 was probably the most unpopular American war until Vietnam.

But despite a generally poor military performance, a ruined economy, and a burned capital, the United States was able to spin the War of 1812 into a victory in its final weeks. Jackson’s success at New Orleans washed away the failures and allowed Madison to emerge from the war singing a song of victory and patriotism. The War of 1812 produced no lasting territorial changes. It did not alter the American government or change how wars were fought. It claimed around 2,000 American lives in combat, plus several thousand to disease and other causes. It also left its mark in small ways:

the legend of Old Ironsides, the reputation of Andrew Jackson, the collapse of the Federalist party, and the creation of the ‘Star Spangled Banner’, to name a few. It certainly mattered to Indians like the Creek and the Shawnee who suffered historic defeats at American hands during the conflict. Canada, too, was forever changed, with Canadian victories such as Queenston Heights in 1812 being formative moments for Canadian nationalism, where they stopped being merely British or French colonists and started to see themselves as distinctly Canadian. Similarly, that was the war’s lasting legacy in America as well. It was the first trial by fire of America’s government and people against an enemy who could equal them. Shared hardship created a shared identity. It built a sense of national

unity and pride that long outlasted the war. In the words of one Congressman, the people were now “more American; they feel and act more as a nation.” So while the War of 1812 is easily forgotten today, it played a vital role in making the United States what it is. America would fight many larger wars with higher stakes and greater casualties, but the idea of the United States and the anthem that embodies that idea will always owe a special debt to this overlooked conflict…