---
video_title: "What Happened with The U.S after the Revolutionary War?"
video_id: TviWZUZib0g
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TviWZUZib0g
video_date: 2025-08-09T11:39:22+00:00
video_description: |
  What Happened with The U.S after the Revolutionary War?
  What Happened After The American Revolution Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9jKQtvWdS_Du9FCpO7VxXvg
  
  Get your very detailed History map here: https://knowledgia.co
  Beautifully crafted, designed to stand out in any room, and perfect for anyone who loves history.
  ♦Get ACCESS to our exclusive videos and EARLY ACCESS to our public ones here:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  On March 15th 1783, General George Washington addressed his men at Newburgh as they were on the verge of revolt. Congress has not paid them and now the pensions they’d been promised were being thrown into doubt. Officers and their men were ready to overthrow the new American system when it had barely begun. But Washington appealed to their honour and their patriotism, urging them to trust in the fragile new political system that the Revolution had only recently created. 
  
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  00:00 First Struggles
  01:35 The articles of Confederation
  03:29 Challenges of The United States
  06:16 Westward Expansion
  08:11 Visions of a new America
  10:06 The Constitutional Convention
  12:58 Ratification
---
On March 15th 1783, General George Washington addressed his men at Newburgh as they were on the verge of revolt. Congress has not paid them and now the pensions they’d been promised were being thrown into doubt. Officers and their men were ready to overthrow the new American system when it had barely begun. But Washington appealed to their honour and their patriotism, urging them to trust in the fragile new political system that the Revolution had only recently created. Washington’s speech alone did not immediately calm the crowd. It was only when he took out a letter and, struggling to read it,

acknowledged his failing eyesight that the officers were visibly moved. “Gentlemen, you must pardon me. I have grown not only gray but almost blind in the service of my country” This emotional moment, more than his speech, softened their resolve and convinced them to remain loyal The Revolutionary War was won, but building a new nation from the ashes would be an immense challenge. In this series of videos, we will chart the early history of the United States as revolutionary ideals were transformed into the foundations of a powerful nation. We see how it navigated its earliest challenges, and meet the men who forged that path through those first formative years.

The Articles of Confederation In 1783, the United States was organised under the Articles of Confederation. The federal government was headed by a single-chambered Congress with the power to manage foreign affairs, declare war, and handle relations with the Native Americans, but little else. States controlled virtually everything else including trade and taxes. The Articles didn’t have a place for a king, or a man approximating one. Washington was well aware of this. As the most popular man in the states and with full control of its military,

Washington could easily have swept away the fledgling republican government and asserted his rule like so many men before him. Instead, in December 1783 he rode into Annapolis where Congress was meeting and relinquished all of his power to them: “Having now finished the work assigned me, I retire from the great theatre of Action; and bidding an Affectionate farewell to this August body under whose orders I have so long acted, I here offer my Commission, and take my leave of all the employments of public life.” It was an intentionally eye-catching surrender of military power to civil. Delivering Congress’ official reply, Thomas Jefferson gratefully thanked Washington for his humility: “You have conducted the great military contest with wisdom and fortitude invariably regarding the rights of the civil power through all disasters and changes.” As the Revolution’s hero retired to his estates at Mount Vernon, the fate of the country now lay in Congress’ hands.

Challenges of a New Nation Unfortunately, it was soon obvious that Congress could not effectively meet every challenge facing it. The most immediate issue was economic. The US had a total debt of approximately $77 million, including $40 million in domestic debt and $12 million owed to France and the Netherlands, with the remainder due to individual states. However, it had no powers to enforce taxes or regulate trade, which were both reserved to the states. The states were unenthusiastic at the idea of sending off their revenue to service the federal government’s debt. When Congress tried to implement an impost, a sort of tax, on trade,

which would require the consent of the states, New York, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island all blocked it, leaving Congress impotent and unable to meet its financial demands. Within the states, the Revolution had caused significant economic disruption. Trade with the West Indies and England had been vital for several states, especially in New England, and their economies were slow to recover. It is no wonder they weren’t happy to kick extra money to Congress. Congress at least had broad powers in foreign relations, but here too they struggled.

Britain still commanded a lot of economic might and territory in the Americas that were initially denied to the United States. Britain continued to occupy strategic positions in the west that blocked American travel and trade into the interior, while shutting them out of the lucrative ports of the Caribbean. Spain was no ally either, shutting down US navigation rights along the Mississippi, which Congress tried and failed to regain via diplomacy in 1786. Even France had become frustrated with the new nation, mostly due to Congress’ inability to pay the interest on their massive war debts in 1785. Every major European seemed to have a bone to pick with them, so much so that founding Father John Jay lamented that the US had become, “the sport of European politics.”

For a nation conceived in rebellion against tyranny, there were many who had no sympathy for Congress’ struggles. There was a deep skepticism of any form of centralised government after 1783, and the states jealously guarded their power. Uncertainty, impotence, and pessimism were the rules of the day. Westward Expansion If Congress had once success in those early years, it was addressing the settlement problem in the unsettled territories. The unorganised territories in the Northwest which would one day become Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin needed to be properly managed. There were plenty of settlers

eager to claim land there, so Congress passed laws to govern future settlement. Thomas Jefferson led the way in making arrangements for the Northwest Ordinances of 1784 and 1787 which lay down strict rules for these new societies. Land would be divided into townships of 6 square miles each, further divided into 36 sections of 640 acres each. Lot 16 was specifically reserved for public schools, while other sections were set aside for federal use or sold to settlers at $1 per acre. Jefferson had been warm to the idea of giving the land to freeholders at no cost, but the government’s dismal finances meant they had no choice but to demand payment at no more than 1 dollar per acre.

The Ordinances also lay down government arrangements. New territories would receive an appointed governor until such time as it was large enough to apply for full statehood. At that point, the new state could be admitted to the union on equal terms to the existing 13 states with an elected government of their own. In a period that saw constant federal failure, the Ordinances were a rare sign of success. They proved that Congress could, when given the proper powers, provide successful solutions.

Visions of a New America Still, the states had to solve most of their own problems for now. This was so in March 1785, when Maryland and Virginia held the Mount Vernon Conference to peacefully resolve a long-standing dispute over the Potomac River. This example of inter-state cooperation outside the structures laid down by the Articles of Confederation impressed men like James Madison who saw in it a model for inter-state cooperation on matters of trade and taxation. Seeking to emulate their success, Congress summoned a convention to discuss expanding its powers over economic affairs. The Convention opened at Annapolis in September 1786, but only 5 states were in attendance.

The delegates from other states were so late or weren’t coming at all that they were forced to postpone the Convention until May of the following year. Angry at high taxes, economic depression, foreclosures on farms, and the refusal to issue paper currency, farmers and veterans in Massachusetts took up arms against the state government. Shays’ Rebellion, named for one its leaders Daniel Shays, proved that the current American system was unworkable. Common people were so unhappy that they were rising up in revolt, while Congress had virtually no effective power to respond to it. Massachusetts’ state militia was called in to put down the rebels, which they did after a series of small clashes by February 1787. Although it did not last long and left only 9 people dead,

Shays’ Rebellion shattered confidence in the Articles of Confederation across the colonies. Change was desperately needed before far worse unrest could break out. The Constitutional Convention It was in this mindset that the 55 delegates of the Constitutional Convention met at Philadelphia in May 1787. Among them were James Madison, Alexander Hamilton, Benjamin Franklin, and a host of other prominent early Americans who over the next 4 months would hammer out their vision for the Constitution of the United States. Even Washington was convinced to attend, if only so that his absence wouldn’t be taken as some sign of disapproval of the new government arrangements.

The Convention needed to tackle several key issues. They needed a federal government that was capable of handling the nation’s finances and disputes between states. They had to decide where state power stopped and federal power would begin. This new government needed to be strong enough to respond to crises like Shays’ Rebellion without remaking a tyranny like the one they’d just gotten rid of. It also needed to settle the question of how its legislature would be elected. Smaller states like New Jersey wanted a

system where representation was given to all states equally, while larger states like Virginia demanded representation based on population. That left another question: what of the slaves? Would states gain more electoral power the more slaves they owned? The system they devised is one of the most famous and longest standing political systems in history. The Constitution of the United States called for 3 branches of government. A legislature

to make laws, an executive to implement them, and a judiciary to adjudicate them. Each branch was designed to check and balance the others. Each branch also had strictly enumerated powers and anything not explicitly given to them in the Constitution belonged to the states by default. To compromise between the demands of large and small states, the legislature in Congress would be split into the House of Representatives with power given to states based on population, and the Senate where all states received 2 Senators each. As for slaves, they would be counted as 3/5ths of a White person when it came to allocating state representation based on population. The slaving states like South Carolina had wanted

full representation to boost their power, but anti-slavery states managed to talk them down. On September 17th, 1787, 39 delegates, including Washington, Franklin, Madison, and Hamilton, signed the final draft of the Constitution.. Ratification The Constitution still required ratification by at least 9 of the 13 states in order to become law. The nation was soon divided between the Federalists, who backed the new Constitution, and the anti-Federalists who opposed it. Critics of the Constitution argued that

it took too much power away from the states and created a new tyranny in the federal government. Others argued that the system did not do enough to empower common people and would be ruled by a narrow class of political elites. Supporters countered that the new Constitution would provide the federal government only with the necessary powers to avoid the paralysis that had plagued it under the current Articles. Madison, Hamilton, and John Jay published a collection of essays known as The Federalist Papers, which not only sought to gain support for the Constitution but also laid out key principles of federalism, checks and balances, and separation of powers that would shape the nation’s governance. Delaware was the first state to ratify the Constitution on December 7th 1787.

Pennsylvania followed 5 days later, and New Jersey 5 days after that. Georgia and Connecticut ratified in January 1788. Massachusetts did the same in February after intense debate, where the backing of Revolutionary icons like Samuel Adams, John Hancock, and Paul Revere probably tipped the balance for the Federalists. Maryland went in April, South Carolina in May, and with New Hampshire’s ratification on June 21st 1788, the Constitution had its 9 state backing. Virginia, New York, and North Carolina would ratify by the end of 1789 leaving only Rhode Island, who wouldn’t settle on support until May 1790.

The framers had enough support for their Constitution to get to work. The first presidential election was conducted through the Electoral College, where state legislatures chose electors, who then cast votes for the presidency. Most citizens did not vote directly in this system. There was never any question over who would win. George Washington was the most popular figure in the United States, with a proven track record of loyalty, discipline, and humility that was perfect for a fragile new government concerned about ensuring the limits of its own power.

Washington was elected unanimously by the delegates and sworn in as the first President of the United States on April 30th 1789. He faced the task of leading a new nation with an untested political system, from an office whose powers were not yet fully defined, in a world where democratic republics on this scale were unheard of. The great American experiment had difficult days ahead if it wanted to survive.