---
video_title: "Why Eastern Rome Didn’t Die together with the West?"
video_id: oJZPkKtzkC8
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oJZPkKtzkC8
video_date: 2025-12-28T12:39:41+00:00
video_description: |
  Get your very detailed History map here: https://knowledgia.co/pages/framed-maps
  Beautifully crafted, designed to stand out in any room, and perfect for anyone who loves history.
  The History of the Eastern Roman Empire Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9jamsXtYkz-rXj175Qf_IXu 
  
  
  ♦Why Eastern Rome Didn’t Die?
  
  While Rome may have fallen in the West, the Empire was very much still standing in the East, which now became the center of the entire Roman World from where it would carry on its name and legacy for another millennium.
  
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
---
By the late fifth century AD, the Roman Empire had been in a gradual state of decline for a long time, leading to the collapse of its western half under the weight of civil wars and internal power struggles, which in turn exposed it to attacks by foreign enemies or led to imperial territory simply slipping out of the Empire's effective control. Just while Rome may have fallen in the west, the Empire was still very much standing in the east, which now became the center of the entire Roman world, from where it would carry on its name and legacy for another millennium. The reign of Xeno The man with the dubious distinction of being the first Roman emperor to rule the Eastern Empire as the sole center of Roman power was Xeno, who came to power in early 474 AD after the death of his seven-year-old son Leo II, who had briefly succeeded the late emperor Leo I before dying of disease. From the beginning of his reign, Xeno was plagued by internal strife between his commanders and would have to constantly be on guard against possible rivals. At around the same time as Rommelus Augustulus was being deposed by the Germanic leader Oguacare in the west, Xeno was deposed in a civil war by the usurper Basilicus in 475 AD, who reigned for a short while alone until the emperor reclaimed his throne the following year. Shortly afterwards, he received a delegation from Oguacare, returning the imperial regalia to Constantinople, along with a message that no further emperors would be needed, signaling the effective end of direct imperial rule in the west. This moment has in the past been seen as the fall of the Roman Empire, while the east carried on as a supposedly completely different entity, an entity we have termed the Byzantine Empire, after the Greek colony of Byzantium, over which the imperial capital of Constantinople was located. However, the inhabitants of Byzantium continued to view themselves as Roman citizens, and their nation as the Roman Empire, or Romania, a Greek term which originated in the 4th century AD. This Greek influence had further reinforced modern perceptions of it as a very different state from the Roman Empire of Antiquity, contrasting it with the traditional Romans and their Latin language and supposedly different culture. However, we should remember that the eastern provinces of Rome had long been a center of Greek language and culture, where the Romans inherited a highly Hellenized series of communities, giving the region a very Greek character, even during its time under Roman rule. And while the Greek characteristics of the east would become more pronounced as it became the sole center of Roman rule, even this was gradual, as the empire retained its recognizable late antique formant character in the immediate aftermath of the fall of the west. Being Roman was also not specifically tied to the Latin language or culture or the empire's old heartland of Italy, but had instead long since evolved into a political identity, to which people of any extraction could subscribe to. Thus, while most of the eastern Roman empires inhabitants might not have used Latin as their main language and came from varying backgrounds, they still saw themselves as Romans, and the citizens of the same empire, which had risen from humble origins as a small community in Italy. This was still effectively the Roman Empire, and not simply a medieval offshoot or successor state. Now, one might wonder then, how did Rome's eastern half survive when the west did not? Since we started this channel, we have been obsessed with historical maps, since some of you might like maps as well, we created a few products for you. High resolution downloads and museum quality prints go to knowledgeia.co and have a look! If you want to own one, use my code in the description below. Now back to the video. During the 5th century AD, when the western Roman Empire had been constantly racked by civil wars and other internal power struggles, the eastern empire, by comparison, was relatively stable until the reign of Xenon. Even after retaking Constantinople, the new emperor was often challenged from within, such as in 479 AD, when the general Marcian led a coup in the capital itself that nearly led to Xenon's death. Before another general, loyal to the emperor intervened with his own troops and convinced most of the rebellious soldiers to switch sides, leading to Marcian's capture and downfall. Another pressing issue was the Austro-Goths. They were the descendants of the Goths who had not followed Ollaric into the western empire in the early 5th century and chose to remain settled in the eastern empire, as well as Goths who had formerly been in the service of a till of the Hun, and were then resettled in Pannonia. They received regular payments in exchange for their services, and the Austro-Goths settled in Thrace would become heavily Romanized and connected with imperial politics. The Austro-Goths themselves were not entirely united, and during Xenos reign, there were two significant Gothic leaders who rose to power and competed with one another. These were Theodoric Strabo, an ambitious man who had helped Xenos retake Constantinople, but who quickly proved to be problematic to control, and another man, confusingly also named Theodoric, who had recently risen as King over one of the Austro-Gothic groups. In addition to the politicking between these two leaders and their own individual overtures to the emperor, Xenos himself was trying to play the Gothic leaders off against one another. In 481 AD, Strabo died in a riding accident shortly after rebelling against Xenos, and in the aftermath of the ensuing power struggle amongst his followers, most of them sided with the young King Theodoric. For several years Xenos was engaged in a back-and-forth rivalry with the Austro-Gothic leader before in 488 AD, and agreement was finally reached. Back in the old Roman heartland of Italy, Odoacair was still in power over his own kingdom. Xenos had agreed to support Odoacair's rule of Italy if he officially recognized Julius Neppos as emperor, who had been deposed by Romulus Augustulus and forced into exile in Dalmatia. Odoacair had minted coins in Neppos' name, but his rule was effectively not recognized, and Italy remained in the control of the Germanic King. Theodoric had been, for some time, contemplating an invasion there, and would now do so. But with the official sanction of Xenos, who may have cared little which of the two barbarian kings ruled Italy. Theodoric was granted the titles of Patrickus and Magister Militum by the emperor, who agreed to support the Austro-Goth's invasion after which the Theodoric would then rule Italy in the name of Rome. The Austro-Goth's then marched westward, first defeating the Gepedes who were barring their path before invading Italy proper in 489 AD, where they gradually started to make progress against Odoacair's forces. In 491 AD, Theodoric even sent messages to Xenos asking for imperial regalia and recognition of his rule in Italy after prominent Italian senators started to approach him following his victories. He would never receive an answer, however, as Xenos was by then in poor health and would in fact die the same year. Still, the campaign against Odoacair would go on, and by 494 AD, Italy and even the valuable island of Sicily would be brought under Austro-Gothic control, and Odoacair was executed soon after surrendering. The Austro-Gothic Kingdom, under Theodoric, on the surface appeared Roman in many ways. Theodoric kept the old Roman administrative system, also preserved under Odoacair intact, and Italy retained its distinctly Roman character even after the Goths conquered the region. Theodoric also had initially good relations with Xenos successor, the Emperor Anastasius, who even supported the Gothic king by confirming Xenos' grant of the title of Magister Militim to him. Famously, Theodoric even referred to his kingdom as a copy of the only empire in a letter to Anastasius, thus appearing deferential to Roman authority. Nevertheless, as Theodoric's power became more entrenched over time, his relations with Rome also decreased, and however Roman the Austro-Gothic Kingdom may have been, it was ultimately still a foreign power now ruling over former imperial territory. The reign of Anastasius The new Eastern Emperor Anastasius, meanwhile, was faced with internal strife early into his reign. He came to power in 491 AD, with the support of the Empress and Xenos Widow Ariadne, a decision which seemingly threatens to plunge the empire into civil war, as Anastasius was staunchly opposed in Xenos old-home region of Isoria. Fortunately for the new Emperor, the rest of the empire stood behind him, but the Isorians still stubbornly fought on for several years before they were defeated in 497 AD, after which his reign proved markedly more internally than that of his predecessor. Anastasius proved to be a capable emperor, and his reign is most notable for his efforts at reforming the empire's administrative system and attempts to tackle religious disputes between different sects of Christianity, which remained a controversial issue during his time. Anastasius managed to greatly ease the burdens on collecting and distributing tax revenue and cut back on imperial expenditure on what he considered to be two lavish pursuits, and even sold off some of Xenos clothing, money which directly went into the state's treasury. He also abolished a deeply unpopular tax on the empire's poor and insisted on taxes being paid in money rather than in kind with other goods, which had long been common, while also restructuring the system of Roman currency with three new denominations of gold, which would become the new basis for many centuries to come. Over the course of his reign, Anastasius would be able to gather an impressive 320,000 pounds of gold for the treasury, leaving the empire well-funded. It was also during the reign of Anastasius that tension with Rome's old rival to the east, the Persian Empire would once again simmer in the year 502 AD when the Persian King Kovad demanded money from the Romans to help with the defense of the Caucasus. When Anastasius refused this blunt demand, the Persians launched an invasion into the Roman-held portion of Armenia, which had been partitions between the two empires in 383 AD. The attack caught the Romans by surprise, and initially, the Persians fared well in the war, capturing the cities of Theodosiapolis and Amida, and threatening Asia Minor. However, the Romans were able to regroup quickly and already recaptured Theodosiapolis by late 502 AD and Anastasius sent a strong army to the eastern frontier to repel the Persian invasion. This led to a series of hard fought campaigns in Armenia and Mesopotamia, but between 508 and 505 AD, the Romans would be able to successfully push the Persians back and retake their territory. The Romans and Persians then negotiated a seven-year truce the following year with both empires at their traditional boundaries. The Romans then began to build a new forward base for future operations against the Persians at Dara, a location which was soon to prove significant and the ongoing rivalry between the two empires. At around the same time, the Ostergoth's attempted to expand their power westward in 504 AD by moving into Pannonia, where they clashed with the Vietnamese as soon after also came into conflict with the Romans, who sensed opportunities of their own to regain territory lost during the fall of the west. A peace treaty was negotiated in 510 AD, which recognized the Odorix rule of Western Pannonia Secunda. This proved to be the last notable foreign conflict during Anastasius's reign, who would die in 518 AD. To conclude, the Roman Empire in the East had not suffered from the same number of civil wars as the West did during the 5th century, which had played a key role in weakening the empire's defenses and the gradual loss of its territory. The East also benefited from the long rule of two capable empires, Xeno and Anastasius, in the immediate aftermath of the fall of the West, which gave the Romans strong leaders, enabling them to respond well to internal and external threats. Emperor Anastasius proved to be especially effective of the two, as his economic reforms and good leadership left his successors a prosperous empire with its frontiers stable and secure. Thus, the Roman Empire would continue to live on and remain a formidable power. But the rest of the 6th century would carry with it many challenges both old and new for it to contend with.