---
video_title: "The History of Mexico Before The Spanish Arrived (3000 BC - 1521 AD)"
video_id: FZ8IsvAkhAw
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FZ8IsvAkhAw
video_date: 2025-05-27T11:28:35+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦Get Early Access to our videos:
   https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
   https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  
  The History of Mexico Before The Spanish (3000 BC - 1521 AD)
  Mexico’s history began at least 10,000 years ago when evidence of the first human settlers in the region can be found. The earliest known human remains in Mexico are of the ‘Tepexpan Man’ found beneath modern Mexico City. He was a hunter-gatherer who was buried alongside mammoth bones around 8,000 BC. Hunter-gatherers like him probably first arrived in Mexico from the north, where they spread out and lived nomadic lives for thousands of years.
  
  
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  00:00 Origins and Ancient Settlements
  02:01 Rise of Early Civilizations: Olmec and Beyond
  04:07 Teotihuacan: The First Great City
  07:06 Maya Civilization and Its Legacy
  10:14 Toltecs and the Ascendancy of the Aztecs
  15:22 Aztec Empire and the Spanish Conquest
  
  #History #Documentary
---
The long history of Mexico is a tale of triumph and tragedy, with proud civilizations lost to history, a brutal legacy of conquest and colonization, and a turbulent journey towards the modern day. The history of Mexico is one of the most unique and fascinating of any nation on earth. Mexico's history began at least 10,000 years ago, when the evidence of the first human settlers in the region can be found. The earliest known human remains in Mexico are of the Tipexpan man, found beneath modern Mexico City. He was a hunter-gatherer who was buried alongside mammoth bones around 8,000 BC. Hunter-gatherers like him probably first arrived in Mexico from the north, where they spread out and lived nomadic lives for thousands of years. The first settlements didn't appear until around 1800 BC, and the key to their existence was maize. Maize or corn was the staple food of pre-colonial Mexico, and the majority of people who lived there for the next 3,000 years would have oriented their lives around farming it. Ancient Mexicans also grew a wide range of other crops, like beans, tomatoes, squash, and cocoa, the latter of which they famously made into a bitter drink, and raised animals like turkeys for meat. There were no draft animals like horses, which means there was little need to invent wheels. Mexico did have them. They've been found on ancient children's toys, but they were never used for anything practical, like wagons. Mexico also didn't practice iron or bronze working. Instead, the chief material for weapons and tools was obsidian, a volcanic glass, which can hold an edge sharper than modern surgical steel. The earliest settled societies were villages or small towns. To find the first suburban civilization, we have to go to the Olmex, emerging on the northern Mexican coast, in the modern states of Veracruz and Tabasco. The Olmex appeared on the scene around 1200 BC. They are credited with the first true cities of Mexico, and its earliest monumental architecture. The best known relics of the Olmex are certainly the massive stone heads, some standing almost three meters tall and weighing several tons, which are believed to depict the most powerful Olmex rulers. The Olmex were also the first Mexican civilization to develop writing, while this language still hasn't been deciphered. Scholars have found enough glyphs inscribed on monuments and pottery to be confident that the Olmex had a developed writing system, and it most likely was the inspiration for later Mexican languages and scripts. Another feature of pre-colonial Mexico that appeared under the Olmex was the Mesoamerican ballgame. The Mesoamerican ballgame is a catch-all word for what was probably multiple games played with similar equipment throughout history. The rules varied by time and place, but the basic idea was that players would hit a ball between each other, using only their feet or hips, and try to score points against the other. The ballgame was a major feature of life in pre-colonial Mexico. Ball courts could be found in most major cities and numerous statues and carvings depict ball players themselves. Ball games were major social events, not unlike gladiator fights in Rome, or football games today, and they could even take on a religious aspect. Later Maya Legends speak of the hero twins, Unapu and Jablanque, defeating the Lords of the Underworld in a ballgame, and sometimes the losing teams in a game were sacrificed. The Olmex would be the first great Mexican civilization, but hardly the last. By 700 BC, they'd been joined by the Zapotex of Southern Mexico, with their great center Admonte Alban, who shared recognizable systems of language, architecture, agriculture, and more that shows a diverse but related network of civilization was emerging across Mexico. Teotihuacán and the Early Classic The decline of the Olmex by 300 BC, probably due to climate changes, signaled a new age of Mexican history. This classical period saw many of Mexico's greatest cities and civilizations, chief among which was the city of Teotihuacán. Beginning from around 100 BC, Teotihuacán was the largest city yet seen in the pre-colonial Americas. Layed out on an octagonal urban plain, it covered eight square miles of land, and probably housed over 100,000 people at its height in the 4th and 5th centuries. Many of the people of Teotihuacán lived in family apartments, where they shared communal and economic space, rather than having individual huts or houses. The city was also a center of trade and crafts, where foreign goods came in. And Teotihuacán's goods flowed out to long trade routes that connected the city across the breadth of the Mesoamerica and beyond. With the traces of Teotihuacán's trade being found all the way up in the southwestern United States, the city's name literally means the place where one becomes a god. And later Mexican cultures invested it with all sorts of religious significance. Teotihuacán surpassed any other city of its day in its monumental architecture, with its skyline dominated by three massive pyramids dedicated to the gods. The pyramid of the Sun was dedicated to the Storm God Tla-Lok, the pyramid of the Moon to an unnamed great goddess, and the pyramid of the feathered serpent dedicated to the eponymous deity common to many later Mexican cultures, but who was best known as the Aztec Cezacatl. Human sacrifices would have been performed at some of these pyramids at religious ceremonies. Teotihuacán's powerful influence on the rest of Mexico was owed to economic spiritual and military power. By the 4th century AD, it was undoubtedly the greater power in Mexico, with its armies venturing farther afield to collect tribute and glory for the city. For example, they conquered several powerful Maya cities in the Yucatan, including Teacl and Copen, making theirs the farthest reaching empire in pre-colonial Mexican history. However, there's still much we don't know about the Teotihuacán. We don't know if it had a single ruling king, or perhaps was run by a council representing the different social classes of the city. The extent, nature, and even the very existence of its foreign military expeditions is also a matter of debate. So too is its end. Like the Olmex, climate factors probably played a role, but we also know that sometime in the late 6th century, the city witnessed incredible amounts of violence, with many of its great monuments burnt down. Its elite homes ransacked and its pottery smashed and forgotten in the ruins. Perhaps it was invaded by arrival, or it might have been an internal rebellion. Whatever the cause, Teotihuacán's glory days faded, but as one people fell, another rose in their place. The Maya and the late classic. The Maya inhabited areas of eastern Mexico and the Yucatan, stretching into modern-day Guatemala and Honduras. The Maya emerged as a distinct people, as early as the 8th century BCE, and were known to have interacted with the Olmex and Zapotex. By Teotihuacán's day, Maya cities in the Yucatan were trading on good terms, and there were Maya communities in Teotihuacán itself. The 7th century marked the start of the Maya Classical Age, where the Maya rose to be the preeminent people of Mesoamerica. To be clear, there was never a unified Maya Empire, nor really a unified Maya people. Maya is a broad category that includes several subcultures and languages that share influences in history. Politically, the classical Maya were organized into kingdoms and city-states. Some of the larger cities would exert significant influence on surrounding cities and expect obedience from lesser rulers, but for the most part, each Maya city-state and kingdom ruled itself. Two of the largest cities were Calacmul in the modern Campeche state, ruled by a dynasty dubbed the Snake Kings and Teacl, its powerful rival to the south in modern Guatemala. Calacmul and Teacl sustained an intense rivalry for over two centuries that culminated in a series of conflicts between the 6th and 8th centuries. We can date these wars and other events in Maya history, thanks to one of their greatest inventions, the calendar. The Maya long count calendar was developed early in Maya civilization and was shared by most Maya peoples. They used the calendar to schedule religious ceremonies, plan agriculture, chart the stars, and catalog key events. For example, King Pekal of Palenque assumed the throne on precisely July 27th, 615, and died on August 29th, 683, giving him a reign of exactly 68 years and 33 making him the 5th longest-raining monarch in world history. The Maya suffered a significant collapse around 900 CE that saw many major cities like Teacl and Palenque abandoned, and there was a sharp drop-off in artistic and architectural work. Scholars have traditionally attributed this to environmental factors, such as a massive drought caused by climate change, or overworked soil, but the exact cause remains a mystery. The Maya didn't totally vanish, though. Life shifted away from cities like Teacl, Calacmo, and Palenque, and moved to smaller towns or villages instead. But there were new cities like Chichenita, which emerged long after the classical period had come to a close. While the Maya never returned to the same level of urbanization, political complexity, or monument building, as they had in their classical years, they remain a proud and living people to this day. The Toltex But beyond the Maya, the 9th century saw the collapse or decline of societies across Mexico, suggesting widespread effects from climate change, disease, drought, invasion, and or social unrest. It was in this period of change and unrest that a new power emerged in the form of the Toltex of Tula. According to later Mesoamerican sources, the Toltex were a powerful militaristic empire, but they were also unrivaled in architecture, trade, and the arts. Most of northern and central Mexico, and even the Yucatan, fell under their sway between the 10th and 12th centuries. Even more so than most ancient Mexican people, though, the Toltex are something of an enigma to modern scholars. Archaeological evidence of this post-classical empire is sketchy, at best, and not nearly as extensive as we would expect, given the later stories about them. We know they spoke the Nahuatl language, shared by the later Aztecs, but elaborate accounts of their conquest from the Aztecs also can't be verified, and they are filled with the appearance and direct intervention of the gods. Supposedly, the Toltex fell when civil war ripped Tula apart in the 1150s, and soon only the ruins and tales of their glory remained. Modern scholars take later accounts of the Toltex with a grain of salt. Later Mexican societies treated the Toltex as an almost mythical predecessor whose power they supposedly inherited, and these tales were probably exaggerated by later sources. If one group was most responsible for the idolization of the Toltex, it had to be the Aztecs. According to their own legends, the Aztecs hailed from a distant land far to the northwest, and were led to Mexico in the 12th century by their god Weetzdil Apochdeli. When they reached the shores of Lake Texcoco, they saw an eagle eating a snake upon a cactus, and knew this was the site of their new capital, Tenochtilán. They assumed a new name, the Mexico, and thus began the story of the Aztecs in Mexico. Certainly, the Aztecs were foreign migrants, but their tale of arriving and planting a city on a divinely ordained spot is an exaggeration. They actually spent their first few centuries as a lesser power, struggling to establish their legitimacy among the numerous existing peoples in the Valley of Mexico. It is this craving for legitimacy that probably explains the Aztecs' veneration of the Toltex, as they tried to emulate and appropriate the last great power of the region. By 1428, though, the Aztecs had established three powerful cities of Tenochtilán, Texcoco, and Talacopan to form a triple alliance, with the death of the ruler of the local Tapanek Empire, to which the Aztecs were forced to pay tribute, the triple alliance seized the opportunity to overthrow their masters and assume an imperial dominance of their own. Namely, the three cities were all equal, but the ruler of Tenochtilán was clearly the dominant force. He served as the Aztec Emperor, or Tlatawani, and Tenochtilán was by far the largest city in Mexico, and one of the largest anywhere in the world at the time. Tenochtilán was an impressive city of artificial islands, intersected by canals, and adorned with monuments and pyramids in the Mesoamerican style. Some of these pyramids, like the Huey-Tailcali, were the sight of the most infamous part of Aztec life, human sacrifices. The Aztecs believed that Huetzilapochtili, the God of the Sun, needed human blood to stay strong. Sacrifices could be willing or forced, but all would be led to the top of the pyramid, where a priest would cut out their heart with an obsidian knife, and then dismember the body. In some cases, parts of the victim were eaten. Human sacrifice was not unknown in other Mesoamerican cultures, but it is best known from the Aztecs. Over the next few decades, Aztec armies marched out and subdued numerous cities in the surrounding area, as their power grew, they compelled more cities to bend the knee, until their empire stretched beyond the valley of Mexico, claiming the obedience of around 500 cities or towns by 1519. The Aztecs ruled a sort of tributary empire. They didn't send governors out to rural cities. They didn't set up an imperial bureaucracy, and they didn't build roads or fortresses to connect and control their empire. They demanded tribute in the form of food, gold, and other commodities, and sometimes in human sacrifices. As long as these were given, the cities were mostly left alone to run themselves. It was this empire that hernen Cortez heard of when he made landfall at Veracruz on April 22nd, 1519. The Spanish marched inland, where they made contact with the various cities who made up the Aztec empire. Both parties were intrigued, confused, and horrified by the other. Some cities chose to be diplomatic to the strangers, others chose to resist. Cortez used their resistance as proof of their pagan wickedness and punished those who opposed him. The city of Cholula was one such resistant example, so Cortez sacked the city, massacred its population, and burned many of its buildings to the ground. Nevertheless, on November 19th, 1519, the Aztec ruler Montezuma II met Cortez outside Tenochtitlan, where the two men exchanged pleasantries and Montezuma invited Cortez to stay in his city. Later, histories have judged Montezuma as a fool for inviting Cortez into his capital and housing the Spanish for the next few months. However, it must be considered that Tenochtitlan was where the Aztecs could best keep an eye on the Spanish, and it was where most of their manpower was concentrated. Better have them there than roaming about Mexico. Eventually, perhaps inevitably, the Spanish seized the upper hand. They placed Montezuma under a sort of house arrest. Reportedly, he remained on good terms with his captors. During the feast of Toxcatal, in May 1520, a massacre committed by the Spanish turned the population against them. The Spanish were practically besieged in the city, and when Montezuma went out to calm the crowds, he was either struck by a rock thrown or executed by the Spanish, depending on the source. The Spanish were forced to flee the city in what became known as La Noche Treesde, losing hundreds of men and much of the treasure they had gathered. However, the Aztecs had made plenty of enemies through their imperial dominance. In May 1521, Cortez returned with his 1000 conquistadors and tens of thousands of Mexican allies. After a ten-week siege, the Spanish broke into the city, killed its warriors, and tore down the shrines of the Aztec gods. The fall of the city was bloody and chaotic. It was a symbolic end to the age of pre-colonial Mexican civilization. In the words of one Nahuatl poet after the conquest, broken spears lie in the roads. We have torn our hair in our grief. The houses are ruthless now, and their walls are red with blood. The conquest of Tenochtitlan was the end of the Aztec Empire and the dawn of Spain's imperial dominance of Mexico. While many native cities and kingdoms remained in Mexico, the Spanish would consume them all in the coming years. Those who did not fall to Spanish arms, fell to diseases like smallpox, measles, and typhus that the Native Mexicans had no resistance to. 15 million people are estimated to have called the territory of today's Mexico home in 1500, but just 1.5 million did so in 1600. It would be 300 years before the Mexicans could claim to rule themselves again, but even then, it would never be the same.