---
video_title: "The Empire That Once Ruled England and France"
video_id: DwPxHb8f4Vk
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DwPxHb8f4Vk
video_date: 2025-07-08T13:45:20+00:00
video_description: |
  The Entire History of England Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9hTp9bhr1T3t3GPkz-8gQQy
  Get Early Access to our videos:
   https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
   https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  
  How did England "become" French? - History of England (939 - 1207)
  
  Of course, England didn’t literally become French, but after the Norman Conquest in 1066, French became the language of power. For the next centuries, English kings, nobles, and other elites spoke Old French as their native tongue. This foreign language dominated the royal court,  the legal system, and the administration. Latin, for example, was used for records, but French was the spoken language of the rule.  Between 1154 to 1214, England even became part of the Angevin Empire.  A  realm stretching from Scotland to the Pyrenees Mountains in southern France, where the English crown ruled more of France than the French king himself. At this point in history, we can say, that in many ways, England has become more French than English.
  
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
---
Ethelstan was the first to unify England, but many aspects of what we recognize as England today were yet to develop. Many of the iconic aspects we think of for England, like its castles, its common law, and endless rivalry with all of its neighbors, were still to come. A final wave of invaders was yet to arrive, who would give England many of its iconic characteristics. In this video, we will see how the Norman Conquest transformed England and how they created many of England's greatest and longest lasting institutions. The Anglo-Saxon Crisis Ethelstan's death marks the beginning of renewed instability. The successor Edmund I was immediately faced with the loss of the North again in 939, when Ola Guthwrethson, the Norse king of Dublin, attacked and seized York, and reasserted Viking control over Northumbria. Over the decades, power in the North seesawed between English kings and Norse invaders. Among the most notable was Eric Bloodaxx, a former king of Norway, who ruled as King of York intermittently in the 940s. His dramatic career, forged in both Norway and the Viking world of Ireland and the Isles, symbolized the ongoing Norse challenge to Anglo-Saxon authority. Bloodaxx was ultimately killed in battle around 954, ending Norse rule in York for good and allowing King Eddoreth to fully reunify the kingdom under English control. Later in the century, under King Edgur the Peaceful, England saw administrative consolidation, ecclesiastical reform, and a rare period of peace. But the death of Edgur in 975 sparked succession disputes and the murder of his son Edward the martyr in 978 left the young Ethelred on the throne. Just as the tides of Norse aggression were once again rising. Anglo-Saxon England have been blessed with many great kings, but it was inevitable that would come to an end. The 978 a session of Ethelred the Unready did exactly that. Unreliable and indecisive, Ethelred was unable to rally his realm to face a new wave of Danish attacks. In 1013, he was briefly deposed by the Danish Sven Forkbeard, but Sven's sudden death a few months later allowed Ethelred back into power. He was unable to secure his own son's succession, though, and upon his death in 1016, Sven's son Konut reestablished a Danish kingship over England. England enjoyed 19 years of peace under Konut. He treated the English nobles fairly, invested in the navy and army, and also organized the country into Uraldums, ruled over by powerful Urals loyal to him. The most significant of these Urals was Godwim, Ural of Wessex. After the brief and disappointing reigns of Konut's sons Harold Harefoot and Arthur Konut, the English nobles called Ethelred's son Edward to the throne. Among these nobles was Godwim, whose family now controlled several of England's Uraldums. Edward kept the crown, but the house of Godwim effectively held more power than him. Edward's piety and kindness earned him a sainthood and the epithet of Confessor, but it could not make up for his weak rule and his failure to leave an heir upon his death in 1066. The Norman Conquest The nobles quickly nominated Harold Godwimson to succeed Edward. As the most powerful of the Urals and the heir to Godwim, he could command respect, but his claim was challenged by two rivals. Harold Hardrada, king of Norway, claimed his predecessor had been promised the throne years ago, then there was William of Normandy. Like named William the Bastard, he was a first cousin once removed of the late Edward and claims that Edward had promised him the throne. Hardrada reached England first in September 1066 and Harold rushed to meet him. On September 26th, they clashed at the Battle of Stemford Bridge, where once Vikings had dominated the English, now the English armies had the upper hand. Hardrada was slain on the field, marking the symbolic end of major Viking invasions in England, though Viking influence remained in law and in culture. There was no time to save the victory however, as William landed in the south just three days later. Harold marched what remained of his exhausted army south, grabbing up new troops along the way and drew up for battle at Hastings on October 14th. They were no match for superior Norman Cavalry and archers. Fained retreats broke the English shield wall and an arrow struck down Harold on the field. The English army crumbled soon after. Norman England On Christmas Day 1066, William the conqueror was crowned King of England in Westminster Abbey. William quickly marched north and massacred the resistant local population. It was said that all the land between York and Durham was left uninhabited. He took a similarly brutal approach to any sign of unrest elsewhere. Coupled with his desolation of the English nobility, England was almost a fresh canvas upon which to place a new political and social order. That new order was feudalism, a much stricter hierarchy than the Anglo-Saxon system. William granted lands to his vassals, who swore loyalty to him in exchange for their title as Baron. Barons with themselves have vassals in the form of knights who were obligated to serve in battle when called upon, in exchange for their own parcel of land. Beneath them were the regular folk of England. All of England and its inhabitants were parceled out to Barons and knights in this feudal structure, with every English peasant owing obedience, service and produce to their respective Lord. The feudal system was designed for the extraction of taxes and organization of martial obligations. To get a better sense of the resources at hand, William ordered an in-depth survey of all of England's land. The resultant Dumsday book provides a detailed look at England at this time and shows how quickly the Normans displaced the English. Virtually every bit of land was in Norman hands by 1086, with the native English virtually wiped out from the nobility. The Dumsday book was a remarkable feat of administration, reflecting the scale of Norman control over England. For the common people, this was a far more total and demanding lordship than had existed under the Anglo-Saxons. William and his successors extracted much heavier taxes, and the Barons asserted great control over affairs in their feasts. A peasant depended upon his lord for everything. He could not grind his grain unless it was in the lord's mill, nor bake his bread unless it was in the lord's oven. The common people were usually referred to as villains, but in time this became synonymous with the Latin term for slave, service, and from there they came to be known as serfs. Aside from heavier taxes though, life did not change much for the average surf. Agricultural life was still as hard and fragile as ever. Life was made a little easier with the introduction of windmills to grind grain in the later 12th century, and with the gradual supplanting of oxen with horses as the primary agricultural drawt animal. But the basic rhythm of medieval farming life dragged on. Arguably, the biggest intrusion on daily life were land restrictions. Norman nobility loved to hunt, and with the king claiming ownership of all the land, he reserved the right to restrict its use by 1200 between a quarter and a third of England was designated as a royal forest, where serfs could be punished for hunting. Urban life flourished under the Normans with 21 new towns chartered by 1100, although around 90% of the population remained rural. The iconic part of a Norman town, and often the nucleus around which it formed, was the castle. There were over 80 of them across England and Wales by 1100. Larger, more important castles were built in stone like Windsor, Dover, and Warwick. Most were wooden, with a fortified keep known as a moat sitting upon a natural or artificial mound overlooking an enclosed Bailey containing the amenities needed for the ruling Baron and his family. The castle was typically surrounded by a moat, which may or may not have been filled with water. While the castles were places of shelter for the local people in times of war, they were just as much a protection against the locals as they were protection for them. The Normans were ever suspicious of the natives. The growing Norman towns often had schools or libraries usually attached to cathedrals, which encouraged education and cultural production. By the middle of the 13th century, England had rediscovered the classic Greek and Latin texts and reintegrated them into education. Oxford became home to England's first university, beginning some time in the 11th century and more sprung up in the following years. There was no town without trade, and market was another defining feature of Norman urban life. The Normans brought one of the most advanced currency systems in the world with them. So commerce was a major focus. Townspeople would go to market every week to buy whatever they needed, but did not make themselves. Annual fairs were grand occasions where merchants would come from across the country and beyond to sell their wares. With Norman control, easily connecting England to the continent, this trade flourished. It was no surprise then that merchant guilds emerged by the 12th century. These merchant guilds were powerful institutions, and in some cases, like Reading, forms the ultimate authority in the town. Merchant guilds were soon joined by guilds for other specialty occupations, including Smiths, Stone Masons, and most powerfully of all, the Weavers, upon whom the great wool trade rested. The other pillar of any Norman town was the church. With both England and the Normans thoroughly Christian, the practice of religion did not change much with the conquest. The main difference was organizational. Church land could be integrated into the feudal system with bishops as a sort of vassal, and William made sure to fill top-level church offices with Normans. William's control of the church antagonized the pope, and the debate over royal versus papal control of the church in England would continue to cause issues for centuries to come. The later Norman kings. William the conqueror died in 1087. He left Normandy to his son Robert, and England to his other son, William. William II was a cruel, greedy, and extravagant ruler, who worsened the already heavy tax burden on the English people to pay off his brother in order to seize control of Normandy. His subjects resented him, and the nobles despised him, so few shed a tear when he was killed in a convenient, punting accident in 1100. His brother, Henry I, claimed power the very same day. He imposed similarly high tax demands on his people to fund his obsession with retaking Normandy, which he ultimately did in 1106. Upon his death, Henry named his daughter Matilda as his heir, but the nobles resisted the idea of a female ruler and instead backed Stephen of Blua, a powerful landowner and grandson of William the conqueror. Stephen was a dreadful king. He lacked the charisma or ruthlessness necessary for the crown, and England descended into a period known as the Anarchy. The barrens noticed Stephen's weakness and asserted their authority in defiance of royal control, ignoring his orders and ruling almost independently. In 1139, Matilda invaded England to claim her promised throne while her husband targeted Normandy. The Scots also invaded simultaneously, and the Welsh rebelled too, forcing Stephen into a war on multiple fronts. In 1141, Stephen was defeated by his cousin at the Battle of Lincoln and taken captive. He was released a few months later when his wife, also named Matilda, defeated his cousin at Winchester. Still, fighting stretched on for years with no end in sight. Until 1153, when Matilda's son Henry arrived with a fresh army, at almost the same time, Stephen's son and heir, Eustace, died unexpectedly. With the realm exhausted, the king wallowing in grief and no heir to speak of, Stephen was forced to make peace. He signed the humiliating Treaty of Westminster which forced him to accept Henry as his successor. Stephen finally died on December 19th, 1154, passing the fractured Norman Realm to the Plantagenet Angévan Dynasty. The Angévan Empire Henry II's reign brought most of France and England together under the same crown and ended the 15-year-long anarchy. His Angévan Empire stretched from the borders of Scotland down to the Pyrenees. His marriage to Eleanor of Aquitaine added that valuable kingdom to Israel too. And a formidable woman to serve as queen. With such a vast and wealthy realm, Henry II was the greatest monarch in Europe for a time. However, he was clearly more French than English and spent most of his reign in Normandy. Henry's biggest contribution to England was in matters of law. The growing power of the king and the conception of the realm as all being in his possession made all matters of justice his concern. Most crimes had come to be offences against the king's peace and thus. Henry tackled legal issues by introducing juries, reducing trial by ordeal and expanding the court system with both a new royal court and traveling court known as heirs to dispense justice across the realm. Henry's reforms of the court system to hammer out local inconsistencies and create a more standardized legal landscape are regarded as the start of English common law. Henry II's reign is well known for his dispute with Archbishop Thomas Beckett. Henry wanted to reassert powers over the church that were lost in the anarchy. But Beckett resisted. Beckett fled into exile where he remained for six years. In his absence, Henry had his son, known as Henry the Young King, crowned as co-regient. Coronation was a unique privilege of Canterbury and this infuriated Beckett. It returned from exile in 1170 and excommunicated the bishops who had done the coronation. When Henry heard the news, he was exasperated. Oh, well no one rid me of this turbulent priest, he supposedly said. Some of his knights took that as an order. On December 29, 1170, four of those knights slew Beckett inside Canterbury Cathedral. The bishop was shocked at the murder and Henry became a pariah. He was forced to pay penance by sending knights to Jerusalem, building multiple monasteries and accepting papal control of most church affairs but his reputation never recovered. Conquest to Andrebellion in the Angevin Empire It was still much work to be done to repair the damage of Stephen's reign. In 1153, England reclaimed Durham, Northumberland and Westmoreland from Scotland, securing England and Scotland's modern borders. Henry was much less successful in reclaiming Wales. The Welsh princes bent the knee only briefly at the start of his reign before launching a great uprising in 1165. But left Wales independent once again, albeit with tribute obligations to England. Much more success was seen in Ireland. When the Irish king, Dermott Mekmara of Lentster, sought Henry's age to reclaim the throne, Henry allowed his nobles to sail over and aid him. This included Richard of Claire, nicknamed the Strongbow, who married Dermott's daughter and helped him retake Dublin. When Dermott died in 1171, Richard of Claire claims the crown, which caused Henry to rush over and reign in his powerful vassal. Richard agrees to surrender his Irish lands over to Henry, marking the start of English rule over the Irish. Henry and his vassals plundered Ireland for several years, and English rule soon fell upon the entire island. The greatest military tests of Henry's reign came from within. In 1173, Henry's unpopularity provoked a great revolt led by his own sons, wife and powerful barons. It enjoyed support from France and Scotland, the latter of whom invaded England under William of Lyon. Henry defeated the invaders and rebels on the field, but spared his sons and his wife, Eleanor. However, it was a dire sign of Henry's low popularity and insecure rule in the years after the Beckett scandal. He got only a few years of reprieve until 1183, when his designated heir Henry the Young King died. His second son, Richard, wanted the throne, but Henry favored the younger John in a dramatic move. Richard appealed to the energetic new King Philip Augustus of France to pressure Henry to appoint Richard as the heir at a meeting in November 1188. When Henry refused, Richard fell to his knees before Philip and pledged fealty to him instead. A brief war followed where Henry was thoroughly routed. Richard was far more popular and with France's support, Henry had no hope of victory. He retreated to Anjou where he died in the summer of 1184, leaving Richard to inherit his kingdom. Richard to Macnecarda King Richard I spent more time on the third crusade than he did in England, and never even learns the language. His exploits in Sicily, Cyprus and the Holy Land earned him the title of Lionheart. But they were of little relevance to England itself. More relevant was the breakdown in Richard's relationship with fellow European rulers, especially the King of France and the Holy Roman Emperor, which led to Richard's capture and imprisonment in 1193. His mother and his vassals imposed a heavy tax upon the English people to raise enough money to pay off his ransom, only for Richard to be shot dead by a child in 1199. The throne should have passed to his young nephew Arthur, but his brother John was the favorite of the nobles, and the aging Eleanor. John was an unpopular and often reckless ruler, skilled in administration but disastrous in diplomacy and in war. Within a few years, he had reopened hostilities with the King of France, which resulted in John losing all of the French territory, but not before blackening his reputation with the capture and murder of his nephew Arthur. Left isolated in England, John got himself excommunicated by the Pope in a dispute over the Archbishop of Canterbury. He tried and failed to retake his territory in France, leading to his defeat at the battle of Bovine in July of 1214. The fact that John had heavily taxed his realm to pay for these failed campaigns didn't help, and endless stories of John's cruel, abusive, and arrogant character led to open rebellion. In 1215, the great barons of the realm marched on London. When soon the church, lesser nobles, merchants, and townspeople, along with other sectors of society tired of John's awful rule, joined them. John met them to negotiate at Runnymead in June, where a landmark new document was drawn up. Magna Carta was a response to John's disastrous rule, seeking to limit royal power and protect feudal rights. Initially, it was a peace treaty that failed, but later reissues helped establish lasting principles of law. The king was no longer allowed to raise certain taxes without the approval of the king's council, and his powers and other matters were greatly limited. Magna Carta also guarantees the right to a trial, and offered numerous protections for the interests of barons, the church, and merchants. Initially, these protections existed only for the elites, but in time the principles of Magna Carta would expand to the common people. Above all, Magna Carta asserted the supremacy of law over that of the king and placed clear limits on his power. Magna Carta introduced the idea that the king was subject to law, though English monarchs continued to wield significant power for centuries. John was not pleased, and neither was the Pope, who also condemned Magna Carta. John and the barons resumed their war, but the king's death in 1216 ended the fighting. The nine-year-old Henry III took the throne with less land and less power than his predecessors. However, between its towering castles and powerful knights, its peasant villages and thriving towns, its newfound common law and Magna Carta, its antagonistic relationship with its Celtic neighbors, and its avowed hostility to France, many of the iconic pieces of the English nation and identity were securely in place.