---
video_title: "How did the Colonization of America Happen? (1592 - 1642)"
video_id: PJkAPAH5uyY
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PJkAPAH5uyY
video_date: 2025-04-10T11:00:37+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦How did the Colonization of America Actually Happen? (1592 - 1642)
  ♦Get Early Access to our videos:
   https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
   https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  
  ♦Please consider SUBSCRIBING: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  00:00 Colonial Powers Stake Claims
  02:40 Early Colonies: Successes and Setbacks
  05:51 Struggles, Survival, and Tobacco in Jamestown
  07:53 Mercantilism and New Waves of Settlers
  10:39 Colonial Conflict and Rising Tensions
  13:01 The Slave Trade, Sugar, and Fierce Competition
  16:30 Lasting Impacts: Disease, Decline, and Future Powers
  
  #History #Documentary
---
At the close of the 16th century, the European colonization of the Americas was well and truly underway. Spain had emerged as the region's superpower, conquering almost all of South America and making snaking inroads into the promising North America. The Treaty of Tortiseus of 1494 declared that all territories to the west of the demarcation line belongs to Spain. In theory, anyway, England, France and the Netherlands had simply laughed this off and went ahead with their plans shaking their heads at Spain and Portugal's naive arrogance. In 1592, the American colonies looked something like this. Portugal had colonized Brazil, with settlements scattered up and down the eastern coast. The capital was Salvador, and the northeastern region of Bahia where Portugal's Pedro Cabral had first claims Brazil in 1500. Spain had the most to show for its efforts with territories throughout the Caribbean, Mexico, Central America, and the bulk of South America. For Spain, it was all about the gold and silver. The mines in the new world were producing more wealth for Spain than anything the Portuguese had ever been able to extract from Africa. In 1585, the British had attempted an early colony at Roanoke in North Carolina, but the venture was a disaster. However, Britain was just getting started, and plans were being laid to return to North America, wiser and more determined. France had also delved into Canada and up and down the east coast. Although no official settlements had been established, it seemed only a matter of time before a full fleet of colonists would be dispatched. Similarly, the Dutch were primes to send their own opportunities to exploit trade and settlement opportunities in the new world. From the turn of the century, the action really heated up. Things had started badly for the British, with the abandoned colony at Roanoke. But far from discouraged, Britain simply decided to colonize further up the American coast in Virginia. First, the British decided they needed to improve the financing of their missions. This led to the creation of joint stock companies. These stock companies functioned much like major corporations of today, where investors bought shares at a trading company and received a portion of the profits. The stock companies were able to drum up much more money than the English monarchy could, and in 1606, the Virginia company sent a fleet of colonists and soldiers to the east coast. Virginia was named after Queen Elizabeth, who was known as the Virgin Queen because she never married. In 1607, the first British settlement was established in America in Jamestown, on the Chesapeake Bay in Virginia, named after King James I. Further up the eastern coast, France struggled to establish lasting colonies as harsh conditions and rival powers doomed several early efforts. In 1608, Samuel De Chaplin founded the first lasting settlement at Quebec, which was mainly set up to act as a fur trading post. From here, fur traders began setting up operations along the St. Lawrence River and forming relations with the local people, such as the Algonquin and Abonacchi tribes. The region along the St. Lawrence River came to be known as New France, or Canada, the latter coming from the native Iroquoisian word Canata, meaning village or settlement. Trade for fur really took off, and the French were dependent on the native smooth skills with skinny animal hides. Trading relations were gradually formed, albeit with occasional disputes. Not to be left out, in 1609, Dutch merchants hired the English captain Henry Hudson to make the trek across the Atlantic. The Dutch originally wanted Hudson to navigate away through the northwest passage, hoping to find a route connecting the Atlantic to the Pacific. Hudson found his way to the Hudson River and claimed the bay at the mouth of the river for the Netherlands. The Dutch plan was to make this colony a trading center instead of the agricultural model favored by the British. The Dutch West India Company was set up in 1621 with the main focus being on the lucrative fur trade. In 1624, Dutch settlers came over and founded new Amsterdam there, on the tip of today's Manhattan Island. The city became a thriving trade port, with the Native Americans only too happy to trade fur in return for firearms, wool blankets, and metal tools. Life was tough from the get-go for the colonists. Many were from privileged families back home, or were artisans and craftsmen. Few of them were used to the hard, physical labor that was required to get the colony up and running. Added to this was unforgiving ongoing battles with native tribes and periods of starvation, which eventually drove some to cannibalism. Many of the Jamestown settlers had come to America expecting to get rich by discovering gold when it didn't come, many gave up. Many more simply perished, and by 1610 there was only a hundred or so left. Jamestown was ultimately saved by the efforts and vision of Captain John Smith, and the explorer, John Rolf. Smith rallied the colonists through the hard times and saw the wisdom in building relationships with the local Sena Kamoko tribe. The natives taught the colonists how to farm the land and where to hunt. Smith famously told the settlers that he who does not work shall not eat and convinced the Jamestown people to hang on. Their fortunes changed in 1610 when John Rolf introduced the tobacco plant from South America. Now Virginia had a crop that would bring in repeat revenue, and land started being cleared for tobacco plantations. Cultivation of resources like tobacco was vital since Britain, France, and the Dutch operated in a system of mercantilism. Mercantilism held that the world's wealth was finite, and a nation only became rich at the expense of others. Therefore, imports needed to be minimized and exports maximized to achieve a positive balance of trade. Colonies allowed the colonis to produce resources without the needs to import them from rival powers, while selling the rest to boost their exports creating a positive trade balance. The British and French crowns worked closely with merchants to regulate trade to achieve this goal, and generally forbade their colonies from trading with rival mercantilist powers. English settlement was also taking place further up the East Coast. In 1620, Puritans arrived on the May flower ship and settled at Plymouth, in what would become Massachusetts. The Puritans were like many of the other early European settlers, driven to the Americas by religious persecution or being dissatisfied with the religious order back home. Other settlers were displaced farmers, former servants, or retired soldiers. Many were promised their own plots of land after completing an agreed-upon contract of labor. Just as in Virginia, the early Puritans also struggled with famine and the environment, but were aided in the early days by native tribes. The relationship soon soured though, when the local tribes realized the colonists were there to stay and intent on taking their land. The Europeans had originally planned to work with the natives. Many of the surviving colonists learned to live with the natives, or at least to coexist. Native tribes taught settlers how to farm the land, what crops to grow, and where to hunt. In turn, the colonists provided plenty of useful and desirable goods. Metal tools, fabrics, weapons, cooking utensils, and mirrors were readily traded, as were jewelry and alcohol. Animal skin clothes were replaced by cotton shirts and garments. Metal pots and pans proved to be better than clay utensils, and the European flint and steel made starting fires far easier. Of course, none of this could have taken place without at least some form of basic communication. Natives or settlers who immerse themselves in the other society proved to be highly valuable liaisons who could speak several languages. Some natives were captured and forced to become bilingual guides, while people from both sides often chose to live in the other culture's society. Relations between the settlers and natives became somewhat easier in some parts with increasing numbers of marriages. These marriages helped develop understanding between vastly different cultures and had the benefit of producing bilingual children. However, many Indigenous people resisted and would have rather died than work or yield to the European invaders. Even some of those who tried to cooperate with the Europeans soon turned against them. For example, the Seneca Moko initially accepted trade with the Jamestown settlers, but English ambitions and episodes of violence against native peoples led to open conflict in 1610. Only the marriage of John Wolf with a captured native woman named Pocahontas reconciled the two peoples for a short while. However, after the death of the reigning chief Pohatan in 1618, relations collapsed again. In 1622, the Seneca Moko launched a brutal attack on the Virginia colony that killed over 300 settlers. This provoked retaliatory violence from the settlers at another 20 years of violence that resulted in the English seizing vast amounts of land from the outgunned Seneca Moko. Similarly, the Dutch and New Amsterdam suffered a breakdown in relations with native peoples. They had, claims the Dutch, introduced the natives to global trade and the Christian faith. Not surprisingly, this meant nothing to the natives, who refused to pay extra payments demanded by the Dutch. Violent battles erupted in 1655, and the Dutch had their African slaves built a protective wall around New Amsterdam and the city's northeast. The streets that ran along this wall is now the most famous in New York City, Wall Street. Meanwhile, in South America, the 17th century also saw Portugal deciding to spend more money on developing its Brazilian colonies. King John III wanted it to be done properly, so he appointed Tommy de Soza as Governor-General of Brazil. Soza was an experienced administrator who'd served well in Portugal's African and Asian settlements. Soza founded the colonial capital at Salvador in 1549, divided Brazil up into captancies or land-alonging regions, and set up municipal organizations modeled on those back in Portugal. By 1600, Bahia and Pernambuco each had around 2000 citizens and more than double that in slaves. It wasn't all smooth sailing though for Portugal. France and the Dutch had ventured into Brazil and liked what they saw. This meant from the mid-16th to 17th centuries, Portugal was constantly fighting off French and Dutch invaders. In 1624, the Dutch briefly took over the capital of Salvador, but Lisbon sent a large battalion into the city to wrangle back control. While Portugal had started to ramp up settlements in Brazil, Spain was making a fortune from its gold and silver mines. This was all overseen by the vice royalty of Peru, which was a district set up in the 16th century with its headquarters in Lima. The district controlled a massive chunk of South America, and the vast supplies of silver made Lima Spain's second most important city after Mexico City. People back in Europe started to take keen interest in these new opportunities and settlers began arriving steadily. With so much valuable cargo traveling the sea, European powers funded privateers, a kind of government-backed pirate to harass and capture the ships of rival nations. No ships were safe traveling across the Atlantic, and Spain resorted to forming convoys with heavily armed bodyguard-type ships. Extracting the wealth from these new colonies required vast amounts of labor. Disease and conflict had sharply reduced the native population, and there weren't enough settlers to do all the needed work, so the Europeans turned to slaves. For the first half of the 17th century, the Atlantic slave trade was largely run by the Portuguese and Spanish. By far, the greatest number of African slaves were sent to Mexico, with others being shipped to Spanish colonies in the Caribbean and to Portuguese Brazil. Portugal had the greatest access to slaves because it controlled areas in West Africa, such as Angola, Cape Verde, and Guinea de São. Slaves were bought or simply seized from African tribes and shipped either directly to Brazil or to Spanish Hispaniola. Thanks to the Iberian Union, Portugal and Spain were united from 1580 to 1640. The main crop in the early days was sugar. The demand for sugar was on the rise in Europe and would go through the roof in the 18th century. Farming sugar was tough work. It was a backbreaking job carried out in stifling heat, in other words, a job fit for slaves. Some slave ships were attacked by fleets from rival countries. British privateers often raided Spanish slave ships or even slave colonies in the Caribbean. This is how the British acquired their first slaves to be used in the American colonies. In 1619, British privateers attacked a Spanish slave ship, stole the slaves, and then sent them to Virginia to work on the tobacco plantations. As their colonies developed, the English, French, and Dutch became heavily invested in slavery. By 1625, more than 320,000 slaves have been shipped over from Africa. This number would ultimately rise to over 12 million by the 19th century. By the mid-17th century, competition between European powers for land and resources in the new world was fierce. Seeking access to Caribbean sugar in 1627, the English settled in Barbados, followed by Nevis in 1628 and then Montserrat and Antigua in 1632. In 1638, another European power decided to get in on the act, when the colony of new Sweden was founded by the Swedish South Company. This was a joint venture of Swedish Dutch and German business interests who were keen to set up trade links on the East Coast. New Sweden was based along the Delaware River with settlements in today's Delaware, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey. Conflicts between these European powers regularly played out in the colonies. For example, Britson invaded French Canada during the 30 years war, besieging and capturing Quebec, although they handed it back to the French in 1632. This was to be a familiar pattern over the next hundred or so years. Conflicts in Europe having a huge influence on the balance of power in America. Of course, this European expansion came at the expense of indigenous peoples. The Europeans came from cultures that lived with domesticated animals such as cows, pigs, sheep, and chickens. This brought new strains of disease that were completely foreign to these people. Smallpox, influenza, typhus, yellow fever, and measles were all new to the Americas and were soon spread throughout the native populations. Weapons were readily traded with the settlers, with firearms being the most sought after. This increased the level of violence between tribes, as natives began using the more advanced weapons on each other. War was now more lethal, as the natives became quickly proficient in the use of muskets and pistols. This easy access to deadlier weapons had another telling effects on the native population decline. It also took a serious toll on the environment. Because many natives wanted more guns, they began hunting more animals for their furs and clearing more land. Soil erosion became a problem, while wildlife habitats and species became threatened. In New England, beavers were virtually extinct by the 18th century, such was the demand for their fur. No more beavers meant no more ponds, which reduced fish numbers and watering holes for other animals, such as deer and moose. Europeans introduced farm animals, such as pigs, goats, and cows, which were allowed to wander around grazing freely on much of the food traditionally eaten by deer, which further reduced the hunting options. Alcohol was a real scourge on the indigenous populations. Some people quickly became addicted, leading to early deaths, broken homes, and the breakdown of tribal structures. Tribal elders naturally voiced their disapproval and did all they could to limit consumption, but many leaders themselves became addicted, compounding the problem. It's estimated that in the 150 years that followed Columbus's arrival, the American natives lost roughly 80% of their population. Between 1492 and 1650, the numbers had plummeted from 50 million to just 8 million. As the 17th century neared its halfway point, there had already been huge changes since Columbus first landed in the Americas. Native populations had been decimated, and slavery was about to become a booming industry. Spain was still very much the dominant power, but the seemingly endless supplies of silver and gold were beginning to trickle out. Brazil was slowly building into a formidable South American country, and the Portuguese and Spanish were bonded via the Iberian Union. Meanwhile, the other two European superpowers, Britain and France, had made their intentions clear. They'd both had a taste of what North America had to offer, and they liked it a lot, and were in it for the long haul. The next hundred or so years were about to bring further changes that would completely transform the world as everyone knew it.