---
video_title: "How Were The Native American Tribes Formed?"
video_id: f37x9ZoxaA8
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f37x9ZoxaA8
video_date: 2025-12-19T13:10:24+00:00
video_description: |
  Get your very detailed History map here: https://knowledgia.co/pages/framed-maps
  Beautifully crafted, designed to stand out in any room, and perfect for anyone who loves history.
  The Entire History of Ancient America Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9gl2_w-Oc3Qa_OKR5vuMpM_
  
  
  How Were The Native American Tribes Formed?
  
  During an era in which the Roman Empire had been engaged in a conquest of Europe and North Africa in an attempt to control the lucrative trade routes of the Mediterranean world, the ingenuity of the Hopewell allowed them to establish a vast trading network of their own across the eastern half of the United States.
  
  
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
---
As the warm glow of the sun descends upon the vast plains of the American continents during the First Millennium AD, we find innovative and ingenious cultures that have come to dominate the landscape. As these native groups gazed out to the lands that lay before them, no doubt it may have appeared similar in many regards to that observed by their archaic ancestors thousands of years ago. By the middle woodland period, often defined by archaeologists as occurring between 200 BC and 500 AD, the Hopewell tradition rose to prominence as one of the greatest cultures in American history. It flourished during this era, influencing various cultures across its vast trade network. Archaeologists generally agree that Hopewell and their predecessors, the Adina, were one of North Americans' earliest civilizations and the first to construct extensive city-like settlements. During an era in which the Roman empires had been engaged in a brutal conquest of Europe and North Africa, in an attempt to control the lucrative trade routes of the Mediterranean world, the ingenuity of the Hopewell allowed them to establish a vast trading network of their own across the eastern half of the United States without violence. Expanding on the trade networks developed by their Adina predecessors, the Hopewell extended an intricate web of commerce from the Crystal River Indian Mountains in Florida to the northern shores of Lake Ontario, the Gulf Coast, and from the Mississippi River far to the east. They produced beautiful artwork and artisans crafted various unique goods, including stone pipes in the shape of effigy animals, which were used to smoke tobacco and a number of other substances. The impacts of the Hopewell during the Woodland period cannot be overstated, their extensive trade network and cultural exchange laid the groundwork for future civilizations, and their influence can still be seen in modern society. However, in our efforts to explore the complexity of this civilization using a modern lens, we generally define the Hopewell as one single culture. However, these groups were far more diverse and complex than is often recognized. In fact, the Hopewell tradition was an intricate network of various interconnected Native American groups who shared standard trade practices and cultural elements across a large region. They left an indelible mark on the landscape, which is still evident today across their traditional homelands centered in Ohio and extending throughout the Midwestern states. The Hopewell were masters of land survey and geometry, continuing on and building upon the Adina custom of earthworks and mound pyramids. But on a much grander scale, massive earthworks were etched into the landscape, often constructed in clusters of 10 to 20 mounds. It's been estimated that 10,000 once covered the heartland of this culture, but over time, this has been reduced to a few thousand. What remains a mystery is how such enormous construction projects were possible. An impressive level of coordination was needed to build all these earthworks, as a sophisticated form of mathematics, including a standard measuring system and an understanding of geometry was necessary. One measurement that is found at many sites is 1,053 feet, apparent in various parts of the structure. Many areas are also enclosed in precisely 20 acres. Such repetition found at many of the earthen structures showcases that they were intentional in where and how they built these monuments. They make up some of the most impressive indigenous structures in the Americas, and from above, many take on the shape of animals, birds, and serpents. Embedded into many of these architectural wonders is a profound understanding of astrology. The Hopewell builders aligned many of their mounds and monuments with the rising and setting of the sun, moon, and planets. The remnants of the monuments stand as a testament to the cultural achievements of the Hopewell, but their golden era would be short-lived. By around 500 AD, this once prosperous culture had all but vanished. No longer were enormous mounds constructed on the landscape. Their vast trade network went cold, and their unique art disappeared from the archaeological record. Researchers have put forth various reasons behind the collapse of the Hopewell tradition, citing a rising level of hostility between tribes. As villages and settlements grew in size towards the end of the culture, larger communities began building defensive walls and ditches. Climate change may have also played a prominent role in the demise of the Hopewell. Colder conditions drove animals further north or west beyond their homeland. This had a detrimental effect on both game and plants, drastically reducing these crucial food sources. The introduction of the bow and arrow, a highly effective weapon that improved hunting techniques but also intensified warfare further drove people into larger fortified communities. With fewer people using trade routes, the network linking people to the Hopewell traditions ultimately declined. Whatever the reason for their ultimate demise, archaeological evidence has proven that the groups didn't face extinction. As genetic evidence has proven, the Hopewell are the ancestors of the Chippewa, Delaware, Kikapu, Miami, Ottawa, Peoria, Potawatomi, Seneca, Shawnee, and Wyandotte. Since we started this channel, we have been obsessed with historical maps. Since some of you might like maps as well, we created a few products for you. High resolution downloads and museum quality prints go to knowledgeia.co and have a look if you want to own one, use my code in the description below. Now back to the video. As the Hopewells once bright lights of cultural innovation began to dim far to the north, Mesoamerican cultures entered a golden age of their own. As we continue to peel back the grand tapestry of these continents, we find thriving cultures such as the Olmec and Zapotec in Central America, inhabitants of parts of southern Mexico. But while these cultures were innovative in their own right, it could be said that none have had a lasting effect on the evolution of Mesoamerica quite like the Maya, whose heartlands lay in modern Guatemala, parts of Belize, Chappas, and the Yucatan Peninsula. Fabled for their great stone cities, towering pyramids and scientific advancements, the Maya rose to their greatest height during the classical period, which archaeologists claim lasted from 250 to 900 CE. Major cities such as Tical, Copan and Palenque flourished during this period, each with a population up to 50,000 residents, a testament to the grandeur of the Maya civilization. They thrived partly due to their expertise in cultivating and harvesting corn, beans and squash to support a growing population. They implemented a form of slash and burn agriculture, like some groups in North America, and their innovative and advanced forms of irrigation and terracing allowed them to grow enormous amounts of food. By the height of the Maya civilization, it is estimated that there were around 2 million people, most of whom lived in the lowlands of Guatemala. With a stockpile of sustenance, the Maya could develop into a flourishing civilization with a unique form of politics far ahead of its time. These governments, characterized by a hierarchical structure and a system of tribute and taxation, could bring together large numbers of residents from the community to engage in large-scale building projects, such as the construction of sprawling cities that often held various enormous pyramids, sacred temples and luxurious palaces. But what truly set them apart from other cultures was their distinct and complex, hieroglyphic writing system. Using paper made from the inner bark of wild fig trees, they used these intricate symbols to write extensive cottices. Primarily, these were centered on astronomical information, including predictions of solar and lunar eclipses, the movements of planets like Venus, essential dates on their calendar, religious rituals and sometimes even historical events. Using a fairly basic but highly effective number system consisting of three symbols, the Maya became masters of time, mathematics and the stars. Using this knowledge, they developed one of the most accurate calendar systems in human history. The most commonly known of these cyclical calendars are the Hobbes, the Soken and the calendar round. But the long calendar is often considered the most intriguing of all as it records mythical and historical events, some extending back tens of thousands of years. Despite the advancements made by the Mayans during the classical period, they suffered a fate similar to that of many civilizations that came before them. Starting around 900 AD, their civilization entered into a rapid decline, leaving many of their renowned cities and ceremonial centers abandoned. Over time, the forests began to engulf the once proud pyramids and temples and the cities fell into ruin. Scholars are still in debate as to what led to the collapse of this once prosperous civilization. Some claim armed conflicts and the exhaustion of natural resources and agricultural land are responsible for their sudden decline. However, studies conducted in more recent decades have pointed to territorial disputes over land and river trade routes as additional reasons. These disputes often leading to violent conflicts may have weakened the social and political structure of the Maya, contributing to their downfall. Nonetheless, by the end of the first millennium AD, major cities such as Palenca, T'Kal and Calacmull were abandoned and the once great and prosperous Maya civilization had become a shadow of its former glory. The sacred river valleys and monumental mountains life during the Mississippi period. In the grand tapestry of North American history, the emergence of the Mississippi culture stands as a significant chapter with long lasting effects. The indigenous groups of North America were forced to reckon with the reality of the changing landscape and environment. Mother Nature's unforgiving presence could uproot settled tribes at any point, forcing them to seek sustenance and shelter in distant lands. In the upheaval that followed the golden era of the Hopewell, we see a stark decline in social cohesion throughout the northern Mississippi and Ohio valleys. But this wouldn't last forever. Just as the Maya had begun to abandon their sacred temples and the lowlands of Guatemala, the Mississippi culture emerged on the fertile banks of the Mississippi and River Valley. This innovative cultures influence extended along the lower Ohio River Valley and they would go on to dominate the Midwestern, South Eastern and inland Eastern parts of North America for around eight centuries. Known as the Mississippi culture, this powerful civilization was characterized by fortified towns or small homesteads, most of which were under the command of a complex chiefdom. We see signs of centralized control of political and religious power under these groups, bringing with it the beginning of a settlement hierarchy in which one major center held influence over a number of smaller settlements and communities. The Mississippians still scoured the land for sustenance, hunting animals and gathering plants. However, they were primarily farmers. The wide-scale adoption of maze-based agriculture resulted in more intensive cultivation techniques. During this era, we see a particular reverence towards growing the three sisters, a name given to the symbiotic relationship between corn, beans and squash. The so-called sisters provided a stable and balanced diet, making a larger population possible. Thousands of people lived in larger towns and cities and distinct roles appeared in society, including those of artisans, builders and craftsmen. A typical Mississippi in town would have truly been a site to behold. They were constructed close to rivers or creeks and could cover as much as 10 acres of land. The entirety of a settlement was often enclosed by a palisade, a type of wood-infenced composed of standing logs embedded upright in the ground. Homes were small yet cozy, often being approximately 12 by 10 feet in size. Like their predecessors, this society consisted of numerous distinct tribes, all of whom shared various cultural attributes. They adopted multiple aspects of the earlier Hopewell tradition, including constructing enormous earthworks, pyramids and platform mounds. Such mounds were usually square, rectangular or occasionally circular. However, the reason for the construction of earthworks may have differed within the Mississippi and culture, as they were topped with a temple-like structure or even a domestic home atop their peak. At the heart of most Mississippi in towns, lay an enormous ceremonial plaza, serving as a gathering place that could be utilized for a number of purposes, ranging from religious to social. The complexity of the Mississippi in culture is yet to be fully understood. But by studying sites such as Mountville and Alabama and Etouac in Georgia, archaeologists continue to highlight just how advanced this ancient culture was. But no site invokes a sense of wonder and awe quite like Cahokia, proudly nestled on the Mississippi River floodplain around 13 kilometers northeast of St. Louis in Missouri. Considered the largest pre-Columbian settlement north of Mexico, this Mississippi in sight is one of the finest examples of the culture's cultural, religious and economic prowess. Known more commonly as the Cahokia mounds, it covered nearly 1,600 hectares during the height of the culture and in a astonishing 120 mounds. It is a fascinating example of the complexity observed within Mississippi and Sheatham societies, evidenced by the numerous satellite mound centers and outlying hamlets and villages. At its greatest extent, this agricultural society may have boasted an impressive population of 10 to 20,000 people, which was at its peak between 1050 and 1150. The true scale of the workforce, these tribal communities could muster is showcased by many of the primary features that tower on the landscape even today, such as Monk Mound, the largest prehistoric earthwork in the Americas. It measures an impressive 1,000 feet in length, more than 700 feet in width, and is still 100 feet in height. The enormous mound was carefully constructed by Mississippi and builders, who manually transported basket loads of clay and soil to the site. Surprisingly, all the material was transported to the site in woven baskets without wheels or animals. Then, layer by layer, the tribal architect instructed the workers on placement, essentially creating a massive earth and platform mound. At the heights of the Mississippi and culture, the influence of this innovative and prosperous culture extended across the southeast and the mid-consonant. It was prevalent in the river valleys of what are now the states of Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Arkansas, Missouri, Kentucky, Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio, with scattered extensions northward into Wisconsin and Minnesota and westward into the Great Plains. The legacy of the Mississippi and culture lives on in modern-day Native American groups who claim descent from it, including the Alabama, Appalachia, Cato, Cherokee, Chickasaw, Chokta, Muscogee Creek, Guale, Hitchchidi, Homer, Kanza, Missouri, Mobillion, Natchez, Oseh age, Quapa, Seminole, Tonica Baloxi, Yamasi and Yuchi. Architects of old, largest building of pre-industrial America. Nestled among the dry and rugged landscape of northwestern New Mexico, carefully concealed within the borders of the Navajo Nation, lies one of the most significant archaeological sites ever constructed in the Americas. As Mississippi and builders meticulously gathered dirt to lay the foundations of enormous mounds along their sacred river valleys, a distinct group we know today as the ancestral Puebloans engaged in a number of mega-building projects of their own. The heartland of this culture was centered in the northern southwest around the four corners region. According to the current archaeological consensus, the Puebloan people first arrived in the southwest as early as 1,200 BCE, but many suggest it could have been much sooner. There was a considerable level of regional diversity amongst the early ancestral Puebloans, but several common traits were observed throughout the culture. They depended heavily on cultivated foods, including corn, and those settled in the western part of the southwest were primarily dry or floodwater farmers, who developed a particular set of religious beliefs that emphasized the sacred importance of rain. Several other aspects are apparent at many Puebloan sites, including the construction of Pueblos, which are multi-room and at times multi-story masonry structures. Kivas or distinct subterranean ceremonial centers are also common at many sites, alongside a distinctive form of pottery. Sometime between 900 and 1150 AD, the group of ancestral Puebloans began constructing a city-like settlement in the northwest corner of New Mexico. At a place known as Chaco Canyon, here on the desert plains, often subjects to chilling temperatures wedged between towering sandstone cliffs, the ancient Americans would go on to engage in a large-scale construction project that produced the largest buildings in North America until the 19th century. Dozens of manned-made structures dot the landscape. From small chambers to so-called great houses, such as Pueblo Bonito, these enigmatic structures that lie in ruin within the canyon stand as a reminder that this desolate region was once bustling with human activity. The monumental scale of architecture observed in the canyon showcases the complexity of the society that existed here. They possessed a high level of communal organization that allowed the Puebloans to plan and successfully construct massive stone buildings known as Great Houses, using masonry techniques that were advanced for their time. The Great Houses of Chaco Canyon were carefully planned in their totality prior to any work, suggesting they had a functional use. Constructions on some of these enigmatic buildings spanned decades and likely even centuries. The Chacoans quarried sandstone and transported timber from great distances to build their structures. Walls were tapered within the structure to distribute the crushing weight above evenly, and sandstone walls were roofed with pine beams, saplings, brush, and earth. Within, the rooms were connected with well-constructed doors often taking a T-shape, which were likely designed to prevent the entry of cold winds and provide privacy within the communal living spaces. At the heart of the canyon, almost dead in the center, lies the most imposing and greatest house of them all, Pueblo Bonito, meaning beautiful town. This impressive building would have towered over the landscape, reaching over five stories tall. Within the ruins are the remains of a labyrinth of corridors, passageways, and as many as 600 rooms, including kivas, terraces, and even unusual sections that appear to have no way in or out. Archaeologists have spent decades meticulously examining the remains of sites in this enigmatic region and have come to several shocking conclusions that showcased just how advanced the ancient Puebloans were. The Chacoans constructed a vast network of roads that connected Pueblo Bonito with many of the other great houses, and an intricate water control system provided clean water to the settlements. By 1050, Chaco had not just become the ceremonial, administrative, and economic center of the San Juan Basin, but its influence had extended far beyond. Yet, the true purpose of many of these great homes remains somewhat a mystery. Leading theories suggest the buildings were not traditional farming villages occupied by large populations, as there is simply no evidence to suggest this. Instead, they had a religious or ceremonial function serving as impressive examples of public architecture used periodically during ceremony, commerce, and trading when temporary populations came to the canyon for these events. But what's even more remarkable is the apparent astrological alignment embedded into the layout of the great homes. To modern researchers, the Chacoans are renowned for their astronomy and artistic achievements, and many Chacoan buildings were purposefully aligned to capture the solar and lunar cycles. Astronomical knowledge and expression appear to have formed a unifying cosmology for the Chacoan people across the vast region of their culture. As researchers continue to study the ruins of Chaco Canyon, many have suggested this great social experiment may have been the center of a pilgrimage in which people arrived from all directions. It was a sacred place that the Pueblo descendants themselves claim was a unique gathering place where many people and clans converge to share their ceremonies, traditions, and knowledge. Taking this into consideration, it makes sense that most of the buildings have kivas or ceremonial spaces, which are considered spiritual and political spaces even today by the Hopi tribe. Chaco Canyon remains somewhat of a puzzle to modern researchers. Was it simply a trading hub in which distinct groups could acquire macaws, copper belts, shells, and other commodities from distant lands? Did they offer food and resources to growing populations who were faced with a climate disaster, possibly a prolonged drought or other environmental challenges? Or was it a remarkable gathering place in which ancient Puebloans shared religious and political ideas, including an understanding of the stars? It's possible we may never get the full picture. By the 12th century, a decline in new construction was evident at Chaco and its role as a regional center had diminished. In time, Native American groups shifted away from this once bustling region migrating to new lands. Today, their descendants are the southwestern groups such as Hopi, Zuni, Akoma, and Laguna, all of whom look upon the ruins of Chaco as an integral stop along their clans' sacred migration paths, and it continues to be a spiritual place both honored and respected. Roaming the land for sustenance, a nomadic life on the open plains. Spending your time huddled in the carefully constructed homes that adorned the heights of sprawling mounts wasn't necessarily a prerequisite for life in the ancient Americas. For some tribes, a nomadic existence migrating with the seasons remains their way of life. Like their ancestors, they sought to follow seasons and migrated along with animals such as the buffalo. To them, this migration was not merely a physical task, but represented a kind of spiritual journey, and joining the buffalo as they moved across the plains was highly sacred. The Navajo and Apache tribes were nomadic and relied on hunting and gathering. Because they were constantly moving, their homes were less permanent than the mound builders and Puebloans. The Navajo referred to themselves as the Dene, which translates to the people. It's thought they were part of a southward migration from Alaska, following an enormous volcanic eruption in the St. Elias Mountains around 803 AD. They later settled in around the four corners region, primarily continuing on with a life of hunting and gathering. They constructed temporary dwellings called Hogan's from a combination of mud and bark. Over time, their interactions with the Pueblo tribe taught them how to farm and cultivate land. But even with these newfound skills, they continued to move seasonally with their extended kinship groups practicing agriculture wherever they settled. Like the Navajo, the Lakota, who originated in the regions of Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Eastern North Dakota, preferred a life of nomadism. They followed bison herds across their vast territories, hunting the large animals for food, clothing, and other materials. During their extension migrations, they looked to the sun and stars for guidance, showcasing the importance of astrology to their culture. When they temporarily settled in a region, the woman of the tribe were in charge of setting up their accommodation, which consisted of portable teapies made using the hide of buffalo. These conical tents were made by stretching skins over a wood frame and could be assembled quickly, making them the perfect choice for a migrating tribe. Lakota legends speak of an origin close to the Great Lakes. Here, the tribes of the Dakota lived for many moons around the banks of Lake Superior. In this forest environment, they sustained their growing numbers by hunting, fishing and gathering wild rice. They also grew some corn, but their locale was near the limit of where corn could be grown. The nomadic lifestyle of many Native American groups likely contributed to the development of long-distance trade routes that crossed what are now modern national borders. Archaeologists have noted the existence of not only a cultural exchange between the Puebloan tribes of American Southwest and Mesoamerica, but the trading of goods such as metal items, mica mirror and even cacao, all of which found their way to the southwest. In return, the latter is thought to have supplied Mesoamerica with goods like turquoise, pottery and food items, decline of prosperous North American cultures, crop failures, internal warfare and colonization. The cultural innovation and technological advancements that allowed Native Americans to become masters of the environment were not enough to preserve their great cities indefinitely. While some fled in search of new land and others fled tribal wars, little did they know at the time an unforeseen threat was on the horizon, one that would forever change the course of history in the Americas. Just as the ancestral Puebloans of Chaco Canyon had slowly begun to abandon the settlements by the 12th century, the misuscipient culture of Cahokia Mountains had started to decline the following century before being abandoned by the 1400s. But just around this time, a new superpower began to rise in Central America, a culture that would grow into one of the largest and most powerful civilizations the Americas would ever see. This was the rise of the Mexica, better known today as the Aztecs. While the origins of these prominent people are somewhat obscure, it is thought they initially emerged as a collection of nomadic hunter-gatherers in northern Mexico before migrating to the area around modern Mexico City. The Aztecs believed they came from the mythical land of Aztland, which means white land in the Aztec language of Nahuatl. They were guided by their patron war god Wheatsiloh Pocchteli, which means left-handed hummingbird, or hummingbird from the south. They settled on an island in Lake Texcoco, after seeing an eagle holding a rattlesnake in its talons, fulfilling a prophecy that told them to found their city there. They built their famous capital city Tenotch-Titlan on an artificial island in Lake Texcoco, the remains of which can still be seen today. The Aztecs are known for their many accomplishments. To feed a growing population, they created beautiful and innovative floating gardens or chinampas to create more land for farming. These gardens were very productive, producing up to four crops per year. To support the growth of these crops, they implemented a complex system of aqueducts, which allowed an unlimited supply of freshwater for irrigation. Likely building on the work of older cultures such as the Olmec and Maya, they created their own intricate calendrical and numerical system, which allowed them to carefully track the stars, and recorded historical and mythological events. They even had a complex system of written laws and a code on how members of society should act, but they also had a darker side that sought to appease their gods. The Aztecs are known for their practicing of large-scale human sacrifice. They offered victims to wheat silo-pustile, the Sun God, believing it was necessary to maintain the cosmic balance and prevent the world from ending. This practice is well documented by both Aztec accounts. But as the Aztecs rose to prominence in Central America, many former grand settlements in the north were ultimately left to fall into ruin, with researchers claiming tribes and groups were forced to move on for a number of reasons. Overfarming resulted in a land drained of nutrients, meaning towns were forced to relocate. Tribal warfare also increased, and the evolution of a societal structure led to an increasingly political world in which some people in the community controlled more power and wealth than others. Drought, warfare, social unrest, and others such factors likely resulted in the decline of the Mississippi in culture. However, one major incident stands above all else and ultimately played a role in the demise of culture, the arrival of Europeans in the Americas. For these so-called conquistadors, conquest was nothing more than a business enterprise. The possibility of acquiring gold drew more spaniards like Hernán Cortez to the confidence, and he engaged in the first major conquest of Mexico in 1519, going on to topple the Aztec Empire there in 1521. Explorers embarked on vast journeys both north and south of Mexico, spending time with many of the native peoples. One such adventurer was Hernando Disoto. During the middle of the 16th century, this spaniard lived with and learned from the remaining Mississippi in tribes. A minor cultural exchange occurred in the beginning, some groups adopted European horses and sought to live a more nomadic life. By the time more documentary accounts were being written, the Mississippi in way of life had changed drastically. While groups like the Cherokee preserved oral traditions tied to their mount-building heritage, others, after migrating far from their ancestral lands, eventually lost knowledge of the builders behind the mounds that dotted the landscape. In the early years, these native groups were largely unaffected by Europeans, but soon everything will change.