---
video_title: "How did the Soviet Annex 3 Countries in just 1 Day?"
video_id: 8VhX_jOEf-o
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8VhX_jOEf-o
video_date: 2025-09-20T12:45:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Why didn't the Baltic Countries Fight The Soviets?
  
  Get your very detailed History map here: https://knowledgia.co
  Beautifully crafted, designed to stand out in any room, and perfect for anyone who loves history.
  
  ♦Get ACCESS to our exclusive videos and EARLY ACCESS to our public ones here:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  
  ♦Please consider SUBSCRIBING: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  Big thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  
  00:00 Intro
  00:38 Between Germany and the Soviet Union
  01:35 – Soviet Silent Occupation  
  02:08 Second Phase – Agitators  
  02:27 Third Phase – Abandonment  
  04:15 Fourth Phase – Military Invasion  
  07:30 Fifth Phase – Puppet Elections  
  08:28 Sixth Phase – Crushing Dissent  
  10:15 Baltic Resistance
  10:48 Sovietization
  11:23 Conclusion
---
In the spring of 1940, at the beginning of World War II, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania found themselves almost powerless in the face of Soviet political and military pressure. In just less than two weeks since ultimatums were sent, the three small countries were occupied, puppet regimes were installed and in the next weeks they were formally annexed after all three governments requested it. So the question appears, why didn't the Baltic countries resist the Soviets in 1940? The answer begins in August 1939 when Germany and the Soviet Union signed the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. Theoretically, this was presented as a non-aggression treaty. Secretly,

it was more of an agreement to divide Eastern Europe into spheres of influence. The pact's hidden protocols placed Estonia and Latvia in the Soviet sphere of influence, while Lithuania initially went to Germany. But less than a month later, Germany traded Lithuania to the Soviets in exchange for more of Poland. This arrangement effectively restored many of the Russian Empire's old territorial ambitions. The Baltic states had once been imperial provinces lost after the 1917 Revolution. In September 1939, after the Red Army invaded eastern Poland,

the Soviets turned their eyes toward the Baltics. One by one, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania were called to sign mutual assistance treaties. These were said to be protective treaties. They granted the Soviets the right to station thousands of troops, establish airfields and naval bases, and control key infrastructure. Soviet garrisons appeared almost overnight, strategically positioned to seize important regions if needed. While these treaties were signed under the threat

of force, Moscow also worked through other channels inside these countries. Soviet agents cultivated local communist groups, recruited sympathizers inside these state institutions, and poured propaganda into newspapers and radio. The narrative was set. The Baltic governments were portrayed as reactionary, pro-German, and hostile to the working class. By June 1940, the moment to strike had arrived. France, one of the few European powers that had offered even

moral support to the Baltics, fell to Germany in June. Britain was fighting for survival. The United States remained neutral. On June 14th, 1940, while German forces marched through Paris, the Soviet Union delivered ultimatums to Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia. each demanded the immediate formation of new governments approved by Moscow, the arrest of certain political leaders, unlimited entry of additional Soviet troops. The accusations justifying these demands were alleged

breaches of the mutual assistance treaties, antis-siet conspiracies, and the mistreatment of Soviet soldiers already stationed there. Behind the ultimatums stood overwhelming military power. For the Baltic operation, the USSR mobilized roughly 430,000 troops, 8,000 military pieces, over 3,000 tanks, and 500 armored vehicles. While the combined Baltic armies were tiny by comparison, lightly armed, short on ammunition, and lacking significant air or armored forces, even united, they could not withstand such an assault for long. The governments faced a choice. Either fight and see their cities destroyed within a short while or submit and

hope to preserve civilian lives. Isolation made the decision starker. No foreign help could be expected at the time. Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia only had themselves. The ultimatums were accepted and the quiet invasion started. In the early morning on June 15th, Soviet forces

crossed the border from the Bellarussian SSR into Lithuania. The main Soviet advances were composed of elements from the 3rd and 11th armies of the Baltic Special Military District supported by some mechanized brigades equipped with BT7 and T-26 light tanks. These tanks were lightly armored. However, these models fit on such operation as they were fast and effective for rapid occupation. Infantry rifle divisions followed closely behind, securing small towns, crossroads, and other routes. Soviet planners targeted Lithuania's transportation immediately.

Smaller detachments were dispatched towards Shaollay as this was an important road and also rail junction linking the north with Latvia and toward Clayeda, a strategic Baltic port. By midday, checkpoints had been established along the Vilnius Kus corridor and military police controlled bridges and rail stations. Within hours, Soviet troops also moved into Panovigis, effectively cutting north to south communication. By the end of June 15th, all major Lithuanian urban centers, airfields such as Kus and Gay June and key border fortifications were in Soviet hands. The next day on June 16th, Moscow delivered ultimatums to Latvia and Estonia. By

dawn on June 17th, coordinated Soviet advances began. In Latvia, units from the Lennengrad military district crossed near Zilope and Inji with the main thrust from Piscav down the Ria Piskcov highway. Naval infantry and marines from the Baltic fleet moved to secure Liapaya. Latvia's key ice-free port while destroyers patrolled the Gulf of Ria to block any maritime escape. Motorized brigades used the Inagi Ria coastal road for a fast push into the capital while other columns advanced along the DaVopill's Ria rail corridor ensuring rapid logistical control. In Estonia, armored and infantry columns advanced from the east through Narva and Peter,

seizing roads leading directly to Talin. At the same time, the Baltic fleet executed amphibious landings in Toland's harbor and on the islands of Sarama and Hi. Destroyers, submarines and mine layers controlled the Estonian coast. Soviet air units quickly occupied Ulleiste and Las Namay airfields, ensuring total air superiority within hours and providing a base for reconnaissance and intimidation flights over urban areas. There was no large-scale battle as the forces were ordered to not retaliate. Soviet flags appeared on government buildings one by one. The takeovers

were accompanied by carefully staged public displays, spontaneous rallies organized by local supporters. Workers paraded with red banners and newspapers printed editorials praising Soviet friendship. Within days, the Soviets moved to legitimize their control. Presidents and prime ministers were forced to resign. New people's governments chosen in Moscow were installed.

Elections were announced for July. However, only one political block, the Workers People's Union, was allowed to participate. Candidate lists were controlled. Ballots offered no alternatives. Voting was not secret. Results were declared before polls closed, claiming near unanimous

support for the new regimes. The freshly elected assemblies then voted without debate to request admission into the USSR. In early August 1940, the Supreme Soviet accepted Lithuania on August 3rd, Latvia on August 5th, and Estonia on August 6th. The process took less than 2 months from ultimatum to full annexation. But still, revolts could have happened even after the annexation. The

annexation, however, was immediately followed by big changes. Private property above small limits was confiscated. Banks and major industries were nationalized. Political parties were banned. The Soviet secret police established offices in every major city. Surveillance networks expanded rapidly

with informants planted in schools, workplaces, and neighborhoods. Former government officials, army officers, and community leaders were arrested. Some were executed in secret. Others disappeared into the Soviet prison system. Less than a year after annexation, the first major wave of mass repression began. In midJune 1941, coordinated across all three Baltic

states, NKVD units conducted overnight raids. Some families were awakened by pounding at the door. They were given minutes to pack. Men were often separated from their families and sent to prison camps. Women, children, and the elderly were sent to remote settlements in Siberia and Kazakhstan.

Around 75,000 people were deported in this operation alone. Fear gripped the population. On June 22nd, 1941, Germany invaded the Soviet Union. On the Baltic front line, the Germans were initially welcomed by some as liberators, but this was a fleeting illusion. The occupation there lasted until 1944. During this time, their independence was not restored and repression

continued under a new administration. By autumn 1944, the Red Army had returned. German forces were pushed out and Soviet control was reimposed. This time, the occupation was permanent. However, not everyone accepted the second Soviet occupation. Across forests and rural areas,

armed bands formed. These partisans carried out ambushes, attacked Soviet officials, and tried to resist as much as they could. The Soviets responded with counterinsurgency tactics, burning villages, deporting families, and using disguised units to infiltrate resistance groups. By the early 1950s, the armed struggle was largely crushed. With resistance broken, Sovietization accelerated. Farms were merged into state-run collectives. Private farming was outlawed. All

major industries and trade were placed under state control. Russian language was promoted in administration and education. National symbols were banned. Historical narratives rewritten. Religious activity restricted. For many, the annexation remained unrecognized by some Western

nations. Baltic diplomatic missions continued to operate in exile. Inside the Soviet Union, the events of 1940 could not be openly questioned. The Baltic countries couldn't resist in 1940 because they were isolated with no allies able to help. Faced with overwhelming Soviet military power, backed by the Molotov Ribbentrop deal with Germany, and were weakened by small armies and flat, easily invaded terrain. Moscow quietly prepared the takeover step by step,

undermining governments from within, portraying itself as a protector and moving from bases to full occupation under the guise of legality, leaving the Baltics no real chance to fight back. If you'd like to help us keep creating and get early access to our videos, behindthe-scenes content, and other perks, consider becoming a member right here on YouTube or joining us on Patreon. Every bit of support helps. And as always, thank you so much for watching.