---
video_title: "When Rome Died, France Was Born"
video_id: LJrXkLTIzXg
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LJrXkLTIzXg
video_date: 2025-12-04T12:55:55+00:00
video_description: |
  Get your very detailed History map here: https://knowledgia.co/pages/framed-maps
  Beautifully crafted, designed to stand out in any room, and perfect for anyone who loves history.
  HISTORY OF FRANCE PLAYLIST: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9hvqOXsgYx0VtYZUsu1SyGy
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  
  Discover how Gaul shifted from Celtic to Roman rule, and how Clovis I rose to power and laid the foundations of France.
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  The entire history of the Roman Empire from the rise of Augustus to the fall in 476 AD, presented in an animated and chronological documentary. 
  This video covers Roman politics, conquests, emperors, crises, division, and the final collapse of the Western Empire.
  
  
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
---
As Celtic Gaul was subjugated by Caesar's brutal campaigns and incorporated into the Empire, another key chapter was unfolding in the development of the future nation of France. Gaul would lose its autonomy, but in the process undergo a key transformation, becoming a hybrid culture composed of Roman and Celtic features. Important aspects of the Roman state would take root in areas including the economy, administration and infrastructure, setting the template for the coming centuries. With a decline of Roman power, though, and an increasingly porous eastern border, a new migration wave occurred, bringing an influx of Germanic settlement into the territory of Gaul. This would provide the final element for the transformation of a post-Roman Gaul into the future nation of France. While Celtic tribes had been pushed out of Italy following the Battle of Telemon in 225 BC, their control over the modern-day region of France remained largely intact. However, dynamics have been gradually changing in the centuries following Brenos' sack of Rome with the power balance shifting against the Celtic tribes. This can be seen in the turning of the tables with Rome pushing north of its traditional borders in the first Transylpine War of 125 to 121 BC. This was territory within modern-day northern Italy, long held by Celtic groups, and the Romans were determined to seize it. Strategic objectives aside, it was also part punishment for some Gaulic tribes allying with Hannibal in his devastating wars against Rome. The successful completion of this campaign by Quintus Fabius Maximus over the Alubroge and Arverni tribes led to the establishment of the province of Galleanabonesis and Provincia Nostra, meaning our province. This was Rome's first province north of the Alps, and marked a significant turning point in the history of the future nation of France, with Gallic territory now up for grabs from an expansionist Rome. This appetite was only compounded by the proven value of this new province. For one, it gave Rome a land bridge to its territories in Hispania. Second, it created a buffer zone to protect the Italian heartland from a repeat of Brenus' onslaught on the capital, a traumatic event which had etched itself into the collective memory of Rome. Lastly, it provided economic value by establishing new trade routes and drawing the rich Greek outpost of Masalia, modern-day Marseille, into the Roman fold. This expansion led on to the establishment of the city of Narbonne, built along the first Roman road constructed in Galle, with the province helping cement Roman control of the Mediterranean trade routes. It would act as a hub from which Roman forces could operate and project power deep into what had previously been tribal territory. This was a severe blow to the autonomy of the groups living here, as well as the cohesion of the remaining tribal confederacies who were increasingly divided on how best to deal with Rome. However, aside from this territory lost in the south, Celtic groups still held the majority of Gaul for the present time. This was soon to change, though, with Rome preparing to deal a crushing blow which would take the form of Julius Caesar's Gallic campaign. It began in 58 BC and marked another key turning point in the history of the future nation. On the eve of Caesar's campaign, the tribes of Gaul were developed and powerful, with large cities and complex political structures. In fact, for many aspects of Gallic culture, this period was a renaissance of sorts, benefiting from trade networks and knowledge transfer with Rome, metalwork and weapons production flourished. We see numerous examples of our Nate and distinct Celtic artwork across iron long swords, as well as refined armor and spear tips. Despite prowess in these areas, though, the tribes were still nevertheless far from united. Luce alliances and confederacies did not provide the same unity as enjoyed by Roman forces. The factor which would be key to how events of the campaign would play out. Caesar's campaigns were wide-ranging and encompassed many different regions of Gaul, including areas of modern-day France, Switzerland, Belgium and even Britain. With 30,000 men, Caesar initially fought battles at Biprakte against the halvician Celts and at Vouge against the Swabie. Despite close contests, Roman discipline and Caesar's leadership ultimately prevailed. He also led his legions into modern-day Britain in the northwest of France where he faced the Veneti tribe largely at sea, demonstrating the variety in warfare types of the campaign. Against a superior enemy fleet, Roman victory was primarily secured through innovative use of the grappling hook, which wreaked havoc on the Veneti fleet's sails on which they were reliant, unlike Rome's or ships. The campaign was a brutal military exercise on the part of Caesar and had a huge effect on the region of Gaul. While Roman estimates of kelp deaths are likely wildly inflated, it's probable that there were at least hundreds of thousands of Gallic combatants and civilians killed. Some massacres carried out by Caesar, for example the wipeout of an entire civilian Celtic encampment in 55 BC even upset authority in Rome with how depraved it was. This led to some in the Senate calling for his prosecution. Through 54 BC, many Gallic tribes had continued to provide fierce resistance with a series of uprisings demonstrating that Caesar had not yet fully subjugated Gaul. He responded ferociously, focusing not just on victories in pitched battles, but also on the destruction of many as functioning groups targeting livestock, agriculture, and taking slaves with raiding parties. This would prove largely successful, with northern Gaul mostly pacified through the following years. However, the Celts of Future France were not yet ready to completely give up and would make one last valiant attempt at resistance. By this time, it was clear to most tribes that the Roman threat was existential and not just petty territorial ambition. It was a matter of survival. In response, and somewhat belatedly, the respected chief Versan Gitarix attempted to rally the remaining Celtic resistance under one banner, a far more effective way to face Roman forces. He was the charismatic king of the Arverney tribe, and it was with him that the final large-scale act of resistance would take place. In a testament to his leadership, Versan Gitarix had mustered a large Celtic coalition bridging tribal divides. After two initial battles with Roman forces resulting in a victory apiece, the revolt would come to its climactic head at Alessia, in modern-day Burgundy. Here, the Celts stood their ground at a fortified position of an allied tribe and awaited Caesar's approach. Rather than directly attack the fortification, a strategy that approved costly earlier in the campaign, Caesar decided to build a rival fortification on site and instead besieged the Celts to starve them out. While the tactically astute Versan Gitarix had also prepared for this with a large reserve contingent ready to provide relief and attack Roman forces from the rear, he had not anticipated the thoroughness of Roman preparations, despite numerous efforts, as well as the fast arrival of Versan Gitarix's relief forces, the Celts weren't able to overcome the Roman fortification from which they were being besieged. Breakout attempts failed, the relief force ultimately melted away and Versan Gitarix was forced to surrender. This moment was famously depicted in the 1889 painting of him on horseback in front of Caesar laying down his arms. This was a momentous turning point in the history of the future nation and the end of a large scale coordinated Celtic resistance. Versan Gitarix's end was as torturous as that of many of the Celtic groups over the last decades, first imprisoned for six years before being ceremonially garotted in Rome, an ignominious death for a brave and honorable leader. With the death of their last great resistance leader, so came to an end, independent gall. It was now in the hands of Rome, and despite sporadic smaller scale revolt attempts over the next decades, this point marks the start of a new gall, an extensive process of Romanization. This began the division of formerly Celtic gall into different provinces alongside the already established Galia Narbonesis. Galia looked inensis, another new province stretched all the way from central France to northwest Brittany. Named after its capital at Lugdonum, future Leon, and chosen for its strategic position at the confluence of the Rome and Sun Rivers, it would become a key administrative and cultural center, providing a gateway between Italy and northern and western parts of Gaul. Key Roman infrastructure in these areas followed. This included aqueducts, new roads, amphitheaters, and other monumental architecture which would change the shape of the landscape and become a cultural bedrock of the future nation. The effects of this Romanization on Gaul would take time, but ultimately be transformative. Beyond a period of recovery from Caesar's devastating campaigns, and likely with the passing away of the conflict generation, Celtic tribal structures would eventually give way to Roman civic life. This helped create new bonds and loyalty with Gallic nobility in time, gaining positions within the state. General citizenship, however, would not be granted in Gaul until 212 AD. Economic transformation was also another way loyalty was transferred towards Rome in time. This included new agricultural techniques, deep in trade networks, as well as more developed local industries, not to mention the introduction of Latin as the official language of the state, which would eventually give rise to Old French. Another important feature of the future nation of France would also develop in this period. That is the shift from traditional Celtic religious and spiritual practices towards Christianity. Unlike some of the above trends, this process of Christianization began in spite of Rome rather than on account of it. By as early as the 2nd century AD, the Christian message was reaching Gaul through trade networks and travelers making the journey from the Levant region. They found fertile ground in the previously pagan population, with a faith amongst other things offered an attractive unifying approach for a region previously split along tribal lines. This was spiked during the reigns of Emperor Marcus Aurelius as well as Emperor Decus, producing iconic early French martyrs, such as Saint Denis of Paris, who was beheaded for his beliefs in the mid-3rd century AD, and martyrs of Leon killed by wild beasts on Aurelius' orders in 177 AD. This helped colonel a defiant spirit amongst much of the population and sense of separation from Rome. The breakaway Gallic Empire of the 3rd century was brought about by a wide range of factors. At least an important cause in both its rise and relative longevity was the sense of a differentiated culture and identity present in Gaul. The differing sense of identity helped support rebellion, just as it had uniquely fostered and allowed for the growth of Christianity ahead of Rome. Whilst Postumus' breakaway empire was eventually put down and Gaul restored to central authority, this theme of rebellion and an increasing sense of separation with Rome would continue to grow. The Bagaudet rebellions of the 3rd to 5th centuries were another face of this, separatism. Led by predominantly peasants in Western France, they rallied against many harsh aspects of the late Roman system on the poor agricultural class. Whilst never proving much more than a thorn in the side of Roman authority, they were nonetheless persistent with their uprisings occurring over multiple centuries. They also served to demonstrate this fierce defiance amongst many sectors of the population of Gaul, which remained long after the defeat of Versailles Githrox. Germanic migration westwards had been increasing as the empire began to chronically weaken from the crisis of the 3rd century onwards. This provided the final component for the formation of the future nation of France. Initially fiercely resisted by Roman authority, the tribes were eventually accommodated due to decreasing Roman means through methods like the Fodorati system. This not only eroded the integrity of previous Roman territories, but also radically alter the dynamic makeup of Gaul, a Romano-Keltic hybrid culture, which had been developing since before the campaigns of Caesar now had a new element imposed on it with unintegrated people arriving unmask from the east with different cultures and customs. As the disintegration of the Roman Empire gathered pace through the 5th century, one dominant power gave way to another. As Visigov forces applied pressure to the heart of Rome, the Franks, another Germanic tribe were busy expanding their territory from its heartlands into Gaul, taking advantage of the power vacuum left by weakening Roman central authority, the Franks were able to establish power centers in central and northern France. As Rome crumbled away, these new kingdoms would be consolidated and expanded. First under Shilderlik, then his son Clovis I of the Merovinjian dynasty, he would play a key role in asserting Frankish dominance with all of northern Gaul under his authority by 494 AD. He would also convert to Christianity around 496 AD, which helped close a cultural divide between his men and the Gallic populations he sought to rule over, as well as gaining approval of the central Catholic Church. A new process of integration would occur over the next period with these Germanic tribes laying the final foundations for the future nation, a certain Francia, which would take after the name of the Franks themselves. Through the years of the brutal subjugation at the hands of Caesar and onto centuries as a core part of the Roman Empire, Gaul nevertheless was able to maintain its independent spirit and unique identity. Celtic culture may have been hybridized, but the legacy of notorious resistance leaders like Versaun Gitarix lived on. While Gaul would become a prosperous part of the Roman Empire, there were nevertheless sporadic unrest, as seen in early Celtic revolts and the later Begarde rebellions. The final influx of the Germanic tribes from the east would provide a challenge for the population of Gaul, but ultimately also the final component for the rise of the French nation. The Franks were ready to replace the crumbled Roman power structure with their own, and alongside a conversion to Christianity which aligns them with the beliefs of the Gallic population, the stage was set for a new chapter in the history of France.