---
video_title: "Where did the Minoans Come From?"
video_id: at7BJ1v0QUs
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=at7BJ1v0QUs
video_date: 2025-07-05T13:25:34+00:00
video_description: |
  Get EARLY ACCESS to our videos:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  Who were the Minoans? | History of Europe's First Civilization
  
  Aspects of Minoan history still remain somewhat shrouded in mystery. Nonetheless, the dedicated efforts of archaeologists and researchers who have toiled away in the ancient dirt of Crete have shed light on the culture. Professor Nikolas Platon, with his insightful work, elegantly divided Minoan history into four periods, developing a chronology based on the destruction and reconstruction of Minoan palaces. Archaeologists have surmised that nomadic adventurers, fishermen, and those blown off course by the strong currents of the Mediterranean Sea had established themselves on the shores of Crete by around 7,000 BC. During this era, farmers from Anatolia established settlements, and the population could increase drastically over the next few millennia. By the pre-palatial era, starting in the middle of the third millennium BC, archaeologists noted the appearance of the first painted ceramics, and settlements began to expand in both size and complexity.
  
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  #History #Documentary
---
As the sun slowly descended on Europe’s Neolithic period, the stage was set for the rise of various cultures that would come to shape the continent. None can be said to have played a role quite like those that emerged on the fertile banks of the Mediterranean Sea. But it wasn’t the Greeks or Romans who ushered in Europe’s first civilization; instead, it was an illustrious and mysterious culture that emerged on the island of Crete. Nestled comfortably in the southern part of the Aegean Sea, a body of water that separates Greece from Turkey, the land of Crete extends for an impressive 160 miles from east to west. Here, amongst its coastal plains, scenic beaches, and mountains that appear to drop directly into the sea, a culture known as the Minoans arose

strategic location on the island wedged between southern Europe, Western Asia, and North Africa allowed them to dominate ancient maritime trade routes, and by the height of their civilization, they were regarded as awe-inspiring masters of the ocean. But who were these mysterious people, and how did they spread their influence and culture across the Mediterranean from such a small island? Aspects of Minoan history still remain somewhat shrouded in mystery. Nonetheless, the dedicated efforts of archaeologists and researchers who have toiled away in the ancient dirt of Crete have shed light on the culture. Professor Nikolas Platon, with his insightful work, elegantly divided Minoan history into four periods, developing a chronology based on the destruction and reconstruction of Minoan palaces. He divided Minoan Crete into four distinct periods: the Prepalatial, Protopalatial,

Neopalatial, and Postpalatial. Archaeologists have surmised that nomadic adventurers, fishermen, and those blown off course by the strong currents of the Mediterranean Sea had established themselves on the shores of Crete by around 7,000 BC. During this era, farmers from Anatolia established settlements, and the population could increase drastically over the next few millennia. By the pre-palatial era, starting in the middle of the third millennium BC, archaeologists noted the appearance of the first painted ceramics, and settlements began to expand in both size and complexity. Several minor settlements have been discovered near the coast, and we see the beginning of the use of tholos tombs to bury their dead.

Tholos tombs are characterized by their circular, beehive-like shape, created by corbelling, superposing successively smaller rings of stones. These early Minoans became masters of their environment, utilizing the potter's wheel and metallurgy to elevate productivity and efficiency on the island. The domestication of animals, including cows, sheep, and pigs, provided them with a sustainable source of sustenance in the form of protein-rich meat, dairy, and milk while also providing the raw materials for textiles. The vast majority of the early Minoans lived in the eastern half of the island, as this is where the best land for farming was located. But here, they also found a plethora of trees from which they could craft boats. In time,

the ships they would go on to produce were marvels of ancient engineering, designed for both agility and strength on open waters. They cut down sturdy cypress trees and split the trunks in two using bronze tools. From here, they meticulously worked the two halves to form the hull, then proceeded to make a waterproof sealing composed of layers of fabric dipped in a mixture of resin and beef fat. The ships were notable for their slender shape and long, narrow design, optimized for speed and maneuverability, making use of multiple oars as they sailed before the banks of their sacred island. Using these boats, they began sailing along the coast, increasing their seafaring expertise with each trip. Eventually, their knowledge of the ocean, coupled with their

bravery, allowed them to venture beyond the shores of Crete and establish contact with various prominent regions on the Mediterranean by 2,500 BC, including the Aegean islands, Egypt, Syria, and Asia Minor. Minoan merchants exported a plethora of products, including wool, herbs, cloth, wine, and luxury crafts, whilst importing precious stones, ivory, and precious metals such as gold and silver in return. But what they prized above all else was tin and copper, two metals that were required to construct the bronze tools needed for various aspects of their daily lives. By the tail end of the Prepalatial period, the Minoans had established major settlements at Myrtos and Mochlos. As the Minoan economy continued to flourish, this brought the culture together, allowing for intellectual advancements. This led to the development of a cryptic

hieroglyphic system used for writing that was in use by the beginning of the second millennium BC and likely much earlier. Used for administrative and religious purposes, the complex inscriptions appeared on objects like clay tablets, ritual items, pottery, and seals. At this point in time, the economy of Crete was booming primarily due to its ever-increasing trade with nearby cultures along the Mediterranean. We see the construction of larger homes for the emerging social classes, such as merchants, priestesses, and the wealthy. Minoan society was a shining example of an egalitarian culture, based on the abundance of the land’s natural resources and on intense commercial activity. They had no powerful landlords nor a centralized authority. The burial practices of

the era support the absence of a hierarchical structure, as entire villages or clans utilized the tholos tombs, and older corpses and offerings were placed aside to make room for a new burial. Older bones were removed from the tomb and placed outside the tholos structure in bone chambers. As their settlements continued to grow in size, adding more homes and even large workspaces and warehouses, they eventually merged into large palace complexes. This is the beginning of the proto-palatial or First Palace Period in 1900 BC. The first signs of a new political system started to appear during this era, one that would see the establishment of a more centralized society, quite possibly formed around a central figure like a king. The growing settlements had morphed into

bustling palaces, which served as centers for the respective communities. With the ever-increasing influence came the necessity of a more bureaucratic administration, which only further permeated Minoan society henceforth. At this time, we also see the first distinctions made between social classes, which divided the Minoans into nobles, peasants, and perhaps even slaves. With their newfound level of influence over the Mediterranean, the Minoans established permanent settlements on the Cyclades, Thera, Rhodes, Melos, and Kythera islands of the Aegean Sea. Merchants established regular trade with Cyprus, where they sourced valuable quantities of copper. They also

expanded their traditional trade routes, venturing deep into Mesopotamia, where they imported goods from the Amorite kingdoms of Babylon, Qatna, and Yamhad. However, the Dynastic Egyptians emerged as the Minoans' most valuable trading partner, where they acquired vast amounts of gold that could be traded at higher prices throughout their trade network, resulting in a greater profit. Extensive road networks were also created in their homeland of Crete, which enabled the Minoans to connect their various cultural centers. Such advancement additionally led to the establishment of smaller settlements away from the palace. As their bustling civilization continued to grow, the Minoans implemented the use of a new written script known as Linear A by modern archaeologists.

This simpler form of writing may have been introduced for administrative and economic purposes, recording trade transactions, personal information, and inventories. However, as the script had yet to be fully deciphered, its original purpose remains somewhat unknown. The Minoans had fully emerged as one of the most prosperous civilizations in the world by the end of the Protopalatial period, and their reach and influence were felt across the Mediterranean. But then, something unexpected happened, as around 1,700 BC, many of their grand palaces and settlements were destroyed. Researchers propose that an enormous earthquake rocked the island, bringing unprecedented destruction and death in its wake. However, while such an event would have

destroyed many societies, the Minoans emerged from this cataclysmic event and began to rebuild their civilization brick by brick. This brings us to the Neopalatial Period. During this era, many of their settlements were rebuilt on a colossal scale, and we see the emergence of the most elaborate and sophisticated palaces yet at places including Malia, Phaestos, and, the most famous of all, Knossos. The latter was truly an architectural masterpiece, with the main building covering an area of three acres and almost six acres when all of the surrounding buildings were included. The main palace was constructed on a foundation of stone and timber beams; the bulk of the structure was built using unbaked bricks. It's thought the structure contained as many as 1,300 rooms.

On the ground floor, there was an enormous ritual center. Whereas in the central area, a monumental staircase led residents from the ground floor to various staterooms situated on the upper floor. Stores in the palace occupied as many as sixteen rooms, with the main feature being the pithoi, or large storage vessels often reaching five feet in height. These were mainly used for goods such as wool, wine, oil, and grain. Throughout the palace, various bathrooms and toilets were found, each linked by an advanced drainage system far beyond its time. The complex even boasted a

large theatre, suggesting it was truly a communal space for the entire community. Within these luxurious palaces, we find evidence of the vibrant art produced by the Minoans. Frescoes were elegantly painted on the walls, ceilings, and even floors of their structures, depicting a plethora of scenes from nature, rituals, and everyday life. Some portrayed magical gardens, others monkeys and wild goats. Many even included depictions of fancifully dressed goddesses that testify to the Minoans’ predominantly matriarchal religion.

However, two recurring motifs appeared more often than others. One was the snake, which was associated with the female goddess, and the other was the bull, usually shown leaping through the air. Such an exquisite example can be found in the upper story portion of the east wall in the Palace of Knossos, which depicts the acrobatic sport that was considered highly sacred by the Minoans. Their sophisticated art was further portrayed on elaborate seals and pottery, such as the famous Kamáres ware, a distinctive style of Minoan pottery produced by the Minoans in Crete. Characterized by its light-on-dark style of decoration, these often bore enigmatic geometric and natural floral patterns. Some of the pottery even depicts women in various poses,

elaborately dressed in long dresses and flounced skirts with puffed sleeves, showcasing the fashion of the era. Men, on the other hand, were depicted with dark hair and reddish-brown skin in many of the paintings. Generally, they were clean-shaven, wore loincloths accompanied by belts, and often carried small knives or swords. During the Neopalatial period, we see evidence of administrative and economic unity throughout the entire island of Minoan Crete, and its civilization had reached its zenith. Their culture not only dominated the Aegean island but also left an indelible mark on lands throughout the Mediterranean.

But, just as it rose to its greatest height, another culture was emerging on the Greek mainland - the Mycenaeans… While the Minoans would ultimately influence these early proto-Greeks, in time, these warrior aristocracies would rise up and eventually challenge the Minoan supremacy in the Aegean. In the end, it would play a significant role in the downfall of Europe's first civilization…