---
video_title: "Why didn't Rome Collapse EARLIER? - Explained in 17 Minutes"
video_id: RB1GENZXjf8
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RB1GENZXjf8
video_date: 2025-02-18T14:08:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Why didn't Rome Collapse EARLIER? - Explained in 17 Minutes
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work and Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q/join
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  
  ♦Get Map Products:
  https://www.shopknowledgia.com/
  
  ♦Please consider SUBSCRIBING: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  00:00 Rome's Crisis and Government Turmoil
  02:22 Military Emperors and Barbarian Invasions
  03:55 The Cyprian Plague and Empire's Decline
  05:15 Breakaway States and the Struggle for Unity
  07:14 The Soldier Emperors: Claudius and Aurelian
  15:26 Restoration, Reform, and a New Roman Stability
---
The Crisis of the Third Century and the mighty Roman empire almost at the point of collapse. A catastrophic series of events had brought Rome to its knees with a host of invaders pushing into its territory, economic strife at home and breakaway empires on two fronts. The outcome of this period for the empire was unclear, and at times collapse looked likely. A series of strong leaders would be needed to stop this trend and reverse the fortune of this once mighty empire. The troubled period of 235-285 AD saw twenty emperors in 50-years, bloody succession battles as the norm, and an empire ruled increasingly from within the military. These were not the

characteristics that had thrust Rome to global prominence, and would cast looming questions over the empire’s future, with this dramatic era foreshadowing the downfall to come. The period began with the removal of emperor Alexander Severus, the last of the Severan dynasty who was assassinated, in part, for his weak approach towards the barbarian threats in Germania. He was replaced by Maximinus Thrax, a battle-hardened man and lifelong soldier forged almost entirely by the military, rather than the political environment of Rome and the senate. True to his career, as emperor he remained with his troops on Rome’s European borders. Here he did battle with the increasingly bold tribal groups, notably the Alamanni. He also mounted

another campaign into Germania which included the battle of Harzhorn, an epic fought in a dense wooded area between around 9,000 of Maximinus’ troops and a fearsome Germanic tribal coalition. This shoring up continued for a period of years, however, by 238 AD his short-lived reign was faced by crisis. A rebellion in Rome’s north African provinces saw two co-rulers claiming the title of emperor. The senate in Rome had never accepted Maximinus, he was regarded by many as a barbarian being born into low social status and from Rome’s border areas. So despite his hard work on Rome’s behalf battling Germanic tribes, the senate backed his rivals. However, both of these rivals ended

up committing suicide, ending the North African threat before Maximinus had to face it directly. The senate doubled down though and now elected a new set of two rulers to challenge Maximinus from Rome. Starting his journey back towards the capital in fury to deal with these usurpers, he would never see battle with them as he was assassinated by one of his own men on the journey. This would set in place a trend which would dominate the next era with short periods of rule dominated by military men and followed by savage succession battles. A series of generals followed, however in this internal chaos of rapid successions and civil wars, border areas were neglected. This also combined with climatic changes at the

time which were pushing Germanic tribes west. These factors meant Germanic groups made big inroads during the period, taking advantage of Rome’s internal preoccupations and chaos to carry out deep raiding and the terrorising of border areas once held firmly in Roman control. Matters would only get worse during this period of ‘barrack emperors’ with another disaster soon to emerge, that of the Cyprian Plague in 251 AD. With an increasingly interconnected world during this period, mass spread of infectious diseases was becoming more common. The Plague of Antonine, for example, less than 100 years previously had wiped out an estimated 10% of the empire’s population. Now the Cyprian plague ravaged Roman territory for around 20 years.

With both suspected to be a form of smallpox, rather than bubonic plague, it seems the population had little immunity. At its height in Rome it’s reported up to 5,000 people a day were dying. Bodies laid out in the streets with disposal teams unable to keep pace. At a time when Rome was weaker than ever, racked by civil war and economic strife, this plague was a crippling blow. Aside from the sheer psychological torment, it put strain on food production for the empire and made military recruitment more difficult, which in turn heightened the barbarian border threat too.

In this period of chaos, Valerian would rise to the position of emperor. Overseeing a long period of rule for the period, he made attempts to stem the bleeding at Rome’s borders his priority. With his son and co-ruler given responsibility for managing the barbarian threat in Europe, Valerian travelled further east to deal with the Sassanid threat in the Levant and Persia. This would ultimately be his undoing though, as during this campaign he was captured at the hands of the Sassanids where he would remain until his death. This was the first Roman emperor to suffer such a fate and it would sense shockwaves through an already destabilised empire, moving ever further from its height of power.

Gallienus nobly took up the mantle of his father, continuing the campaign against Germanic tribes. However, his rule would quickly be mired in its own challenges with the secession of the Gallic Empire following his rise to the position of emperor. This was a devastating blow to Rome’s integrity, as now essentially the whole of modern day France, parts of Germany and Britain were a secessionary state under the control of a usurper ruler. Rome had lost its direct land route to Spanish territories and now had a hostile empire on its borders. Though the height of the threat would pass in 269 with the death of its leader Postumus, the Gallic state nevertheless demonstrated Rome’s fragility with the empire challenged, almost on home soil, for 14 long years.

This was perhaps the lowest point for Rome during the Crisis of the Third Century. Blow after blow had brought it to its knees and now was in desperate need of strong leadership and a unifying force to stabilise the fragmenting of the empire. Emperor Claudius Gothicus would begin the military aspect of this work. Like Maximinus Thrax, he was another soldier emperor. Having a long and distinguished career as a legionary, he had earned the respect of the troops and this was his power base. Like Thrax, he was also of ‘barbarian’ birth and well outside the normal

successionary lines, as well as Rome’s inner political circles. However, given the state of the empire and multiple external threats he was able to claim the title unopposed. Despite a short reign from 268-270 AD, he would win key victories against the Goths, Alemanni and rival Gallic empire, essentially reestablishing Roman dominance on three fronts and subduing threats which had previously looked terminal. The battle of Naissus, in modern day Serbia, was particularly notable and where Claudius would etch his name into legend, earning the accolade ‘Gothicus’. During the battle, the enemy Goths were decimated as a fighting force with their cavalry wiped out. Rome’s

tight formations and impeccable discipline were too much for the tribes to overcome. This was followed by another resounding victory over the Alemanni who had recently crossed the Alps. He met them at the battle of Lake Benacus which ended in another rout. With the barbarian threat essentially subdued for the time being, he could now focus all attention on the traitorous Gallic empire. Here he also achieved success making large inroads into that territory and setting in place its demise though it would be Aurelian who would finish up the job.

Claudius’ steady progress would soon be halted though. He was struck down on his way to campaign by, what is thought to have been, the Cyprian plague which was still ravaging Roman territories, making no distinction between peasant and emperor. He was briefly succeeded by his brother in another botched succession attempt; however the arrangement lasted only weeks before Aurelian claimed the title of emperor with the backing of his legions. Aurelian was another lifelong military man with 35 long years of service across many fronts of Rome’s huge empire. He hammered home the campaigns of his predecessors against the Goths and Alemanni, as well as a whole host of other emergent threats including the Vandals and Carpi tribes.

These were crucial victories, finally shoring up Rome’s borders which had been so pressured for the preceding decades. It also helped to restore Roman confidence in its ability to defend itself. Consequently Aurelian was bestowed with the title “Restitutor Orbis” or "Restorer of the World". Aurelian was an efficient ruler and played his part in bringing about an end to The Crisis of the Third Century. Unlike some of the soldier emperors before him, he enacted reforms in Rome and civilian areas as well. For example, changing the way food reserves were managed,

restoring public buildings, rebasing coinage, setting fixed prices for staple goods and punishing corruption amongst officials harshly. These can all be seen as sensible measures focused on the wellbeing of the civic population which also helped increase tax revenues again. In another show of his strategic unifying instincts, he elevated the sun god Sol Invictus to the prime position in the Roman religious pantheon. He hoped this would unify the diverse people groups of the empire behind one main god, simplifying the complex array which had existed previously. Having consolidated Rome’s military advantage over the barbarian groups in the first few years of his reign, in 272 AD he looked further east. This time to the renegade Palmyrene state

which had broken away from the empire in the first year of Aurelian’s rule. Zenobia, the queen of Palmyra who ruled through her young son, had rapidly taken a large chunk of Roman territory in the modern day Levant. Alarmingly, she had also cut off crucial grain exports which were shipped regularly from areas under her control to Italy. This put pressure on bread supplies in Rome, and Aurelian knew a hungry population was a potentially dangerous situation. So he set off to confront the Palmyrans, mounting a successful campaign through modern day Turkey towards the capital of the enemy.

Aurelian would meet Palmyrene forces in two key battles. The first occurred at Immae in modern day Turkey. The two sides drew up facing one another in traditional formation, with infantry groups at the centre and cavalry on the wings. A capable Syrian general by the name of Zabdas led Empress Zenobia’s forces and their elite Cataphract unit, by far the strongest of the Palmyrene army and superior to the Romans own cavalry. Another factor in Palmyra’s favor was the scorching weather, of which they had more experience with. After initial probing skirmishes from both sides,

Zabdas was keen to dictate terms and sent his elite cataphracts in a cavalry charge. Roman cavalry responded and, just as they were about to meet, following wily Aurelian’s orders, the Roman cavalry suddenly turned and made it seem as if they were fleeing the field of battle. Palmyra’s cavalry, enthused by this apparent rout, pursued the retreating Romans at full speed. However, their heavier armored unit began to tire in the hot weather with the Roman’s leading them a distance away from the field of battle. Suddenly, at a tactically agreed point, the Roman cavalry turned, re-formed their lines and drove into the pursuing Palmyrene force. Bewildered by this surprise move, the Palmyran cavalry could not effectively

respond and were slaughtered. Hearing of the destruction of his key military unit, Zabdas ordered the tactical retreat of the remainder of his army so as to fight another day. First moving to Antioch, where they resupplied, before retreating further to Emesa. Here the two forces met on another plain and reenacted much of the sequence of events from the previous battle. Making the same mistake twice, Zabdas’ cavalry eagerly pursued the retreating Roman cavalry only for Aurelian to launch the same trap. The Palmryan units were encircled, this time with the help of

freshly recruited Palestinian clubmen too, and were wiped out in a frenzy of brutal clubbing, slashing gladius and thrusting lance. This time the retreat was less orderly with Zenobia taking heavy overall losses. Mounting her final defence at the capital of Palmyra, she was able to resist Rome’s savage siege machine for a period but, upon fleeing east, the city surrendered to Rome. Queen Zenobia was eventually captured by Roman forces and, as part of a humiliation ritual, forced to walk through the streets of Rome in golden chains- making a mockery of her supposed royal position. This marked the end of the insurrection and a notable success for Aurelian.

Finally in 274 AD, the last year of his reign, he turned his attention to ending the Gallic empire threat. This was achieved largely through diplomacy with its leader, Tetricus, striking a deal with Aurelian to allow the territory to return to Rome with much of the prior military work done by Claudius before him. Nonetheless Aurelian had achieved key victories across multiple fronts during his short reign, marking him out as a key ruler of this turbulent period for Rome. Despite a quick succession of 5 emperors in the 9 years following his assassination in 275 AD, these would not be as chaotic as the short rules of soldier-emperors earlier in the century. New barbarian incursions were largely resisted, with rulers such as Probus also carrying out diligent administrative and reform work.

So it was that the hemorrhaging of the previous decades was greatly reduced. The years of internal military chaos, pestilence and economic strife were laid to rest for a period, with Rome able to enjoy a time of greater stability and prosperity moving into the rule of Diocletian. His 20 years as emperor, a lifetime compared to some of the reigns of the preceding century, would continue this stabilising trend giving rise to the tetrarchy and, soon to be, Christian Roman empire.