---
video_title: "The Global War That Started Before World War I"
video_id: h6p_OxqP6Io
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h6p_OxqP6Io
video_date: 2025-10-04T12:06:16+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦Play War Thunder now with my links, and get a massive, free bonus pack including vehicles, boosters, and more on PC and consoles: https://wtplay.link/knowledgia25 | Mobile: https://wtm.game/knowledgia
  
  
  Get your very detailed History map here: https://knowledgia.co
  Beautifully crafted, designed to stand out in any room, and perfect for anyone who loves history
  
  ♦Get ACCESS to our exclusive videos and EARLY ACCESS to our public ones here:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  
  ♦Please consider SUBSCRIBING: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  Big thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  
  00:00  Introduction
  04:30 Players and Competing Interests
  07:06  Global Sparks
  09:07  Diplomatic Revolution
  11:19 The Outbreak of War
  13:34 The Battle of Lobositz
  
  #History #Documentary
---
From the Ohio River Valley to daring Iroquois raids against the French in Ohio Country and British and Bengali forces clashing in Calcutta; The Seven Years War was a chaotic and bloody affair. One that played out not only across Europe, but multiple global theatres. A conflict of firsts, which in many ways ushered in a new age of warfare. It would reshape European power dynamics for decades, and even make a contribution to the coming age of revolutions and social upheaval. Exploring the European context a little at the time of the outbreak of the Seven Years War is helpful in understanding the conflict. Europe by the mid 18th century was a rapidly modernising

society. The enlightenment and rationalism had both taken root while increased power sharing between monarchs and parliament had begun in Britain. In continental Europe, advisors to the monarch also played an increasing role. This changed the fundamental dynamics of power, with other emerging centres of influence and statesmen of note outside the monarch alone. This included figures such as Prime Minister of England, William Pitt The Elder, and foreign minister of France Etienne Choiseul, both of whom would play a significant role in the coming events.

There were also great changes taking place globally. This was the age of empire, and European colonial activity was stepping up a gear. Rampant expansion, exploration and clashes with rivals over new lucrative outposts occurred. From the Caribbean to India and North America, European troops were now facing off in battles over beaver pelts, forts, sugar and ports. Most often involving age-old rivals Britain and France, this provided the unique global dimension to the conflict, with foreign colonies recognised for their strategic value in the war and long-term value as part of a global empire. The more static economic order of medieval

society had also given way to an emergent capitalism. This helped fuel economic growth, in turn building up a more robust tax base for leaders to draw upon for their armies. It also fuelled advances across industries, including weapons technology. This helped give rise to a refined firearm, transforming it from something of a sideshow in the 1600’s, to an increasingly integral part of European standing armies. The musket, smoothbore field artillery and new howitzers would all go on to play key roles in the coming conflict, and all those following it. All in all, Europe in the mid 1700’s was a transformed society

and one rife with competition between great powers, who now had ever more to fight over.

The immediate interests of the European parties are complex but can be boiled down to some key factors in the years leading up to war. The British outlook was greatly informed by the electorate of Hanover. This was a region in northern Germany whose title was held by king George II, alongside the British crown. Born and raised in Hanover, he was determined to hold it against any French challenge. This interest sat alongside the constant British desire to gain general dominance over the French — especially in the colonial arenas where they faced off.

For its part, Austria’s long-standing enmity was with Prussia. A key point of friction was Prussia’s seizure of Austrian Silesia during the War of Succession in the 1740’s. Felt by Austria to be a violation at a point of weakness, it was keen to see it restored as a territory with it becoming somewhat of a key state aim. Prussia itself was territorially far smaller, but it had an efficient military numbering up to around 130,000 by the mid 1700’s. Relative to the population size, this was a large force which was more than capable of projecting power in Europe. With a high degree of discipline to match, it helped make

Prussia a key player in Europe at this time. France in the meantime was in a troubled economic position. This was due in part to an inefficient tax system, the effects of poor harvests and state corruption. Its strategy had long centred on maintaining a significant land force. This likely stood around 250,000 men by 1750, down from a height of 400,000 during the Austrian War of Succession. It was intended to both defend its borders,

as well as project power within Europe. This, however, came at the expense of its navy which left it vulnerable at sea and on its colonial holdings — which by this time were expansive. So, like Britain, France took a more global view of the conflict, despite its prime concern remaining securing interests on its doorstep. It was this melting pot of regional ambitions, colonial rivalries and national grudges that would prime the great powers for war. Multiple European powers had significant empires across the globe by this point.

It would be bitter rivals Britain and France though that helped set off the Seven Years War with their colonial conflicts. North America had become a particular focal point over recent decades with both nation’s attention drawn to Ohio Country in particular. The French had been pushing south from their Canadian holdings, while the British probing west from their colonies along the eastern seaboard. Here, the rich trapping grounds, extensive river systems and potential control over routes west proved irresistible prizes. Fighting had broken out in 1754 in the Upper Ohio river valley in what would become known as the French and Indian War. It heavily involved native allies fighting on each side, all pursuing

their own tribal agendas. The Shawnee, L enape and Iroquois proved particularly prominent combatants in this fascinating theatre of the conflict. North America wasn’t the only flash point, other areas included the Caribbean and India. The Caribbean sugar islands, were among the most lucrative and contested regions. India meanwhile was fast becoming a priority for Britain, with outposts established by The East India Company in areas including Calcutta and Bombay.

The French, from their primary base in Pondicherry, attempted to leverage alliances with local forces to disrupt British activity with activity focused particularly along the south east coast. This had already erupted in two prior conflicts known as the First and Second Carnatic wars. Along with the French and Indian war in North America, they provided the supplementary tinder for the war in Europe soon to unfold.

The final move before war came in the form of the Diplomatic Revolution of 1756. The power blocks had long been Britain and Austria united against common enemy France. This however was all about to be upended. Britain, primarily motivated by its concern over its Hanoverian holding, sought a radical new alliance with old enemy Prussia. This was despite them having been on opposing sides as recently as the Austrian War of Austrian Succession in the 1740’s. They hoped the

dynamic and clearly capable Frederick could help ensure the safety of Hanover and act as a general counterweight to the French on the continent. With this new agreement formalised in the Westminster Convention of January 1756, Britain jettisoned traditional ally Austria. Thwarted Austria consequently turned to their previous enemy France, together forming an alliance of their own against the new Anglo-Prussian axis. Now on one side the British and Prussians alongside Hanover and other small allies, facing off against the ‘Bourbon Alliance’ of Austria, France, Saxony, Russia, Sweden, and, from 1762, Spain as well. Russia and Sweden were already aligned against Prussia before this shift, but the Revolution of 1756 firmly consolidated the blocs.

This marked a significant shift in time-tested alliances and illustrates the dynamism and fluidity of power in this period. Old commitments were shed to serve the interests of the present, causing great ruptures in the process. With this British about-face, the scene was now set for the start of the war in Europe. And with it, the beginning of a new global conflict, one potentially matched only by Napoleon’s later wars and the two Great Wars of the 20th century for scale and active global theatres. The first move of the war was made by France.

They began massing troops at Toulon from early in the year for an attack on the British island holding of Minorca in the Mediterranean. While in many ways an extension of their ongoing conflict in North America, it marked a step change by bringing the hot war to Europe. The main British fort on the island at Port Mahon was besieged from 20th May and fell on June 28th 1756. Despite the efforts of a British relief force, it was ultimately unsuccessful and Minorca was seized by the French. This relief force was led by Admiral John Byng, a previously decorated and well-respected naval commander. He was nonetheless court-martialled,

and subsequently executed by firing squad on the deck of a ship, for his role in the failure. Found guilty of “not doing his utmost”, the incendiary decision demonstrated the charged political atmosphere in Britain at the time. Now it would be Frederick who would make his move. This began in late August 1756 with a pre-emptive invasion of Saxony, the small state bordering Prussia to the south. As an ally of Austria, Frederick wanted to remove them from the conflict quickly, as well as use Saxon funds and forces to bolster his own war effort. Moving with around 60,000 well-prepared troops,

this was a significant force, and one Austria was not expecting. The element of surprise allowed Frederick to initially occupy Dresden unopposed while the Saxon army was besieged near Pirna. Leaving a force to attend to the siege, he then marched his 28,000 strong component south with the aim of reaching the fertile Bohemian plains where they could overwinter. The plan though would not be a success, as the Austrian army lay in wait on his path.

Austrian commander Maximilian Browne had gathered his forces at a defensive position near to the exit of a mountain pass Frederick needed to use to reach the Bohemian plains. Therefore it would be Frederick this time who would be taken by surprise. Here at Lobositz on October 1st 1756, the two European armies would clash for the first time. With the Austrians arriving in advance, they began to take up positions with the choice of terrain. They opted for the high ground on the slopes of the extinct volcano. The Elbe river sat to their left while sloped vineyards covered the

other flank and access to the heights. In these vineyards were positioned Croatian battalions, supported by a further 8,000 troops nearby who could filter in reinforcements. Many of the other Austrian forces were also carefully positioned behind natural features, including a game reserve, in marshland and with infantry in one area told to lie down in an area of long grass for example. A heavy early morning mist also helped to further screen their positions. This meant Frederick emerged into the battlefield with very limited understanding of enemy troop numbers and positions — not an ideal situation when deciding strategy.

His last experience against the Austrian army had also been during the Austrian War of Succession a decade previously, however it had been reorganised in the intervening period proving it a transformed fighting force and one his troops had not yet sized up. Initially thinking he was up against only a rearguard force of the main army, Frederick ordered a limited cavalry charge towards the Austrian troops he could see ahead. These Austrian bait troops pulled back, allowing the 1,200 strong Prussian cavalry to advance further into what was essentially a trap. Stumbling first upon hundreds of Austrian grenadiers concealed in a sunken road, only for the Prussian cavalry to be opened up on by previously hidden artillery in a nearby village. While attempting to resist this onslaught, a further 1,300 fresh Austrian troops descended on the flagging Prussians. Disciplined fire from deadly smoothbore muskets took its toll

and remnants of the Prussian cavalry were forced into a retreat back towards their own lines. Next, in a moment of poor Prussian command, one of Frederick’s top generals, Gessler, ordered his entire cavalry force to advance without receiving the command to do so. Sitting behind the main infantry line, over 7,000 riders had to painstakingly pass through these troops before beginning their charge towards the Austrian positions. It must have been a startling sight for Frederick observing the battle, with him reportedly exclaiming : “My God, what is my cavalry doing!”. The charge proceeded to get mauled in the same way as the first smaller

thrust. Hidden Austrian artillery, infantry and cavalry all lying in wait. The force was mostly wiped out, with the survivors retreating in disarray. At this point Frederick temporarily withdrew from the battlefield, before later returning. Many Prussian troops remained fighting though, with renewed attempts made on the vineyard area on the flank which had been held so defiantly by the Croat troops. With all sides running low on ammunition and

stamina, a general halt to fighting soon occurred. This was not before Prussian howitzers opened fire on the nearby town, likely with incendiary shells. At least a hundred mostly wounded troops who had been sheltering there, both Austrian and Prussian, were burned alive in the ensuing blaze, unable to escape in time. A savage end to a bloody day of fighting. Frederick supposedly had been assuming the resumption of fighting the next day. Austrian commander Browne, however, ordered the

withdrawal of his forces during the night. He felt the Prussian advance had been slowed and heavy damage inflicted. Consequently, it was claimed as a strategic victory for both sides, despite the results being somewhat inconclusive. The battle left an estimated 3,000 dead on each side, by no means catastrophic but a significant loss nonetheless at just under 10% of total troops involved. While not massively tilting the scales of the Austro-Prussian campaign it did do a few important things. It put a temporary halt to the Prussian advance south into Bohemia, ending

any hopes of a lightning advance by Frederick. It simultaneously checked his image of invincibility which had grown strong in the prior period. Lastly, it gave each side their first taste of battle and the logistics of a new type of warfare. Military planners and strategists now better understood what it was like to advance against line-firing infantry equipped with state of the art smoothbore muskets. Or the challenges of transporting all the necessary ammunition, not just for thousands of muskets, but also scores of artillery pieces to any given battle location.

This was no longer medieval warfare where an army could carry pretty much all they needed with them, now it was increasingly about supply lines, crates of musket shot, cannonballs, howitzer shells and gunpowder, all the while protecting against enemy ambush. Prussia’s advance was halted for now. Abandoning plans to occupy the Bohemian plains, Frederick's army returned to Saxony for the winter. Despite the incoming lull though, things would soon escalate dramatically, both in Europe and on global fronts. From the complex melting pot of rival European regional ambitions to military flare ups in colonial theatres the march to war had been gradual. Now though Europe was engulfed in a new conflict,

and one which threatened to be both more intense and economically destructive than those before it.