---
video_title: "The Fall of the Roman Empire - Explained in 20 Minutes"
video_id: 9EkxZIKsVl0
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9EkxZIKsVl0
video_date: 2025-08-19T12:01:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Get your very detailed History map here: https://knowledgia.co
  Beautifully crafted, designed to stand out in any room, and perfect for anyone who loves history.
  
  ♦Get ACCESS to our exclusive videos and EARLY ACCESS to our public ones here:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  
  Why did the Western Roman Empire Collapse? - Explained in 20 Minutes
  
  What had once been the greatest power on Earth now found itself crumbling… The Roman Empire had its heart weakened, its limbs restless, its moral strength and military prowess…Gone… and its enemies encircling like vultures over a corpse not yet cold. 
  Its ancient institutions, once the envy of the world, began to rot from within, hollowed by corruption and despair. At the frontiers… Roman legions fell. No longer feared as they once were, the defenders of Rome struggled to maintain the cohesion of what their great ancestors had conquered. Just as the crisis with the Goths seemed to wane, a new terror emerged… The end of the Roman Empire was just around the corner.
  
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  00:00 Just before the Fall of the Roman Empire
  01:46 Rome Faces the Huns
  04:51 Tribute to the Huns & Humiliation
  05:54 Loss in Hispania
  06:07 Battle of the Catalaunian Plains
  07:42 Attila invasion of Italy
  08:52 Betrayal of Aetius
  09:47 Vandal Sack of Rome - 455
  11:42 Avitus: Rome’s Gothic Emperor
  13:28 Majorian: The Last Great Hope
  15:39 Ricimer: The Pupper Master
  16:53 Defeats on All Fronts
  18:23 The Power Vacuum
  18:42 The Fall of Rome
---
What had once been the greatest power on Earth now found itself crumbling… Its heart weakened, its limbs restless, its moral strength and military prowess…Gone… and its enemies encircling like vultures over a corpse not yet cold. Its ancient institutions, once the envy of the world, began to rot from within, hollowed by corruption and despair. At the frontiers… Roman legions bled and fell. No longer feared as they once were, the defenders struggled to maintain the cohesion of what their great ancestors had conquered. Just as the crisis with the Goths seemed to wane, a new terror emerged… There was no respite from military incursions at the border, as just after the situation with the Goths seemed to be somewhat stabilised, the Huns would make a deadly reappearance under their leader Attila, hastening the collapse of the western empire.

Economically and socially things were no better either. With the decline of central authority came a loss of faith of citizens in their institutions, setting in place a vicious cycle. This emboldened generals and other leaders to take more power for themselves. Rome’s depleted military also made it harder to face its enemies in battle and, increasingly, had to take the terms offered by its adversaries. The final years of Theodosius II’s reign were not to see an improvement in the general state of the empire, as a resurgent Hun force renewed pressure on Roman forces. Unlike Rome’s other

barbarian enemies who made incursions into its European territories and largely originated from central and northern European regions, the Huns were definitively Asiatic. While some mystery surrounds their exact origins, they were likely originally from the Steppe region of central Asia which includes parts of modern day Kazakhstan, Mongolia and China. Roman sources paint them in a completely different light to other barbarian groups, emphasising their ‘ugly’ and squat nature. They were an unknown compared to the fearsome, but somewhat respected, northern and central European groups. These people may have been regarded by the Romans as uncouth, yet ultimately were thought of as valiant, good-looking and not dissimilar physically to Romans. These horse-dominated Asiatic Huns more resembled Genghis Khan’s warriors of the

centuries to follow, and they were duly feared as almost some kind of supernatural force. Hunnic warfare was also very different to the barbarian groups of Europe Rome was now familiar with. While some Germanic groups made use of cavalry, the Huns' warfare revolved around it. These were Steppe peoples who grew up riding the horse, their training in this art was, in effect, their youth. Combined with a smaller and more manoeuvrable animal, they were unsurpassed in skill. The Hun’s favoured weapon was the bow, likely a smaller

composite reflex type, familiar to the steppe region. Made of wood with bone reinforcements, it was ideally suited to use on horseback. A very powerful weapon and when wielded by many thousands of horsemen it posed a deadly threat. In close quarters they also made use of the sword, lassos and nets to entangle enemies, but oftentimes relied on drawing close to unleash a volley of arrows before pulling a certain distance away to safety. Cumbersome Roman formations had extreme difficulties dealing with these fluid warriors who, one moment, could be seemingly in retreat, and the next, encircling a formation from all sides.

Led by the fearsome Attila, they began a new wave of campaigns in the Balkan region in 441 through to 443 AD. Here they terrorised Roman populations and displayed their overwhelming strength against depleted Roman forces. Theodosius recalled troops from Sicily who had been preparing an attack against the Vandals in North Africa to face Attila but it wasn’t enough. They were unable to push the Huns back and saw two of their armies defeated in the process. The Huns continued their rampage through the Balkans, laying siege to Naissus in modern day Serbia in 443 AD and slaughtering its inhabitants. As a result, Theodosius was forced to make a desperate peace,

granting them foederati status as well as agreeing to humiliating conditions. This included the payment of over 600 kg of gold annually in tribute. Whilst it used to be Rome dictating terms, now they had to take them from groups such as the Huns. The agreement bought Rome some time and respite from Attila’s attacks but it would only prove temporary. “Speeding here and there on their nimble-footed horses, they were filling all the world with panic and bloodshed…May Jesus avert from the Roman world the farther assaults of these wild beasts! Everywhere their approach was unexpected, they outstripped rumour in speed,

and, when they came, they spared neither religion nor rank nor age” - Saint Jerome Meanwhile, in other further flung parts of the empire, the imperial grip continued to weaken. Hispania saw less and less Roman control with persistent insurgent groups, such as the Bagaudae peasants, alongside other barbarian tribes, agitating for more independence. While Attila had been raiding the Balkans, and other areas of the eastern provinces through the 440’s, his attention would soon turn to the west. In 451 he crossed the Rhine, like so many marauders before him, and began his campaign against Valentinian’s western empire. Attila led his troops into Roman Gaul, pushing towards Orleans in modern day France. He would

meet the opposing Roman forces at the battle of the Catalaunian Plains in June 451 AD. The Roman army was heavily reliant on its Germanic allies by this point. A large component of its own ranks were composed of these tribal auxiliaries, but Rome also collaborated in the battle with an independent allied Visigoth force under king Theodoric I. This demonstrates the state of Roman power at this point that they are reliant on an alliance with a group they were battling just decades previously. And not simply as extra troops within their own army, but actively fighting alongside another independent army with its own command and control structure. This had more in common with future mediaeval battles of the coming centuries

than how Rome had fought in its past. The outcome of the encounter at the Catalaunian Plains is not fully clear. It is thought combined losses in the tens of thousands minimum was likely with the Huns eventually retreating but it was by no means a defeat severe enough to remove them as a threat. In 452 AD, after regrouping and recruiting, Attila’s troops swept into Italy rather than Gaul this time, capturing key cities including Verona. He also sacked Padua and Milan in the same year, with the important centre of Aquileia reportedly razed with devastating effect, though some evidence suggests partial recovery in later years.

Roman forces under general Aetius didn’t have the troop numbers to face Attila directly so opted for a harrying strategy at his rear. The Hun’s invasion of the Italian mainland was yet another humiliating blow for Rome in a long series. The empire again demonstrated that it could not effectively defend its heartlands, let alone further flung areas. However, to the relief of emperor Valentinian, the Hunnic threat would subside mostly of its own accord. With plague in Attlila’s ranks, as well as threats from the new emperor Marcian in the east against Hun home territory, they were forced to retreat. Within a year their leader Attlila would

die leading largely to the breakup of the group as the devastating fighting force they had been. Characteristic of the unstable time period for Rome, no sooner had the threat of Attila’s huns been pushed back, Valentinian was plotting the murder of his general Aetius- the same man who had faced down the fearsome Hun army on his behalf. Encouraged by a wealthy senator Maximus, and others from his court, Aetius was apparently confronted while reading a statement to the emperor. He was then set upon by Valentinian himself, a rare occurrence for a Roman assassination. Without a weapon, the general was unable to defend himself and was fatally wounded in the encounter. It would be less than 6 months before two followers of Aetius, seeking revenge,

killed Valentinian in turn, with the deed carried out while the emperor was out hunting. Rome’s real enemies, it seemed, were now within its own walls… Valentinian was succeeded by Petronius Maximus, the same senator who had encouraged him to kill Aetius- such was the state of intrigue and treachery in Roman power circles by this time. Maximus’ reign was doomed from the start though. The Vandals, under their king Geiseric, had already begun preparations for the invasion of Italy, and when news started to spread through May 455 AD of the impending attack, panic took hold in the city. The expected relief force hadn’t arrived and Rome wasn’t in a state to defend itself from Geiseric’s large army. Many citizens fled, and emperor Maximus attempted to organise his own evacuation

and that of the senate. However, he would be killed on the 31st May, likely stoned by an angry mob of citizens just outside the city walls. As he was mutilated and tossed into the river Tiber, the Vandals approached unimpeded- truly a sorry state of affairs for the once mighty empire. Unlike the Gothic sack of Rome in 410 AD this one by the Vandals was fiercer and more prolonged. They stayed in the city pillaging and looting for 2 weeks, stripping anything and everything of value. This is also where the modern usage of the term ‘vandalism’ comes from.

Many Roman citizens were taken to Vandal territory in North Africa as slaves, led through their burning city to awaiting boats in chains. Though it is reported that Pope Leo’s pleas to refrain from killing and torture were mostly heeded, with no wholesale massacre committed by the Vandals, it was still a great destruction of the heart of Roman power and symbolic of the end days of the western Roman empire. Into this chaos would step a new emperor, Avitus. A powerful senator of Gallic descent, who at the time of Maximus’ death and sack of Rome was at the court of Visigoth king Theodoric I in Gaul. Symbolic of the importance of these new rising power centres around the old western empire, it was Theodoric and his court that elevated Avitus to the role of emperor and acted as his power base. As a result,

Avitus had trouble gaining recognition from both the eastern empire, currently ruled by Marcian, as well as the senate in Rome. Only on travelling back to the city was he able to achieve this, however, the desperate nature of the situation just following the sack of Rome did not help him. He faced resentment from much of the population for both being a ‘foreigner’, as well as bringing in his largely Visigoth forces to the city of Rome. These mostly non-native troops needed food and payment- a tall order for the empire’s already overstretched coffers. It is reported Avitus resorted to melting down bronze statues and other desperate acts to help raise capital.

A small success achieved among the bad news was the defeat of Vandal raiding forces off the coast of Sicily in a battle led by his capable general Ricimer. Another powerful military figure in the vein of Stilicho and Aetius before him, wielding, at times, as much power as the emperor. Avitus’ deal with his Visigoth backers though, to whom he had promised large portions of Hispania, was to backfire on him. Theodoric I’s campaign in Hispania meant he was unable to come to Avitus’ aid in Rome when faced by an uprising against his rule. Majorian, another powerful military figure, with the crucial backing of Ricimer, directly challenged Avitus. Avitus then moved north to

muster his forces in Gaul and would travel back to meet Ricimer’s forces near Piacenza in northern Italy. He was roundly defeated though, and forced to accept the position of bishop of the same city, though he would die shortly after. One of the key agitators, Majorian, would succeed Avitus, claiming the title of western emperor for himself in April 457 AD. Majorian’s rule would be the last of significance in the western Roman empire, with those following him being largely controlled by, either the eastern empire, or barbarian generals. Inheriting a greatly reduced empire, with essentially just the Italian mainland and a rump of territory in Gaul and Hispania, he made it a priority to recapture lost ground and take battle to Rome’s enemies. Majorian had some success in pushing the Vandals

back and claimed an important victory at the battle of Garigliano in 457 AD where he surprised a large raiding party attempting to make their way back with loot from a raid in south west Italy to their north African territory. He also managed to regain most of Roman territory in Hispania, a notable boost to Roman coffers and morale. However, enemy pressure was still great and Rome’s position perilously weak. Majorian, in his attempts to reduce the corruption now rampant in the western empire, had also made many enemies in the senate and among the aristocracy, many of whom were likely involved in these corrupt activities. Eventually, and on trend for the period, powerful general Ricimer had the emperor killed when returning to the Italian mainland from an unsuccessful attack against the Vandals in North Africa. Majorian was put through days of beatings

and torture before eventually being beheaded- an ignoble death for a man of his position. Following Majorian would be a series of puppet emperors. First Severus, ruling 461- 465 AD, but holding little real power as Ricimer pulled the strings. Anthemius would be next, ascending in 467 AD after an interregnum of 2 years. Unlike his predecessor, he showed an appetite for some real power and decision making. This proved a problem for general Ricimer,

who by this point was accustomed to calling the shots. Anthemius had also been granted some legitimacy by the eastern empire and Leo I, which again reduced his dependence on Ricimer somewhat. The issue escalated until all out confrontation between the two. Like Majorian though, this would end badly for him, as after nearly 5 months of conflict, with Ricimer besieging him in the city of Rome, Anthemius was captured and, shortly after, beheaded. The backdrop to both of the above puppet’s reigns would be constant military threats against Roman soil which only served to further boost the importance of the key military leaders upon whose fate Rome rested. Orleans in modern day France again under siege in 463 AD, this time

by the Salian Franks. The battle of Bergamo in 464 AD saw all powerful general Ricimer defeat an Alan force invading Italy, managing to kill their king. 468 AD and the failure of a combined eastern and western Roman operation against the Vandals in north Africa. One of the largest amphibious operations from the period which cost the western empire dearly in funds it could ill afford to lose at this time. 469 AD saw a defeat of Roman and allied forces against the Visigoths, this time in Deols, north-western Gaul. This was followed by another defeat of Roman

forces by the Visigoths, this time in Arles, southern Gaul while attempting to put a stop to the same forces who had defeated them in 469 AD. They were roundly defeated which subsequently allowed the king of the Visigoths, Euric, to capture much of the surrounding territory. Lurching from threat to threat, the empire scarcely had time to catch its breath. The next puppet of Ricimer, Olybrius, would reign for less than 4 months from July 472 AD, with his death before the end of the year. The figure of far greater significance than the recent string of emperors though, general Ricimer, was also to die this same year. This created a real

power vacuum as he had effectively been pulling the strings since his murder of emperor Avitus. It would be Ricimer’s nephew Gundobad who would step into the role of his uncle and hold a significant amount of power for the last 4 years of the Roman empire in the west. During these last years, Rome’s power base was now so depleted that it could barely function effectively as a ruling entity. Surrounded by barbarian groups now increasingly settled into territories, and forming what would become the nation-states of the next centuries. The western empire would formally end with the deposition of Romulus Augustulus by Odoacer, a Germanic barbarian leader, in 476 AD.

He would become the first post-Roman ruler of Italy and, with Augustulus having no successor, the lineage of the western empire would end. While Constantinople would continue to serve as the capital of a functioning eastern empire for centuries to come, the fall of Romulus Augustulus marked not just the end of an empire, but the end of a world… In its place, a fractured Europe would emerge…scarred, scattered, and waiting to be reborn…