---
video_title: "How did Rome become Christian?"
video_id: z-lsS3I7ebo
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z-lsS3I7ebo
video_date: 2025-03-01T14:47:10+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦How did Rome become Christian?
  
  ♦Support us: 
  www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  
  ♦Please consider SUBSCRIBING: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  ♦Big Thank you to:
  
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  00:00 Rome Recovers From Crisis
  02:00 Rise of Diocletian and Military Challenges
  03:46 The Tetrarchy: Rule of Four
  05:55 Persecution of Christians and the End of the Tetrarchy
  07:02 Constantine's Rise and Religious Transformation
  09:59 Legacy of Constantine and the Future of Rome
  
  #History #Documentary
---
Emerging from the chaos of the previous 50 years and the crisis of the third century, Rome was in desperate need of a stable recovery period. Having been pressed almost to the point of collapse across many fronts, time was required to rebuild their economic and military strength, as well as civilian confidence in the empire's ability to defend its borders. The years 285-335 AD would deliver this period of more stable governance and prosperity. That's not to say a lack of military action on Rome's borders or succession battles within, but nothing to the same degree as the 50 years prior. Another transformational change was to occur for the empire during this period. The adoption of Christianity has state religion under constant team. This would mark a new monotheistic phase of the empire's history, leaving behind the pagan pantheon of gods, followed for nearly a millennium, which were entwined with a very fabric of Roman life. The era began with the reign of Diocletian. He became emperor in 284 AD, putting down his unpopular predecessor, Carinas, after a short rule. Diocletian was another military man, as many of his predecessors, and also far from a noble birth. He had known the toil and hard life of a soldier, working his way up the ranks through merit and the respect of his men. Almost immediately after becoming emperor, he made off to face numerous Germanic tribal threats, particularly the Alemani and Carpi, as they continued to probe and push into Roman territory. After some success against these groups, he then made to face the Sarmations in the Balkans, and equestrian people who had been pushing northwest from their home territory in Persia. This quick pivot between completely different styles of warfare shows Rome's accumulated experience in this period. Centuries of facing barbarian and eastern threats had fed into military techniques and capabilities, so much so that the same legions could move from defeating an almost completely infantry-based Germanic tribal force to a cavalry-dominated Persian opposition, armed with lance and long-slashing sword, able to move at great pace across the battlefield. Only two years into Diocletian's reign and a very interesting development occurs, revealing something of the man's character. He chose to appoint a co-emperor, Maximian, who would govern the Western Empire, while Diocletian ruled the East, while co-rulers weren't on herdov, to do it this early in his reign in a non-fimilial arrangement unlike those before him, and also off the back of his own strong position, both within the army and society more broadly was a revealing move. It showed a degree of strategic thinking and ability to foresee problems that so many of his predecessors seemed to lack, not just of the last 50 years, but dotted throughout the history of Rome. With Diocletian proceeding with campaigns in the East, and Maximian sent to do battle on European frontiers, they were hit with another secession attempt. This time, Rome's British and northern French possessions, not dissimilar to post-emists in the Gallic Empire over 30 years before. Whether this spurged Diocletian's next decision is unclear. However, in 293 AD, he pioneered a novel system of rule now known as the Tetsharchy. In this system, he would remain emperor with his co-emperor, Maximian, but beneath them there would be another two rulers or Caesar's, Constantius and Galarius. The idea being that this decision would enable each to deal with issues of governance and the threats of their region more effectively, as well as the degree of independence this rule of four gave, it also provided a clear succession line from the co-emperors, now styled as brothers to the two young Caesar's below them, presented as sons. Alongside extensive administrative reforms carried out with a focused and bureaucratic approach, another notable aspect of Diocletian's rule was his persecution of Christians. The minority religion had suffered on and off under different emperors for over 250 years at this point. The cruelty of rulers such as Nero towards them is well known. However, Diocletian also carried out heavy repression. From around 303 AD, churches and scriptures burned, with many priests arrested and some put to death in terrible ways. The measures were largely ineffective at stamping out the faith though, only serving to prevent Christians having roles in state administration for a period. In 305 AD, after a reign of over 20 years, Diocletian and his co-emperor Maximian resigned. In what was supposed to be a tidy handover of power from the figure who prided himself on being a stabilizing force for Rome, previous Caesar's Galarius and Constantius Chlorus would have become the new augusti. However, the tetrarchi wasn't to survive long. Chlorus soon died, with his son Constantine proclaimed emperor by his father's troops. This would thrust Rome into another period of successionary strife with many claimants to the title of emperor between 309 and 313 AD. However, most of these threats were eliminated. With a key turning point in the consolidation of Constantine's power, being the battle of Milvian Bridge in 312 AD. Here on the banks of the river tiber, Constantine faced Max and Tias' forces. They clashed on an open field, and Max and Tias' losses were comprehensive, with himself likely flung from his horse and drowning in the river. This didn't save him from a humiliating fate, though, with his corpse retrieved by Constantine's men, decapitated and subsequently paraded around the streets of Rome. Aside from acting as a crucial consolidation of Constantine's power, the battle also marked a key turning point in the religious history of the Roman Empire, and that of Europe as a whole for a millennia to come. It is said by historian Eusebius that while marching to battle, Constantine saw a vision of the cross above the sun with the words, in this sign, you shall conquer. How much of this vision occurred or whether a natural phenomenon of some sort matters little? It marked a crossroads in Constantine's religious journey, and that of the Empire as a whole. Within a year of the battle, he issued the Edict of Milan in 313 AD, which ended persecution of Christians, allowing them freedom to practice their faith. He also proceeded to centralize a previously quite disparate and autonomous early church. This set the president for tight state control over religious affairs, which would eventually morph into the influential organization of the Catholic Church. This was compounded with the Council of Nicaea in 325 AD. Here an accepted canon was agreed upon with certain other texts excluded. The Aryan controversy and how best to suppress it was also a subject of discussion. This was an ominous forewarning of repression to follow in later centuries of groups such as the Cathars and France, who fell outside of accepted orthodoxy. Despite his reign beginning in 306, he wouldn't make his final consolidation until 324 AD, and with it also finally ending any remnant of the period of co-rules since Diocletian. Constantine had been ruling uneasily alongside Licinius for some years, with the latter in possession of the eastern portion of the empire. However, by 323 AD, things had come to a head, their fragile truce was called off, and Constantine sought the complete destruction of Licinius. Following a series of clashes, including a naval battle at the same hellispont crossed by Alexander the Great, some 600 years previously, Licinius was finally put down at the Battle of Chrysopolis. Here the two men met with large forces, around 100,000 soldiers each. Constantine opted for a simple huge frontal assault. It achieved the desired effect, routing Licinius' troops. The outcome of this large-scale clash between the two was heavy losses of up to 30,000 men for Licinius, and his complete loss of power to Constantine, who would govern alone for the rest of his rule. Constantine's long reign would come to an end in 337 AD, with one of his last acts being to receive baptism. He had hoped to be baptized in the River Jordan as he crossed it to mount a new campaign in Persia, much like a crusade, but had been prevented by ill health. He had governed through the periods with challenge since 306 AD. This 31-year reign was an eternity compared to those of the 3rd century, which saw 20 emperors in 50 years, the same combined length of just Diocletian and Constantine's rule. With his passing, the Roman Empire was in a completely different position to 285 AD. It now had a new state religion, a huge metropolis and eastern power hub in Constantinople, as well as a modernized taxation and bureaucratic system thanks to the work of Constantine and Diocletian. While there would be some successionary tension, ultimately, rule would remain with his family until 350 AD. Emperor Constantine had set the direction of the Empire for the remainder of its history, and also the coming direction of the European states to follow it. The centralized Catholic Church of which he played no small part in creating would act as the dominant spiritual and social force throughout the region for more than a millennia. His reforms also provided a great challenge to the religion of Christianity itself, demanding it reduce its base of texts and morph with central authority, in a way quite opposed to Scripture. This was the beginning of a messy process by which religion was merged with state and the mechanisms of power.