---
video_title: "The Collapse of the Biggest Empire that Ever Existed"
video_id: --OVACnL2eg
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=--OVACnL2eg
video_date: 2025-12-10T12:45:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Get your very detailed History map here: https://knowledgia.co
  Beautifully crafted, designed to stand out in any room, and perfect for anyone who loves history.
  The Entire History of England Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9hTp9bhr1T3t3GPkz-8gQQy
  
  ♦Get ACCESS to our exclusive videos and EARLY ACCESS to our public ones here:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  Discover how Britain changed from WW1 to the present day. A simple timeline of wars, political shifts, economic change, and the end of the empire that reshaped modern Britain.
  
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel:    / @masteringknowledge  
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
---
Heading into the 20th century, Britain was the most powerful nation on earth. However, Britain would be rocked by immense challenges in the 20th century that would knock it down from its pedestal and force it to find a new place in a changing world. In this final video of our series on the history of England, the country weather's world wars, economic hardships, and controversial governments as it transforms from a global empire to the modern nation we know today. World War I and its aftermath. The long 19th century truly came to an end in 1914. The assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo on June 28th that year triggered a cascade that culminated in the First World War that changed the world forever. Like many of its allies, Britain entered the war under the delusion that it would be over by Christmas. But the fears of military inadequacy raised since the Boer War seems to play out as Germany won a series of early victories. Of course, the war was not over by Christmas and by early 1915, a grizzly stalemate descended upon the war in Europe. Some six million men would serve in the British army over the next four years from the trenches of Belgium to the shores of Galipoli. Both Britain and her empire saw firsthand the devastation that a new age of war brought. Britain squeezed her empire for every man and resource it could to fight a modern war, but victory remained out of grasp. For the first time in centuries, a foreign war came to British soil. Zeppelin raids and gas attacks brought terror to London and on several occasions British coastal towns were bombarded by the German navy. No land invasion ever came, but the war's effect at home was profound. The entire society was oriented towards war. Women were pressed into the workforce to fill the gaps left by conscripted men, and social life in every city, town and village was transformed by the disappearance of most of its fighting age men. Many, of course, would never return. British and colonial soldiers served valiantly, even if that valor was rarely rewarded. The drudgery of the trench stalemate was broken infrequently by bold offensives that usually lost steam within a few days. Battles like Ipras, the psalm and Galipoli, earned their way into the annals of British military history, but rather than glory, they represented tragedy. On the first day of the psalm alone, Britain lost almost 20,000 men. Even the victories were hollow, given how many thousand usually died for a few meters of land. The First World War was a very different conflict. War had always had its misery, but during the long 19th century, British wars had been relatively small scale affairs where victory was easy, and glory was plentiful. The Boer War had challenged that trend, but it was the First World War that rewrote Britain's relationship with war. War was no longer a source of glory, but of tragedy where innocent men were sent away to die for causes that meant nothing to them, by leaders who cared nothing for them. The end of the war in November 1918 brought huge celebrations, but the world and Britain would never be the same. Britain had lost almost a million, many more were physically or mentally broken. The economy had been completely wrecked, Europe was decimated. Britain had mustered the entire might of its empire and had only prevailed by the skin of its teeth with help from its many allies. Ultimately, it had pushed itself too far. The Interwar Years The First World War left Britain exhausted. Its economy was in ruins, its armies depleted, and its peoples shattered and traumatized by the horrific scale of the conflict. The psychological and emotional impact of this was written in the landscape. Almost every town or village in Britain raised a memorial to the men they'd lost on the battlefield. Every family in the country had someone to mourn. Alienation and anger were the rewards for the survivors. With so many men lost and women having to pick up the slack in their absence, it was inevitable that women's suffrage would follow closely upon the war's end. The representation of the People Act of 1918 gave women over 30 the vote, and in 1928 it was given to all adults over 21. Britain's political emancipation came with greater social and economic freedom, as more women entered the workforce. The economic hardship of the Interwar Years prevented England enjoying the same roaring 20s that the US saw. Instead, the US's economic boom outcompeted Britain's industry, leading to industrial decline and unemployment. This downturn contributed to strikes and unrest through the 1920s. It was this dissatisfaction with current affairs among working people that catapulted the Labour Party into prominence. The dissatisfaction with the political order among former soldiers and the new wave of female voters helped a party that challenged the old political order. A young party, achieving its first MP only in 1906, Labour formed its first government in 1924. Its rise eclipsed the old Liberal Party which, after leaving government in 1915, was condemned to the sidelines of British politics. But one only needs to look at Britain's empire to see the writing on the wall. Britain no longer had the money, the power, and even seems to lack the desire to keep it together. Ireland resumed its push for independence after the war, with Irish nationalists swaging the Irish War of Independence against Britain until 1921, when the Anglo-Irish Treaty recognized the functional independence of the Irish Free State. While still technically part of the British Empire, Ireland would only slip further out of Britain's grasp in the coming years, establishing its own constitution in 1937, Egypt went independent in 1922, removing another major piece of the empire. Then there was India. Despite its peaceful push for greater independence, the emritzer massacre on April 13, 1919, left almost 400 people dead when British troops opened fire on protesting crowds. The massacre galvanized the Indian Independence Movement and catapulted Mahatma Gandhi into the role of the movement's figurehead. The momentum in India shifted decisively towards independence. It was no longer a question of if, but when? The Great Depression did nothing to improve things. Unemployment hit three million at the peak of the Depression in 1932, and a deep sense of pessimism gripped the nation through the decade. The Jarrow March of 1936 became the most potent symbol of the British experience of the Depression. Thousands of out-of-work men and women marched from Jarrow near Newcastle down to London in a peaceful display of discontent with a government's failure to tackle the Depression. It is this economic hardship and bitter experience of the previous war that explains Britain's reluctance to confront the rising fascist threat. Britain wished to avoid another war at any cost, so turned a blind eye to Hitler's rise in 1933 and his expansionism in the years after. There were critics of this, most famously Winston Churchill, but Britain had been too traumatized by the last war in Europe and too weakened by economic hardships since then to want another war. Hitler was this attitude that led Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain to try appeasing Hitler with a Munich agreement of 1938. By the time Britain had realized its error, Hitler had already taken Czechoslovakia and was marching into Poland. The Second World War Honoring a prior agreement made with Poland, Britain declared war on Germany on September 4, 1939. After a few months of minimal action known as the Fony War, Britain was shell-shocked by rapids German victories. This was not to be a repeat of the previous war. Denmark, the Netherlands and Belgium fell in a matter of weeks. British troops were cut off from France and forced back to the evacuation point at Dunker, while the bulk of the German army marched directly into the heart of France. Hundreds of British civilians hopped aboard their ships to sail over the channel and bring the trapped men home. It was an inspiring show of spirit, but a dismal military defeat. By the end of June 1940, Britain and her empire stood alone against the Nazis. Nevertheless, the new Prime Minister Winston Churchill assured the world that Britain would never surrender. Hitler attempted to clear the way for an invasion by destroying the royal air force in the skies. The resulting battle of Britain was a desperate attempt by a small handful of pilots and even fewer planes to deny the Germans the air superiority they needed for an invasion. Dogfights erupted over the hills and fields of southern England as outnumbered RAF pilots supplanted with volunteers and exiles from several conquered European nations narrowly fended off the German invaders. By the thinnest of margins, the RAF's resistance stopped the Germans in their tracks. By winning the Battle of Britain, they denied the Nazis a total victory and kept Britain in the fight. In the legendary words of Winston Churchill, never had so much been owed by so many to so few. In night bombing of British cities continued through the blitz, starting in September 1940, the Luftwaffe began systematic bombing of most of England's major cities. Tens of thousands of civilians were killed in these raids and entire city blocks were burned to the ground. Civilian defiance in the face of this terror became known as the Blitz spirit. The slogan of keep calm and carry on captured the steely determination of the British people as they continued their lives under the constant threat of bombs. On the home front, Britain was subject to rationing, blackouts and the mass evacuation of children from major cities. German U-boats made it risky to import food, so Britons were encouraged to grow their own victory gardens to supplement the government-ordered rations. As in the First World War, women were again called upon to till the fields and work the factories in the absence of men. For those men who were on suited to frontline duty, roles in the home guard or as air raid wardens militarized virtually every able-bodied man in the country. British troops continued to see action in Asia and Africa after fighting in the European theatre died down. After the US entered the war in December 1941, Britain was relieved and worked closely with the Americans to coordinate the Western Allied assault on the Nazis. British forces contributed to a series of victories starting at El Alamine in North Africa in 1942 and continuing on to join Allied invasions in Decicily and Italy in 1943. On June 6, 1944, British, American and Canadian forces launched from Britain on D-Day for the invasion of Normandy. From there, British troops helped liberate France and ultimately defeat Germany in April 1945. Victory was bittersweet. Half a million British people were dead and entire cities had been hollowed out by German bombs. Britain's economy was in ruins and it had racked up immense debt to cover its expenses. It was also clear by the end of the war that the United States and the Soviet Union had eclipsed Britain in power. With larger armies, larger economies, more resources and greater international influence, the US and the USSR ensured that Britain's days as the world-leading power were long gone. Post-war Britain Both world wars had encouraged nationalism in the colonies while undermining British attitudes for the empire. This remained of the British Empire was eager to assert its independence when peace came. Nowhere was this more true than India. Indian nationalists demanded a rapid transition to independence and the British largely agreed. The interest and ability to rule a global empire was gone. Britain withdrew from newly created India and Pakistan in August 1947 and the rest of Britain's colonies would slip away over the coming years. Nothing symbolized the end of Britain's role as a superpower like the Suez crisis of 1956. When newly independent Egypt nationalized the Suez Canal in spite of British protests, Britain launched a joint invasion with France and Israel to reopen it. It was a bizarre attempt to resurrect the old assertive foreign policy of a global empire. However, this was no longer the 19th century. Britain was condemned by the international community, including both the Soviet Union and its supposed ally the United States. The US believed that the intervention harmed its interests in the region and risked pushing the Middle East towards communism. Britain was forced to withdraw in a humiliating conceit, the embarrassment of which led Prime Minister Anthony Eden to offer his resignation. No longer could Britain assert its will as it pleased on the international stage. From here on out, it was a second-tier power that could not act without the approval of the true global power in Washington. But it would be wrong to say post-war Britain was only a place of collapse and despair. Obviously winning the war was a major morale boost, even if the arrival of the Cold War tempered those feelings a bit. There was plenty to celebrate in 1948 when the National Health Service, or the NHS, was established to provide free healthcare to any and all people in Britain. The NHS has been beset by controversy and criticism, but it has consistently been one of the most popular institutions in British life since its inception. Today, public opinion polls show greater support for the NHS than exists for the monarchy, the church, or the armed forces. The relatively amicable decolonization process and maintenance of relations through the Commonwealth also encouraged immigration to Britain by people of the former colonies. Post-war Britain saw a steady rise in immigration, especially from the Caribbean, West Africa, and South Asia seeking opportunity in the former Imperial Center. Even as now, immigration was a controversial issue, but it shows that even though Britain was no longer a superpower, it remained a land of prosperity and opportunity that attracted people from all over the world. To lead this Commonwealth, in 1953, Britain received a new queen in Elizabeth II. A figurehead with no real political power, Elizabeth nevertheless became a symbol of stability and unity for most of Britain during her long 70-year reign. The 60s and 70s The unraveling of Britain's old empire continued through the 1960s with independence coming for most of the remaining colonies, especially in Africa. It was a foregone conclusion by this point, and the question was not whether the colonies should go, but how the process would unfold. With the end of the empire and Britain's role as a world-leading power, Britain found itself seeking a new identity. The swinging 60s provided Britain a new way to influence the world through culture. The 60s was the age of the British invasion, where British music, like that of the Beatles and the Rolling Stones, achieved global success. The wave of social change that began in the United States in the 60s swept Britain as well. The feminist movement, the sexual revolution, and anti-racist policies gained popularity, especially with young people. If the 60s was a decade of optimism, then the 70s was one of pessimism. Economic difficulties caused by the massive expansion of the welfare state at home and fluctuations in the economy abroad, such as in the 1973 oil crisis, produced economic hardship and unrest in Britain. Protest movements and worker strikes were a common feature of 70s life. Both labor and conservatives proved inept at handling the problems, with the Heath, Wilson, and Callahan governments all struggling and ultimately collapsing in failure. The winter of discontent from 1978 to 1979 saw massive protests as entire industries took to the streets to protest for better pay and express dissatisfaction with the incumbent labor government. Also troublesome was the issue of Northern Ireland. Catholic and Republican opponents of British rule in Northern Ireland were pushing for independence and Irish reunification. The British government's response to these protests was strong and led to violence. Bloody Sunday, on January 30, 1972 saw British police gunned down 26 unarmed protesters in dairy, which was internationally condemned. The Irish Republican army used examples like Bloody Sunday to justify a campaign of bombings that claimed the lives of almost 3,000 British people. Most of them civilians during a period known as the Troubles. For example, the Birmingham pub bombings of November 21, 1974, killed 21 people at two pubs. The IRA's willingness to bomb any target anywhere made them a source of constant fear for regular British people through the 1970s and 80s. The Thatcher Years After a decade of dissatisfaction, the 1979 election saw labor replaced with a conservative government under Margaret Thatcher. Thatcher was a staunch, free marketer, much like Ronald Reagan who entered office in the US in 1980. Thatcher tackled the economic hardships of Britain by slashing regulations and privatizing industry. This made her a divisive figure in British politics. Her attacks on trade unions provoked serious opposition and there were mass strikes, especially from miners throughout the early and mid-1980s. Many of Britain's coal mines were now unprofitable and thatcher believed it was better to close underperforming mines and import coal instead. For the communities in North England and South Wales that depended on those mines, this was unacceptable. From 1974 to 1975, the miners' strike halted the nation's industry. Scenes of fierce clashes between the police and protesters polarize the nation. The heavy hand of an uncarrying state or the radical routiness of entitled union workers. In the end, Thatcher won. 160 mines were closed, decimating what remained of Britain's coal industry. Although it should be acknowledged that the previous Wilson Labour government had closed 253 during their tenure. Former coal mining communities remained some of the poorest areas of Britain and the hatred for her was still intense when Thatcher died in 2013. Thatcher's economic policies resulted in an economic boom, but one whose benefits did not fall equally across society. Still, the 1980s was a decade of relative strength and optimism for Britain. Thatcher's hard-line foreign policy saw Britain emerge victorious when Argentina invaded the Falkland Islands in 1982 and her uncompromising attitude earned her the nickname of the Iron Lady from her communist opponents in the USSR. Thatcher stayed in power long enough to see the end of the USSR, but dissatisfaction with her leadership forced her resignation in 1990. Enthusiasm for the Conservative Party ebbed away over the 90s and by 1997 British voters were eager for change and ushered in Tony Blair's Labour Party to power. New Labour and the New Millennium. Blair's New Labour distanced itself from the more left-wing policies of the past to embrace a centrist business-friendly approach. It was a sign of the conservatism that had overtaken the country since the 1970s. Blair's government disappointed the party's left-wing with its close partnerships with businesses, but the results was relatively sustained economic growth into the New Millennium. The Blair years brought significant changes to Britain. Devolution saw the government grants legislative assemblies to the constituent nations of Scotland. Wales and Northern Ireland that gave the other countries of the UK more power to govern their own affairs. Blair's government also rolled back immigration controls to encourage migrants, with Britain seeing a rapid rise in its immigrant population into the 2000s. Britain joins the US in its invasion of Iraq in 2003 and in the war on terror. In 2005, Britain felt first-hand the impact of terror attacks when the 7-7 bombings in London left 52 people dead and over 700 injured. Much like the US, though, the UK's involvement in military action in the Middle East was highly criticised for its harm it inflicted upon civilians and the unclear nature of its military goals. The 2008 financial crash hit Britain hard, being so closely tied to the American economy, the British economy suffered a serious contraction, the Northern Rock Bank collapsed and other banks teetered on the edge. Inflation and unemployment soared, the Great Recessions spelled the end of the Labour government and the rise of the Conservatives again from 2010. The Conservative government was characterised by austerity measures and cuts to public spending that proved widely unpopular. Scotland Brexit and the Future of Britain The Blair government's approach to devolution and immigration foreshadowed the hot-button political topics of the 2010s and 2020s. Devolution was a recognition of the growing nationalism in the constituent countries of the UK, especially in Scotland. In 2014, Scotland held its first referendum on independence, threatening to break up the UK and dissolve a union that it stood since 1707. The no vote to independence narrowly won, but support for independence has remained high and demands for a second referendum grow louder by the year. But the biggest and most controversial referendum came in 2016 when Britain voted to leave the European Union. Brexit was a culmination of many trends. Britain had long been the odd one out in Europe, but the decision to leave was a significant blow to the post-war European order. Arguments of sovereignty and refusal to bow down to foreign rules recalled the ancient disputes between kings and popes, but it was immigration that is seen as the main issue. By 2016, the pace of immigration into Britain was the highest it had ever been in centuries. Brexit is believed to be a reaction to that from a population unhappy with the changes immigration brought. Since 2016, Britain's economy and politics have floundered as multiple short-lived conservative governments struggled to manage Brexit. The Covid pandemic and the Russian invasion of Ukraine posed their own challenges, although it still might be too soon to fully assess their impact, and the death of Queen Elizabeth II in 2022 only increased questions about the survival of the monarchy itself. More recently, Kierstarmer's Labour Party ended over a decade of conservative rule in 2024, but within months, Starmer's government has become just as unpopular as the conservatives before them. What's next for England and Britain as a whole is anyone's guess. Although the days of England's global dominance are over, its long history is unlikely to end anytime soon. What that history will look like is far from certain.