---
video_title: "How Russia Conquered Central Asia and No One Stopped It"
video_id: FDbQgzmj2FU
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FDbQgzmj2FU
video_date: 2025-11-13T14:20:16+00:00
video_description: |
  How did Russia Conquer Central Asia? 
  
  Get your very detailed History map here: https://knowledgia.co
  Beautifully crafted, designed to stand out in any room, and perfect for anyone who loves history.
  
  How Russia conquered Central Asia is a key question in research on imperial expansion and the Great Game. This video traces the Russian conquest of Central Asia from the steppe frontier to the annexation of the khanates of Khiva, Bukhara, and Kokand. It explains strategic motives, economic interests such as cotton and trade routes, and the military campaigns and treaties that turned Central Asia into a colonial empire under Russian protectorate rule in the late nineteenth century.
  
  00:00 Central Asia Before Russian Expansion
  03:01 Early Russian Failures
  05:55 Renewed Advance of Russia
  08:58 Conquest of Tashkent
  12:12 Final Resistance in Central Asia
  16:18 Borders and Rival Empires
  
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
---
European imperialism in the 19th century stretched from Africa to India and everywhere in between. One of these in-between places that is so easily forgotten is Central Asia. But how did Russia come to add 1.5 million square miles of land and 6 million subjects to its empire in this overlooked corner of the world? In this video, we'll find out. Central Asia was home to ancient cities and civilizations far older than Russia itself. The region had been permanently changed with the arrival of the Mongols in the 1200s and still bore the hallmarks of nomadic conqueror life under the Turkic Uzbeks, who ruled most of the region by the 15th century. The region was still divided into several smaller powers that were of little concern to Russia for centuries. Directly on the borders of the Russian Empire, with the remnants of the Kazakh Khenate, which by the 18th century had splintered into three functionally independent powers, known to outsiders as the junior horde, middle horde and senior horde. They numbered around half a million people each by the 19th century and were made up of nomadic or semi-nomadic Kazakhs. Further south into the modern nations of Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan and portions of Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Kyrzikistan were the three great Khenates of Kiva, Kokand and Bukhara, although Bukhara became an emirate in 1785. Russia traded with these powers for years, but the relationship was hardly simple, with frequent complaints of the Khenates attacking Russian traders and kidnapping Russian subjects. The assession of Peter the Great began a new age of Russian imperialism where Central Asia became a potential field for the expansion of Russian power. In 1717, Peter the Great ordered Alexander Beković Chakaski to lead an expedition of several thousand men against the Khenate of Kiva. They marched into Kiva territory and routed their army in battle, but the Russians decided that diplomacy was an easier option. The Kiva Khan, Shurgazi, appeared to welcome the negotiations and accepted peace. He also made a generous offer to allow the Russians to be housed in several separate towns in his territory, which the exhausted Russians accepted. The Russians never anticipated the Kiva trap. After the armies had separated, the Kivans attacked them one by one, wiping out almost every Russian including Beković Chakaski. It was a betrayal as blatant as it was costly for Russia, but the Tsar was too occupied with the Great Northern War in Europe to retaliate. Russia kept an interest in Central Asia in the following decades, mostly through the fragmented Kazakh Khenate. The Little Horde accepted Russian suzeraincy in 1731 and the Middle Horde followed in 1734, both becoming parts of the Russian Empire and leaving a border recognizable to modern maps. The senior hordes did not, and remained independent until its conquest by the neighboring Khenate of Kokand in the 1820s. Russia didn't set military sights on Central Asia again until the 1830s, when attacks on Russian traders in the region became too much to bear. Now was the time to avenge the insult Kiva had delivered a century earlier. Count Vasily Porowski, the military governor at Orinburg on the Russian Empire's southwestern frontier, argued that Kiva was engaged in deliberate malice, robbery, banditry, and disrespectful abuse of majesty. The attack plan was being discussed as early as 1835, but practical problems such as acquiring enough camels to support the army in the difficult terrain meant that the expedition did not set out until October 1839. For all of their planning, however, Porowski made the same mistake that Napoleon had made against Russia only a few decades earlier. He failed to prepare for the cold. The winter of 1839 to 1840 was one of the worst seen in decades and temperatures rarely rose beyond freezing. One in five of Porowski's men were dead by February, without the Kiva having fired a shot, and in May the expedition was called off as a failure. Russia spent the 1840s making some piecemeal gains in Central Asia and putting down rebellion among the Kazakhs, but in the 1850s resumed their ambitions in earnest. Russia's main goal was to establish a secure border along the Sierdariya River. General Porowski, whose career miraculously survived the failure of his Kiva expedition, was dispatched to campaign along the river and seize control of strategic positions from the Kokond Kanate. This expedition was much more successful. In 1853, Porowski's forces stormed the fortress at Akmichet, modern-day Kizilorda in Kazakhstan. They undermined the walls with explosives and broke through a breach in the wall to seize the fortress and establish a new imperial frontier along the river's course. The Crimean War pulled most of Russia's military attention away from Central Asia after 1853, but in the meantime, the line was slowly expanded. In 1854, Fort Vierno was built on the site of the modern Kazakh city of Almaty, and Russia continued to establish other forts along the frontier. However, the task of manning and supplying these forts proved difficult. Russian understanding of the region's geography was poor, and the new frontier wasn't nearly as manageable as they hoped, so when attention returns to Central Asia in the 1860s, Russia was keen to secure the region anew. Other factors came into play by this point. In the wake of the Crimean War, Russia saw itself an increasing competition with Britain for prestige and security. Britain's expansion in southern Asia and the Middle East, particularly in Afghanistan, bordered the cannades, bringing the two great empires within striking distance of each other. Access to cotton markets in South Asia may also have been a factor since the American Civil War had caused a sharp decline in the global cotton supply. This combination of frontier security, imperial competition and economic interest led Russia to resume its military expeditions against the Cokent Khanate in 1861. They took several strategic positions, like Yangia Kurgan in 1861 and Turkesta and Shim Kent in 1864. Both were merely stepping stones to the real target of Tashkent. Tashkent was among the largest and wealthiest cities in Central Asia, and taking it would cripple the Cokent Khanate while assuring Russian dominance in the region. An initial attack in winter of 1864 under General Mikhail Changayev was repulsed, but he returned in May the next year with rested troops. The acting Cokent Khan, a Limkul, attempted to meet the Russians in the field outside the city, but the Russians overwhelmed his forces and killed him. Soon after, Russian troops breached the city walls. Two days of stubborn street-to-street fighting followed, and when the smoke cleared, the Russian imperial flag was raised over the city. Dizar hadn't actually wanted to take Tashkent, but Changayev had taken the city before the new orders arrived. Nevertheless, the Russian government accepted the conquest and honors General Changayev as the lion of Tashkent, although they never did give him another military assignment. With the capture of Tashkent, Russia forced what remained of the Cokent Khanate to seize the majority of its territory, grant Russia trading privileges, and pay an annual indemnity for Russian protection. The capture of Tashkent was a decisive moment in Russia's expansion into Central Asia. It was an explicitly imperial conquest that set the path for Russia's imperial strategy afterwards. Bukhara to the west recognized the danger immediately. Cokent and Bukhara were not allies. They conflicted many times and regularly fought over influence over cities like Khajant, but they knew they were next in line for Russian attack. Hoping to stop the Russians before they could recoup their strength, Bukhara's armies marched east to seize disputed territories like Khajant from the weakened Cokent Khanate while meeting the Russians in battle at Irzhar. The Bukharaans were routed, losing what little modern artillery they had and their army collapsed. Russia proceeded to take Khajant for themselves, along with other key fortresses at Ura-Ube and Jaza. With Cokent bending the knee and Bukhara humbled, Russia took the opportunity to consolidate its power. A governor-general ship was established for the newly conquered regions centered in Tashkent with the ethnic German Constantin Kaufmann taking up the post-first, where he would remain in the office for the next 20 years. It was Kaufmann, who organized another Russian military campaign into Bukhara in 1868, which led to the capture of the ancient city of Samar Khan. After the city fell, Kaufmann was confident in his supremacy and dispatched most of his forces to pursue the retreating Bukharaans to their capital. He left only 700 men to defend Samar Khan as he pursued the enemy, defeating them at the Battle of Katakurgan in June 1868. However, while Kaufmann was away, an army of some 30,000 Bukharaans, Kokandis and their allies rose up to retake Samar Khan. Outnumbered 30-1, the 700 Russian defenders fortified themselves in the Citadel and dug in for a siege, battered by artillery and suffering heavy casualties, the Russians nevertheless held out for a week until Kaufmann heard of the siege and rushed back to relieve them. The news of Kaufmann's returning army caused the Bukharaans to scatter before he arrived. With the loss of Samar Khan's and the defeat of its armies, Bukhara followed their Kokand neighbors in bending the knee. Most of its territory was annexed by the Russians. Russian merchants were granted trading privileges, and the amir of Bukhara was forced to pay an indemnity to the Tsar. That only left Kiva with its pride intact. Kaufmann drew up plans for an attack there, due in 1873. He wasn't going to make the same mistakes past Russian expeditions had. He prepared four divisions to attack Kiva from multiple directions, one from the Kaspian Sea, two from the north out of existing Russian territory, and the last to come in from the east out of newly conquered Tashkent. They would attack during the summer and would come well supplied and well armed. Such extensive preparations proved unnecessary. Having seen the other Central Asian powers defeated so easily, the Kivaans had no appetites to meet the Russians in battle. Russia was able to seize the crucial Kiva Oasis with minimal resistance from the Khan, and only scattered resistance from local tribes. Soon after, the Khan of Kiva bent the knee to become a protectorate, with an indemnity and Russian trading privileges like everyone else. However, Russia wanted glory. Kaufmann decided that the desire for this glory outweighs the value of the lives of the local tribes, particularly the Yomit Turkmen, who had mounted some of the only resistance to the Russian invasion. The 8th Turkistan Company, which had not yet fired a single shot in the course of the expedition, should be given the chance to distinguish itself. On July 7th, 1873, they distinguished themselves by sweeping through multiple Yomit villages, slaughtering anyone they could find. The massacre continued for three weeks, until Kaufmann was satisfied that the Yomids would never cause problems again. Still, even Kaufmann came to be ashamed of the violence and admitted the massacre from his official history of the campaign. Kaufmann didn't have to wait long for a more serious fight, though, as in 1875, a rebellion erupted back in the Cokened Canate. Anger at the Russians and the reigning Khan who'd bent the knee to them resulted in most of the Khan's armies turning against him and forcing him into exile. However, the rebels proved no match for Kaufmann's forces when they arrived in January 1876. The rebels were annihilated at the Battle of Andesan, and their leaders were executed. With confidence in the Khanate's destroyed, Russia abolished it entirely and integrated the territory into its empire. With the Cokened Ghan and Kiva and Bukhara as protectorates, only the Turkmen of the Karkum Desert remained beyond Russian control, corresponding to the remaining territory of modern Turkmenistan. These scattered people had no unified authority and had little chance of resisting Russia's desire to extend their control all the way down to the borders of British imperial domination in Afghanistan. Despite the terrible odds against them, the Turkmen surprised the Russians with a staunch defense of the fortress of Gok Tepe in September of 1879, where civilians and soldiers had gathered for protection. The Russian forces bombarded it in an aggressive siege, but overestimated their own strength and had to retreat when their attacking force was cut down in the hundreds while attempting to storm the walls. The Turkmen bought themselves only a year of reprieve until a second Russian army arrived in December of 1880. After securing the surrounding region, the second Russian siege cracked the defenses and stormed the fortress. 15,000 Turkmen inside Gok Tepe, soldiers and civilians alike were killed by the victorious Russians. The Battle of Gok Tepe was the last major battle in the conquest of Central Asia. Russia continued to fight scattered Turkmen resistance for the next few years, but with the capture of the ancient city of Merve in 1884, the people of Central Asia were effectively subjugated. All that remains now was to define where Russian control of Central Asia ended and where British influence in Afghanistan began. Afghanistan was a British protectorate with some autonomy, and they were deeply concerned about the Russians by the 1880s. The final dispute arose over the Panjda region where both Russian and Afghanistan claimed rightful control. Russian and Afghan troops were stationed within miles of each other in the disputed region, each building small forts and outposts to assert their control over the disputed region. A March 30, 1885, the Russians had enough and attacked the Afghans at Kushka, scattering the Afghan defenders and seizing control of the region for themselves. Britain took this as a direct attack on their interests, for a few perilous days after news of the attack got out, London and St. Petersburg were awash with talk of war. The two greatest empires of the day primes to unleash the most devastating war history had yet seen over a single dispute in Central Asia. Thankfully, cooler heads prevailed. The Afghan Emir Abdul-Raman Khan urged the two great powers to negotiate rather than invite an imperial war in his own territory. The British agreed to recognize Russian control up to Kushka, while Russia agreed to respect Afghanistan's borders beyond that. From then on, Kushka marks the southernmost point of the Russian Empire and later the Soviet Union, and represented the extent of its conquest of Central Asia. Russia's conquest of Central Asia was a long but successful process that ensured Russian control there until the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. Today, Central Asia remains deeply tied to Russia economically, politically and culturally, but they are firmly and confidently their own nations.