---
video_title: "Why didn't the Spanish Colonies become 1 SINGLE country?"
video_id: Th3PHYPXPrc
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Th3PHYPXPrc
video_date: 20260811
video_description: |
  ♦Want EARLY ACCESS or EXCLUSIVE CONTENT? Support us and get it here:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  The Complete History Edition Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9h7OjK629BU8pNtQo4Lz9Sx
  
  ♦On paper, Spanish America had everything it needed to stay together. One language. One faith. One legal tradition. One empire, stretching from California to Argentina, that could have emerged from independence as a superstate rivaling the United States. This is not a story of a union that was tried and failed. It is a story of a union that was never really possible. When Napoleon deposed the Spanish king in 1808, the colonies did not rise together. They rose separately, each junta pursuing its own interests, each local strongman guarding his own authority. There was no continental revolution, only a scattered series of regional ones fought at different times for different reasons.
  
  
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  potatohistory-us, johnathondwigans, MohitAgrawal-d9n, Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  00:00 A Superstate That Never Was
  00:55 The Empire at Its Peak
  01:27 Napoleon Breaks Spain
  02:58 Many Revolutions, Not One
  04:20 Bolívar's Gran Colombia
  06:48 Why the Federation Collapsed
  07:57 The Borders Spain Drew First
  09:42 Mountains, Jungle, and Foreign Ports
  
  #History #Documentary
---
In the late 18th century, the Spanish Empire ruled one of the largest domains on Earth. Its lands in the Americas stretched from the Viceroyalty of New Spain to the Rio de la Plata, covering present-day Mexico, Central America, and across most of South America. Held together by a royal authority, powerful bureaucrats, [music] and the unyielding force of the Catholic Church, on paper Spanish America possessed everything necessary to remain united even after independence. It could have emerged as a vast, unified superstate stretching from California to Argentina, capable of rivaling the United States and reshaping global power in the modern world. Yet, when the moment came, it fractured into many nations.

Why did this happen? [music] In the 18th century, the Spanish Empire governed over nearly half of the Americas. Its power reached its peak during a period of reform initiated by King Charles III, who desired to modernize the empire. These changes, known as the Bourbon reforms, aimed to bring the colonies under tighter royal control and exact greater wealth which could flow back to Spain. But, this period of strength was set to come to an end. By the 19th

century, everything in Spanish America had changed following the rise of the French general Napoleon Bonaparte. After he invaded Spain in 1808, he forced the ruling Spanish monarchs, King Charles IV and Ferdinand VII, to abdicate the throne and made his brother, Joseph, king. However, the Spanish people and their various subjects in the Americas refused to recognize Joseph as the legitimate king. This led to widespread unrest and rebellion, creating a sudden power vacuum that ultimately triggered [music] the collapse of the Spanish authority across the Americas. The chaos in Spain resulted in the Peninsular War, which devastated the country, tearing apart its economy, government, and its ability to govern its overseas empire. Across the

Atlantic, Spanish American territories were forced to act on their own. Many established juntas, or self-governing councils, which initially aimed to rule in the name of the deposed Ferdinand VII. However, it didn't take long for many of these territories to realize Spain could no longer effectively govern or protect them. And what began as temporary self-rule soon evolved into something much bigger, breaking away from Spain entirely. This sparked a wave of uprisings and conflicts that would become known as the Spanish Wars of Independence.

Unlike the American Revolution, which unfolded as a single coordinated struggle against their colonial masters, the Spanish American Wars of Independence were anything but unified. The wars broke out as a series of separate local conflicts across the continent, primarily between 1810 and 1824. During this time, South and Central America experienced a prolonged period of intense fighting led by many revolutionary leaders, such as Simon Bolivar and Jose de San Martin. But there was no central movement. From Mexico to the Rio de la Plata, each junta pursued its own goals, often with little to no coordination between them.

Local leaders often prioritized their own authority over any kind of distant unity, which resulted in rivalries as opposed to cooperation. What followed wasn't a single great revolution, but many distinct ones fought at different times by different peoples for different reasons. But that's not to say some of the leaders didn't at least try to follow in the footsteps of the American Revolution. An attempt to unify the separate Spanish American territories into one unified confederation. Simon Bolivar was one such man who stood out with a bold vision for the future of Central and South America.

Bolivar was a Venezuelan military and political leader who rose to prominence during the fight for independence [music] against the Spanish Empire. He led many campaigns throughout the early 19th century. Freeing not only his own nation, but also playing a role [music] in the liberation of others, including Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Panama. But Bolivar was more than just a military commander. He was a strategist who believed Spanish America should remain united even after it gained its independence. He found

inspiration in the model used by the United States and envisioned a large federation that could not only stop internal wars, but also help protect the region from foreign threats. However, there was one problem. Bolivar knew Spanish America was a lot more divided and geographically separate than the 13 colonies had been. So, if his plan was to work, he would need more than a loose democracy. It would require a strong centralized system to hold all together.

In 1819, he took a major step towards this goal by helping establish Gran Colombia, a state which united present-day Venezuela, [music] Colombia, Panama, and Ecuador. Bolívar served as the first president and hoped this would serve as the foundation of an even larger union. To keep it stable, he implemented a strong centralized government aimed at maintaining stability and preventing the rise of regional divisions. At the same time, he was forced to compete with the caudillo, local military strongmen who dominated politics in many regions throughout his new state. Their influence was a direct challenge to unity, so Bolívar devised a simple strategy: weaken local power and in doing so, strengthen the central authority.

He believed this would, over time, forge a strong sense of shared identity across Spanish America. But even with a clear plan, his federation proved incredibly difficult to sustain. The distance between major cities like Bogotá, Caracas, and Quito was immense, separated by harsh terrain with little to no infrastructure. This made governing such large territories incredibly difficult. By the time decisions were made in the capital, local conditions had already changed, forcing regional leaders to act on their own. By 1830, tensions within

Gran Colombia were reaching a breaking point. Political conflicts between centralists and federalists intensified, while the economy struggled. Faced with the collapse of his political project, Bolívar decided to resign as president, and shortly after, Gran Colombia fractured into three independent states: Venezuela, Ecuador, and New Granada, which comprises the present-day Colombia and Panama. In the end, Bolívar had both the vision and a plan to implement it, but the combination of geography, regional loyalties, and entrenched [music] local power made his federation almost impossible to sustain. Yet, beyond his failure, there were many deeper reasons why uniting Spanish America was almost impossible.

Despite the vast region sharing a common language, a Catholic faith, and many similar legal traditions, the former Spanish colonies had mostly fragmented into independent states by 1826. One reason for the breakup lay in how Spain had governed its empire in the first place. Rather than ruling as a single unit, it divided its territories into large, yet separate administrative regions, like the Viceroyalty of New Spain and the Viceroyalty of Peru. Over time, this paved the way for strong regional identities to develop. And so, by the 19th century, people in places like Mexico, Venezuela, and Río de la Plata saw themselves as distinct from one another, not as part of one nation.

Mexico, as well, had developed its own separate political identity. For them, independence did not mean creating one giant Spanish American nation stretching from California to Argentina. It meant taking control of the old Viceroyalty of New Spain with Mexico City as its center. But, even that was very difficult to hold, as Mexico had vast northern frontiers and powerful provincial elites. When Mexico briefly tried to hold Central America inside the First Mexican Empire, the project collapsed almost immediately. So, from the Mexican

perspective, the rest of Spanish America were just distant former Spanish territories and nothing else. And on these southern territories, the geography only intensified these divisions. The Andes mountains are the longest continental mountain range on Earth, running through Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Chile, and Argentina. This served as a major barrier, separating major population centers from one another. Combined with dense rainforests and vast distances, this made communication and coordination extremely difficult. These were the

exact challenges that weakened Bolívar's Gran Colombia. Armies struggled to move quickly between regions and governments often failed to respond to events in a timely manner. In comparison, places like the United States had much better connected coastlines and river systems, which made integration and unification easier. As Bolívar himself once said, "The diversity of the provinces will always make our union difficult." In the end, the sheer cost of maintaining a unified state across such terrain exceeded the administrative and economic capacity of the post-colonial governments.

One final reason behind the failure of the Spanish Americas to unify lay in the old colonial divisions set up by Spain for control and resource management, which essentially became the borders of the new states. These regions formed closer ties to international markets than their neighbors. Products flowed to major cities like New York, London, and Paris, rather than across the continent. So, instead of building strong [music] economic links with one another, the newly independent states focused on overseas trade for investment, buyers, and goods. That created more rivalry [music] than cooperation over time. And in the

end, this could be seen as the final nail in the coffin for any potential Spanish-American Union. What could have been one of the largest, most interconnected economies in the world fractured into many smaller, competing ones, each looking out for its own interests. >> If you'd like to help us keep creating and get early access to our videos, behind-the-scenes content and other perks, consider becoming a member right here on YouTube or joining us on Patreon. Every bit of support helps. And as always, thank you so much for watching.