---
video_title: "What Happened After The Revolution? | How was America Formed"
video_id: aULlMbI5m-w
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aULlMbI5m-w
video_date: 2026-05-05T14:56:22+00:00
video_description: |
  How was the United States of America Formed?
  
  ♦Get EARLY ACCESS to our videos:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  ♦American Revolution Cinematic Map:
  https://knowledgia.co/en-eur/products/the-american-revolution-1776-framed-map
  
  ♦What happens after the American revolution is won, but the peace solves nothing?
  How did thirteen separate states, divided by interests, geography, and ambition  choose to become a single nation at all?
  Why did men who had just fought together begin turning against one another almost immediately?
  And how close did the new American republic come to collapsing before it had truly begun?
   This is a story of the struggle to build a nation that almost never came together…
  To understand the full story of how the United States was formed, from the end of the War of Independence to the Louisiana Purchase in 1803, we have to go back to the fragile aftermath of victory…
  
  
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
---
How was the United States formed? What happens after a revolution is won? But the peace solves nothing. How did 13 separate states, divided by interests, geography and ambition, choose to become a single nation at all? Why did men who had just fought together begin turning against one another almost immediately? And how close did the new republic come to collapsing before it had truly begun? To understand the full story of how the United States was formed, we have to go back to the fragile aftermath of victory. On March 15, 1783, General George Washington addressed his men at Newburg as they were on the verge of revolt. Congress has not paid them, and now the pensions they'd been promised were being thrown into doubt. Officers and their men were ready to overthrow the new American system when it had barely begun. But Washington appealed to their honor and their patriotism, urging them to trust in the fragile new political system that the revolution had only recently created. Washington's speech alone did not immediately calm the crowd. It was only when he took out a letter and struggling to read it, acknowledged his failing eyesight that the officers were visibly moved. Gentlemen, you must pardon me. I have grown not only gray, but almost blind in the service of my country. This emotional moment, more than his speech, softened their resolve and convinced them to remain loyal. The Revolutionary War was won, but building a new nation from the ashes would be an immense challenge. In this series of videos, we will chart the early history of the United States as revolutionary ideals were transformed into the foundations of a powerful nation. We see how it navigated its earliest challenges and meet the men who forged that path through those first formative years. The Articles of Confederation. In 1783, the United States was organized under the Articles of Confederation. The federal government was headed by a single chambered Congress with the power to manage foreign affairs, declare war and handle relations with the Native Americans, but little else. States controlled virtually everything else, including trade and taxes. The Articles didn't have a place for a king or a man approximating one. Washington was well aware of this. As the most popular man in the States and with full control of its military, Washington could easily have swept away the fledging Republican government and asserted his rule like so many men before him. Instead, in December 1783, he rode into Annapolis where Congress was meeting and relinquished all of his power to them. Having now finished the work assigned me, I retire from the great theater of action and bidding an affectionate farewell to this August body under whose orders I have so long acted. I here offer my commission and take my leave of all the employments of public life. It was an intentionally eye-catching surrender of military power to civil, delivering Congress's official reply, Thomas Jefferson, gratefully thanked Washington for his humility. You have conducted the great military contest with wisdom and fortitude invariably regarding the rights of the civil power through all disasters and changes. As the Revolution's hero retired to his estates in Mount Vernon, the fate of the country now lay in Congress's hands. Challenges of a new nation. Unfortunately, it was soon obvious that Congress could not effectively meet every challenge facing it. The most immediate issue was economic. The US had a total debt of approximately $77 million, including $40 million in domestic debt and $12 million owed to France and the Netherlands with the remainder due to individual states. However, it had no powers to enforce taxes or regulate trade, which were both reserved to the states. The states were unenthusiastic at the idea of sending off their revenue to service the federal government's debt. When Congress tried to implement an impost, a sort of tax on trade, which would require the consent of the states, New York, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island all blocked it, leaving Congress impotent and unable to meet its financial demands. Within the states, the Revolution had caused significant economic disruption. Trade with the West Indies and England had been vital for several states, especially in New England, and their economies were slow to recover. It is no wonder that they weren't happy to kick extra money to Congress. Congress at least had broad powers and foreign relations, but here too, they struggled. Britain still commanded a lot of economic might and territory in the Americas that were initially denied to the United States. Britain continued to occupy strategic positions in the West that blocked American travel and trade into the interior while shutting them out of the lucrative ports of the Caribbean. Spain was no ally either. Shutting down US navigation rights along the Mississippi, which Congress tried and failed to regain via diplomacy in 1786. Even France had become frustrated with the new nation, mostly due to Congress's inability to pay the interest on their massive war debts in 1785. Every major European seemed to have a bone to pick with them, so much so that founding father John Jay lamented that the US had become the sport of European politics. For a nation conceived in rebellion against tyranny, there were many who had no sympathy for Congress's struggles. There was a deep skepticism of any form of centralized government after 1783 and the states jealously guarded their power. Uncertainty, impotence, and pessimism were the rules of the day. Westward expansion. If Congress had one success in those early years, it was addressing the settlement problem in the unsettled territories, the unorganized territories in the Northwest, which would one day become Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin needed to be properly managed. There were plenty of settlers eager to claim land there, so Congress passed laws to govern future settlement. Thomas Jefferson led the way in making arrangements for the Northwest ordinances of 1784 and 1787, which lay down strict rules for these new societies. Land would be divided into townships of six square miles each, further divided into 36 sections of 640 acres each. Lot 16 was specifically reserved for public schools, while other sections were set aside for federal use, or sold to settlers at $1 per acre. Jefferson had been warmed to the idea of giving the lands to freeholders at no cost, but the government's dismal finances meant they had no choice but to demand payment at no more than $1 per acre. The ordinances also lay down government arrangements. New territories would receive an appointed governor until such time as it was large enough to apply for full statehood. At that point, the new state could be admitted to the union on equal terms to the existing 13 states with an elected government of their own. In a period that saw constant federal failure, the ordinances were a rare sign of success. They proved that Congress could, when given the proper powers, provide successful solutions. Visions of a new America. Still, the states had to solve most of their own problems for now. This was so in March of 1785, when Maryland and Virginia held the Mount Vernon Conference to peacefully resolve a longstanding dispute over the Potomac River. This example of interstate cooperation outside the structures laid down by the Articles of Confederation impressed men like James Madison, who saw in it a model for interstate cooperation on matters of trade and taxation. Seeking to emulate their success, Congress summoned a convention to discuss expanding its powers over economic affairs. The convention opened at Annapolis in September of 1786, but only five states were in attendance. The delegates from other states were so late or weren't coming at all that they were forced to postpone the convention until May of the following year. Angry at high taxes, economic depression for closures on farms and the refusal to issue paper currency, farmers and veterans and Massachusetts took up arms against the state government. Shays rebellion, named for one of its leaders, Daniel Shays, proved that the current American system was unworkable. Common people were so unhappy that they were rising up in revolt, while Congress had virtually no effective power to respond to it. Massachusetts state militia were called in to put down the rebels, which they did after a series of small clashes by February 1787. Although it did not last long and left only nine people dead, Shays rebellion shattered confidence in the articles of confederation across the colonies. Change was desperately needed before far worse unresied could break out. The Constitutional Convention. It was in this mindset that the 55 delegates of the Constitutional Convention met at Philadelphia in May 1787. Among them were James Madison, Alexander Hamilton, Benjamin Franklin and a host of other prominent early Americans who over the next four months would hammer out their vision for a Constitution of the United States. Even Washington was convinced to attend, if only so that his absence wouldn't be taken as some sign of disapproval of the new government's arrangements. The Convention needed to tackle several key issues. They needed a federal government that was capable of handling the nation's finances and disputes between states. They had to decide where state power stopped and federal power began. This new government needed to be strong enough to respond to crises like Shays Rebellion without remaking a tyranny like the one they just got rid of. It also needed to settle the question of how its legislature would be elected. Smaller states like New Jersey wanted a system where representation was given to all states equally. While larger states like Virginia demanded representation based on population. That left another question. What of the slaves? Would states gain more electoral power the more slaves they owned? The system they devised is one of the most famous and long-standing political systems in history. The Constitution of the United States called for three branches of government, a legislature to make laws and executive to implement them and a judiciary to adjudicate them. Each branch was designed to check and balance the others. Each branch also had strictly enumerated powers and anything not explicitly given to them in the Constitution belonged to the states by default. To compromise between the demands of large and small states, the legislature in Congress would be split into the House of Representatives with power given to states based on population and the Senate, where all states received two senators each. As for slaves, they would be counted as three fifths of a white person when it came to allocating state representation based on population. The Slaving States like South Carolina had wanted full representation to boost their power, but anti-slavery states managed to talk them down. On September 17, 1787, 39 delegates, including Washington, Franklin, Madison, and Hamilton signed the final draft of the Constitution. Ratification. The Constitution still required ratification by at least nine of the 13 states in order to become law. The nation was soon divided between federalists who backed the new Constitution and the anti-federalists who opposed it. Critics of the Constitution argued that it took too much power away from the states and created a new tyranny in the federal government. Others argued that the system did not do enough to empower common people and would be ruled by a narrow class of political elites. Supporters countered that the new Constitution would provide the federal government only with the necessary powers to avoid the paralysis that had plagued it under the current articles. Madison, Hamilton, and John Jay published a collection of essays known as the Federalist Papers, which not only sought to gain support for the Constitution, but also laid out key principles of federalism, checks and balances, and separation of powers that would shape the nation's governance. Delaware was the first state to ratify the Constitution on December 7, 1787. Pennsylvania followed five days later and New Jersey five days after that. Georgia and Connecticut ratified in January of 1788. Massachusetts did the same in February after intense debate with the backing of revolutionary icons like Samuel Adams, John Hancock, and Paul Revere probably tipped the balance for the federalists. Maryland went to April, South Carolina in May, and with New Hampshire's ratification on June 21, 1788, the Constitution had its nine state backing. Virginia, New York, and North Carolina would ratify by the end of 1789, leaving only Rhode Island, who wouldn't settle on support until May 1790. The framers had enough support for their Constitution to get to work. The first presidential election was conducted through the Electoral College, where state legislatures chose electors who then cast votes for the presidency. Most citizens did not vote directly in this system. There was never any question over who would win. George Washington was the most popular figure in the United States with a proven track record of loyalty, discipline, and humility that was perfect for a fragile new government concerned about ensuring the limits of its own power. Washington was elected unanimously by the delegates and sworn in as the first president of the United States on April 30, 1789. He faced the task of leading a new nation with an untested political system, from an office whose powers were not fully defined yet in a world where democratic republics on this scale were unheard of. The great American experiment had difficult days ahead if it wanted to survive. Building the American system. Many details of the presidency were undefined in 1789. Therefore, almost anything Washington did could be impressed upon the office as tradition. So Washington's choice to give in an operation speech became a custom followed by every president after him. So too was the title of Mr. President, which Washington preferred to other monarchical sounding on Arifix like your excellency. To staff his government, Washington appointed the first cabinet, including John Adams as Vice President, Henry Knox as Secretary of War, Thomas Jefferson as Secretary of State, and Alexander Hamilton as Secretary of the Treasury. Even here, things were still unclear. For example, Vice President Adams was quite confused at what his job even was. He was both the Vice President and the President of the Senate, two roles with undefined powers that left him complaining that he'd been given the most pointless office ever conceived by man. One of Washington's most pressing concerns was to prop up the judiciary. It was the least defined branch in the Constitution and Washington would help give it much of its form, with the Judiciary Act of 1789 and appointed John J as its first Chief Justice. He further expanded upon this with lower district courts with judges appointed by the presidency to protect and apply federal law. The federal judiciary system that Washington established remains the basis of the system today. Perhaps the most urgent concern for most people was to enshrine people's rights in the new system. The Constitution did not provide clear protections for people's individual rights and liberties, a failure which its critics had seized upon in the ratification process. Several of the states, such as Massachusetts, had only ratified the Constitution with the condition that such protections be added. Washington also agreed, calling in his inaugural address for basic rights to be impregnably fortified in a new constitutional amendment. Support for such a bill of rights was not universal. Some critics argue that the Constitution by strictly outlining the few powers the government had carried an implied protection of rights that was good enough anyway. These voices were overpowered, though, and largely thanks to the works of James Madison and Thomas Jefferson, the Bill of Rights was introduced to Congress in September 1789. Proposed as a set of ten distinct amendments, the Bill of Rights included provisions for religious freedom, freedom of speech, the right to a fair trial, and the right to bear arms. The Bill of Rights was ratified by the states over the following two years, becoming enshrined in the Constitution in December 1791, disaster in the Northwest. Physical expansion went hand in hand with the conceptual expansion of the US. Washington would oversee the admittance of three new states, Vermont in 1791, Kentucky in 1792, and Tennessee in 1796. Such expansion was anticipated by the Constitution, and the Americans expected that more states would join in time. However, mixed among these successes were a series of dismal failures in the Northwest territories that soured Washington's first years as president. Since the implementation of the Northwest ordinance, the Indians in the Northwest Territory had resisted American settlers with ferocity and success. A military man with newfound presidential powers, one of Washington's first acts was to deal with them. Secretary Knox agreed, and they dispatched General Josiah Harmer to lead a campaign in the Northwest Territory. The Northwest Indian War was far more difficult than Washington anticipated. The assorted alliance of Native Americans quietly backed by the British was a formidable match for the untested American soldiers. Harmer's mission was to destroy Native villages and route their warriors. But in October 21st, 1790, it was Harmer's men who were devastated in the Battle of Kikiyanga in future Indiana. Hundreds of Americans were killed or wounded, and survivors said it was as if you could have walked from one side of the river to the other on the bodies left floating in the water. Eager to rectify the defeat, Washington then ordered major general Arthur St. Clair to launch another campaign. On November 4th, 1791, as St. Clair's army marched against Indian settlements along the Wabash River in Ohio, they were attacked by over 1,000 Indian men led by the Miami War Chief, little turtle. The battle became known as the St. Clair defeat, over 600 Americans were killed, making it the single greatest defeat the United States ever suffered at the hands of the Native Americans. With a fatality rate of 60%, it was proportionally the worst defeat the US army has ever suffered in a major battle. Washington laid the blame firmly at St. Clair's feet. The controversy prompted Congress to begin the first ever official investigation of the executive branch, where a committee concluded that Secretary Knox had failed to properly supply the army, but no action was taken to hold anyone to account. Instead, Washington and Congress used the disaster to expand the army, raise military pay and pass the militia acts that forcibly enrolled all fighting age men in their state's militia to be called upon when the need arose. Economics and finance. Fortunately for Washington, his administration's efforts in other departments were much more successful, especially in matters of finance and the economy. Washington's appointment of Alexander Hamilton as Treasury Secretary proved to be one of the best choices he ever made, a shrewd, intelligent and ambitious man, Hamilton took on the immense task of organizing the nation's financial affairs. Hamilton began by consolidating the nation's debt into a federal national debt that the US could begin repaying to establish its value to creditors. To ensure the government had more money to hand, he issued government bonds and implemented new tariffs and taxes. Hamilton also led the way on the establishment of the US Mint to standardize coinage across the US. His economic reforms expanded federal power much to the anger of certain states, mainly in the South, who resented the consolidation of power in a distant capital. To get these resistant southerners on board, Hamilton proposed a compromise. The South would accept his reforms and in exchange the capital would be moved southward to a new state along the Potomac River at the middle of the current US territory. The compromise of 1790 convinced the South to support Hamilton's financial plan, including federal assumption of state debts in exchange for moving the US capital southward to a new site along the Potomac River, which would later become Washington, DC. The crowning achievement of Hamilton's financial overhaul was probably the bank of the United States, which was chartered in 1791. It oversaw the nation's debt, issued loans to the government and private individuals, and issued banknotes among other key financial roles. Critics condemned it as an unconstitutional expansion of government power, but Washington stood by Hamilton's plans as a necessary and proper tool. Washington largely supported Hamilton's work, but one man who generally didn't was Thomas Jefferson. Jefferson and Hamilton represented two very different approaches to government. Hamilton favored a strong federal government with broad authority to promote trade and expand the nation's wealth, while Jefferson favored a limited federal government more in line with the revolution's original aims, and was a strong believer in states' rights and the agrarian values of small landholders. In 1789, Hamilton founded America's first official political party in the Federalist Party to act as a vehicle for his views and those of his allies. In 1791, Jefferson and Madison answered with their Democratic Republican Party. Washington generally leaned towards the Federalists, but lamented the harsh political split that was emerging under his watch. Federalists and Democratic Republicans butted head on most of the major issues of the day. Federalists lined up behind Hamilton's economic reforms, Democratic Republicans condemned them as tyrannical. When the French Revolution broke out in 1789, the Democratic Republicans welcomed it as an inspiring echo of their own revolutionary ideals, while the Federalists treated it as a radical and destructive project that lacked the restraint that had characterized the American Revolution. Almost no issue passed through Congress or across the President's desk without inspiring a bitter argument between the two groups. Jefferson resigned his position as Secretary of State in 1793 after his four-year term. However, he continued to be deeply involved in political affairs and organized opposition to various Federalist causes over the next three years. Whiskey Rebellion. Among the many controversial things Hamilton pushed through for his economic program was the Whiskey Tax of 1791, which imposed attacks on the sale and distilling of spirits. The tax was hated by most people and they evaded it where they could. In 1794, authorities in Pennsylvania attempted to crack down on Whiskey tax evaders, but when local distillers heard about the arrival of a federal marshal and a tax collector, they attacked them. Both men survived, but the door of violence had opened. The Whiskey Rebellion spread rapidly through rural Pennsylvania, recalling Shays Rebellion years earlier, which had shown the federal government to be weak and impotent. Washington would not allow such weakness for the new government. The militia acts passed in the wake of the St. Clair defeat, allowed for the President to mobilize a staggering 13,000 men in the militia to suppress the rebellion. Washington personally led the armies to confront the rebels who dispersed in the face of such an overwhelming show of power. The strong response to the Whiskey Rebellion was a powerful contrast with the impotent scene in the federal government's response to Shays Rebellion years earlier. At the same time as Washington gathering the militia to put down the Whiskey Rebellion, the US finally got the upper hand in the Northwest Indian War II, with a clear victory at the Battle of Fallen Timbers in August of 1794, the Indians were forced to seek peace. The Treaty of Greenville in 1795 saw the Indians accept US control of the Northwest Territory and ended major fighting over it. With success against rebels and Indians, the new federal government had proven that it could do a better job dealing with crises that had paralyzed the previous federal system. Foreign policy. Washington similarly proved effective at navigating the perils of foreign policy. Washington kept quiet when the French Revolution swept through France in 1789, much to Jefferson's annoyance. Jefferson and the Democratic Republicans believed America should enthusiastically support the French in their revolution, just as the French had supported them. However, Washington and the federalists were not convinced of the merits, leadership, or self-restraint of their French counterparts. When the French Revolutionary Wars erupted between France and Britain in 1792, the French urged the Americans to join them, citing the 1778 Franco-American alliance, the French wanted America to attack British ships as part of a shared Republican war effort. Jefferson, ever the Franco-File completely agreed. However, Washington was firmly opposed to getting America involved in an unnecessary war. He recognized that trade with Britain was essential to America's economy and didn't want to alienate the British. Besides, the 1778 alliance had been signed with King Louis XVI, who the French Revolutionaries had just beheaded. Surely the treaty was no longer valid. To be safe, Washington issued the neutrality proclamation of 1793, swearing off any involvement with France or Britain's wars. Angry, the French envoy Edmund Charles Jeanette attempted to recruit Americans to join the war privately anyway. Washington complains to France and got Jeanette recalled, but upon learning that the revolutionary government was likely to behead him, Washington gave Jeanette sanctuary instead. The resulting breakdown in relations with France was a blow to Jefferson and the Republicans. Relations with the other European powers improved, though. In 1794, Washington sent Chief Justice John Jay to negotiate the Jay Treaty to secure British evacuation from forts in the disputed Northwest Territory and establish regular trade relations. Then the next year, Pinkney's Treaty settled disputes with Spain, restoring American navigation rights to the Mississippi and settling on the border between American and Spanish territory. By the time Washington's second term was drawing to a close in 1796, he had clearly done an admirable job. Many people, such as John Adams, expected him to stay in the office for as long as he lived. And had he wanted to, he probably could have. However, Washington was a man of principle above all else. As he had done with his military commission in 1783, he was ready to lay aside his power when the time came. And in doing so, established the traditional two-term limit that is bound almost every future president. Washington left behind a robust system, ready to meet the challenges of the future. But it was one torn by bitter political division that would only get worse, as John Adams and Thomas Jefferson began their fight to inherit his office. Factional strife. The 1796 election was a testament to the severe political divisions which had already settled into the country. John Adams, running as a federalist, went head-to-head with Thomas Jefferson as the Democratic Republican candidate. Once colleagues under Washington, Adams and Jefferson now stood as rivals, symbolizing the growing political divide. The federalists argued for more central power and feared that the fledging United States would collapse without a firm federal hand. The Democratic Republicans wanted a limited federal government with power kept in the States. The federalists saw the Democratic Republicans as misguided destructive fools who would replicate the bloody chaos of the French Revolution. While the latter saw the former as would be tyrants crafting a tyranny no better than the one the Revolution replaced. Each saw the other as a deadly threat to democracy. In this way, the 1796 election would set the tone for every US election held ever since. Unlike modern elections, though, there was not much of a campaign. Adams and Jefferson did not make electoral speeches or make public appeals to the delegates who elected them. Since there was no public vote for the presidency, the presidency was determined through political maneuvering among the 138 state electors, rather than a public vote. In the end, the results was the closest thing to a compromise the two dominant parties were capable of. Adams won the presidency by three votes, but under the rules of the Constitution, as they were at the time, Jefferson's second-place position earned him the office of vice president. John Adams and the challenges of the presidency. It was hoped that this shared administration would heal the political divides that the election had torn open. Those hopes came to nothing. While Adams and Jefferson maintained mutual respect and occasional friendship, they would spend the next four years locked in constant disagreement. Meanwhile, the two factions at large got only more hostile to each other. Adams now faced the intimidating task of following Washington, who as a sacrosanx national hero commanded support or at least respect from almost everyone. Adams had his admirers. He'd once been one of the chief architects of the revolution and constitution after all, but he was not the hero Washington was. Adams' presidency was constantly judged in the shadow of his predecessor. Adams' reserved personality and lack of political charisma combined with Washington's towering legacy made his presidency feel like a step down to many. Another challenge came from the lack of worthy public servants. The ruling elites was made up of wealthy people, but their wealth was not as stable as many of them liked and their roles in government or Congress were not particularly well paid. As a result, fewer men were willing to set aside their private affairs to serve in government. Alexander Hamilton, for example, had stepped down from his role in the treasury in 1795 to return to his business activities, and Henry Knox reportedly left his post because of the dismal salary. In Congress, there were frequent complaints of members failing to attend votes so they could pursue private interests. As one congressman complained about his colleague, he has started more for his interests to speculate than to attend his duty in Congress and his gone home. With Vermont, Kentucky and Tennessee joining the union in 1796 and with settlement intensifying in the Northwest after 1795, the challenges of an ever-expanding nation continues to grow. For example, the factional split was already taking on a regional element with federalists predominating in the North and Democratic Republicans gaining a stronghold in the South. Slavery was part of the explanation for the latter. The Republicans favored states' rights and southern states were eager to protect slavery from any abolitionist turn in the federal government. The success of the slave revolution in Haiti launched in 1791 and by 1797, having ceased control of the country and wiped out most of its white population was a source of great anxiety for the Slavery states. Abolition proposals were defeated in Congress in 1797 and 1800, but that they even existed was assigned to the South that they'd be better off with reduced federal power. Since we started this channel, we have been obsessed with historical maps. Since some of you might like maps as well, we created a few products for you. High resolution downloads and museum quality prints go to knowledgeia.co and have a look. If you want to own one, use my code in the description below. Now back to the video. France and the XYZ affair. Conflict at home was one challenge during the Adams presidency, but conflict abroad was equally troublesome. Washington's assertion of neutrality in 1793 followed by the J Treaty with England in 1794 had soured relations with the French. Adams and the Federalists were more Anglo-Files than Franco-Files and France knew this, so they naturally took a hostile stance to the Adams presidency. They snubbed American diplomatic efforts and declared all American ships carrying British goods as legitimate targets in 1797, fearing war. Adams summoned a special session of Congress who authorized the expansion of the Navy and the calling up of 80,000 militiamen in anticipation of a conflict with their former ally. Jefferson and the Republicans were appalled. They blamed Adams for the breakdown in relations and insisted that France was about to destroy Britain anyway, so anything less than an alliance with France was suicide. Adams was not convinced, but he did not want war either, so he dispatched a diplomatic mission to Paris in late 1797 to try to smooth things over. These envoys received humiliating treatment. The French government demanded an apology for Adams' hostility, demanding that Congress covers any debts France owed to American citizens and its neutrality and join France's war. And to top it off, with a considerable loan to the personal use of unnamed French officials only listed as X, Y, and Z. In other words, a bribe. Only then would France consider receiving the diplomatic mission. When Adams got word of the outrageous demands, he wrote off the mission, but kept the details of the absurd proposals private. Jefferson, believing that Adams was concealing information for the purpose of provoking France and undermining pro-French Republicans, made it a scandal and forced Adams to disclose the information. To Jefferson's dismay, the publication of France's demands in the X, Y, Z affair had a totally opposite effect. The American people were outraged and pro-French feeling in the US practically collapsed overnight. It was so intense that Jefferson's Republicans had to publicly disavow France or risk being treated as traitors. Ascolation, Sedition, and Aliens. The X, Y, Z affair catapulted America and France towards conflict. In July 1798, Congress even authorized the US Navy to engage French vessels who attempted to seize American ships. There was no official declaration of war, but the two nations were now in a state of quasi-war at sea. With this development, Adams and the Federalists had a genuine fear that pro-French elements in America might trigger a revolt or civil war. To avoid this, they passed a series of controversial laws targeted against dissidents and immigrants who Adams believed might be loyal to France. The Naturalization Act increased the time required for an immigrant to become an American citizen from five to 14 years on the belief that recent immigrants tended to have more French democratic Republican attitudes and should be excluded from society long enough for these attitudes to fade. The Alien Friends Act allowed for the deportation of foreigners without trial, and the Alien Enemies Act allowed for the arrest and deportation of the citizens of any country the US was at war with. All three acts were unsuddle attacks on French immigrants or pro-French attitudes among new immigrants. The Democratic Republicans immediately attacked the laws as dangerous overreach that were designed to target them. But even more controversial was the Sedition Act. This made it a crime to publish false or malicious statements against the US government, Congress, or the president himself. Of course, what qualified as false or malicious was left vague. It was, in effect, a law criminalizing any potential criticism of the government. The Democratic Republicans saw it as a direct attack on the freedoms of speech and the press that the first amendments protected. Their fears were well-founded. 25 people, including journalists, publishers, and Democratic Republican public figures were arrested and convicted under the Sedition Act by the time Adams left office. This attempt to curb criticism of the federal government proved deeply unpopular among the American people. Some of the men persecuted under the law, like Vermont Congressman Matthew Leon, were turned into folk martyrs by regular Americans who were disgusted at Adams' overreach. The harsh law also encouraged the states to assert their rights. Jefferson and Madison secretly penned the Kentucky and Virginia resolutions of 1798 and 1799 respectively, which asserted the right of states to nullify unconstitutional federal laws. This theory became an essential element of later conflicts between state and federal rights, such as in the Civil War. The Alien and the Sedition Act did for the federalists what the deep classification of the XYZ affair documents had done for the Democratic Republicans, what was supposed to be a blow against the other side was instead a massive shot in their own foot. Adams became deeply unpopular as the controversy over the Republican connection to the French quickly fell out of the spotlight. The 1800s election. The toppling of the first French Republic by Napoleon November 1799 brought a welcome change in French policy. Napoleon rolled back hostility against America and Adams seized upon the opening to negotiate the Treaty of Morte Fontaine in September of 1800, ending the quasi-war and restoring a relationship of free trade and friendship between the two nations. 2000 American merchant vessels had been seized and several hundred men were dead on both sides. While a diplomatic victory for Adams, it deprived the federalists of their strong anti-French argument against the Democratic Republicans. Meanwhile, the Alien and Sedition Acts remained in place as ammo to barrage Adams in the upcoming election of 1800. Newspapers were nothing new in the States, but the age of political partisanship fueled a war of words in the press that inflamed political conflict. Despite the Sedition Act shutting down many Republican papers, new ones emerged faster than they could be suppressed. In 1800 alone, 85 new Republican papers were published. Accuations of tyranny and treachery were flung both ways and each side could point to the dramatic events of Adams' term as proof for their side's success and the others' failings. Republican papers like the National Gazette took aim at John Adams as an overweight tyrant who they mockingly referred to as his rotundity. Federalist papers like the Gazettes of the United States counted with charges of Republicans as French traders and slander Jefferson as an atheist. In the end, Jefferson emerged victorious with 73 votes, though tied with his running mate, Aaron Burr. It fell to Alexander Hamilton, now returned to the political arena to convince the delegates to break the tie. Of course, Hamilton may have disliked Jefferson, but he utterly despised Burr. Through intense political maneuvering, Hamilton ultimately influenced the delegates to break the tie in Jefferson's favor. Hanging like a shadow over events was the death of George Washington in December of 1799. The death of the revolutionary hero and the one man who could stand above political factionalism was an ominous sign. Washington's warnings about political factionalism had gone unheeded and his absence left a leadership void in the young nation. As Jefferson prepares to assume office, he did so carried upon a wave of anti-federalist hatred that was reflected right back in equal measure and which would define the tenure of the third president of the United States. Thomas Jefferson's victory in the election of 1800 was something of a revolution, with a significant shift in federal policy favoring limited government, lower taxes, and agrarian interests. It was the kind of abrupt political transformation that few nations could have endured peacefully. For all the vitriol thrown about in the election season, the peaceful transfer of power between different parties was an encouraging sign of the strength of American democracy. Adams and Jefferson exchanged letters until the day of the inauguration, but this symbol of bipartisanship was short lived. In his last letter before leaving office, Adams wrote with some pain that Jefferson had declines to offer any sympathies upon the recent death of Adams's son, but still wished Jefferson a quiet and prosperous administration. Jefferson did not respond, and the two men would not exchange letters again for over a decade. The political climate was too polarized for such friendships to persist, and Jefferson was too preoccupied to make the effort. In this video, we will follow the first few years of Jefferson's presidency as America experienced international conflict, massive territorial expansion, and constitutional shakeups that rewrote the relationships of government. The Jeffersonian Revolution. Symbolic of the new age of American politics was Jefferson's move to the new nation capital at Washington, DC. Plan-day decade earlier and championed by Washington, the city remained unimpressive with muddy streets and half finished buildings. Adams had actually moved into the White House in the last months of 1800, but Jefferson was the first president to live out his term there. As a democratic Republican, Jefferson wanted to present himself as a man of the common people to contrast the aristocratic heirs of Adams. He wore simple clothes, eight simple food, and even traveled to his inauguration on foot. He declined to give a state of the Union speech and wrote to Congress instead. While he was no stranger to politics, he had lost touch with the ever-changing faces of Washington's political class. In fact, he did not recognize the men now serving in Congress, and when several of them complained that Jefferson was passing them without giving some sign of respect, he was embarrassingly forced to admit that he didn't even know who they were. He would attempt to rectify this over the course of his presidency by hosting private dinners with every congressman. Jefferson's presidency was shaped by his political ideals. He favored small government over large, farmers and small landowners over manufacturers and merchants, and the French over the British. Inevitably, Jefferson began to undo much of what Adams had done before him. For example, he repealed the Hated Naturalization Act and the Sedition and Alien Friends Acts were allowed to expire in their natural term by 1802. He aggressively cut spending on the army and the Navy while eliminating as many taxes as he could get his hands on, including the Hated Whiskey Tax that had proven so troublesome in Washington's term. Jefferson also blocked pending judicial appointments made by his predecessor, but that would prove to be more troublesome than he expected. Marbury versus Madison. Before leaving office, John Adams issued a flurry of last-minute appointments to stack the judiciary with federalists. These midnight judges were supposed to frustrate the new administration's political agenda, but not everything was ready before Adams left. Many of the commission letters for these appointments were still sitting on the president's desk when Jefferson arrived. Jefferson ordered his secretary of state, James Madison, not to deliver the commissions and therefore exclude these federalists from power. Obviously, the men who were due to receive these commissions were not pleased, least of all William Marbury, who took Madison all the way to the Supreme Court to resolve the dispute. The court did decide that Madison's refusal to deliver the commission was illegal, but they also ruled that the section of Judiciary Act of 1789 under which Marbury brought the case before the court in the first place was unconstitutional. Since the law was unconstitutional, the court deemed that it had no authority on the matter and thus could not force Madison to deliver the illegally withheld commissions. This was the single most significant ruling the Supreme Court would ever make. Chief Justice John Marshall had established the power of judicial review. That is, the power to declare any act of the other two branches of government to be in violation of the Constitution and therefore illegitimate. The significance of this decision was not immediately apparent, but judicial review has been the basis of many of the court's most significant rulings on matters ranging from abortion to racial segregation. Jefferson's America. It was natural to expect that changes like these would occur as the Constitution was tested against reality. After all, with how much the US was changing in such a short time, growing pains were inevitable. The 1800 census placed the population at 5.3 million, which included a population of about 1 million slave. The birth rate in the United States was seven children per woman, almost double that of Europe, although it would decline in the 19th century. This ever-growing population set down new towns and new states at a rapid pace which transformed the landscape. Foreign observers were stunned at the rapid growth and transformation of American society. The Americans lived and breathed democracy and liberty in a way that seemed bizarre to foreigners, even French and British ones who might share the most with them. Voter participation among the admittedly narrow electorate soared between 1790 and 1810. One observer wrote that Americans dread everything that preaches constraint while others noted how deeply the Americans had imbued the idea of the equality of man. The lowest here stand erect and crouch not before any man, wrote another traveler. Slaves, of course, not withstanding. As much as Jefferson idealized the simple farmer, there was no escaping the fact that the trade was vital and dominant in affairs. From one end of the continent to the other, wrote the New York physician Samuel Mitchell, the universal roar is commerce, commerce at all events, commerce. Still, most foreigners saw the Americans as rough and rude, lacking the manners or self-restraint of a properly ordered society. Public safety challenges in Pennsylvania were a growing concern with reports indicating higher incident rates than those in London. Keeping this population informed of events was the press, a firm majority of which were staunch democratic Republicans after the attempted suppression under Adams, Jefferson's presidency saw a flourishing of Republican newspapers supporting his agenda. The Federalists countered with their own litany of newspapers, such as Hamilton's Evening Post, that launched what some historians have dubbed a journalistic arms race that still rages to this day. Forners struggled to understand the US, and in many ways Jefferson didn't help either. Jefferson's approach to foreign affairs was predictable to anyone who had followed his beliefs thus far. He was unapologetically pro-French revolution and was constantly weary of the British. However, the tyrannical rule of Napoleon unsettled him, and like many admirers of the revolution, he regretted that its high-flying ideals had descended into despotism. Jefferson's modest demeanor and disregard for social hierarchy and protocol led to diplomatic tensions. For example, when hosting foreign dignitaries, Jefferson shunned the strict social conventions that European elites were accustomed to. When Minister Anthony Mary of Great Britain arrived to assume his post as ambassador, Jefferson reportedly greeted him in a pair of slippers. He also invited French and British representatives to the same formal dinners, much to the offence of both nations who were at war at the time. In all likelihood, Jefferson was being irritating to the British on purpose, but his simple manners were a notable departure from the leaders of other nations he dealt with. Free trade remains the watchword of American economic and foreign policy. Jefferson was a firm believer in open trade between nations and resented anyone who might interfere with it. It would be they the British closing ports to rival nations or the barbery pirates of the Mediterranean praying upon American merchants. The North African barbery states of Morocco, Algiers, Tunis and Tripoli had long profited from piracy against foreign vessels. The British and French had learned to pay them off to avoid attacks on their ships, but the Americans were slow to make such arrangements. After the revolution, American ships had been regular prey for the barbery pirates, a problem that Jefferson had wrestled with before during Washington's presidency. Adams had chosen a diplomatic route, offering $1.25 million in tribute to ensure the safety of American vessels. By the time Jefferson took office, this was 20% of the federal government's budget. To protect free trade and reduce this drain on federal finances, Jefferson sent a squadron of navy ships to the Mediterranean in June of 1801 to protect American vessels by any means necessary. Jefferson was still reluctant to commit too many resources to the first barbery war, but the accidental beaching of the USS Philadelphia on the shores of Tripoli in October of 1803 with the capture of all its crew forced his hand. The Pasha of Tripoli ransomed the crew at $1.7 million, higher than the entire military budget of the United States at that time. After 1803, the first barbery went on to involve additional ships and US Marines, but did not end the piracy or the tributes. The Louisiana Purchase. The expansion of American power on the other side of the world was one thing, but there was plenty of work to do managing expansion upon the US's own borders too. With the successful pacification of the Northwest Territory, American settlers had been flooding into the land along the Ohio River, and were now numerous enough to meet the criteria for statehood that Jefferson had helped lay out in the Northwest ordinance. On February 19th, 1803, Jefferson approved Ohio's territorial and constitutional arrangements, admitting it as the 17th state. However, Congress did not approve a formal resolution confirming this, meaning Ohio technically wasn't a state, a fact that wasn't noticed and retroactively fixed until the 1950s, but Ohio was a footnote in the territorial developments of Jefferson's presidency compared to what he gained from France. The Pollian believed that France's interests in America were unnecessary. They had never truly reestablished meaningful control over the Louisiana Territory after reclaiming it from the British, and the Haitian revolt had deprived it of its most valuable American colonies anyway. In constant need of money, and with his country's relationship with the US recently patched up, Napoleon made a staggering offer to Jefferson. The sale of all 820,000 square miles of the Louisiana Territory to the United States for a mere 15 million dollars. This was an extraordinarily generous offer, equating to roughly $2 per square mile in today's terms, but Jefferson was in a tough position. As a staunch democratic Republican, he was supposed to be against any expansion of government power, and he was supposed to obey the Constitution to the letter. The Constitution gave the president no authority to purchase land to expand the US, and doing so would be an obvious overreach. However, the prospect of doubling the size of the United States for such a poultry sum simply couldn't be ignored. Besides, Jefferson rationalized that all of the new land could provide for millions of those small-scale farmers and freeholders that he saw as the pillars of American freedom. Prodence won out over principle, and on April 30, 1803, Jefferson's representative formally signs the treaty approving the purchase. Critics complained about the overreach and the cost, but it was impossible to deny the value of the move. The Louisiana Territory became part of the United States on December 20, 1803, doubling the size of the nation overnight and containing lands that would one day form all or part of the territory of 15 US states. By the end of 1803, Jefferson had undoubtedly overseen a transformative period in American history, though not all developments aligned with his vision. In just a few short years, the foundations for much of the rest of American history had been laid. Marbury versus Madison had remade the role of the Supreme Court. The explosion in population and the press had forever changed public discourse. America had launched its first foreign war against the Barbarian pirates, and the Louisiana purchase would enable the creation of thousands of new towns, cities, and societies, home to millions of people. The seeds of the American revolution had already bloomed into a thriving and powerful nation, but Jefferson's era showed that America was far from finished growing. The seeds of new developments of its future greatness and future failings were still being sewn and would continue to bloom as American history marched ever onward. This video was very interesting to work on. If you enjoyed it as much as we did, hit the like button right now and click the bell before you leave, so you don't miss the next time we uncover history mysteries. See you next time....'