---
video_title: "What Happened Before Columbus? - THE ENTIRE HISTORY OF NATIVE AMERICA - ALL PARTS"
video_id: ygscd81Q1TE
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ygscd81Q1TE
video_date: 2026-06-22T14:18:00+00:00
video_description: |
  The Complete History Edition Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9h7OjK629BU8pNtQo4Lz9Sx
  ♦Get EARLY ACCESS:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  What Happened Before Columbus? - THE ENTIRE HISTORY OF NATIVE AMERICA
  
  Step into the epic saga of ancient America (c. 15,000 BC to 1533 AD) in one meticulously researched documentary. Journey back more than fifteen thousand years, from the first Ice Age peoples who crossed into an unknown continent to the dawn of civilization at Caral, the oldest known city in the Americas. Trace the rise of the Olmec, the mother culture of Mesoamerica, the golden age of the Maya and their mastery of writing and astronomy, and the towering pyramids of Teotihuacan. Cross into North America to the great mound city of Cahokia, then descend into the Andes as two superpowers emerge: the Aztecs, ruling from their island capital of Tenochtitlan, and the Incas.
   Relive the moment two worlds collided in 1492 and the conquest that ended it all. Experience a visually stunning journey through Native and pre-Columbian America, where every frame brings a lost world back to life.
  
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work and Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q/join
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  potatohistory-us, johnathondwigans, MohitAgrawal-d9n, Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  0:00 Origins of the Americas
  0:37 Ice Age Migration Debate
  8:50 The Clovis Culture
  16:52 Clovis Collapse & Genetics
  34:21 Rise of Agriculture
  40:03 Norte Chico & Mound Builders
  53:10 Old Copper Culture
  58:36 Adena & Hopewell Cultures
  1:14:21 The Maya Civilization
  1:18:41 Mississippians & Cahokia
  1:25:27 Chaco Canyon Puebloans
  1:33:32 Nomads, Aztecs & Europeans
---
How did the history of the Americas begin? Throughout human history, few regions evoke as much wonder and mystery as the Americas. As one of the last major land masses to be settled by humans, the Americas became home to diverse cultures and civilizations. Join us in this video to explore the origins of the first humans to reach these abundant continents at the edge of the known world. In their treacherous journeys across the icy wastelands of Siberia and Canada to encountering formidable ice age predators such as sabretooth cats and giant short-faced bears. The Ice Age Immigrants Humans have wandered the planet for hundreds of thousands of years following the seasons in search of sustenance and warmth, hoping to prolong the existence of their species. Among all migration stories, the settlement of the Americas remains one of the most debated and intriguing subjects in archaeology. If we look to Africa and Europe, anthropologists propose humans ventured throughout the landscape as early as 300,000 years ago, pointing to the discovery of the Jebbel Erhud remains in Morocco as credible evidence. But when we turn our attention back to the Americas, the archaeological record appears far younger in essence, and to many, the idea of when humans first arrived on the continent continues to invoke a wide range of opinions. To truly understand the lengthy history of the Americas, we must first venture back to the Pleistocene epoch. This geological epoch began around 2.6 million years ago and lasted until approximately 11,700 years ago. It's characterized by long cycles of glacial and interglacial periods, and the last of these great ice ages is known as the last glacial maximum. This period is of particular interest to researchers and archaeologists over the past century in their quest to find the first Americans. The last glacial maximum, or LGM for short, began as early as 25,000 years ago and lasted for several thousand years. Widely considered to be the coldest part of the last ice age, this era saw massive ice sheets covering much of North America dramatically shaping the landscape and migration patterns. The Laurentide ice sheet covered most of Canada and the Northern United States under ice layers up to 2.5 miles thick. Regions such as British Columbia, Alaska, Montana, New England, and parts of Idaho and Washington lay frozen beneath this vast glacial expanse. South America didn't escape the wrath of the Pleistocene, experiencing its fair share of these freezing conditions. The Patagonian ice sheet covered the southern third of Chile and parts of Argentina and almost wholly submerged the Patagonian Andes. The extensive sheet was about 2,000 kilometers long from north to south. Distinct animals roamed the Americas during this bygone era, ranging from saber-tooth cats to woolly mammoths and even enormous ground sloths that make their modern tree-hugging cousins appear as nothing more than babies. At the end of the last glacial maximum, Earth experienced a drastic drop in sea levels, exposing large sections of the world's continental shelves. This allowed not only land animals but also humans to cross the so-called Bearing Land Bridge that connected North America and Siberia. This narrow opening led the first humans to journey from Eurasia to the Americas, becoming the seeds that would soon blossom into civilization in the West. For decades, scholars widely accepted that humans first arrived in North America around 16,000 years ago via the Bearing Land Bridge. However, new discovery suggests that human migration to the Americas may have begun much earlier, possibly as early as 23,000 or even 30,000 years ago. Though these claims remain debated. During this time, the Bearing Strait was flooded as ice sheets began melting in the northern hemisphere, submerging it beneath the freezing waters of the Atlantic Ocean. The exact date when humans reached the Americas using this primordial bridge has been widely debated over the past few decades, with some suggesting evidence points towards humans migrating to the continent as early as 23,000 years ago. While the Bearing Land Bridge theory remains widely supported by archaeologists and geneticists, recent discoveries have suggested that earlier human presence in the Americas may have also occurred through alternative migration routes. The exact timing and pathways of these migrations remain areas of active research and debate. A study led by Oxford University Professor Tom Hayum proposed that evidence from multiple sites suggest human presence in the Americas may date back as far as 30,000 years ago. While this remains debated, it has encouraged further research into the complexities of early human migration. In their report, they meticulously detailed investigations conducted at over 40 sites using cutting-edge scientific techniques and went on to drop a bombshell by proposing these ancient migrants didn't cross the Bearing Land Bridge as it was still impenetrable at this time. Instead, they claim the oldest urations to reach America came by way of boats. Dr. Lorena Bacaravalivia, who worked alongside Hayum, shed lights on their discovery and its implications. Stating, the people in the Americas was a complex and dynamic process, what is clear is that humans were present in the continent well before previously accepted dates. But it was only around 14,700 years ago that these people became more highly visible in the archaeological record. It was likely due to an increase in population. Despite the magnitude of the discovery and what it would mean for the timeline of humans in the Americas, numerous scientists were quick to push back against the new theories. Many argued that the findings of the Oxford-based researchers are inconclusive and that more work is required before they can say with certainty when humans arrived in the Americas. But this hasn't been the only fascinating discovery of its kind in recent decades. Another site that aims to push back the human presence on the confidence is located several thousands of kilometers to the south at Shiki Weite Cave, a high altitude rock shelter in Central Mexico. Here, researchers discovered a rich cache of items including 2,000 stone tools, suggesting the cave was inhabited by people around 33,000 years ago. Another debated site is the Topper Excavation Site in South Carolina, where archaeologists Dr. Albert Goodgear has suggested that some artifacts may date as far back as 50,000 years. However, this claim remains controversial, with many scholars questioning whether the artifacts show clear evidence of human modification. The dating of these artifacts has been met with some criticism, with some suggesting the timeline proposed is overexaggerated. But as archaeologists continue to study sites of interest, researchers are slowly being forced to reckon with the idea that humans may have arrived in the Americas thousands of years before initially thought. As these theories are relatively new, critics and skeptics propose a vast deal more evidence is required before we can get a definite answer on when the earliest humans settled in America. Nonetheless, archaeologists and anthropologists generally agree on one thing. By the end of the last glacial maximum around 11,700 years ago, the populating of the continents was well underway, and the ancestors of today's Native Americans had begun to establish thriving cultures that would spread across the entirety of the Americas. The Clovis culture In the wintery shadows that engulfed the last glacial maximum, a group of enigmatic urations arrived in the Americas that would go on to change the course of history. These nomadic hunters, known as the Clovis people, ventured across the barring land bridge facing unimaginable obstacles on their way, from fighting against a vicious and tall, extinct species of mammal known as short-faced bears to enduring the crippling weather that likely left many of their ancestors freezing to death. They persevered the long journey and made it to the promised land beyond the ice. The Clovis culture was long considered the first human group to settle the Americas, however, new archaeological discoveries suggest that earlier populations may have arrived before them, challenging the long-held Clovis First Theory. Nonetheless, they remain the oldest ancient American group about which we know a considerable deal. The Clovis themselves were characterized by a distinct type of stone tool utilized in hunting. The first signs of their presence in the Americas were discovered by construction workers who had unearthed a cache of large animal bones in eastern New Mexico in 1932. The news eventually reached Edgar B. Howard, who at the time was working as an archaeology research associate at the University of Pennsylvania Museum. Almost immediately, he dropped what he was doing and rushed to Clovis, New Mexico to persuade the landowners to let him excavate the site. By the following summer, he had uncovered what he called at the time, matted masses of bones of mammoths, and an unprecedented number of slender spear points made of various stones known to modern archaeologists as Clovis points. The Clovis parts are distinctive, meticulously shipped from obsidian, jasper, chert, and other fine brittle stones. Known from the base towards the tips are shallow, concave grooves called flutes that may have helped the points be inserted into spear shafts. Generally, the stone implements are around four inches long and a third of an inch thick. Upon physical inspection, archaeologists denounced they were sleek and beautifully made by the hands of experienced craftsmen. After discovering Clovis points in New Mexico, Howard and others began to look for traces of similar stone tools in artifacts found in Siberia, hoping to discover the origin of the first Americans. However, they came up empty handed, suggesting that the Clovis points were an American invention and perhaps the very first one of its kind. To date, over 10,000 of the Clovis points have been discovered at more than 1,500 locations throughout most of North America. They have an earth across a broad swath of land stretching from Florida to Montana and Pennsylvania to Washington. Yet despite their overwhelming presence, archaeologists have suggested the Clovis culture lasted for just a few centuries. They appear to have materialized suddenly by archaeological standards and spread fast before disappearing from the archaeological record. The oldest securely dated points discovered in Texas are around 13,500 years old. Most of their distinctive hunting implements were found wedged between the ribs of large extinct mammals including mastodons and mammoths. No doubt, when these people arrived in the Americas, they followed in the footsteps of large animals migrating to new lands. These early Eurasians hunted woolly mammoths and step bison and eventually established a culture that would go on to spread across the two American continents. In the past, researchers proposed the Clovis people had a particular reverence for praying on the largest mammals that roamed the Americas. But in reality, the culture mainly depended on foraging for plants, hunting much smaller mammals and likely making use of the bountiful rivers to catch fish. Their stone age tool belt consisted of scrapers, blades, drills and needles all of which they use to lead the way for culture in the Americas to blossom. The clear presence of the Clovis in North America is undeniable, being linked across the continents by the way of their unique stone points. However, a question that perplexed many researchers for decades was the extent to which the Clovis people had spread into South America. Some researchers attempted to use the discovery of fish tail stone points as clear evidence, suggesting they were remarkably similar to those produced by the Clovis. Back in 2018, this dilemma was finally solved by Howard Hughes Medical Investigator David Reich and his colleague, who published a report on November 8, 2018 in the prestigious journal Cell. As a renowned team of researchers who garnered international fame for their work showcasing that Neanderthals, interbred with our ancestors, they compared ancient peoples' genes from sites in Central and South America to genes from a Clovis-linked individual who lived in today's Montana between 12,700 and 12,900 years ago. They discovered a clear match between the Montana individuals' genes and the three oldest genetic samples in the new study, which came from Chile, Brazil and Belize. Their groundbreaking study provided the archaeological work with credible evidence to suggest that migrations of people who spread the Clovis culture in North America did, in fact, have an effect farther south and likely with the progenitors of the so-called fish tail culture. Though widespread, the Clovis culture lasted only a few centuries before fading from the archaeological record. Rather than disappearing entirely, it is likely that Clovis groups adapted to changing environments evolving into new, regional cultures. As Clovis peoples settled into different ecological zones, the culture split into distinctive groups, each adapting to its own individual environment. In reality, the end of Clovis marked the beginning of the enormous social, cultural and linguistic diversity, one that would pave the way for civilization in the Americas over the next 10,000 years. Of the brief fluorescence of Clovis, only their unmistakable stone tools remained. These were the last physical traces of America's first and most extensive cultural imperium. The cultures that rose from the ashes of the Clovis people. As the sun sets on the Pleistocene, a new era emerges from beneath the tightly packed layers of ice that once covered the continent. Armed with innovative stone tools and backed by fire, ancient humans embarked on a journey that would soon take them to all corners of the American continents, ushering in a period of evolution that would, in time, define this part of the world. The Clovis people vanished from the archaeological record around 12,900 years ago. For some time, researchers surmise this extensive group of pioneers may have succumbed to drastic changes in the climate leading to their eventual extinction. However, it has become apparent that this wasn't the case. Instead, they simply evolved with the times and slowly transitioned into several other distinct cultures, many of which would go on to have an everlasting effect on the landscape. You see, at the same time as the disappearance of Clovis points, the American continents were going through a transition of their own. As the last glacial maximum was coming to an end, an unexpected cold snap occurred 12,900 years ago, plunging North America into one of the coldest periods of the entire Ice Age. Unfortunately, this devastated many of the largest megafauna living in the Americas, such as woolly mammoths and mastodons, many of which were driven to extinction. Of course, other factors may have played a minor role in their demise, including the role of humans and the breakdown of food webs. With the dwindling number of large animals roaming the American landscape, a vital source of sustenance for the Clovis people was lost. Undoubtedly, this forced them to seek out new lands and invent new technologies to hunt smaller animals in the game, and eventually, they morphed into small, distinct cultures. Researchers have compared several regional point styles or distinct stone implements that appear to have evolved from the older Clovis culture. This includes the Folsom tradition, located in Central North America, the Comberland culture found in middle and southern parts of North America, the Sohani and Simpson points, respectively unearthed in the southeast, and the Gainey points, located around the enchanting banks of the Great Lakes region. Of these, Folsom was the largest and most prominent, leaving behind a plethora of stone points that tell the story of this post- Clovis people. Their fluted projectiles have been discovered over a vast distance along the western high plains, stretching from Canada to Mexico. Many Folsom points have been unearthed in pristine condition, showcasing the level of craftsmanship these early Americans possessed. They are long and slender, and generally range from two to three inches long, with some examples exceeding three inches. The Folsom is still much smaller in weight and size than most Clovis points, when in unaltered condition. The Folsom people specialized in hunting giant bison, a now extinct species, evidenced by the large concentration of their points found in association with bison bones. Despite the clear distinction between the Folsom people and the other cultures that arose following the disappearance of the Clovis people, anthropologists were confident they were related ancestral. Modern historians classify the Clovis culture and its predecessors as paleoindians. However, whether these groups share a single ancestral origin remained uncertain until a pivotal 2014 study in the journal Nature, which analyzed ancient DNA to trace their genetic lineage. A team of scientists under the command of lead author Eske Witteslu from the University of Copenhagen sequenced the complete genome of a male infant unearthed in Western Montana around 12,600 years ago. Discovered at the Anzik Burial site, the area has gained prominence as a Clovis treasure trove. According to the study, here, approximately 100 stone tools and 15 ASEAS tool fragments that are technologically consistent with the artifacts of the Clovis complex were found in direct association with the partial fragmentary remains of an infant child. After meticulously analyzing the results of their testing, the researchers were able to determine the child's belongs to a population from which many contemporary Native Americans descended and is closely related to all indigenous American populations. In fact, some 80 percent of all present-day Native American populations on the two American continents are direct descendants of the Clovis boys family. The remaining 20 percent are still more closely related to the Clovis family than any other group on Earth. In short, it appears as if the researchers had discovered credible evidence to suggest the Clovis people and the cultures that superseded it, including the Folsom, are the ancestors of the vast majority of Native Americans found across the Americas today. But that wasn't the only fascinating part of the study. In addition, it sheds light on the migration that led these early trailblazers from Eurasia to their new home. According to the work of the accredited team of researchers, the genome of the child suggests his ancestors migrated from Siberia into North America over 32,000 years ago. This places the oldest migration of humans to the continents at 20,000 years before the Clovis culture even appeared in the archaeological record. The team also proposed that Native American ancestors coming from Siberia split into two groups. In comprises ancestors of Native Americans presently living in Canada, whereas the other, represented by the Clovis boy, is the ancestor of virtually all Native Americans in South America and Mexico. The Paleo-Indian period roughly extends from 16,000 years ago to around 8,000 years ago. As researchers continue to conduct in-depth studies throughout the continents, they have gained incredible insight into the daily lives of Paleo-Indians. Studying the sites and distinct artifacts has allowed them to understand their daily lives. These early Americans utilized a plethora of tools ranging from microblades for butchering and hide processing to axes, points, and even animal bones turned into needles. However, some of the most significant advancements have come about by studying the beautiful rock art left behind by migrating Paleo-Indians in regions across Latin America, such as the Serania de la Lendoza in Colombia. The paintings there are thought to be 12,800 years old, coinciding with the end of the last Ice Age. A distinctive assortment of depictions were carefully drawn onto the walls in Red Okre, leaving behind the legacies of these ancient peoples. Ancient animals, including native horses and ground sloths, make up part of the fresco accompanied by cryptic symbols and sigils, likely associated with religious and spiritual traditions. While many of these paintings may have been mere creative expressions, experts summarize that they could have also been used as educational tools to teach the younger generations about different species of animals and plants. Each of the cave art at Serania de la Lendoza and those in other parts of South America contain symbolic art depicting the spiritual world. Beautifully explained by Francisco Javier Acectuno, an archaeologist at the University of Antiochia, Colombia as photographs of the past. The researcher is certain we can learn a great deal about the earliest Americans by studying these thought invoking paintings. One form of ancestry spirituality is clearly evident in Paleo-American art. Speaking on the sprawling canvas at Serania de la Lendoza, Acectuno said, there are scenes of dancing rituals or shamanic rights. With these spiritual scenes, people were trying to domesticate the natural world by controlling the forces of nature. Through the meticulous study of art, researchers have come to better understand the complexity of America's first humans. They were not just simple hunter-gatherers, but innovative humans who sought to create a new life in a distant land for the sake of their people. Along with their knowledge of survival, they brought their spiritual beliefs and religious customs to the new world, evolving each of these aspects of culture as they ventured throughout the continents. As they began to settle in regions throughout the continents, researchers have started to suspect that the Paleo-Indians may have had an unprecedented effect on biodiversity and plant life during an era of profound climatic activity. Rock art found in parts of the Amazon hints that humans were managing plant species about 9,000 years ago. That could explain the persistence of valuable plants in the Amazon now. An extraordinary number of distinct plants utilized for food and medicine can be found throughout the Bountiful Jungle. Many medicines and drugs originate from the Amazon, earning it the nickname the world's largest medicine cabinet. As a tuna goes on to explain that the Paleo-Indians achieved a balance in the management of natural resources. Plants and animals were more than food. They were also seen as living beings to be respected. The people used the preservation principle. I cannot extinguish my resources, my food. The work of researchers such as, as a tuna, has been pivotal in increasing our understanding of Paleo-Indians and just how complex their society truly was. With the advancements of genealogy, we have learned a great deal about the ancestral origins of these early Americans and their intricate web of connections that spread throughout the landscape. But if you thought that this solved the story of humans in the Americas, you'd be wrong. As in the wake of the various innovative studies, further mysteries centered on genealogy began to arise deep in the South. Going back to the study of Reich, who showcased a link between the Clovis people and the fish tail culture of South America, their work may have opened up one door, but it left them banging at another without answers. Reich and his team analyzed the remains of at least 49 individuals who lived around 11,000 years ago. As mentioned earlier in the video, they found credible evidence to suggest these individuals unearthed in parts of Brazil, Chile and Belize were ancestral related to the Clovis people of North America. Their work surmised the dispersal of the fish tail culture, named after a specific stone implement that shared characteristics similar to the Clovis point, was the work of a group from a shared lineage. However, as Reich and his team continued to analyze the remains of more individuals, they stumbled upon a finding that shocks the archaeological community to its core. They found evidence to suggest that around 9,000 years ago, in Central and South America, the Clovis culture associated people vanished and were replaced by a different genetic lineage. To the surprise of the researchers, they meticulously examined the data to ensure the authenticity of the results. They later concluded that the vast majority of people who lived across a broad area stretching from Patagonia to Belize from 9,000 to 3,000 years ago are genetically distinct from the Clovis cultures associated ancestors and that of their successors. So who were these peculiar South Americans? Well, as of yet, this enigma has yet to be answered and the group's true identity and origin continue to evade researchers, meaning the mysteries of the Americas are yet to reveal themselves in their totality. The genetic research suggests that around 9,000 years ago, a new population arrived in South America, leading to a genetic shift distinct from Clovis-associated groups, unlike North American Native groups, modern South Americans show little to no genetic trace of Clovis ancestry, indicating a significant population shift, a complex migration patterns that are still not fully understood. This suggests that a continent-wide population replacement occurred in South America around 9,000 years ago. In their search to find the origins of this mysterious group, several hurdles have prohibited researchers like Reich from getting to the bottom of this puzzle. One is the lack of human remains from South America that are more than 11,000 years old, meaning that they cannot directly probe the initial movements of people into Central and South America. Speaking of the challenges, Reich said, we lacked ancient data from Amazonia, northern South America and the Caribbean, and thus cannot determine how individuals in these regions relate to the ones we analyzed. Reich said in the statement, filling in these gaps should be a priority for future work. As we attempt to take in and evaluate the totality of available information centered on the region of the first true Americans, it is clear more research is required to truly solve the mystery. However, researchers are inching closer to their end goal. One that will undoubtedly provide us with a clear picture of the history of the Americas. New studies continue to add to the revelations from the nascent field of ancient DNA that humans were undoubtedly a more restless, wandering and intermingling species than we could have ever imagined. In the millennia that followed the splintering of the Clovis culture and the mysterious neighbors to the South, the first signs of what would later bloom into distinct tribal cultures began to appear. These paleoindians explored the lush forests, tracked the desert wastelands, climbs mountainous peaks, and explored coastal regions all while migrating with the seasons. They laid the foundations for cultures to thrive and prosper during the entirety of the Stone Age, making incremental technological and cultural advancements with easy passing generations. The paleoindians boldly went where no human had gone before. What motivated these humans to embark on such a journey into the depths of the unknown is still up for debate, were they driven further south into the Americas by an exhaustion of local resources or a lack of animals to hunt? This explanation ignores the irrefutable evidence that the virgin continents were abundant in food from all sources, and that such a plethora of sustenance could not be exhausted by such a small population. Esque Witteslu, the prominent researcher from the University of Copenhagen, has proposed that in addition to environmental pressures early migrants may have been motivated by a drive to explore new lands. While survival needs played a key role, the possibility of curiosity as a factoring human expansion remains an intriguing hypothesis. In time, they would slowly morph into the various distinct cultures of the late Neolithic and Bronze eras, better known as the indigenous groups of the Americas today. As the paleoindian period came to an end, early inhabitants underwent a significant transition in their way of life. The disappearance of large megafauna and the need to sustain growing populations forced the migratory hunter gatherers to adapt, but the archaic period which began around 10,000 years ago, these early pioneers had undergone a remarkable transformation. The earliest paleoindians arrived in the Americas during a period of colder and wetter climatic conditions. However, by the archaic period, the continent experienced significant environmental changes, including a shift toward a warmer and drier climate, which influenced human substance strategies and settlement patterns. Notable changes in this transformation included the expansion of prairie vegetation and a decrease in forested areas. This shift in climate heavily influenced the lifestyle and adaptations of archaic peoples as they were forced to rely on different plant and animal resources. So, much like the major changes to their surroundings, like today, the Native American groups went through their own sort of cultural transition. Now spread across the continents, groups increased in size and transitioned to more of a sedentary lifestyle, preferring to forage from seasonal camps instead of roaming the entire landscape. As they acclimated to their new environments, the archaic Americans sought sustenance in the form of fish, foul and wild plants, including seeds. However, all of the latter changes pale in comparison to the most significant development during this period. The appearance of agriculture. This brought about a monumental shift that would have a long lasting and profound effect on the history of the continents. Large-scale agriculture is often considered a prerequisite for civilization, as it's unlikely that large numbers can be sustained without the means to feed tens of tens of thousands of people. As early as 8,000 BC, researchers have discovered evidence of crops appearing in both Mexico and South America. The earliest of these was the humble squash, which remains a staple for many native cultures in the Americas even today. Seeds of this smooth and stringy fruit have been found in caves in Wohaka and the Tewakon Valley. As experts continued to study the archaeological record meticulously, they found evidence that clearly showcases how the wild squash seeds increased in size, providing researchers with undeniable proof of incipient domestication. Far to the south of the fertile valleys of Mexico, amongst the majestic towering peaks of the Andes, we find evidence of the cultivation of beans, potatoes, tomatoes, and peanuts during the archaic period. But no single crop can be said to have influenced the lives of the ancient Americans quite like the admirable corn plant. The origins of maize take us back to the fertile lowlands of southwest Mexico some 10,000 years ago. Thought to have originated from the wild grass teocinty, maize was modified over time by early horticulturalists, eventually producing the plant we know today. To these early Americans, corn became more of a staple form of sustenance. It was looked upon as a sacred symbol of life and sustenance, deeply intertwined with their spiritual beliefs and was considered a gift from the gods, shaping their agricultural practices, mythology, and social structure across civilizations. In time, archaic Americans grew certain crops together, such as corn, beans, and squash, and refer to this combination as the three sisters, due to their symbiotic growing practices. Utilizing ancient studies of the plants, these early Americans realized the plants mutually benefit each other when planted close by. The corn provides a structure for the beans to climb. The beans add nitrogen to the soil for the corn, and the squash leaves shade the ground, preventing weeds and retaining moisture, creating a symbiotic ecosystem that maximizes yield and nutrition. As growing techniques spread throughout the Americas via extensive trade networks and cultivation became increasingly more prevalent, we saw another drastic change in the lives of humans on the continent. Despite their innate desire to migrate with seasons and explore the entirety of a horizon, the development of agriculture allowed for the creation of permanent settlements. With a reliable food source, it no longer became necessary to move from one place to another in search of sustenance. Instead, groups could settle down in permanent settlements, and those who did eventually experienced a significant increase in population growth. Emerging from this newfound experience, we see the first societies of the Americas. As they grew larger, specialized roles emerged, leading to the development of social hierarchies and different social classes, and eventually the first civilizations on the continent. A tale of cotton and trade, the first civilization of the Americas. As the sands of times slowly trickled away in the Americas, great leaps of innovation occurred, transforming the early settlers from mere hunter-gatherers to bustling human settlements categorized by agricultural expertise, cultural advancements, and spiritual traditions. The agricultural prowess of these settlers was particularly significant, as it not only provided sustenance, but also allowed for surplus production, leading to the establishment of large population centers. With these particular advancements, it was only a matter of time before a fully fledged civilization arose in the Americas, the first signs of which we find along the north-central coast of Peru. Nestle, amongst the windswept desert of the Sup Valley in Peru, immense, dune-like monuments emerged from beneath the scorched sands, while they appear to be nothing more than the work of Mother Nature. Upon further inspection, these mountains of dirt are the last remnants of an ancient pyramid-building culture that existed in the region thousands of years ago. Now known as the Norte Chico Civilization, it arose in the region as early as 3,500 BCE. Over time, this primordial American civilization grew to include as many as 30 large population centers, all of which are composed of massive communal buildings, temple-like structures, and pyramids. At the heart of the civilization lay the sprawling city of Keral, which covered a 163 acre astonishing town. Here, we find the awe-inspiring Pyramidai mayor, a towering pyramid-like structure that is equal in size to around four football fields. The monument has an enormous 30-foot wide staircase that rises from a sunken circular plaza at the foot of the pyramid, passing over three terrorist levels until it reaches the top of the platform. Such an extensive building project would have required thousands of manual laborers. On top of this, various architects, craftsmen, supervisors, and other managers would have been necessary to ensure things went smoothly. All of this points towards not only an advanced society or culture, but also the earliest signs of civilization in the Americas. Flanking this mysterious city are the remains of a series of smaller mountains, various buildings, and residential complexes. After meticulously studying the ruins, archaeologists discovered a hierarchy in living arrangements. Large, well-kept rooms atop the pyramids for the elite, ground-level complexes for craftsmen, and shabbyer-outlying shantytowns for workers. To the inhabitants of Keral, the city served as a hub of innovation and technology. Its people built highly advanced irrigation systems, turning a desert into a productive agricultural economy. Archaeologists are sure that North Echico culture represents the first complex society in the Americas. It is known as one of the six major world areas where civilization developed independently. Other old world civilizations like Mesopotamia, Egypt and India traded goods and information with each other, but North Echico developed in total isolation from different societies. But this leaves us with one obvious question, how was this possible? Why did the ancient Americans living in Peru succeed when others couldn't? To researchers, the answer lies in the development of these irrigation systems, which played a pivotal role in the cultivation of cotton and other crops and facilitated trade with coastal communities for seafood. Before cotton, fishing nets comprised of plant fibers, which took a tedious amount of time to make and maintain. However, with the tremendous agricultural innovations within Keral, more nets could be made, meaning more fish could be caught. As coastal and inland communities worked together, a bustling society emerged. This resulted in a vibrant economy that required a centralized government and Keral became the administrative center for the entire civilization. In many ways, the civilization centered a Keral functioned in a manner similar to how society works today. People had specialized yet interconnected roles that benefited one another. Yet, despite the size of the civilization, with as many as 20,000 people living in the valley, there were no signs of defensive construction, weapons, or violence of any kind. Meaning some leader or central decision-making group could organize a large workforce in massive construction projects over extended periods through non-violent means. Another significant discovery at Keral was a Kippu, a record-keeping device made of a string of knotted ropes. Kippus were used to recover dates, census data, inventory, and tax information. The Keral Kippu was the oldest ever found, meaning that Norte Chico people had a reason to record and store data for later use. The culture's remarkable monumental architecture, complex social organization, and sustainable economy based on both agriculture and seafood harvesting, stand as a stark reminder of the ingenuity of ancient peoples of the Americas. Nomadic astrologers of the Old World, the first mound builders of the Americas. As the people of Keral paved the way for civilization in South America, far to the north, several distinct cultures were actively engaged in a technological revolution of their own. Among the sprawling grasslands of northeastern Louisiana, nestled on the banks of the Watson Bayu River, we find a complex mystery that extends back over 5,500 years. In present-day washita parish lies Watson Break, an ancient archaeological site that has long lasting implications for studying ancient Americans. At the center of this site, we see an intricate network of earthen mounds meticulously constructed by humans many millennia ago. Of these, the largest is known as Mount A to researchers and is approximately 25 feet tall and has a diameter of an astonishing 230 feet. Despite the allure of the site, it has only been further intensified by researchers who revealed a group of distinct hunter-gatherers constructed it who we now know as the mound builders. The Watson Break, earthworks in Louisiana date back over 5,500 years, making them older than the pyramids of Giza and Stonehenge. However, their precise function remains uncertain, as no definitive evidence of their purpose, such as burials or ceremonial artifacts, have been found. With no burials, few artifacts, or even signs of use after their initial building, the mounds are assumed to have had some ceremonial use, even if it were only a unique exercise in marking group identity or a singular instance of focused coercion. The people who created the Watson Break mounds did not live on the site. Evidence of habitation from the same period in Louisiana indicates that people had not yet developed agriculture in any focused way and led lives of seasonal settlement, but could a migratory culture without agriculture undertake such a mammoth project. Long-standing theories about how cultures must operate once insisted that large-scale earthworks, such as those founded Watson Break, could not be built until hierarchical status systems developed, with chiefs or someone of power to designate labor. In addition, archaeologists theorized that a mound-building society had to be supported by agriculture because it was thought that hunting and gathering could not provide enough sustenance to feed the workers required for mound-building projects. However, in their quest for knowledge, researchers working from Watson Break, the LSU and Indian Mounds and other middle and late-archic sites have toppled these ideas. Most mainstream academics now agree that the profound natural resources were abundant enough to support mound-builders and that permanent status hierarchies were unnecessary to get the job done. Several minor artifacts have been recovered from the site, shedding a small amount of light on this mysterious culture. Several distinctive and characteristic stone points have been unearthed at Watson Break, known as the Evans Point. Archaic period toolmakers typically created a single pair of notches up the side of a stone point, which helped fasten the point to a spear, but the Evans Point had a curious second pair of notches on the point blade. These additional notches could have provided a more secure fastening, but do not appear on examples in later periods. Other finds include bricks and stone implements, but nothing indicates why the seemingly migratory groups decided to take the considerable amount of time required to create such enormous earthen mounds. While they started small, some kind of formal plan was employed in their construction. Some researchers have noted the existence of a universal system of measurement and geometry. This suggests a profound level of technical skill and intercommunication was present among the middle-archaic mound-builders. Were they constructed as religious monuments that had ongoing spiritual significance? They may have marked the group's identity and reinforced social cooperation, or did they signify the presence of resources in the region in a simple manner. The mystery of Watson Break continues to intrigue researchers even today, but they are left with more questions than answers. By 2800 BCE, all mound construction at the site had ceased, and would begin until the emergence of the poverty point culture over 1,000 years later. But this didn't mark the end of mound building in the Americas. Far from the grasslands of Louisiana, we observe the manipulation of the earth-thin disproling monuments in places such as Georgia, Mississippi, and Florida, all of which boast incredible sites. While most appear thousands of years after the builders of Watson Break disappeared, undoubtedly, their builders placed a high degree of significance on these earthen monuments. Being elegantly constructed across a vast swath of land from the Great Lakes to the Gulf of Mexico area over thousands of years, the seemingly unrelated mound builders have yet to reveal all of their secrets to archaeologists. But as time passes, mounds like those at Watson Break continue to rewrite everything we thought we knew about these ancient Americans. Further study at the site in Louisiana revealed many of the mounds are aligned with the rising and setting of the sun during the summer and winter solstices, suggesting a deliberate astronomical alignment with the stars at the time of its construction. Recent studies suggest that these early societies demonstrated a more complex understanding of astronomy and engineering than previously assumed. Their understanding of astronomy and the movement of celestial bodies could lie at the heart of the mysteries surrounding the mounds at Watson Break and those scattered across the vast American landscape. The old copper complex of the Great Lakes, North America's primeval miners. As ancient Americans came together in Unison under the humid, subtropical climate in Louisiana to carefully construct the original mounds at Watson Break, an entirely different culture was present thousands of miles to the north, one that would ultimately usher in a new technological revolution. The Great Lakes region played a crucial role in this, as it was here that we see the emergence of a unique society characterized by its use of copper. Early humans living in the area likely stumbled upon naturally occurring visible copper nuggets or veins in the earth's surface, most likely near glacial deposits. As they wandered the plains surrounding the Lake Superior region, these early nomads would have seen large nuggets appearing from near the surface and in gravel beds. Over time, their fascination with the copper nuggets led them to discover how malleable it is and how it can be shaped into form to make a variety of implements, thus marking the start of the copper age in North America. Despite varying theories on when humans around the Great Lakes first utilize this precious metal, by 4000 BCE, it had become an integral metal in the daily lives of archaic Americans. Over time, numerous quarries sprang up in areas like Isle Royale, the Kiwinopininshila, and the Brule River. Evidence of mining such as deep holes chipped into the rock can be found in Ontario, Manitoba, and around Lake Superior. Primitive yet effective techniques were used to extract the copper from the bedrock. Thousands of grooved hammerstones found in and around these prehistoric mining pits support the theory that a significant amount of manual labor was required to extract the copper ore. This evidence underscores the unity and cooperation of early Americans who managed to form cohesive workforces despite their nomadic lifestyle. Another likely technique used to extract the ore was thermally induced shattering, where miners would light a fire beside the desired ore vein heating the rock surface. Applying water to this hot surface would cause the rock to shatter, making it easier to remove the copper ore. During the early stages of their exploration of this metal, the ingenuity of these groups was truly remarkable. They discovered that they could shape the nuggets into various forms using stone hammers, a process we now refer to as cold working. This was a significant leap in their understanding of metallurgy. As their expertise in metallurgy continued to grow, they learned that heat could soften the material slightly, leading to the development of the fabrication technique known as annealing. Their experiments with the metal eventually led to the discovery of smelting, a process that involves heating the ore to high temperatures to separate the pure copper from the rock. Archaeologists have discovered tens of thousands of copper artifacts in the Great Lakes region, ranging from simple tools to finely crafted items that suggested specialized metalworking skills. These artifacts provide insight into the technological advancements and trade networks of the old copper culture. This has led researchers such as E.J. Neuberger to speculate that old copper complex artisans eventually discovered how to smelter rock. Archaeologists in the modern refer to these pioneers in the field of metallurgy as the old copper culture, and their innovative methods allowed them to craft a wide range of utilitarian tools like knives, spear points, alls and axes, all of which demonstrate just how sophisticated their understanding of copper manipulation truly was. Over time, they also began crafting decorative objects, such as metal pendants, bracelets, rings, beads and crescent shaped ornaments, showcasing another side of this fascinating culture. As the culture developed, copper ornaments likely became symbols of status and social differentiation. However, some investigations into this puzzling culture proposed that copper may have even been some form of spiritual significance for these early Americans. As archaeologists meticulously studied the burials of various people associated with the old copper complex, they discovered a varying degree of social differentiation and complexity. The dead were buried with various artisanal items made of copper, suggesting the metal may have evolved to have a symbolic value to these groups. As part of social complexity, long-distance trade networks and mortuary ceremonial uses, it's clear copper slowly morphed to become the backbone of the copper complex culture and its successors. Looking back at this small window into the past, we see a mysterious culture that profoundly influenced the surrounding region. The advanced metallurgy skills developed by the old copper culture were truly remarkable. Despite being one of the earliest metallurgical traditions in the world, their presence may have faded, but their innovative methods continue to stand as a testament to the complexity of these early Americans and the lasting impact they had on the region. Dawn of Dirt, the rise of pottery and a sedentary life in the Americas. In their quest to become masters of the continents, archaic Americans ventured far and wide, experimenting with the landscape and testing the very foundations of Mother Nature. The first signs of agriculture and metal appeared during this iconic era, whilst we also observe monumental cities and religious monuments rising from the virgin grounds. As knowledge spread, dependence on older primitive methods began to dissipate, and between 4000 and 3000 years ago, inhabitants of the Americas began to enter a new era known as the Woodland Period. This unique period is characterized by an increased level of expertise in horticultural practices, the widespread use of pottery and ceramics, and a sharp increase in groups settling down in prominent locations. Several factors allowed these Native Americans to turn away from a migratory lifestyle, one of which was the advancements in pottery technology, allowing containers to be made in various shapes and sizes for cooking, storing, and serving food. To archaeologists, a Woodland Period assemblage would include textile-marked, complicated stamped pottery, and triangular points. The Woodland Period was a revolutionary period in the long tapestry of American history, bringing with it an increase in cultural complexity, population growth, and technological innovation for many Indigenous cultures in North America. Some of the most notable Woodland cultures include the Adina and Hopewell cultures, all of which engaged in the widespread practice of mound building, possibly influenced by the mysterious groups who constructed the earthworks during the archaic period. Emerging amongst the vast plains of Ohio through to the mountainous peaks of West Virginia, and beyond Stakentucky and Indiana arose several communities of North America with various similarities now loosely grouped together as the Adina culture. These early peoples evolved past a migratory lifestyle, instead preferring to settle down in small villages composed of circular houses with conical roofs constructed from poles, willows, and bark. They subsisted by hunting, fishing, farming, and gathering wild plant foods. Their utensils consisted of such items such as stone hose, axes, and projectiles, stone-smoking pipes, and simple pottery. The Adina are particularly remembered for their agricultural practices, which enabled their ancestors to transition away from a hunter-gatherer lifestyle. They used tools made of stone, animal bone and tortoise shells to grow squash, pumpkins, gourd, sunflowers, and maize crops. This shift to agriculture not only provided a more stable food source, but also allowed for the development of more complex societies and the establishment of trade networks. This ancient culture also had an extensive trade network linking them with other indigenous groups from the Great Lakes region in the north to the Mississippi River Valley in the west, and encompassing parts of present day Ohio, Kentucky, West Virginia, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, and even extending into parts of the southern Appalachian mountains, allowing them to access materials like copper, mica, and marine shells from distant regions. The Adina prospered in their native homeland for close to a millennium, and lasting traces of this culture remain in the form of their enormous earth and mountains, deep in antiquity. It is not that hundreds of Adina mountains existed across their traditional homeland, but only a small number have survived through to the modern era. These enigmatic landmarks ranged in size from as little as six feet high to towering masterpieces that reach tights over 90 meters. Considerable numbers would have been required to create such monumental earthworks, all of which were constructed by nothing more than human hands carrying baskets of specifically selected dirt. The purposes behind their construction range from burial structures to ceremonial sites and historical markers. To this day, several enormous earthworks can be seen across the valleys of Ohio, and no one can invoke a sense of awe and wonder quite like the serpent mound found in peoples. Constructed as an effigy mound, it is an enormous earthwork that takes on the form of a snake when seen from above. It stretches for over 400 meters and varies in height from around one to three feet. The mouth of the serpent opens onto a prominent oval shaped mound, which is believed to have had an ongoing religious or ceremonial significance. Many questions surround the meaning of the serpent mound, but there is little doubt it symbolized some religious or mythical principle for its builders. It's thought that the Adina culture is responsible for this architectural masterpiece. Bill Romaine presented a paper entitled Serpent Mount Project Results 2023 where he goes into grave detail on why he believes the Adina were the original builders. His work provides the results of radio carbon tests conducted on charcoal at the site, giving a date of around 300 BC, which coincides with Adina's presence in the region. Despite his opinion and work, many are still uncertain as to who truly constructed this marvelous earthwork and much of its history is still shrouded in mystery and controversy. The Adina would slowly fade into the background like many cultures before them. By 200 CE, this once prosperous culture had disappeared as a distinct cultural group. With most archaeologists believing they may have been absorbed into the later Hopewell culture. However, some researchers suggest there's more to the puzzle, claiming that the Hopewell evolved from the Adina over a period of several centuries. In this manner, the Adina is thought to have drastically influenced the Hopewell culture, which built on Adina's cultural and technological advancements. Nonetheless, the exact reason for their decline remain unclear and could involve factors like environmental changes or social shifts. By 100 BCE, the Hopewell culture arose as a prominent society, primarily located in the Ohio River Valley. Their influence extended to the eastern part of the US. The Hopewell culture lived in villages along rivers and streams. They built domes shaped houses covered with bark, animal hides, or woven mats. They hunted, fished and gathered wild nuts, fruit, seeds, and roots to feed their growing population. But they also grew crops such as corn and possibly beans and squash. Building on the advancements made by their predecessors, this prominent culture continued the custom of earthworks and mound periods. However, their monuments far exceeded the size witnessed during the Adina period. The Hopewell became masters of trade. Building on the older trade network of their predecessors, they exchanged goods like obsidian, copper and shells over long distances with peoples in the Ohio and Illinois River valleys, the Great Lakes, the Gulf Coast, and the Rocky Mountains. As time progressed in the Woodland period, the adoption of farming became a common practice, and new varieties of maize, beans, and squash were introduced to many groups across the Americas. This period also saw the emergence of tribal communities, each under the influential leadership of a chief. These chiefs played a crucial role in the organization and governance of their communities. However, the growing population and resulting decline in trade led to an increase in conflict among settlements, paving the way for the turbulent period that would follow over the next millennia. As the warm glow of the sun descends upon the vast plains of the American continents during the first millennium AD, we find innovative and ingenious cultures that have come to dominate the landscape. As these native groups gazed out to the lands that lay before them, no doubt it may have appeared similar in many regards to that observed by their archaic ancestors thousands of years ago. By the middle woodland period, often defined by archaeologists as occurring between 200 BC and 500 AD, the Hopewell tradition rose to prominence as one of the greatest cultures in American history. It flourished during this era, influencing various cultures across its vast trade network. Archaeologists generally agree that Hopewell and their predecessors, the Adina, were one of North Americans' earliest civilizations and the first to construct extensive city-like settlements. During an era in which the Roman empires had been engaged in a brutal conquest of Europe and North Africa, in an attempt to control the lucrative trade routes of the Mediterranean world, the ingenuity of the Hopewell allowed them to establish a vast trading network of their own across the eastern half of the United States. Expanding on the trade networks developed by their Adina predecessors, the Hopewell extended an intricate web of commerce from the crystal river Indian mountains in Florida to the northern shores of Lake Ontario, the Gulf Coast, and from the Mississippi River far to the east. They produced beautiful artwork and artisans crafted various unique goods, including stone pipes in the shape of effigy animals, which were used to smoke tobacco and a number of other substances. The impact of the Hopewell during the Woodland period cannot be overstated. Their extensive trade network and cultural exchange laid the groundwork for future civilizations, and their influence can still be seen in modern society. However, in our efforts to explore the complexity of this civilization using a modern lens, we generally define the Hopewell as one single culture. However, these groups were far more diverse and complex than is often recognized. In fact, the Hopewell tradition was an intricate network of various interconnected Native American groups, who shared standard trade practices and cultural elements across a large region. They left an indelible mark on the landscape, which is still evident today across their traditional homelands centered in Ohio and extending throughout the Midwestern states. The Hopewell were masters of land survey and geometry, continuing on and building upon the Adina custom of earthworks and mound pyramids. But on a much grander scale, massive earthworks were etched into the landscape, often constructed in clusters of 10 to 20 mounds. It's been estimated that 10,000 once covered the heartland of this culture, but over time, this has been reduced to a few thousand. What remains a mystery is how such enormous construction projects were possible. An impressive level of coordination was needed to build all these earthworks, as a sophisticated form of mathematics, including a standard measuring system and an understanding of geometry, was necessary. One measurement that is found at many sites is 1,053 feet, apparent in various parts of the structure. Many areas are also enclosed in precisely 20 acres. Such repetition found at many of the earthen structures showcases that they were intentional in where and how they built these monuments. They make up some of the most impressive indigenous structures in the Americas, and from above, many take on the shape of animals, birds, and serpents. Embedded into many of these architectural wonders is a profound understanding of astrology. The Hopewell builders aligned many of their mounds and monuments with the rising and setting of the Sun, Moon, and planets. The remnants of the monuments stand as a testament to the cultural achievements of the Hopewell, but their golden era would be short-lived. By around 500 AD, this once prosperous culture had all but vanished. No longer were enormous mounds constructed on the landscape. Their vast trade network went cold, and their unique art disappeared from the archaeological record. Researchers have put forth various reasons behind the collapse of the Hopewell tradition, citing a rising level of hostility between tribes. As villages and settlements grew in size towards the end of the culture, larger communities began building defensive walls and ditches. Climate change may have also played a prominent role in the demise of the Hopewell. Colder conditions drove animals further north or west beyond their homeland. This had a detrimental effect on both game and plants, drastically reducing these crucial food sources. The introduction of the bow and arrow, a highly effective weapon that improved hunting techniques, but also intensified warfare, further drove people into larger fortified communities. With fewer people using trade routes, the network linking people to the Hopewell traditions ultimately declined. Whatever the reason for their ultimate demise, archaeological evidence has proven that the groups didn't face extinction. As genetic evidence has proven, the Hopewell are the ancestors of the Chippewa, Delaware, Kikapu, Miami, Ottawa, Peoria, Potawatomi, Seneca, Shawnee, and Wyandotte. Since we started this channel, we have been obsessed with historical maps. Since some of you might like maps as well, we created a few products for you. High resolution downloads and museum quality prints go to knowledgeia.co and have a look if you want to own one, use my code in the description below. Now back to the video. As the Hopewells once bright lights of cultural innovation began to dim far to the north, Meso-American cultures entered a golden age of their own. As we continue to peel back the grand tapestry of these continents, we find thriving cultures such as the Olmec and Zapotech in Central America, inhabitants of parts of southern Mexico. But while these cultures were innovative in their own right, it could be said that none have had a lasting effect on the evolution of Meso-America quite like the Maya, whose heartlands lay in modern Guatemala, parts of Belize, Chappas, and the Yucatan Peninsula, fabled for their great stone cities, towering pyramids, and scientific advancements, the Maya rose to their greatest height during the Classical period, which archaeologists claim lasted from 250 to 900 CE. Major cities such as Tical, Copan and Palenque flourished during this period, each with a population up to 50,000 residents. A testament to the grandeur of the Maya civilization, they thrived partly due to their expertise in cultivating and harvesting corn, beans and squash to support a growing population. They implemented a form of slash and burn agriculture, like some groups in North America, and their innovative and advanced forms of irrigation and terracing allowed them to grow enormous amounts of food. By the height of the Mayan civilization, it is estimated that there were around two million people, most of whom lived in the lowlands of Guatemala. With a stockpile of sustenance, the Maya could develop into a flourishing civilization with a unique form of politics far ahead of its time. These governments, characterized by a hierarchical structure and a system of tribute and taxation, could bring together large numbers of residents from the community to engage in large-scale building projects, such as the construction of sprawling cities that often held various enormous pyramids, sacred temples and luxurious palaces. But what truly set them apart from other cultures was their distinct and complex, hieroglyphic writing system. Using paper made from the inner bark of wild fig trees, they used these intricate symbols to write extensive cottices. Primarily, these were centered on astronomical information, including predictions of solar and lunar eclipses, the movements of planets like Venus, essential dates on their calendar, religious rituals, and sometimes even historical events. Using a fairly basic but highly effective number system, consisting of three symbols, the Maya became masters of time, mathematics, and the stars. Using this knowledge, they developed one of the most accurate calendar systems in human history. The most commonly known of these cyclical calendars are the Hobbes, the Soken, and the calendar round. But the long calendar is often considered the most intriguing of all, as it records mythical and historical events, some extending back tens of thousands of years. Despite the advancements made by the Mayans during the classical period, they suffered a fate similar to that of many civilizations that came before them. Starting around 900 AD, their civilization entered into a rapid decline, leaving many of their renowned cities and ceremonial centers abandoned. Over time, the forests began to engulf the once proud pyramids and temples, and the cities fell into ruin. Scholars are still in debate as to what led to the collapse of this once prosperous civilization. Some claim armed conflicts, and the exhaustion of natural resources and agricultural land are responsible for their sudden decline. However, studies conducted in more recent decades have pointed to territorial disputes over land and river trade routes as additional reasons. These disputes, often leading to violent conflicts, may have weakened the social and political structure of the Maya, contributing to their downfall. Nonetheless, by the end of the first millennium AD, major cities such as Palenca, Tikal, and Calakmull were abandoned, and the once great and prosperous Maya civilization had become a shadow of its former glory. The sacred river valleys and monumental mountains, life during the Mississippi period. In the grand tapestry of North American history, the emergence of the Mississippi culture stands as a significant chapter with long lasting effects. The indigenous groups of North America were forced to reckon with the reality of the changing landscape and environment. Mother Nature's unforgiving presence could uproot settled tribes at any point, forcing them to seek sustenance and shelter in distant lands. In the upheaval that followed the golden era of the Hopewell, we see a stark decline in social cohesion throughout the northern Mississippi and Ohio valleys. But this wouldn't last forever. Just as the Maya had begun to abandon their sacred temples in the lowlands of Guatemala, the Mississippi culture emerged on the fertile banks of the Mississippi River Valley. This innovative cultures influence extended along the lower Ohio River Valley, and they would go on to dominate the Midwestern, South Eastern, and inland Eastern parts of North America for around eight centuries. Known as the Mississippi culture, this powerful civilization was characterized by fortified towns or small homesteads, most of which were under the command of a complex chiefdom. We see signs of centralized control of political and religious power under these groups, bringing with it the beginning of a settlement hierarchy in which one major center held influence over a number of smaller settlements and communities. The Mississippians still scoured the land for sustenance, haunting animals, and gathering plants. However, they were primarily farmers. The wide-scale adoption of maze-based agriculture resulted in more intensive cultivation techniques. During this era, we see a particular reverence towards growing the three sisters, a name given to the symbiotic relationship between corn, beans, and squash. The so-called sisters provided a stable and balanced diet, making a larger population possible. Thousands of people lived in larger towns and cities, and distinct roles appeared in society, including those of artisans, builders, and craftsmen. A typical Mississippi in town would have truly been a site to behold. They were constructed close to rivers or creeks, and could cover as much as ten acres of land. The entirety of a settlement was often enclosed by a palisade, a type of wood-and-fence composed of standing logs embedded upright in the ground. Homes were small yet cozy, often being approximately twelve by ten feet in size. Like their predecessors, this society consisted of numerous distinct tribes, all of whom shared various cultural attributes. They adopted multiple aspects of the earlier Hopewell tradition, including constructing enormous earthworks, pyramids, and platform mounds. Such mounds were usually square, rectangular, or occasionally circular. However, the reason for the construction of earthworks may have differed within the Mississippi in culture, as they were topped with a temple-like structure or even a domestic home atop their peak. At the heart of most Mississippi in towns lay an enormous ceremonial plaza, serving as a gathering place that could be utilized for a number of purposes, ranging from religious to social. The complexity of the Mississippi in culture is yet to be fully understood. But by studying sites such as Mountville and Alabama and Etowah in Georgia, archaeologists continue to highlight just how advanced this ancient culture was. But no site invokes a sense of wonder and awe quite like Cahokia, proudly nestled on the Mississippi River floodplain around 13 kilometers northeast of St. Louis in Missouri. Considered the largest pre-Columbian settlement north of Mexico, this Mississippi in sight is one of the finest examples of the culture's cultural, religious, and economic prowess. Known more commonly as the Cahokia Mountains, it covered nearly 1,600 hectares during the height of the culture and in astonishing 120 mounds. It is a fascinating example of the complexity observed within Mississippi and Sheatham societies, evidenced by the numerous satellite mount centers and outlying hamlets and villages. At its greatest extent, this agricultural society may have boasted an impressive population of 10 to 20,000 people, which was at its peak between 1050 and 1150. The true scale of the workforce these tribal communities could muster is showcased by many of the primary features that tower on the landscape even today, such as Monk Mound, the largest prehistoric earthwork in the Americas. It measures an impressive 1,000 feet in length, more than 700 feet in width, and is still 100 feet in height. The enormous mound was carefully constructed by Mississippi and builders who manually transported basket loads of clay and soil to the site. Surprisingly, all the material was transported to the site in woven baskets without wheels or animals. Then, layer by layer, the tribal architect instructed the workers' umplacement, essentially creating a massive earth and platform mound. At the heights of the Mississippi and culture, the influence of this innovative and prosperous culture extended across the southeast and the mid-continent. It was prevalent in the river valleys of what are now the states of Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Arkansas, Missouri, Kentucky, Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio, with scattered extensions northward into Wisconsin and Minnesota and westward into the Great Plains. The legacy of the Mississippi and culture lives on in modern-day Native American groups who claim dissent from it, including the Alabama, Appalachia, Cato, Cherokee, Chickasaw, Chukta, Muscogee Creek, Guale, Hitchchidi, Homer, Kanza, Missouri, Mobillion, Natchez, Osage, Quapa, Seminole, Tonica Baloxi, Yamasi and Yuchi. Architects of old, largest building of pre-industrial America. Nestled among the dry and rugged landscape of northwestern New Mexico, carefully concealed within the borders of the Navajo Nation, lies one of the most significant archaeological sites ever constructed in the Americas. As Mississippi and builders meticulously gathered dirt to lay the foundations of enormous mounds along their sacred river valleys, a distinct group we know today as the ancestral Puebloans engaged in a number of mega-building projects of their own. The heartland of this culture was centered in the northern southwest around the four corners region. According to the current archaeological consensus, the Puebloan people first arrived in the southwest as early as 1,200 BCE, but many suggest it could have been much sooner. There was a considerable level of regional diversity amongst the early ancestral Puebloans, but several common traits were observed throughout the culture. They depended heavily on cultivated foods, including corn, and those settled in the western part of the southwest were primarily dry or floodwater farmers, who developed a particular set of religious beliefs that emphasized the sacred importance of rain. Several other aspects are apparent at many Puebloan sites, including the construction of Pueblos, which are multi-room and at times multi-story masonry structures, Kivas or distinct subterranean ceremonial centers are also common at many sites, alongside a distinctive form of pottery. Sometime between 900 and 1150 AD, the group of ancestral Puebloans began constructing a city-like settlement in the northwest corner of New Mexico, at a place known as Chaco Canyon. Here, on the desert plains, often subjects to chilling temperatures wedged between towering sandstone cliffs, the ancient Americans would go on to engage in a large-scale construction project that produced the largest buildings in North America until the 19th century. Dozens of manned-made structures dot the landscape, from small chambers to so-called great houses such as Pueblo Bonito, these enigmatic structures that lie in ruin within the canyon stand as a reminder that this desolate region was once bustling with human activity. The monumental scale of architecture observed in the canyon showcases the complexity of the society that existed here. They possessed a high level of communal organization that allowed the Puebloans to plan and successfully construct massive stone buildings known as great houses, using masonry techniques that were advanced for their time. The great houses of Chaco Canyon were carefully planned in their totality prior to any work, suggesting they had a functional use. Constructions on some of these enigmatic buildings spanned decades and likely even centuries. The Chacoans quarried sandstone and transported timber from great distances to build their structures. Walls were tapered within the structure to distribute the crushing weight above evenly, and sandstone walls were roofed with pine beams, saplings, brush, and earth. Within, the rooms were connected with well-constructed doors often taking a T-shape, which were likely designed to prevent the entry of cold winds and provide privacy within the communal living spaces. At the heart of the canyon, almost dead in the center lies the most imposing and greatest house of them all, Pueblo Bonito, meaning beautiful town. This impressive building would have towered over the landscape, reaching over five stories tall. Within the ruins are the remains of a labyrinth of corridors, passageways, and as many as 600 rooms including kivas, terraces, and even unusual sections that appear to have no way in or out. Archaeologists have spent decades meticulously examining the remains of sites in this enigmatic region and have come to several shocking conclusions that showcase just how advanced the ancient Puebloans were. The Chacoans constructed a vast network of roads that connected Pueblo Bonito with many of the other great houses, and an intricate water control system provided clean water to the settlements. By 1050, Chaco had not just become the ceremonial, administrative, and economic center of the San Juan Basin, but its influence had extended far beyond. Yet, the true purpose of many of these great homes remains somewhat a mystery. Leading theories suggest the buildings were not traditional farming villages occupied by large populations, as there is simply no evidence to suggest this. Instead, they had a religious or ceremonial function serving as impressive examples of public architecture used periodically during ceremony, commerce, and trading when temporary populations came to the canyon for these events. But what's even more remarkable is the apparent astrological alignments embedded into the layout of the great homes. To modern researchers, the Chacoans are renowned for their astronomy and artistic achievements, and many Chacoan buildings were purposefully aligned to capture the solar and lunar cycles. Astronomical knowledge and expression appear to have formed a unifying cosmology for the Chacoan people across the vast region of their culture. As researchers continue to study the ruins of Chaco Canyon, many have suggested this great social experiment may have been the center of a pilgrimage in which people arrived from all directions. It was a sacred place that the Pueblo descendants themselves claim was a unique gathering place where many people and clans converge to share their ceremonies, traditions, and knowledge. Taking this into consideration, it makes sense that most of the buildings have kivas or ceremonial spaces, which are considered spiritual and political spaces even today by the Hopi tribe. Chaco Canyon remains somewhat of a puzzle to modern researchers. Was it simply a trading hub in which distinct groups could acquire macaws, copper belts, shells, and other commodities from distant lands? Did they offer food and resources to growing populations who were faced with a climate disaster, possibly a prolonged drought or other environmental challenges? Or was it a remarkable gathering place in which ancient Puebloans shared religious and political ideas, including an understanding of the stars? It's possible we may never get the full picture. By the 12th century, a decline in new construction was evident at Chaco, and its role as a regional center had diminished. In time, Native American groups shifted away from this once bustling region migrating to new lands. Today, their descendants are the southwestern groups such as Hopi, Zuni, Akoma, and Laguna, all of whom look upon the ruins of Chaco as an integral stop along their clan's sacred migration paths, and it continues to be a spiritual place both honored and respected. Roaming the land for sustenance, a nomadic life on the open plains. Spending your time huddled in the carefully constructed homes that adorns the heights of sprawling mounts wasn't necessarily a prerequisite for life in the ancient Americas. For some tribes, a nomadic existence migrating with the seasons remains their way of life. Like their ancestors, they sought to follow seasons and migrated along with animals such as the buffalo. To them, this migration was not merely a physical task, but represented a kind of spiritual journey, and joining the buffalo as they moved across the plains was highly sacred. The Navajo and Apache tribes were nomadic and relied on hunting and gathering. Because they were constantly moving, their homes were less permanent than the mound builders in Puebloans. The Navajo referred to themselves as the Dene, which translates to the people. It's thought they were part of a southward migration from Alaska, following an enormous volcanic eruption in the St. Elias Mountains around 803 AD. They later settled in around the four corners region, primarily continuing on with a life of hunting and gathering. They constructed temporary dwellings called Hogan's from a combination of mud and bark. Over time, their interactions with the Pueblo tribe taught them how to farm and cultivate land. But even with these newfound skills, they continued to move seasonally with their extended kinship groups practicing agriculture wherever they settled. Like the Navajo, the Lakota, who originated in the regions of Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, and eastern North Dakota, preferred a life of nomadism. They followed bison herds across their vast territories, hunting the large animals for food, clothing, and other materials. During their extension migrations, they looked to the sun and stars for guidance, showcasing the importance of astrology to their culture. When they temporarily settled in a region, the woman of the tribe were in charge of setting up their accommodation, which consisted of portable teapies made using the hide of Buffalo. These conical tents were made by stretching over a wood frame and could be assembled quickly, making them the perfect choice for a migrating tribe. Lakota legends speak of an origin close to the Great Lakes. Here, the tribes of the Dakota lived for many moons around the banks of Lake Superior. In this forest environment, they sustained their growing numbers by hunting, fishing and gathering wild rice. They also grew some corn, but their locale was near the limit of where corn could be grown. The nomadic lifestyle of many Native American groups likely contributed to the development of long-distance trade routes that crossed what are now modern national borders. Archaeologists have noted the existence of not only a cultural exchange between the Puebloan tribes of American Southwest and Mesoamerica, but the trading of goods such as metal items, micomirror and even cacao, all of which found their way to the Southwest. In return, the latter is thought to have supplied Mesoamerica with goods like turquoise, pottery and food items. Decline of prosperous North American cultures, crop failures, internal warfare and colonization. The cultural innovation and technological advancements that allowed Native Americans to become masters of the environment were not enough to preserve their great cities indefinitely. While some fled in search of new land and others fled tribal wars, little did they know at the time an unforeseen threat was on the horizon, one that would forever change the course of history in the Americas. Just as the ancestral Puebloans of Chaco Canyon had slowly begun to abandon the settlements by the 12th century, the Mesoscipient culture of Cahokia Mountains had started to decline the following century before being abandoned by the 1400s. But just around this time, a new superpower began to rise in Central America, a culture that would grow into one of the largest and most powerful civilizations the Americas would ever see. This was the rise of the Mexica, better known today as the Aztecs. While the origins of these prominent people are somewhat obscure, it is thought they initially emerged as a collection of nomadic hunter-gatherers in northern Mexico before migrating to the area around modern Mexico City. The Aztecs believed they came from the mythical land of Aztlan, which means Whiteland in the Aztec language of Nahuatl. They were guided by their patron war god Weetzilo Pochteli, which means left-handed hummingbird, or hummingbird from the south. They settled on an island in Lake Texcoco, after seeing an eagle holding a rattlesnake in its talons, fulfilling a prophecy that told them to found their city there. They built their famous capital city Tenutsch Titlan on an artificial island in Lake Texcoco, the remains of which can still be seen today. The Aztecs are known for their many accomplishments. To feed a growing population, they created beautiful and innovative floating gardens or chinampas to create more land for farming. These gardens were very productive, producing up to four crops per year. To support the growth of these crops, they implemented a complex system of aqueducts, which allowed an unlimited supply of freshwater for irrigation. Likely building on the work of older cultures, such as the Olmec and Maya, they created their own intricate calendrical and numerical system, which allowed them to carefully track the stars and recorded historical and mythological events. They even had a complex system of written laws and a code on how members of society should act, but they also had a darker side that sought to appease their gods. The Aztecs are known for their practicing of large-scale human sacrifice. They offered victims to wheat silo putchterly, the sun god, believing it was necessary to maintain the cosmic balance and prevent the world from ending. This practice is well documented by both Aztec accounts. But as the Aztecs rose to prominence in Central America, many former grand settlements in the north were ultimately left to fall into ruin. With researchers claiming tribes and groups were forced to move on for a number of reasons. Overfarming resulted in a land drained of nutrients, meaning towns were forced to relocate. Tribal warfare also increased, and the evolution of a societal structure led to an increasingly political world in which some people in the community controlled more power and wealth than others. Drought, warfare, social unrest, and other such factors likely resulted in the decline of the Mississippi culture. However, one major incident stands above all else and ultimately played a role in the demise of culture. The arrival of Europeans in the Americas. For these so-called conquistadors, conquest was nothing more than a business enterprise. The possibility of acquiring gold drew more spaniards like Hernán Cortez to the continents, and he engaged in the first major conquest of Mexico in 1519, going on to topple the mighty Aztec Empire there in 1521. Explorers embarked on vast journeys both north and south of Mexico, spending time with many of the native peoples. One such adventurer was Hernando Disoto. During the middle of the 16th century, this spaniard lived with and learned from the remaining Mississippi tribes. A minor cultural exchange occurred in the beginning. Some groups adopted European horses and sought to live a more nomadic life. By the time more documentary accounts were being written, the Mississippi and way of life had changed drastically. While groups like the Cherokee preserved oral traditions tied to their mound-building heritage, others, after migrating far from their ancestral lands, eventually lost knowledge of the builders behind the mounds that dotted the landscape. In the early years, these native groups were largely unaffected by Europeans, but soon everything will change.