---
video_title: "Why Didn't Hinduism Spread Beyond India and South-East Asia?"
video_id: V_ICzp64Vuo
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V_ICzp64Vuo
video_date: 2026-05-15T09:49:48+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦Get EARLY ACCESS to our videos:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  ♦If you like Historical Maps, take a look here: https://knowledgia.co/
  High-resolution digital and framed maps inspired by the stories on this channel.
  
  ♦Why Didn't Hinduism Spread Beyond India and South-East Asia?
  
  -Christianity spread across continents. Islam did too. But Hinduism, despite being one of the world’s oldest major religions and shaping huge civilizations, never became a majority faith outside India, Nepal and a handful of nearby regions.
  Why is that?...
  
  
  
  ♦Consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  potatohistory-us, johnathondwigans, MohitAgrawal-d9n, Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  #History #Documentary
---
Christianity spread across continents. Islam did too. But Hinduism, despite being one of the world's oldest major religions and shaping huge civilizations, never became a majority faith outside India, Nepal, and a handful of nearby regions. Why is that? A complex answer like this has multiple layers. So let's go through each one. We should start with the basics. What is Hinduism? And why did it become dominant in India in the first place? Hinduism doesn't have a single start date. It has its roots in the ancient beliefs that came to northwestern India with the Vedic people around 1500 BCE. The language of the Vedic religion, Sanskrit, would remain the language of religion and high culture in India for millennia. And many of the gods and stories in Hinduism came from Vedic beliefs. Between 1500 and 1000 BCE, the Vedic people expanded across large parts of northern India, spreading eastward into the Ganges region over time. It was part conquest, part settlement, part absorption into the peoples already there. The Vedic religion and texts went with them, creating a unique religious culture across India. In the 6th century BCE, a combination of urbanization and other political and social changes caused the Vedic religion to evolve too. A shift towards personal morality over public ritual, the growth of new devotional and philosophical currents, including ideas that would later flourish in bhakti traditions and new texts like the Upanishads resulted in key foundations for what we would today recognize as later Hindu traditions. This Hindu synthesis unfolded over the late first millennium BCE and the early centuries CE, at the same time as and for many of the same reasons as the birth of Buddhism and Jainism in India as well. These religions often coexisted, overlapped in practice and debated each other without always drawing hard either or boundaries, leading to an unusual level of religious blending and flexibility. But Hinduism is unique for a few reasons. Firstly, there has never been a single agreed upon doctrine. The religion has no particular founder and no central text. Hinduism is a diverse family of many different beliefs. Some Hindus worship Vishnu as the supreme deity, others Shiva, others Shakti. While texts like the Vedas and Bhagavad Gita are held in high regard, there are many other texts considered sacred, and many ways to interpret them. Combined with all sorts of local traditions and even pre-Hindu practices, you end up with a religion that has very little in common with the clearly defined belief systems of the Abrahamic faiths. In fact, these beliefs are so diverse that Hinduism became a modern umbrella term, popularized by outsiders and especially standardized in the colonial era, to categorize many related Indian traditions under one name. So any discussion of Hinduism has to acknowledge that Hindu means a lot of different things, and many of the communities we now call Hindu did not describe themselves using that single modern category until relatively recently. Going forward, we'll keep our definition of Hinduism broad then, and look for the spread of any of the wide range of beliefs and traditions that come under that category. The Sanskrit, Cosmopolus and Hindu Buddhist kingdoms. So we've got Hinduism across all of India thanks to the Vedic peoples and the Hindu synthesis. Where does it spread beyond that? Hinduism actually had quite a lot of success beyond India for a long time. From the start of the first millennium and up to the early modern period, Hinduism and other Indian religions, especially Buddhism, could be found all across Southeast Asia. It was mostly spread not by conquest or by large missionary institutions, but by long distance exchange as India became the primary influence on trade, culture, religion, and politics in the region. The key point is that this spread followed roots, not armies, ports, merchant networks, royal courts, and the prestige of Indian learning, and because it was mostly coastal, lead driven, and tides to status and state craft. Scholars call this system the Sanskrit Cosmopolus, Indian high culture, philosophy, and politics, which were still mostly conducted in Sanskrit, became the ideal that rulers across the region aspired to. You might think of it like Latin in medieval Europe. Although the general population spoke their own languages and had their own cultures, the elites were united by their admiration for a common set of ideas, stories, and philosophies in this language. Naturally, the Hindu faith contained within the great Sanskrit texts took root among the people reading them abroad. The elite Hindu Brahman class became highly demanded advisors, diplomats, and scholars who could increasingly be found at courts across the region where they were high status authorities and ritual specialists on Sanskrit texts. We should also acknowledge the role merchants played in spreading Hinduism. As Indian merchants became a regular fixture of southeastern Asian ports, they often implanted small Hindu communities that could encourage surrounding people to convert as well. Hinduism was especially useful for rulers since it offered justifications and guidelines for kingship. Multiple kingdoms and empires emerged who used Hindu beliefs to establish their rule. The first millenniums saw this happen many times. The Funan and Champa kingdoms in Vietnam, the Chenla and Khmer in Cambodia, the Langasuka in Thailand, and later the Buddhist centered Sri Vijaya and Majaba hit empires in the islands that today make up Indonesia, along with many others. Hinduism was often a major court religion, with rulers professing Hindu beliefs, taking Hindu names, and raising Hindu temples. For example, the Khmer Empire of Cambodia, the rulers were mostly Hindu with names invoking Hindu deities. They also built Hindu temples, most famously Angkor Wat. Hinduism was useful to rulers like Suria Varman II because it offered justifications for kingship based on religious sanctions. Sanskrit literature was also full of examples of good rulers that Khmer rulers could emulate. With royal support, Hindu beliefs were entrenched into Cambodian society with many elites converting in order to be closer to the king. So Hinduism spread through India thanks to the Vedic peoples and had a major influence on Southeast Asia through elite culture, royal ideology, and trade in the Sanskrit Cosmopolus. These were its strengths and successes. So why did it stop there? Where were its limitations and where did it end up going? Because for a religion to go global, it usually needs an engine, missionaries, empires, or mass institutions. Hinduism's internal weaknesses. Firstly, Hinduism generally does not have a missionary tradition. Virtually no Hindu beliefs call upon their followers to spread the faith to others. If anything, many Hindu traditions have not treated conversion as a central goal in the way other religions did. There is no single join or be saved entry point. And spiritual liberation, Maksha, is usually framed as something pursued through many possible paths rather than a one-time conversion into a single institution. Hindus believe in karma and reincarnation based upon past lives. That worldview makes Hindu identity less centered on urgent recruitment and more on long-term spiritual practice and community tradition. Also, empires have often been the agents of this spread. Rome spread Christianity to Europe. European empires spread it to Africa and the Americas, and the Islamic caliphates brought Islam to people in North Africa and Central Asia. Meanwhile, India had no such expanding Hindu empires. Of the many kingdoms and states of India, few made any significant conquests beyond the Indian subcontinent, notably the Morians and the Chola, and neither of them were very interested in conversion. In the Morian case, many of the Emperor's weren't even Hindu in the first place, but Buddhist. As for the Chola, they were more interested in ensuring smooth trade with their imperial holdings across the Bay of Bengal, not in converting them. Meanwhile, the holy men of Hinduism, the Brahman class, weren't interested in missionary work either. Not all Brahman left India, and those who did went directly to courts or states of Hindu nobles and rulers, not into non-Hindu areas to make new converts. Another reason Hinduism didn't spread far is because, as we mentioned, there is no single Hinduism. There is no single scripture like the Bible or Quran that can be used to pitch the faith. No universal agreement on which deity is supreme, and countless practices and traditions that can be widely different from community to community. If Hinduism did send out missionaries, almost every missionary would end up having different beliefs, citing different texts, and even proclaiming different deities as supreme. No core doctrine went hand-and-hand, with no central religious authority in Hinduism to direct any sorts of conversion efforts. Temples are mostly independent, and there's no institutions that can command authority over anything more than a small fraction of Hindu believers, Persian and Chinese resistance. But that's not all. We also need to look at the religions and cultures around India that resisted the spread of Hinduism. To the west, the boundary was Persia. Persia's religion of Zoral Astrianism is often dated to around the first millennium BCE, though its origins and the dates of Zoral Astor are debated. Unlike those Indian religions, Zoral Astrianism was generally less open to religious blending, and was often closely bound to imperial institutions. Backed by the formidable power of multiple Persian empires, and boasting strong temple institutions, a powerful priesthood, and a long-standing sacred text tradition centered on the Avesta, it was a completely different style of religion to those of India. While Hindu traders and travelers could be found in Persia throughout its history, and a small Hindu trading minority was tolerated, Hinduism never found a significant number of converts there. The other great barrier to the expansion of Hinduism was China. China has always had a complicated relationship with religion. Confucianism and Taoism were well established in the country by the time the first Inklings of Hinduism arrived through traders and travelers, but they might be better described as ways of life and traditions that are often treated as both philosophies and religions. Hinduism, with its vivid mythology and tapestry of gods, was quite alien to Chinese culture. Furthermore, with China experiencing long periods of political stability, economic prosperity, and cultural dominance, the Chinese had no incentive to convert to a foreign faith. If anything, they expected foreigners to take inspiration from their way of life. China was a powerful influence on surrounding regions like Korea, Japan, and Vietnam, similar to how India influenced the cultures and the Bay of Bengal, and Hinduism struggled to gain any foothold in most of these areas where Chinese influence rained. Cast system and elite culture There was also the fact that the social system Hinduism rested upon was difficult to transplant out of India too. The Hindu caste system often described through the Varna ideal, but lived through many local jati communities, has been one of the defining aspects of Indian society for thousands of years. At the top are the Brahmins, the holy men, and those with knowledge of the scriptures. Below them are the Shatriyas, who are the warriors and rulers. Below that are the Vaishya for the merchants and landowners, and then the Shudras for the laboring masses. This four Varna system appears in Hindu scriptures, but many communities were historically treated as outside the Varna framework, including groups later called Delits, and outsiders were not automatically integrated into it. This caste system maintained social order, but it also made it extremely difficult for Hindu beliefs to spread to new societies. Cast was largely based on lineage, and it was difficult to integrate new converts into any existing Varna. When it happened, it was usually powerful rulers or elites being brought into the Shatriya caste, or merchants into the Vaishya. For the vast majority of regular people however, there was little prospect or appeal to being added into the caste system. Social relations between castes were tightly controlled, and things like marriage or even sharing a meal with someone from another caste was often forbidden. Many non-Hindus would find themselves losing certain freedoms if they did submit to it, which made Hinduism less appealing than Buddhism and other religions, which did not demand the same social control. Even so, aspects of the caste system were partially replicated in places like the Khmer Empire, but it was never on the scale it was in India. Existing social systems remained strong and resistant to Hindu reforms. There was also an issue of social status and class differences. Hinduism was more appealing to the social elites thanks to the caste system, but it also spread there more easily thanks to the elite nature of Sanskrit culture. Just like Latin, Sanskrit was an elite language that the masses didn't know how to speak, let alone read. The common people's access to Hindu texts was actually quite limited. As a result, since the critic court-centered Hindu traditions were often less accessible among the common people even in officially Hindu kingdoms. But that isn't to say that Indian religion didn't find converts among the masses. On the contrary, Indian religion thrived among the common people. However, the religion that succeeded most and expanded more wasn't Hinduism, but Buddhism. Buddhism went hand in hand with Hinduism across the Sanskrit cosmopolist. There were few purely Hindu powers beyond India. It would be more accurate to call them Hindu Buddhist, blending elements of both religions even if the rulers and elites preferred one over the other. Hinduism and Buddhism were always accepting of other religions, so it was normal for them to coexist. Often Hindu Buddhist rulers might alternate between the faiths in the same dynasty, and Hindu rulers were happy to fund Buddhist temples just as Buddhists funded Hindu ones. However, Buddhism had some advantages which allowed it to take root more successfully than Hinduism in the long run. Firstly, while Hinduism was closely tied to the elites, Buddhism was more effective at reaching the common people. Traveling Buddhist monks and nuns were much more effective at spreading Buddhism to the common people than Hindu holy men were. While wandering Hindu ascetics did exist, most of the Brahman class who acted as Hindu spiritual leaders mixed with high society, not with common folk. The simple practices of the Buddhists were understandably more successful at making new converts than the specialized ritual knowledge and elite Sanskrit learning of the Brahman's sacred texts that few people would ever have access to. Buddhism did not have such a strict social system and has no religious problems with adopting new converts or reshaping social relations in new communities. Buddhist followers were less constrained by hereditary status rules in religious membership, and converting to Buddhism did not mean submitting to a restrictive lower caste status as it did for Hinduism. Something happened. The result was that many of the Hindu Buddhist kingdoms became more Buddhist over time. Earlier rulers had found Hinduism and its models of kingship more useful to emulate, but when their people became increasingly Buddhist, it encouraged them to do the same, such as the Khamur, who changed the state religion from Hinduism to Buddhism by the late 12th and 13th century. There were also some regions that adopted Buddhism wholeheartedly early on. Tibet is probably the best example of this, where Buddhism's supplanted existing indigenous belief systems beginning under the Tibetan Empire in the 7th century, and becoming dominant over the centuries that followed. Tibetan Buddhism was greatly helped by the rise of the Tibetan language, reducing the dependence upon Sanskrit for religious and philosophical texts. A similar process that scholars call vernacularization, were written forms of local languages like Thai and Khamur, emerged in the late 1st and early 2nd millennium to challenge Sanskrit monopoly on religion and culture occurred in many places, and went hand-in-hand with the reduction of Hindu dominance in the societies. And here, China comes into the equation again. Buddhism's more grounded and philosophical focus was much more acceptable to the Chinese. Buddhism's focus on personal morality and its lack of demanding social systems made it easy to integrate into Chinese society. Through China, Buddhism would spread further to Korea and Japan, in a way that Hinduism simply never could. The results was that by the 13th and 14th centuries, Buddhism proved to be the Indian religion with the most converts beyond India, with more kingdoms and city-states professing it as a state-religion than Hinduism. To this day, Buddhism remains widespread in East and Southeast Asia, in places where Hinduism had all but vanished. Islam had been a factor in South and Southeast Asia pretty much since it first emerged in the early 7th century. The Muslim conquest of Persia ensured that Muslim traders were a normal site in Indian and Southeast Asian ports. But with the rise of Muslim dynasties in Afghanistan in the 10th and 12th century, Hinduism experienced its first real loss to Islamic expansion. Once the frontier of the Sanskrit cosmopolists and the western edge of the Morian Empire Afghanistan moved from the Hindu world to the Islamic one. Muslim conquest would lead to a retreat of Hinduism in Bengal too. After Muslim Turkic conquerors captured it in the 13th century, they made Islam the official religion and ruled continuously under a succession of Muslim dynasties and then the Mughal Empire, until European colonial rule. India also faced a succession of Muslim conquerors on its home turf. Parts of Northwest India came under the control of the Muslim Ghaznavids in the 10th century and the establishment of the Delhi Sultanate brought Muslim rule to a sizable part of the subcontinent. Later, the rise of the Mughals in the early 16th century brought much of India under Muslim rule. At first, the Mughals were admirably tolerant of the existing religions, with Emperor Akbar hosting multi-faith debates, funding Hindu temples and marrying Hindu wives. However, this tolerance weakened under some later rulers and periods of tension and coercive policies emerged between Muslim and Hindu communities. As a result, Hindu groups often lacked a strong unified political power that could consistently protect or promote their traditions. In the glory days of the Sanskrit cosmopolists, Southeast Asian rulers had flocked to Hinduism and Buddhism to access high culture and legitimize their rule. With the Muslims now taking over parts of India, Islam became the model to emulate. New city-states and kingdoms emerged to profess Islamic ideas to attract trade and improve relations with India's powerful new rulers. Islam's growth in Southeast Asia was driven heavily by Indian Ocean trade networks. Muslim merchant communities, scholars, and local rulers adopting Islam for diplomacy, commerce and legitimacy. Muslim merchants had also been present in South Asian trade for centuries in numbers that steadily increased over time. Like Hindus and Buddhists, they promoted the religion to the communities in the port cities, and within a few centuries, mosques could be found in many major ports from Vietnam to the Persian Gulf. Unlike Buddhism and Hinduism, though, Islam also had missionary impulse. Muslims were encouraged to convert others, and the mosques spread across these trade networks. Muslim merchants built strong relationships with non-Muslim ones, and through these relationships, they encouraged leading merchants and political figures to adopt Islam. While Muslim converts began appearing in Southeast Asia as early as the late 7th or early 8th centuries, it took until the late 13th century for the first Muslim power to emerge in Southeast Asia, with the well-attested Sultanates like Samudera Pasi in Sumatra. From there, Islam spread along the trade networks to countless other ports. In the early 15th century, the Sultanates of Malaka embraced Islam, making arguably the most important state in Southeast Asia a Muslim one. By 1500, many of the major ports in Southeast Asia were controlled by Muslims, and conversion of the rest followed soon after. But the 17th century, Islam had become dominant across large parts of the islands and ports of Southeast Asia. The islands that today make up Indonesia, which at once been a blend of Hindu and Buddhist, became predominantly Muslim. Bali alone retained a distinct Hindu-dominated culture thanks to its relative geographic isolation and its use as a refuge for Hindus migrating there, including later migrations from Java. Conclusion In summary, the reasons why Hinduism exists almost entirely in India today are clear. Hinduism generally did not develop large sustained institutions devoted to mass conversions abroad, and its expansion beyond India mostly followed trade, courts, and cultural prestige, rather than missionary movements or conquest. It had no interest in and was unable to gain a mass foothold in Persia or China, which put a strong geographical limit on the spread of Hinduism beyond Southeast Asia. People across Southeast Asia mostly converted to Hinduism for its cultural power from the Sanskrit texts, its political use as a ruling ideology, or to build relations with Hindu merchants. When Southeast Asia began developing its own literary cultures in their own languages, it undermined the incentive to be Hindu. Compared with Hinduism's demanding caste system, Buddhism proved more appealing to the masses and was spread by active Buddhist monks and nuns who brought Buddhism to the people. Meanwhile, the rise of Islam with its active conversion culture and powerful supporting empires not only took control of Hindu India, but also converted many of those Southeastern Asian societies who had not already abandoned Hinduism. By the late 19th century, Hinduism survived almost entirely in India, on the island of Bali, and in a handful of smaller ethnic communities like the Hindu Cham. Balamon This video was very interesting to work on. If you enjoyed it as much as we did, hit the like button right now and click the bell before you leave, so you don't miss the next time we uncover history mysteries. See you next time. If you'd like to help us keep creating and get early access to our videos behind the scenes content and other perks, consider becoming a member right here on YouTube or joining us on Patreon. Every bit of support helps. And as always, thank you so much for watching.