---
video_title: "Why did Romania Give Bessarabia FOR FREE to the Soviet Union?"
video_id: CngfE6zPSmo
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CngfE6zPSmo
video_date: 2026-05-11T18:34:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Download RAID iOS/Android/PC ➡️ https://t2m.io/Knowledgia_May26  to get 2 free Legendaries and 1 Epic 💥 Available after downloading through this link only 
  ✅ 1 - Legendary Narma the Returned from the start 
  ✅ 2 - Epic Aina after reaching level 15 
  ✅ 3 - Promo codes for a Legendary Champion of your choice ⚡️ 
  ➡️  GETALICE / KITTYCUT / BIGDAWG / GOFAST / WRATH
  Available only for new players. Redeem within 48 hours after registration.
  
  ♦Get EARLY ACCESS to our videos:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  ♦Check out our map shop:
  https://knowledgia.co/en-eur/products/the-american-revolution-1776-framed-map
  
  ♦IIn 1940, Romania received an ultimatum from the Soviet Union. Within days, Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina were taken without a major battle, reshaping the fate of  millions. This documentary explains how Stalin used secret diplomatic agreements, military pressure, and Romania’s isolation to force one of the most painful territorial losses in Romanian history. From diplomatic threats to the sudden Soviet occupation, we explore why Romania had little room to resist and how the annexation changed Eastern Europe before World War II fully engulfed the region. Watch the full story of how Bessarabia was lost in June 1940.
  
  
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
---
It's the night of June 26, 1940. In Bucharest, the Romanian Foreign Ministry gets a coded telegram from Moscow. When it's decoded, it reads like a death sentence. The Soviet Union demands Bessarabia and Northern Bokovina. Romania has 24 hours to give a clear answer, refuse, and the message is blunt. The USSR is ready to use force. Except, and the clock starts anyway. A second note sets the schedule. Evacuation begins June 28, and Romania has four days to pull out its army and administration. The Romanian's cave, and accepted the ultimatum. But why did Romania give up Bessarabia so easily, while Finland fought for its land just a few months prior? How could a country give up 17% of its territory and nearly 4 million people just by being asked? First, what is Bessarabia and why was it such a complicated issue? Bessarabia on the northwestern coast of the Black Sea was historically part of the principality of Moldavia. For centuries, it had been under the indirect rule of the Ottoman Empire. And in the 18th century, it became a frontier of conflict between the Ottomans and the Russians, which saw Bessarabia being occupied several times by Russian troops. Eventually, with the Treaty of Bucharest in 1812, the Ottomans ceded the territory between the Prut and Nester rivers to Russia. As the principality of Moldavia didn't have a word to say, the region became part of the Russian Empire. Russian rule over Bessarabia would last for more than a century, but with a hiccup. After Russia's defeat in the Crimean War, the Treaty of Paris in 1856 forced Russia to surrender Southern Bessarabia back to Moldavia as part of the peace terms. That was a big problem. Since one of the reasons for annexation was the access to the Danube River. In 1859, Moldavia and neighboring Velakia unified to form the Romanian-United Principalities, an ethnically Romanian state, which was still vassal of the Ottoman Empire. In 1877, during the Russo-Turkish War, they rebelled against the Ottomans in order to establish full Romanian independence. Always eager for a way to hurt the Ottomans, lent their support in hopes of gaining territory from the dying Empire. The war resulted in the collapse of much of the Ottoman power in the Balkans, which drew the attention of the rest of Europe who stepped in to draw up the new territorial boundaries of the region. The resulting Treaty of Berlin recognized the independence of Romania, Serbia and Montenegro. However, it also stripped Romania of Southern Bessarabia and handed it back to the Russians in exchange for the Dobrugia region. Romania wasn't pleased, but had no choice but to accept the terms. The results of this mess of treaties and territorial changes was that both Russia and Romania felt they had a rightful claim to Bessarabia. Russia claimed legal recognition of its claims from the Treaty of Berlin, while Romania saw the Treaty as a betrayal of their interests, and cited the large Romanian majority in Bessarabia as the basis for its rightful claim. The Romanian majority in Bessarabia grew restless under Russian rule in the following decades. Romanian nationalists gained significant support from the people and in local government, until in 1917, they had their chance. The eruption of the Russian Revolution and implosion of the Russian Empire gave Bessarabia its opportunity to break free. A national council was established, and a new Moldavian Democratic Republic was declared, fearing Russian and Bolshevik reactions. The council invited Romania to provide military protection. In January 1918, Romanian troops moved in and brought all of Bessarabia under Romanian control. On March 27th, the council approved a full union with the Kingdom of Romania. If you have enjoyed this video so far, this next minute is brought to you by a game I've been playing recently, Raid Shadow Legends. It takes dark fantasy champions, mid-inspired warriors and entire factions, then throws them into one massive battlefield. They've also given me free champions to offer new players, so stick around, because I'll show you how to claim them. Raid now features legendary champions inspired by Alice's adventures in Wonderland, including Alice the Wanderer, the Cheshire Cat, Madhatter, Nave of Hearts, and the fearsome Queen of Hearts. Alice is a high-damage attack champion who disrupts enemy cooldowns and works well in both PvP and PvE. The Cheshire Cat has turned into a darker, demonized version of himself, using perfect veil, speed manipulation, and change turns to become a dangerous damage dealer. What I like most is the amount of content, and how many different team styles you can build around. Damage, control, support, or factions. The visuals and effects are also genuinely strong for a game that runs on both PC and mobile. If you're a new player, use my link in the description or scan the QR code on screen, and you will instantly unlock Narma the Returned, a legendary support champion, plus Ina, an epic barbarian once you reach level 15. New players can also pick one of five promo codes for another free legendary. Big Dog for Turvold, Get Alice for Alice, Kitty Cut for Cheshire Cat, Go Fast for Razlvark, or Wrath for Grand Oak Padreik. I would personally go with Get Alice, because her cooldown disruption is useful in a lot of teams. You only have 48 hours after installing, and it has to be through my link or QR code, or the bonuses won't apply. Romania was one of the major beneficiaries of the post-war reordering of Europe. Not only did it receive recognition of its control of Bessarabia from some major powers, but it also received other territory, including Transylvania and Bukovina, from the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Russia, however, did not accept it. Despite rebelling against the old imperial system, the USSR still felt entitled to all of the old imperial territory, as far as they were concerned. Bessarabia was under Romanian occupation, however, the Revolution and Civil War had left the USSR depleted, and it was no longer at a position to press its claim to the disputed territory. So this explains why Bessarabia was disputed. How then did Romania and the USSR try to address the issue? The status quo in Bessarabia held through the 1920s and most of the 1930s. Romania and the USSR were both bound by the post-Kelog Breon, renunciation of war framework. Romania signs the pact in 1928, and it entered into force regionally through the Litvenov Protocol in 1929, but the Bessarabian dispute remained unresolved. Formal diplomatic relations between Romania and the USSR were not established until 1934, and even after that, relations were cautious and somewhat tense. The USSR refused to recognize the legitimacy of Romania's claim, but some diplomatic and trade relations continue. Romania also faced tensions with Hungary and Bulgaria over territories. Surrounded by three potentially hostile neighbors, it was no wonder that Romania sought foreign allies. The Romanian elite had a strong French inclination, and Paris was eager to build military alliances in the east, which led to a security pact between them in 1926. France promised to protect Romania from any foreign invasion as part of their Cortón Sanitair against a potential enemy. At the same time, Romania cultivated good relations with Germany as well. Romania's greatest asset was its oil fields, which allowed it to become one of Germany's most important oil suppliers. Germany was also Romania's largest trading partner, which bound the two countries closer together. By the late 1930s, Romania was virtually economically dependent on German trade. Romania had hoped that securing strong relations with both Germany and France would keep it out of any future conflicts and provide sufficient protection against Soviet aggression. But there was another country who Romania courted that proved decisive on the Bessarabia issue. Poland's independence from the Russian Empire in 1918 was probably the most significant development in Eastern Europe after the war. From the outset, Romania and Poland had naturally shared interests and both feared another Russian aggression. The two nations signed extensive treaties in 1921 and 1926 to formalize their alliance and both considered this alliance to be a core part of their foreign policy, creating a united front against any aggression in Eastern Europe. Bessarabia was a minor issue in the Soviet mind compared to Poland. Moscow was openly hostile to Warsaw and considered the Romanian Polish alliance to be a direct attack on their interests. Romania's ties with Poland even more than its control of Bessarabia ensured that relations between Moscow and Bucharest remained icy. But as with many issues in Europe, Hitler's arrival in the 1930s made things much more complicated. Romania tried to maintain its balancing acts between Hitler's Germany and the Western allies, but that became only harder in time. The wildcard in the situation that would ultimately tip the balance of events were Romania's own fascists, the Iron Guard. Founded in the 1920s, the Iron Guard had enjoyed a steady rise in support over the years which worried the government. Hitler's success in Germany emboldened them, and Berlin provided some indirect support to them over the years, but not enough to compromise their relations with the Romanian government. In February 1938, with the Iron Guard gaining new heights in the polls, Romanian King Carol II suspended the Constitution, canceled elections, and basically became a royal dictator. It was a direct move to counter the Iron Guard, and he ordered their leaders quietly arrested in the following months. By now, Hitler had bigger problems to worry about. In September 1938, he annexed the Sudetenland from Czechoslovakia after a diplomatic crisis that consumed Europe. King Carol II conscious that Romania had its own German minority, and feared that Romania might suffer the same fate, debated between distancing himself from Hitler or forging closer ties. The Soviets watched everything carefully. In September, the Romanians promised the Russian foreign minister that Romania would remain neutral if Europe went to war, and it would not ally itself fully with Germany or go against the Soviets. Attempting to discuss the Bessarabian issue went nowhere, however, and the Soviets refused to even look at diplomatic documents from Romania that claimed Bessarabia as Romanian territory. The Soviet response was not encouraging, so Romania continued to walk a fine line of co-seeing up to everyone it could. On November 24, 1938, King Carol II instead visited Germany. The discussion was about the importance of German-Romanian relations. Carol also raised the Bessarabian question, would Germany support Romania's territorial integrity if Moscow decided to push the issue? He was offered verbal assurances of support, but not a formal guarantee, and those assurances proved fragile. Later, King Carol II returned with this assurance in hand, failing to recognize how little that word was worth. As the European situation worsened in 1939, the question of Bessarabia loomed like a shadow. In February 1939, the Romanian envoy in Moscow met with the Soviet foreign minister Maxime Litvenov and raised concerns about Hungarian claims to Romanian territory. Litvenov assured the Romanians that Moscow rejected Hungarian claims. Hungary was increasingly allied with Germany after all, but when the envoy tentatively asked about Bessarabia, the minister was not so supportive. And what shall we do? He asked, if you decide to join the Axis. By now, Carol's overtures towards Germany had convinced many in Moscow that Romania was siding more with the Axis powers, but that was far too simple of you. In April 1939, Britain and France issued guarantees to Romania and Greece against aggression, but Romania was simultaneously embedded in treaties, alliances, or friendships with almost every other major power in Europe. Ironically, it was Moscow that was actually moving towards the Germans. Maxime Litvenov was replaced as Soviet foreign minister in May 1939 with Vitchislav Molotov. Molotov would lead a more conciliatory approach to the Germans from the Soviets, which would prove disastrous from Romania and Poland. The fruits of this new policy came on August 23, 1939, with the signing of the Molotov Ribbentropd pact, a non-aggression pact between Russia and Germany. The two powers swore not to go to war, allowing Hitler and Stalin to focus on their own concerns elsewhere. Unfortunately for Romania, though, the Molotov Ribbentropd pact contained secret clauses recognizing Moscow and Berlin's respective territorial interests. Primarily, it was an agreement to carve up Poland and the Baltic states between them, but the Soviets made sure to state their claims to Bessarabia. Stalin promised that Soviet interests in Romania began and ended with Bessarabia and would not threaten the oil fields Germany relied upon. That was good enough for Germany, who agreed to look the other way when the time came. When German troops stormed across the Polish border on September 1, the world changed forever. Romania acted as the escape route for thousands of Polish troops and refugees, much to the annoyance of Berlin. By the time the Soviets invaded on September 17, there wasn't much of Poland left to save. Stalin's invasion immediately set alarm bells ringing in Bucharest. Not only had Russia finally addressed its long-standing territorial claim by force, it had done so without Hitler lifting a finger. Moreover, the Soviets informed Romanian diplomats that their protection of Polish refugees, soldiers and government officials, who they characterized as Polish military gangs, was a hostile act. To make matters worse, on September 21, Iron Guard loyalists assassinated the Romanian Prime Minister Armand Kalinescu. The Prime Minister was the strongest anti-German voice in Karol's government, and his death removed a major obstacle to closer German Romanian relations. Some historians argue German involvement or encouragement was possible, but the degree of direct German operational control is debated. On November 30, 1939, Stalin pressed another long-standing territorial claim, this time in Finland. The Finns put up an impressive defense and inflicted heavy casualties on the invaders, but Soviet military might was overwhelming, and in March 1940, Finland was forced to seed massive amounts of territory. With Stalin's ambitions in Poland and the Baltic secured, Romania knew it would be next. Romania's situation only got worse when Hitler invaded France on May 10, 1940, pitting Romania's two protectors against each other. Swift German victories pushed France and Britain back within days, rendering Paris and London's promises to protect Romania, meaningless, almost overnight. Germany was now the only possible ally Romania had to defend against Soviet attempts to take Bessirabia, but the secret clauses of the Molotov Ribbentrop pact ensured that Romania was truly alone. By May, Stalin had began amassing major forces on the border with Bessirabia, around roughly 30 divisions, alongside large mechanized and tank formations, Stalin's next move was obvious. King Carol responded by sending tens of thousands of his own troops to the border as well. However, events were no longer in Romanian hands. On June 23, the day after France signed an armistice, Foreign Minister Molotov informed the Germans that Romania had to surrender both Bessirabia and the additional region of Bukovina to the USSR. The Germans could not care less for Romania's pride, so long as the Romanian oil fields were safe, Hitler did not care. The Germans disputed the Soviet demands only on the matter of Bukovina. It had been an Austro-Hungarian imperial possession, not a Russian one, and was home to many ethnic Germans. The Soviets conceded the south of Bukovina and reduced their demands to just the north. Without any Romanian input, Berlin and Moscow agreed to the terms. At 10pm on June 26, the Soviets informed the Romanian government that they had 24 hours to acknowledge Soviet control over Bessirabia and northern Bukovina, or the Red Army, would solve the issue for them. King Carol summoned the German ambassador, Wilhelm Fabrizius, to discuss Romania's next move. Fabrizius had received strict instructions from Berlin to tell Romania to take the deal. Fabrizius warned the king that Germany would not help them if they fought Stalin over this, and made it clear Romania would face the realities of modern war alone. Germany's promises to protect Romania and sovereignty meant nothing. For hours, the kings debated with his ministers considering his options to resist with force. Any realistic assessment confirms that Romania would be crushed in battle. To fight was in the words of the Defence Minister asking for disaster. It wasn't really a question of if the Soviets would take Bessirabia, but whether Romania would waste lives trying to stop the inevitable. Early in the morning of June 28, the Crown Council painfully voted to accept the ultimatum. The news was announced to the nation at 9am that morning. The Romanian army was ordered to stand down and withdraw from Bessirabia and northern Bukovina without a fight. That afternoon, Soviet troops rolled into Bessirabian towns, casting themselves as liberators. The Soviets proceeded to occupy all of the territory without resistance by July 3rd. In the end, Romania's military weakness and geography, German Soviet collaboration in the Molotov-Ribbentrop Act, the fall of Romania's ally France and Hitler's consistent untrustworthiness, meant that Romania had no choice but to give up in front of Stalin. It was a humiliation that Carol's government never recovered from. Germany would soon force Romania to give up northern Transylvania to Hungary in August and southern Dobrugia to Bulgaria, driving the final nail into the coffin of King Carol's government. On September 5th, he abdicated and was replaced with a pro-German dictatorship. The government had spent years trying to save that province by stalling, bargaining and playing rivals against each other, and those moves bought time, but not protection. Don't forget to use my Rage Shadow Legends link below or scan the QR code on screen to claim your new player bonuses, two free legendaries and an epic waiting for you.