---
video_title: "The Entire History of the War of 1812"
video_id: GpPxOSlYDC0
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GpPxOSlYDC0
video_date: 2026-08-29
video_description: |
  ♦Want EARLY ACCESS or EXCLUSIVE CONTENT? Support us and get it here:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  The Complete History Edition Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9h7OjK629BU8pNtQo4Lz9Sx
  
  ♦The war of 1812 is an interesting story. Less than thirty years after losing the American colonies , Great Britain was at war with the United States again. Within two years, the White House was on fire , the US Treasury had defaulted for the first and only time in its history, and  the states of New England were seriously discussing rewriting the Constitution. And then  The US won the most lopsided battle of the war two weeks after the peace treaty had already been signed
   Britain repealed the trade restrictions that caused the war two days before Congress declared it, but news took weeks to cross the Atlantic. The treaty ending the war was signed on Christmas Eve 1814, but Andrew Jackson destroyed a British army outside New Orleans in January, having never heard about it. Americans concluded they had forced Britain to the table. Nobody in Madison's government was in a hurry to correct them. This is the complete history of the war: the causes, the failed invasions, the burning of Washington, Fort McHenry, Ghent, and New Orleans. It ended with no territory changing hands and not a single word about impressment in the treaty. The war also produced the national anthem, destroyed the Federalist Party,  broke Native resistance east of the Mississippi, and  made America more united.
  
  
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  potatohistory-us, johnathondwigans, MohitAgrawal-d9n, Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  00:00 Intro
  00:41 Trade, Impressment, and Napoleon's Bluff
  02:45 The Closest War Vote in US History
  05:37 7,000 Troops and 17 Ships
  07:29 The Canadian Invasion Collapses
  12:01 Old Ironsides
  14:25 1813: Perry, the Thames, and Tecumseh
  18:51 Blockade, Bankruptcy, and the Red Sticks
  21:21 The Burning of Washington
  25:51 Fort McHenry and the Star-Spangled Banner
  28:22 Hartford and the Treaty of Ghent
  33:34 New Orleans and the Victory That Wasn't
  
  #History #Documentary
---
How did the War of 1812 actually happen? Why did Britain invade the United States again less than 30 years after losing the colonies? How close did the Young Republic come to disaster? From defeat on the Northern Frontier to the burning of the White House, and how did a war that began in chaos end with one of the most dramatic American victories of the age? To understand all of that, from how Britain and the United States went to war again to the most important battles of the conflict, we have to go back to the very beginning.

The causes of the war were rooted in trade. In 1807, the British passed the orders in council that called for American ships to be blocked from trading [music] with France. The British had also taken to capturing American ships and forcing their sailors into service in the Royal Navy. Britain was at war with Napoleon at the time and needed the manpower. America made numerous appeals to Britain to change its policies, but was ignored. The

French in turn were doing the same thing, seizing American ships, blocking them from British ports, and forcing American sailors into service in the French Navy. The actions of both countries were aggravating, but America realized it could play the two rivals off each other. In May 1810, Makin's bill called for free and open trade with both countries despite their offenses, but with a catch. Madison would immediately suspend all American trade with one power if the other lifted all their restrictions on American trade. Basically, he counted on Britain and France wanting to harm each other more than wanting to restrict Americans.

Napoleon left at the chance first and made promises of lifting the restrictions, but demanded that Madison embargo Britain immediately. Madison was happy with the offer and announced his intention to do exactly that. But it didn't take long for him to realize Napoleon was bluffing. Napoleon had no intention of lifting restrictions on the Americans and was lying to get America to embargo Britain anyway. John Quincy Adams called it a deception so blatant it would give sight to the blind. When

Britain realized France wasn't going to budge, it decided not to bother either. The US had tried every mode of coercion short of war, as one congressman put it, to get Britain to stop its attacks on American trade. When all other methods had failed, what option did they have but war? This was the argument James Madison made when he spoke before Congress on June 1st, 1812. No nation could endure these attacks on its sailors and ships without doing anything about it. The official

declaration of war was signed on June 18th. Unknown to the Americans, Britain had in fact revoked the orders and council 2 days before on June 16th. News took weeks to travel between London and Washington, though, and the two nations found themselves at war just as one of the chief causes of that war was being repealed. With a vote of 79 to 49 in the House and 19-13 in the Senate, it was the closest war vote in US history. It was a clear partisan split with the Republicans rallying to war and the Federalists calling for peace.

Republicans like Jefferson and Madison had always favored France while the Federalists had always inclined towards Britain. For many Republicans, federalist reluctance to go to war hinted at their true desire to overthrow the republic and restore the British monarchy. This certainly wasn't true, but the idea that the Americans were fighting to protect the ideas of democracy and freedom from British tyranny was a potent one. The strange part was the regional differences in support for the war. The war was supposedly fought over Britain's interruptions of maritime trade and the impressment of sailors, but New England, which suffered most from these, voted mostly against the war in Congress and was reluctant to assist the war effort.

Meanwhile, southern and western states with no naval trade were overwhelmingly in favor of it. This shows that the real causes of the war were a lot more complex. Western support for the war probably came from a desire to acquire land in Canada from the British and to punish the British for their support of Indian groups in the Northwest such as Tekkums Confederacy who were fighting against American settlers. There was also an age split with old guard congressmen generally going against the war while younger members like JC Calhoun of South Carolina and Henry Clay of Kentucky were more enthusiastic. This younger generation had not fought in the revolution and seemed to want their own chance at glory against the British. In Calhoun's own words, they

wanted to prove that we have not only inherited the liberty which our fathers gave us, but also the will and power to maintain it. But America was in no shape for a war. The US Army had less than 7,000 troops. And even when Congress authorized the recruitment of another 25,000 of them, they struggled to find the recruits. By November 1812, they hadn't raised 10,000 new volunteers and could barely afford to give them uniforms. Aside from regular troops, the

US would have to rely on volunteers serving for a term of one year and the state militias, even though they weren't supposed to serve outside of their own state. The naval situation was even worse. There was a great concern among Republicans that a navy would pose a threat to freedom and peaceime and create a naval elite class who might dominate the state. In January 1812, Congress voted against expanding the navy even as tensions with Britain were climbing. As a result, America entered the war with just 17 warships. only

seven of them frigots and none were ships of the line that dominated naval warfare of the age. Britain's North America fleet at the outbreak of the war was just one ship of the line and nine frigots. Barely a fraction of the Royal Navy's global strength, but still enough to crush the Americans in a straight fight. To top it all off, Madison and the Republicans resisted raising taxes as long as possible until March 1812, as the abolition of the Bank of the United States in 1811 made it difficult for the US to borrow money if it needed it. The odds were clearly stacked against America [music] on paper. In practice,

the Americans hoped that strong leadership and good old American spirit would see them through while Britain was distracted by Napoleon. It was decided that invading Canada would be the best option. The Americans believed the Canadians were just waiting for the chance to rise up against the British and they'd barely have to fire a shot in order to kick the British out. The campaign, as the retired Thomas Jefferson wrote, would be a mere matter of marching. The invasion of Canada would be a threepronged affair. One

invasion would proceed from Michigan under General William Hull. A second force under General Steven von Renelier would cross the Niagara River. The third under General Henry Dearbornne would march from Albany, New York, and aim for Montreal. The plan was immediately beset with problems. Hull dithered and delayed the attack on the British Fort Malden on the Canadian Michigan border.

Ohio's militia men refused to cross the [music] border and join any attack he made. Hull was also paranoid of British reinforcements sneaking up on him and troubled by endless rumors of Indian attacks behind his lines. Only on July 12th did he order his men into Canadian territory, expecting, like Jefferson did, that the Canadians would rally to his call and fight the British. Hull was completely disappointed and received no volunteers. On July 16th, his forces encountered a British scouting party, marking the first proper engagement and casualties of the war. 3

weeks later, on August 6th, he finally began his actual attack on Fort Malden. But when news reached him of an Indian ambush upon US troops at Maguaga, he feared he would be outflanked and ordered a full retreat back to Detroit. The entire campaign had failed to achieve anything. The British almost couldn't believe their luck. They immediately went on the offensive, intentionally spreading false information about the number of Indian allies they were bringing with them to incite fear and headed straight for Detroit. Hull's resolve collapsed

[music] completely when British troops appeared outside the walls of Detroit on August 16th. He surrendered without firing a shot and all of Michigan was handed over to the British. Hull was allowed to return home where his actions got him court marshaled and sentenced to death. Madison stepped in at the last minute to spare him execution in light of his service in the Revolutionary War, but he spent the rest of his life in disgrace. Over in New England, General Dearborn couldn't get New England to offer up the troops he needed for his campaign. New

England wasn't eager for a war in the first place, and the state militias weren't supposed to serve outside their state, no matter what Madison or Dearbornne's orders demanded. Frustrated with the delay, Steven von Renelier took his 4,000 regular troops across the Niagara River in October 1812. Von Renelier's men took the British by surprise at Queenston and gained the upper hand in the battle at first. To seal the victory though, they needed reinforcements and the only troops that were to hand were the New York militia. The militia refused orders to cross the border and von Renelier's unsupported men were soon overwhelmed by British and Canadian troops. They retreated back

across the Niagara River with 100 dead and nothing to show for it. Only in November did General Dearborn finally assemble enough men for the attack towards Montreal. Dearbornne set out from Albany with 6,800 men, which [music] unfortunately included many state militia men. As soon as they got to the Canadian border, many of the militia men decided they didn't want to go into Canada after all. 2,000 of them left his army, and Dearborn's campaign was over before it began. He

fought a single battle at the LL mills on November 20th, losing five men to a British and Indian force about 120th the size of his own before giving up and turning back. One contemporary described the whole campaign as a miscarriage without even the heroism of a disaster. Surprisingly, the only part of the war in 1812 that didn't go terribly for the US was at sea. America didn't have any ships of the line, but it did have some wellarmored frigots that could stand up to any of those in the Royal Navy. With so few British ships spread out across North America, the US knew the only hope of victory was luring these British ships into one-on-one engagements where America actually stood a chance.

On August 19th, Captain Isaac Hall of the Frigot USS Constitution and the nephew of the disgraced William Hall did exactly that, catching and sinking the HMS Guerier in open battle. The Constitution was so wellarmored that British cannonballs would bounce right off the hull, earning her the nickname Old Iron Sides. The sinking of one ship had little practical effect, but Old Ironside's victory was the only real good news of the war so far. Seeing this success, Madison ordered his ships to be split into three squadrons to hunt down what British ships they could. The strategy worked and several British ships were sunk. In October, the Americans even

managed to capture the HMS Macedonian and sail it back to port as [music] a war prize. The first time the US had ever done such a thing. By the end of the year, the tiny American Navy had won more individual engagements against the British than France's navy had done in the last 20 years of conflict. On top of this, privateeers, basically legally sanctioned pirates, seized [music] 450 British trading vessels in 1812, inflicting a serious blow on [music] Britain's American trade. America's naval victories had little strategic value, but they were badly needed for American morale after the failures in Canada. They were also

enough to maintain confidence in Madison's leadership, allowing him to win re-election in November 1812. However, these small victories [music] could not disguise the truth. America had lost Michigan and hundreds of [music] troops against an enemy with more troops and ships than they could hope to match. The War of 1812 was only just beginning, but all signs pointed towards [music] disaster for the United States. 1812 had been a miserable year for the United States, save for a few minor naval victories. They had suffered nothing but

defeat and embarrassment. Suddenly, declaring war on the world's [music] most powerful empire with only a few thousand men and a handful of ships to hand seemed like a mistake. Britain had more men, more ships, and more resources, and the will to use them to crush their former colonies. This was no longer a war about trade disputes, but a struggle for the survival of the American nation itself. The first order of business was to overhaul the leadership. Out went

William Eustace as Secretary of War and in came John Armstrong who'd served under Washington and had been one of the leaders in the famous 1783 Newberg mutiny. Secretary of the Navy Paul Hamilton was also replaced by William Jones, another veteran of the revolution. Congress then voted for another 20,000 regular troops, six frigots, and four ships of the line. On the front lines, William Hull's vacant command was filled by William Henry Harrison. Since Tecumsa's Indians had played such a big role in British victories in the north, Harrison's appointment had made sense. Back in

1811, he'd led the American forces to victory over Tcumsa's Confederacy at the Battle of Typicanu. And it was hoped that he could repeat that same success again. America's primary goals in 1813 was to break British control over Michigan [music] and make inroads along the Niagara River. In doing so, they would seize control of the Great Lakes region. Harrison took the initiative in Michigan while General Henry Dearbornne continued to command in the Northeast. Dearbornne

set York, modern-day Toronto, as his initial target. As the capital of British Canada, it was a valuable and vulnerable settlement and would make for an inspiring victory for the men. In April 1813, they struck out across Lake Ontario and on the 27th attacked and captured York. The Americans stripped the city of any supplies they could find before setting it ablaze. The burning of their capital was an insult that the British and Canadians would not forget.

Then in May, Dearbornne's infantry coordinated with the US Navy in one of the first successful amphibious assaults in American history to capture Fort George on the Niagara River. While most of the British troops escaped the battle, the capture of the fort was another welcome victory. In the west, Harrison's campaign got off to a poor start. He lost hundreds of men at the Battle of Raisin River in January 1813. Stories of the brutal treatment inflicted by Indian warriors on captured American troops after the battle caused a popular scandal in the press, but also seemed to harden American resolve against their enemy. Once again,

American [music] ships proved victorious where infantry had failed. On September 10th, 1813, a nine vessel fleet led by Oliver Perry sailed into Lake Erie and defeated the British fleet stationed there. In doing so, he destroyed Britain's vital supply lines into Michigan. In one afternoon's battle, Perry made Britain's control of the entire peninsula untenable, and they called a full retreat. General Harrison aggressively pursued the retreating British and their Indian allies back into Canada. On October 5th,

his troops caught up with them at Moravian Town on the Tames. With 3,000 Americans against 430 British and 600 Indians, the American victory was a clear one. The British commander was captured and the Shauny Indian leader Tkumsa was killed which caused the collapse of the Indian Confederacy he built. It was America's greatest victory of the war so far. But this winning streak didn't last. The front stabilized

in the second half of 1813 until British counterattacks retook Fort George and pushed the Americans back across the Niagara River. General Dearbornne was finally relieved of his command by the end of the year. At sea, America's early victories were made a thing of the past as the Royal Navy dispatched more ships to assert control of the waves. They enforced a blockade along most of the Atlantic coast and denied American vessels freedom of movement. By the end of the year, virtually all American maritime warships had been sunk or confined to port [music] for their own protection. Trade had cratered from

around $100 million annually in 1807 to just 27 million in 1813 and 7 million in 1814. Government revenue collapsed too from 13 million in 1811 to 6 million in 1815. Meanwhile, as America was pushing to resolve fighting in the north, it soon found itself facing new problems in the south. Among the Creek Indians, an anti-American faction inspired by Tecumpsa, known as the Red Sticks, called their fellow Creek, to attack the Americans in the south while they were distracted by the war. Britain secretly supported these red sticks who in August of 1813 overran and killed US troops at Fort Mims in Arkansas. With most troops

tied up in the north, it fell to the Tennessee militia under Major General Andrew Jackson to respond. The death of Tkumsa in October 1813 did nothing to deter the Red Sticks, who continued to raid American settlements and forts around their territory. But Jackson's militia men weren't as squeamish about crossing state lines as New England's were. And so they arrived at Horseshoe Bend along the Talapusa River on March 27th, 1814 to face down the Creek warriors. The resulting battle was a tragedy for the Creek. Of the

1,000 Creek warriors on the field, only 200 survived the battle. Jackson's victory virtually ended creek resistance to the United States and dealt a fatal blow to British plans to open a new front in the South. To make matters worse for the Americans, however, Napoleon surrendered on March 31st, 1814. This allowed Britain to pivot its full attention to America. An army of 15,000 battleh hardened veterans was shipped over to Canada with a bold plan. The

British would invade New England over Lake Champlain where they expected sympathetic Federalists to flock to their banner. At the same time, the Royal Navy would bombard the coast from Charleston to Chesapeake Bay. Another invasion force under General Edward Packenham would land on the Gulf Coast and link up with Britain's [music] Creek Indian allies to attack New Orleans, unaware of the Creek defeat at Horseshoe Bend. However, the most [music] important angle of attack would come in the Chesapeake Bay, where [music] 4,000 men and two dozen warships were assembled to strike at one particular target, Washington, DC. On August 24th, 4,000 British troops made landfall at Bladensburg, a few miles north of Washington, DC, where they quickly overwhelmed the weak local defenders.

Washington had no effective defenses and no plan to repel the British. President Madison was outside the capital meeting with army leaders, but others, including the first lady, members of his cabinet, and many congressmen were still in the capital when the British appeared on the horizon. It was a frantic dash to escape the city. First Lady Dolly Madison barely had time to gather some of her belongings and a portrait of George Washington before she fled the White House. Anything that couldn't be carried was left behind, including the contents of the US Treasury and the Library of Congress. British troops marched into

Washington DC that evening with only a handful of American soldiers trying to defend it. British Rear Admiral George Cochburn and General Robert Ross dined at the president's table that evening, and when they were done, they decided to repay the Americans for what they' done to York the previous year. The White House, the Capitol building, the Treasury, and several other prominent public buildings were set ablaze. The fires lighting up the night for miles around. With its capital in ashes, and yet another British army under Canadian Governor General George Po crossing into New York, the United States was facing the biggest military crisis since its inception. The grand American experiment

hung on by a thread. And it seems the British were about to cut it off for good. Late 1814, Washington DC is in ashes. Multiple British armies are on US soil. Having vanquished Napoleon, the full might of a battleh hardened British Empire is now arrayed against the United [music] States of America. The final act of the

War of 1812 was shaping up to be a devastating end for the United States. In late August, Governor General George Po of Canada had crossed into New York with a fresh army. The British had hoped that the sympathetic Federalists of New England might flock to join them, just as America had hoped the Canadians would turn on the British back in 1812. The British were mistaken, [music] too, and didn't receive the sudden surge of local support they had hoped for. But even if they had, it wouldn't have mattered. The

Royal Navy ruled the seas, but its dominion over Lake Champlain, which was necessary to maintain supply lines for PO's army, was not so strong. On September 11th, 1814, [music] a British naval contingent attacks the 14 American vessels defending Platsburg on Lake Champlain. Expecting an easy victory, the Americans had anchored themselves near [music] the shore and forced the British to come at them on their own terms. The waiting American guns tore the British fleet to pieces, killing hundreds of sailors, including the fleet's captain, George Downey, and forcing the British ships to surrender. The Battle of Platsburg destroyed the supply lines PO needed for his invasion, and he was forced to retreat back to Canada. Meanwhile, after burning

Washington, the British marched onwards to Baltimore. On September 12th, they forced a landing at North Point near the city and routed the American defenders, but at the cost of General Robert Ross's life. The loss of one of their key commanders did not slow them down, though, as British troops advanced upon Baltimore itself, where the Americans had holed up inside Fort Mckenry. Early in the morning of September 13th, the Royal Navy opened fire on Fort Mckenry. Over the next 24 hours, they hurled 1,500 shells at it, battering its defenders with enough firepower to level a city. It was almost a miracle that the

walls held and the defenders only suffered light casualties. As the smoke cleared and the guns fell silent on September 14th, the American flag still waved defiantly above the fort. The sight of that star spangled banner inspired one eyewitness named Francis Scott Keyi to write a poem named after that flag which became the US national anthem. Britain's failure to break Fort McHenry halted their offense in its tracks. On September 15th, they were forced to retreat, ending their campaign in Virginia. In the space of 4 days,

America had turned back both of Britain's assaults in the Northeast. America's victory at the Battle of Baltimore was a relief, but America was still in a dire state. Morale was low. US troops had a desertion rate of 12% and the Secretary of War John Armstrong had to resign 2 weeks later because confidence in his leadership had totally collapsed. On top of that, in the words of Treasury Secretary George Campbell, the nation's finances had suffered every kind of embarrassment. He too resigned

on October 1814, unable to scrape together the $50 million needed to cover the country's expenses. As a result, the US defaulted on its debts for the first and only time in its history that November. Since we started this channel, we have been obsessed with historical maps. Since some of you might like maps [music] as well, we created a few products for you. Highresolution downloads and museum quality prints. Go

to knowledigia.co and have a look. If you want to own one, use my code in the description below. Now, back to the video. For the Republicans, it was a nightmare so awful that they voted to raise taxes.

For the Federalists, it was practically free ammunition. The Republicans have ruined the country by driving us into a war we cannot win was an easy pitch to make. Their despair over the state of the war was so intense that in December, representatives of the Federalists in New England met at Hartford for a landmark conference with a harshly condemned conduct of the war and Madison's administration. They argued that the failures spoke to deeper structural problems [music] in the US government and proposed a sweeping set of amendments that would be the most radical shakeup in the US government since the constitution had been ratified. They called for the elimination of the three-fifths clause, which gave [music] more representation to slave states who had voted for the war, wanted to ban the admission of new states, eliminate government embargo [music] power, require a supermajority for war declarations, and limit presidents to a single term. The

declaration was signed and sent to Washington in January 1815. However, unknown to the [music] Federalists, events had been transpiring that would radically change things by the time that declaration arrived. While the war had been raging, Madison had always been searching for a peaceful solution. In March 1813, Russia had offered to mediate negotiations between America and Britain. The US ambassador to Russia, future President John Quincy Adams, was happy to accept such a proposal, [music] but Britain declined.

They didn't need Russia getting involved. They did, however, agree to negotiate in Belgium. Madison ordered Adams to meet with the British again in August 1814 and [music] sent over several other delegates, including Henry Clay of Kentucky and Jonathan Russell of Rhode Island to [music] support him. The negotiations spanned four long months, but the American delegation was probably [music] one of the best diplomatic teams ever assembled. Intelligent, persuasive, and impossible to intimidate, they were a league apart [music] from the British negotiating team, none of whom were particularly noteworthy or accomplished.

Since every good diplomat was too busy dealing with the fallout of the Napoleonic [music] Wars to bother with the American sideshow, Britain's initial demands were harsh. A permanent Indian reservation in the Northwest, American [music] demilitarization in the Great Lakes, handing Maine to the British and giving them trade privileges in the Mississippi. The British were surprised when [music] the Americans turned them down. The British then tried to delay until word of a clear British victory could cow the Americans into submission, but that failed too. The Americans were completely unfased by news of Washington DC being burned down. If anything, the

opposite happened. News of American victories at Platsburg and Baltimore shook British confidence instead. Eventually, the British decided they were quote not likely to attain any glory or renown at all, commensurate to the inconvenience it will occasion from extending the war in America. On Christmas Eve 1814, the two teams signed the Treaty of Gent, agreeing to make peace and restore all territory to what it had been before the war began. There wasn't even an acknowledgement of the trade disputes or impressment [music] that had triggered the war. Both sides

just wanted it over with. Alas, news traveled slowly across the Atlantic. And there was a third complication to the situation to consider Andrew Jackson. In April 1814, fresh British [music] troops had arrived on the Gulf Coast, ready to attack the US on another front. General Edward Pachinham landed expecting to meet with his Red Stick Indian allies [music] only to learn about their crushing defeat at Horseshoe Bend weeks earlier. There weren't enough

Indians left to support their planned attacks. So, the British and Indians decided to harass American positions instead while waiting for reinforcements. Thanks to the war in Europe, Spain and Britain were cautious allies. So, Spain allowed Britain to operate out of Pensacola in Spanish Florida. Andrew Jackson wasn't [music] going to let that stand. On November

7th, 1814, he stormed across the border with [music] 4,000 men and attacked Pensacola. It was the first time the US had invaded Spanish territory. The Spanish surrendered the city after a short fight since they weren't keen on the British being in the city either, while the British and Indians were forced to withdraw but suffered minimal casualties. Jackson's attack on Pensacola re-energized that theater of the war in its 11th hour. After withdrawing from Spanish Florida, Jackson took his men back to New Orleans where he knew the British would strike next. Admiral Alexander Cochran and

General Pachenham were indeed preparing an invasion at the mouth of the Mississippi. Even as negotiators in Belgium were ironing out peace terms. On January 8th, 1815, as those peace terms were sailing across the Atlantic, Paganim's forces landed on the shoreline just outside New Orleans. Jackson had spent the last two months fortifying the city for an assault. And when the 8,000 British troops appeared outside the walls, they found out how well he'd prepared for them. Casualties were high

and very lopsided. 300 British soldiers, including General Pachinam, were killed. 1,200 were injured and 500 were captured. Before the sun had even set, the British had [music] retreated. The Americans lost just 12 men.

The Battle of New Orleans was the most decisive victory of the entire war, and Andrew Jackson became the greatest American military hero of his day. News of the victory arrived in Washington some days later and quickly spread across the US to much celebration. The timing couldn't have been better. The New Orleans news dropped days before the New England Federalists published their Hartford Declaration condemning the war and making demands to reform the government. The Federalist statement couldn't have had a more hostile audience. The declaration was seen as

spiteful, out of touch, and even traitorous and damaged the Federalist Party's reputation so badly that it never [music] recovered. The party of Washington and Hamilton would limp on for a few more years before vanishing into history. It also preceded the news of the Treaty of Gent, which reached Washington on February 13th, 1815. Many Americans falsely believed that America had compelled the British to peace after New Orleans, and were totally unaware of the negotiations that had actually led to the treaty. No one was eager to correct the misunderstanding, least of all President Madison or the Republicans, who declared it a tremendous victory for the United States. While it raged, the War of 1812

was probably the most unpopular American war until Vietnam. But despite a generally poor military performance, a ruined economy, and a burned capital, the United States was able to spin the War of 1812 into a victory in its final weeks. Jackson's success at New Orleans washed away the failures and allowed Madison to emerge from the war, singing a song of victory and patriotism. The War of 1812 produced no lasting territorial changes. It did not alter the American government or change how wars were fought. It claimed around

2,000 American lives in combat, plus several thousand to disease and other causes. It also left its mark in small ways. The legend of old iron sides, the reputation of Andrew Jackson, the collapse of the Federalist Party, and the creation of the Star Spangled Banner, to name a few. It certainly mattered to Indians like the Creek and the Shaune who suffered historic defeats at American hands during the conflict. Canada too was forever changed with Canadian victories such as Queenston Heights in 1812 being formative moments for Canadian nationalism where they stopped being merely British or French colonists and started to see themselves as [music] distinctly Canadian.

Similarly, this was the war's lasting legacy in America as well. It was the first trial by fire of America's government and people against an enemy who could equal them. Shared hardship created a shared identity. It built a sense of national unity and pride that long outlasted the war. In the words of one congressman, the people were now more American. They feel and [music] act

more as a nation. So while the War of 1812 [music] is easily forgotten today, it played a vital role in making the United States what it is. America would fight [music] many larger wars with higher stakes and greater casualties. But the idea of the United States and the anthem that embodies that idea will always owe a special debt to this overlooked conflict. If you'd like to help us keep creating and get early access to our videos, behindthe-scenes content, and other perks, consider becoming a member right here on YouTube or joining us on Patreon. Every bit of support helps. And

as always, thank you so much for watching.