---
video_title: "Why there were NO Muslim Colonies in the Americas?"
video_id: zAnCyuJrVmQ
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zAnCyuJrVmQ
video_date: 2026-07-10T15:14:35+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦Want EARLY ACCESS or EXCLUSIVE CONTENT? Support us and get it here:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  The Complete History Edition Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9h7OjK629BU8pNtQo4Lz9Sx
  Why happened with the Muslims of Sicily? : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3U5GDrTfaKA
  
  ♦Why there were No Muslim Colonies in America?
  
  When Columbus crossed the Atlantic in 1492, the Islamic world was at the height of its power. The Ottoman Empire was one of the strongest states on Earth, and Muslim empires stretched from Morocco to India, controlling the richest trade routes of the age. Yet in the centuries that followed, not a single Muslim colony was founded in the Americas, while Spain, Portugal, England, and France carved up two continents. Why did the great Muslim powers never cross the Atlantic? The answer runs through the naval geography of the Mediterranean, the wars that locked the Ottomans out of the ocean, and one forgotten plan of another Muslim power.  In this animated history documentary, we explore why Islam never reached the Americas, and how close one empire came to trying.
  
  
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  potatohistory-us, johnathondwigans, MohitAgrawal-d9n, Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  #History #Documentary
---
Whether it was the Catholic conquistadors or Protestant pilgrims, religion was an important part of the colonization of the Americas. Western European countries colonized, or at least attempted to establish colonies in the Americas. So where was Islam? Why was there no Muslim state creating a colony there, even though at least one Sultan seriously considered the idea at one point. The obvious answer for why Muslims didn't colonize the Americas is that none of the major Muslim empires were centered near the Atlantic. There were three major Muslim empires in the world at the time of the colonization of the Americas, among the biggest and most influential, alongside other Muslim rule states that were smaller or more regionally focused. The Ottomans were the largest, controlling most of the eastern Mediterranean, including Anatolia, the Levant, and Egypt, as well as parts of Europe and North Africa. They were extremely wealthy and had a powerful Mediterranean fleet. However, their power was primarily Mediterranean, and while Ottoman aligned corsairs could operate beyond the straight to Gibraltar, a serious colonizing expedition would have required running an expensive gauntlet through contested waters. They were regularly at war with opponents in Spain and Italy, so any attempt to outfit and sail a transatlantic expedition would have had to pass hostile choke points under enemy pressure. The Safavids controlled Persia. They were engaged in trade and the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean, but did not build their power around long-distance oceanic expansion. Not only were they a long way from the Atlantic, but they didn't even have access to the Mediterranean. To reach the Americas, they would have needed to either push through heavily contested routes towards the Atlantic or to find a way around Africa into the Atlantic world dominated by Iberian naval power, both long and difficult options. This was also broadly true of the Muslim Mughal Empire of India. Their ports sat on the Indian Ocean trade networks that connected Arabia, East Africa, India, and Southeast Asia, but building and protecting a sustained trans-oceanic colonizing venture across to the Americas was another task entirely. Access to the Atlantic was one reason then, but it had knock-on effects. Crossing the Atlantic required specific ship designs and navigational routines tailored to Atlantic conditions, and most Muslim powers did not prioritize those because their strategic and commercial focus lay elsewhere. European vessels making the journey were sail-driven and sturdy, strong enough to withstand the harsh waters of the Atlantic. By contrast, many Ottoman naval forces in the 1500s still relied heavily on ord galleys built for Mediterranean warfare, which weren't practical for a trans-Atlantic voyage. Of course, Muslim societies also used sailing ships, including large Indian ocean vessels, but these were typically built for different wind systems, routes and logistical assumptions, then the Atlantic crossings pioneered by Iberian powers. Not being positioned for American conquest meant they weren't equipped for it either. If Muslim powers did want American colonies, they would have had to build entirely new long-range expedition systems, ships, supply chains, and Atlantic intelligence networks. The Europeans weren't eager to share their designs with Muslims in the first place. The European powers also closely guarded their maps, navigation charts, and navigational techniques, often treating them as state secrets. But why not try? If these wealthy and powerful empires really wanted American colonies, they could have tried at least. So why didn't they? To answer that, let's take a step back first. Why did the Europeans go to America in the first place? The first reason was to get to Asia. Columbus was famously seeking a new route to Asia when he set out in 1492. With the fall of Constantinople in 1453, some European rulers and merchants feared higher costs, instability, and dependence on powerful intermediaries along Eastern routes. So going west looks like a way to bypass competitors and secure direct access to high-value trade. For obvious reasons, the Islamic world didn't have this problem in the same way. Many of the trade routes Europeans wanted to bypass, ran through Muslim rule or Muslim connected commercial networks. Trade with Asia continued through long established routes, and major empires were already plugged into Indian Ocean commerce. Therefore, the particular motivation that pushed some Europeans into high-risk Atlantic experiments simply didn't make much sense. Secondly, even if we ignore the distance to the Americas for a moment, European powers wanted land that was hard to secure back home. Europe was fragmented into many rival states and kingdoms, often locked in wars and shifting alliances. If any European country wanted more lands to exploit for resources or to acquire more people, their only choice were costly wars that could backfire on them. The Americas offered an entire new confidence worth of land for the taking, meanwhile. Just referring to the three major Muslim powers, they had vast lands of their own, and plenty of opportunities to expand closer to home. The Ottomans didn't need America to find viable conquests. They had the Balkans and North Africa. The Safavids had Central Asia to wrestle with, and also fought conflicts with the Ottomans and other regional rivals on their borders. As for the Mughals, it took until around 1700 for them to consolidate much of the Deccan, and even then, large parts of the far south remained outside firm Mughal control. So the governments and merchants of the Muslim world did not have the same motivation to colonize the Americas. But what about other people? European colonization was often driven by the nobility. European nobility was based on inheritance and land ownership, but with spare land in short supply, Europe's nobility were running out of options to gain power and status. American colonies offered the chance at glory and power that the disaffected nobles of Europe couldn't find at home. This is what drove Hernán Cortez, the son of a lesser noble who had failed to secure a profitable legal career to venture to the new world and eventually conquer Mexico. Similarly, Peru was conquered at the command of Francisco Pizarro, the poor son of a colonel who had no real prospects at home. Muslim nobility was quite different. While European nobles inherited titles and land, Muslim nobility was often appointed by the Sultan directly and were not granted land, per se, but tax collection rights over that land, such as in the Ottoman Timar system. This made nobles easier to control from the center. It meant no regional power bases or independent tax revenues that could be the basis of rebellion. And so, Muslim nobility was almost entirely dependent on the favor of the ruler. There was not a massive disaffected class of nobles wondering about with no prospects like in Europe, and even if they did get it in their heads to go to these lands, they wouldn't have expected to receive land and power in the same way. Yet, despite this, there were still Muslim powers who were interested in colonizing the Americas. Morocco, the Muslim power that left unusually clear written evidence of Atlantic even new world ambitions, was Morocco. The Sultanate, on the northwest coast of Africa, had direct access to the Atlantic as well as the Mediterranean, just like Spain did. Therefore, it had the location to think about such a venture. It was not a big empire like the Ottomans or Safavids, but it was a reasonably wealthy kingdom of its own, with a long established talent for sailing and trading. Morocco was also quick to adopt new technological developments like gunpowder weaponry, as were its European rivals, and by the late 16th century, it could field substantial forces and compete in a dangerous Atlantic world. True, they didn't have the same ocean-going imperial infrastructure that Spain and Portugal built, and adopting it was not easy once Iberian powers dominated Atlantic routes with fortified ports, experienced crews, and tight control of strategic information. There were a few reasons why this couldn't happen easily. First, Morocco was under the rule of the Watisid dynasty for most of the early 16th century, who were too focused on protecting themselves from Portuguese and Spanish opponents, then funding expeditions to the new world. After a brief civil war, they were replaced by the Saudi. It was one of the Saudi sultans, Ahmad Almansoor, who realized that Morocco might have an opportunity to claim its stake across the Atlantic. In August 1600, a Moroccan embassy arrived at the court of Queen Elizabeth I of England. The two countries shared a common enemy in Spain, and Sultan Ahmad Almansoor sent his people with a proposal to weaken Spain permanently. Serious discussions about coordinated action against Spanish power, ideas that could even extend to Spain's overseas empire. He suggested launching an expedition from a Moroccan port to capture the colonies, some of which would then be repopulated with Moroccan settlers creating the first Muslim American colonies. The Sultan was clearly interested in America. While in Britain, his ambassadors sought maps, intelligence, and practical know-how about Atlantic navigation and the wealth flowing from the new world. While Queen Elizabeth was cautious and non-committal about any direct attack on Spain's colonies, she did begin discussions about cooperation against Spanish shipping and broader alliance building. However, Elizabeth and Almansoor both died in 1603 before any lasting agreement could be secured. Morocco fell into civil war after his death, and the Atlantic remained dominated by the Spanish, Portuguese, and others. So Morocco was no longer in a position to entertain the idea of American colonies, not when European fleets could raid their coasts and seize their ships. Overall, there was no Muslim colonies in the new world, because most of the major Muslim powers did not have the geography, ships, or strategic incentives needed to create and hold them. With deep integration into Afro-Eurasian trade, and different political and social structures than those powering European settler colonialism, Muslim powers had little reason to pursue the idea of creating colonies. If you'd like to help us keep creating and get early access to our videos behind the scenes content and other perks, consider becoming a member right here on YouTube or joining us on Patreon. Every bit of support helps, and as always, thank you so much for watching.