---
video_title: "Why did the Visigoths Convert to Islam?"
video_id: NhUCC-6aIqI
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NhUCC-6aIqI
video_date: 2026-04-25T11:21:25+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦Own the map of Al Andalus on your wall: Use Andalus10 for 10% OFF: 
  https://knowledgia.co/en-eur/products/al-andalus-muslim-iberia-719-ce
  
  What Happened with the Muslims of Iberia? : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BHXuCbGlOAM&
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work and Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q/join
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  Big thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  
  
  
  #History #Documentary
---
In 711, AD, a Muslim force that likely began with around a few thousand men and was later reinforced, crossed a narrow strip of water into southern Spain. Within seven years, they controlled most of the Iberian peninsula, the overwhelmingly Christian population, along with smaller Jewish communities, didn't suddenly change its religious makeup overnight. In fact, it likely took several centuries, probably until around the 10th or 11th century, in much of Al-Andalus, before Muslims became the majority. But how did it happen? In the years that followed the barrel of Guaralete, Muslim forces quickly conquered the vast majority of the peninsula, and by 718, most of the major urban centers were under Muslim control. The territory came to be known as Al-Andalus, and became a province of the Umayyad caliphate. The initial Muslim population mostly consisted of a relatively small Arab and Berber military elite. For generations, this Muslim minority ruled over a population of several million hispano-romans and Visigothic Christians, alongside Jewish communities. However, by around 1100 AD, the religious demographics of Al-Andalus had drastically changed. By the 11th century, Muslims were likely the majority, across much of Al-Andalus, and many major cities, like Cordoba and Seville, were probably predominantly Muslim, though the northern parts of the peninsula remained mostly Christian. So how did the territory of millions of Christians become overwhelmingly Muslim? Without mass forced conversion, the shift from a Christian to a Muslim majority didn't happen mainly through force. Under Islamic law, Christians and Jews could, in principle, remain as protected communities, or people of the book. Though that status came with taxes, legal inequalities, and was not applied in exactly the same way in every period. Instead, for the most part, conversions to Islam were personal decisions shaped by many factors. After the peninsula fell under Muslim control, many of the hispano-romans and Visigothic aristocracy became some of the earliest converts. In most cases, this wasn't driven by a sudden spiritual revelation, but by self-interest, under the new Umayyad regime, many Christian elites risked losing their lands, wealth, and influence if they resisted. So to get around this, many negotiated agreements with the Muslim conquerors. These agreements, known in Arabic as Sule, allowed the upper class to keep control of their estates and even some of their governing roles, so long as they accepted Muslim political authority. To further their allegiance, many aristocrats converted to Islam, to strengthen the relationship and make their loyalty clear. Upon embracing their new faith, they became known as Moaladoun, a term commonly used for local converts, and especially their descendants. Many of these former Christians adopted Arabic names, and some even fabricated Arab-style genealogies to cement their place in the new society. This helped them claim higher status, attached themselves more closely to the ruling culture, and gave them access to social benefits. The conversion of the Hispano-Roman and Visigothic elite had a broad effect on the classes beneath them. As the powerful ruling families changed their religion, others followed, over time, servants, tenants, and entire local communities converted to Islam, hoping it could improve their own social standing. After many generations, this created a trend that slowly reshaped much of the peninsula, and contributed greatly to the steady growth of a Muslim majority in Iberia. But elite conversion wasn't the only factor. Economic realities played a major role under Islamic rule in Al-Andalus. Christians and Jews were grouped together as Zimmi or protected peoples. This granted them the right to keep practicing their own religion, and maintain many communal institutions, maintain their synagogues and churches, and manage most of their affairs in their local communities. However, this protected status came with a price. Zimmi's had to pay a special tax, known as Jizia, which Muslims were exempt from. While rates varied, the amount of Jizia depended on region, time, and wealth, and not every person paid it equally. Eligible adult, non-Muslim men were the usual taxpayers, while many others could be exempt. Alongside the Jizia, land could also be subject to taxes, such as Karaj. This tax was tied to the land itself, rather than the owner. Though the exact system varied across time and place. For farmers, landowners, and craftsmen, these obligations could be a real burden, especially when compared with the fiscal advantages of belonging to the Muslim community. Most Muslims were only required to give Zakat a form of religious charity and one of the five pillars of Islam. Cultivators could also owe other dues, such as Usher, so conversion did not erase taxation altogether. Over time, these policies created a clear economic divide between the religious communities. Many non-Muslims simply converted to Islam to avoid such heavy taxes. Conversion brought possible financial relief and improved long-term economic prospects. However, even if a non-Muslim landowner converted to Islam, they weren't always exempt from land tax entirely. Instead, in theory, converts might pay Usher a lighter tithe, but in practice, early Islamic tax systems were not always applied consistently. And Umayyad authorities sometimes continued to levee Karaj on converts as well. When we look at the tax system as a whole, it becomes clear why so many landowners and members of the working class decided to convert. The practical incentives associated with Islam became too significant to ignore, and those who were struggling financially could erase that burden, simply by changing their religion. But the reasons for converting went well beyond taxes. In the early centuries of Islamic Iberia, even if a non-Muslim converted to Islam, they weren't always fully accepted into society. Conversion did not instantly erase older social barriers, and Arab lineage still carried prestige. In simple terms, many converts sought closer ties with established Arab families or tribes in order to gain protection, patronage, and standing. One important mechanism for this was becoming a mawla or client of an Arab lineage. For example, someone of hispanoroman, Visigothic, or even Berber, descent might form a connection with an elite family of Arabic descent. Following this, they became a mawla of the tribe, and began to associate themselves symbolically with the tribe's ancestral lineage, perhaps even adopting its name. In return, the Arabic family often provided the convert and their family with protection, support, and even helped them gain influence in the wider Islamic social hierarchy. This created a formal bond between converts and established Arab lineages, tying them into a system built on loyalty and shared identity. This relationship also accelerated the arabization of the older Christian communities. Close association with the ruling elite meant converts had to adopt the Arabic language, which served as the language of culture, law, and administration. Over time, many mawla adopted the social customs of their patron family, and even began to dress like them. This was incredibly important during the 8th and 9th centuries, as Islamic society was still heavily influenced by tribal identity and inherited status. Lineage was more than pride. It provided political authority and social opportunities, by connecting themselves to a recognized Arab tribe. Espano-Romans or Visigothic peoples could strengthen their position in the public sphere and gain more influence in society. For those who didn't become a mawla, they risked being socially marginalized, even if they had converted to Islam. They were Muslims in belief, but they didn't gain access to the networks that shaped early all-Andalus in this way, Arabization and Islamization developed side by side. As people converted to Islam, they generally absorbed much of the related Arab culture, securing their place within the wider society. The cultural and social integration built upon the mawla system is just one part of a much larger and more complex story. Intermarriage between local Iberians and Arabs also played a powerful role in reshaping the peninsula and helping root Islam locally. When the first Islamic conquerors entered Iberia in the 8th century, they were mostly male, many arrived alone without large families, and as a result, over time, many decided to settle down and marry local Espano-Roman and Visigothic women under Islamic law Muslim men could marry Christian or Jewish women, and the children of those unions were normally considered Muslim in legal terms from the very beginning of the conquest. A new generation grew up fully immersed in the Islamic faith, but these children couldn't be considered foreign to the region. They were born and raised in Iberia and had an ancestral connection to the local peoples of the land, often through their maternal lineage. This process of intermarriage slowly reshaped Iberian society. Within just a few generations, the Muslim population of Al-Andalus was no longer just made up of foreign-born soldiers. The majority were of local Iberian ancestry, yet they were deeply connected to Arab culture, spoke the language, and were completely devoted to Islam. In this way, intermarriage played as much of a role in the Islamization of Iberia as taxation, politics, and patronage by the 10th century during the era of the Umayyad rulers of Cordoba. The once obvious distinctions between the Arab elites and the local Iberians had faded considerably. prolonged periods of intermarriage, shared education, and a common political culture slowly erased the older divisions. What emerged wasn't just an Arab society planted in Iberia. It was a distinct and elusive identity shaped by Iberian, Berber, and Arab peoples. By the 11th century, many scholars believe Muslims had become the majority across much of Al-Andalus. By the 12th century, that majority was firmly established in many regions. The population remained somewhat diverse, yet the inhabitants saw themselves as part of a unified society. But even with the growing Muslim population, many refused to convert. Many Christians continued to practice their own faith. Over time, they adopted some aspects of the wider Muslim culture, including the Arabic language. These communities became known as Mazaravs, a term that refers to Arabized Christians. They continued to go to church, followed their own religious beliefs, and preserved aspects of their older local culture. Yet in their daily lives, they followed many Arab customs. They spoke Arabic, had Arabic names, and participated in the wider Islamic cultural world of Al-Andalus. Even those who didn't convert were eventually woven into the fabric of the Arabic-speaking world of Al-Andalus. Islam's dominance of the Iberian Peninsula was more than just religious. It was cultural. But the slow and gradual Islamization of the entire Iberian Peninsula didn't last forever. In the northern regions, many Christian communities retained a strong memory of the 8th century invasion, and took part in a prolonged conflict with the Muslim rulers that lasted many centuries. This long struggle became known as the Rikonkista over generations. Christian rulers in places such as the Kingdom of Eragon and the Kingdom of Castile pushed southward and took control of Muslim territories. As territories changed hands, the religious balance of Iberia started to shift once again. Initially, most Muslims were allowed to remain under Christian rule, and were even permitted to practice Islam under certain restrictions. But over time, these policies hardened, and pressure to convert to Christianity increased. The turning point came in 1492, following the fall of Granada, the last Muslim-rolled Kingdom in Iberia. Its surrender to Ferdinand II of Eragon and Isabella I of Castile marked the end of Islamic political authority in Iberia, a presence that had lasted over 700 years. But Muslims were not immediately given a blanket, convert or exile order. In 1492, if you want the full story about that, you can watch our video, What Happened to the Muslims of Al-Andalus, where we explain it in detail. Link in the description. The initial surrender terms in Granada promised religious freedom, and only later did those guarantees collapse. In Castile, forced conversions followed by 1502, and in the crown of Eragon, they came later in the 1520s. Those who accepted baptism became known as Moriscos, despite their conversion. Christian leaders remained suspicious of the Moriscos for many generations, believing they continued to practice Islam in secret. This led Philip III of Spain to decree the expulsion of the remaining Moriscos in 1609. Over the following five years, approximately 300,000 were expelled. Mainly to North Africa, Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. Even with this, the legacy of nearly eight centuries of Islamic rule couldn't be erased. Muslims left an indelible mark on the landscape, from language to architecture, agriculture and culture as a whole. Even today, throughout Spain and Portugal, traces of that long chapter can be seen. They stand as a reminder that one of the most profound religious transformations in European history didn't happen through conquest alone. It happened through centuries of quiet, steady integration, one family, one generation, one decision at a time. You can now explore our maps in even more detail as prints and downloads. Premium historical maps designed by historians. Link below.