---
video_title: "Why did the Vikings become Christians?"
video_id: vceRibYftaU
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vceRibYftaU
video_date: 2026-01-18T12:07:32+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦Thanks to Storyblocks for sponsoring this video! Download unlimited stock media at one set price with Storyblocks: http://storyblocks.com/knowledgia
  
    Use code FEBRUARY50 for 50% off any digital product: https://knowledgia.co/collections/great-historical-digital-maps
  
  Why did the Vikings become Christians? 
  
  ...Christianity had been trying to gain a foothold in Scandinavia long before the Viking raids began. A few early missionaries attempted to reach the region in the 700s, but these efforts were small and left little lasting impact. The first organised mission we can firmly trace came in 823, when the Carolingian Empire sent Bishop Ebo of Rheims to Denmark to establish a Christian presence…though his success was limited...
  
  
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work and Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q/join
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦ SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  
  
  #History #Documentary
---
How did the Vikings turn away from Odin and other gods and embrace Christianity? The Vikings made their fearsome entry onto the historical stage with their brutal raids on Christian Europe. Pillaged monasteries and slaughtered Christians were the bloody symbols of Viking incursions. However, within a few centuries, the Vikings would turn away from their old ways and embrace the very Christian faith they had spent so long attacking. The Vikings would transform the societies they encountered, but Christianity was even more transformative on the Vikings themselves. Vikings encounter Christianity. Christianity had been trying to gain a foothold in Scandinavia long before the Viking raids began. A few early missionaries attempted to reach the region in 700s, but these efforts were small and left little lasting impact. The first organized mission we confirmedly trace came in 823, when the Carolingian Empire sent Bishop Ebo of Reims to Denmark to establish a Christian presence, though his success was limited. But the monk Ansgar saw much more success a few years later. Ansgar secured the baptism of Harold Klack, one of the claimants to the Danish throne, and traveled with him for a time to convert his followers. However, Harold Klack fails to claim power, and his conversion was little more than a way to secure support from the Carolingian Empire. Ansgar then moved on to Sweden, where he had made a few converts and established a missionary presence in the city of Berkha, but failed to achieve significant conversion of the Scandinavian people. The destruction of Hamburg by Vikings in 845 and the shift of the Archbishop Rick to Bremen soon handicapped further missionary efforts in the north. Spiratic missionary work did continue in Denmark and Sweden in the 9th century, but the first significant Viking conversions would not actually happen in Scandinavia. This video is brought to you by Storyblocks. Even though our videos are mostly animation, we still need a lot of support assets to keep production moving. Background music that doesn't distract, sound effects for transitions, textures for maps and paper, quick tidal animations, overlays, and little visual elements that save hours in the edit. That's why Storyblocks comes in handy as an amazing production tool. Not a cinematic B-roll thing. With Storyblocks, you get unlimited downloads of diverse high-quality media for one predictable subscription cost, so you can test ideas, swap options, and iterate fast without the per-asset stress. They also estimate member save an average of 3.5 hours a week by using the platform, and there are thousands of customizable templates for After Effects, Premiere Pro, Apple Motion, and DaVinci Resolve. And it's all in one place. Video, templates, music, sound effects, images, and more. Everything you download is 100% royalty-free and pre-licensed, so once it's in your project, you can focus on creating instead of double-checking rights. To get started with unlimited stock media downloads at one set price, head to Storyblocks.com slash Nologyia or click my link in the description below. In 878, following the Battle of Eddington, the victorious Alfred the Great forced the conversion of the Viking leader Guthram and many of his leading warriors. The Viking ruled parts of Northern and Eastern England known as the Dane Law, became the first Christian-ruled Viking territories. Most of the existing population was already Christian and exerted an influence on the ruling elite. Guthram and his successors don't appear to have been devoted Christians, and their conversions were probably in name only. Nevertheless, the Vikings came to accept the presence of Christians in their lands, an attitude that would spread to other Vikings. Similarly, in 911, the Viking warlord Rolo signs the Treaty of St. Clair Sir Epps with the King of West Francia. In exchange for converting to Christianity and ending his raids, Rolo would be recognized as the Duke of a brand new kingdom, Normandy. The creation of these Christian Viking kingdoms in the west didn't mean that every Viking suddenly adopted the faith. Some did, and with families back in Scandinavia, these early conversions probably made Christianity seem more acceptable and less alien to Scandinavia than it had been in the past. What these conversions also showed was that there was a lot to be gained for a Viking ruler if they exchanged Odin's crows for Jesus' cross. It was a bargain that many kings would soon take. Denmark. You see, there were a lot of benefits to being a Christian king. Converting to Christianity meant other European kings would be more willing to recognize a Viking ruler as legitimate. It could open the doors for diplomacy with other Christian kings and smooth the way for trade. Access to the wealth and prestige of the Christian world was far too attractive for Scandinavian kings to ignore. It also helped with securing their power at home. Viking kingship was based on strength and success at war or raiding. A man remained king only as long as he could inspire confidence in his men and keep them happy with plunder and conquest. This wasn't the most secure system. Meanwhile, Christianity offered an argument for rulership based on the divine right of kings. Kings ruled at God's command and to oppose the king was to oppose God. It wouldn't protect them from every challenge to their rule. But Scandinavian kings found divine right to be a much safer and easier thing to rest their power upon. The most famous case of this was certainly in Denmark. In 965, the Danish king Harold Bluetooth converted to Christianity. The common story was that Bluetooth hosted a debate between a German monk and Norse pagans. When the pagans insisted that Jesus was not as powerful as Thor or Odin, the monk proved Christ's power by placing his bare hands on a bar of heated iron and came away unharmed. Bluetooth was so impressed that he converted on the spot. The truth was probably more practical. Bluetooth needed to secure his own power. He needed to protect himself against challengers to his rule, and he also wanted something to permanently unify the Danes into a new nation. He believed that Christianity could serve that purpose. By imposing a shared faith, he hoped to overcome the petty divisions that kept the Danes divided among squabbling warlords and chieftains. There was also the fact that the young and ambitious Holy Roman Emperor Otto I was eager for new conquests. Harold's pagan kingdom right on Otto's doorstep was the obvious target. By converting, Bluetooth would make it much harder for Otto to justify an invasion and would rob him of people's support. Bluetooth made his conversion quite public. Not only did he send word of his conversion out to the rest of Europe, he announced it at home with monuments and ceremonies. He ordered his father Gorm's body to be re-barried with Christian honors in a newly constructed church and raised a famous roomstone proclaiming himself as the Harold who won the whole of Denmark in Norway and turned the Danes to Christianity. Christianity gathered strength in Denmark under Harold's successors with the common folk slowly embracing the new faith. Christianity received a significant boost during the reign of Canute the Great and his North Sea Empire, which brought Christian England under the same rule as Denmark and Norway. Canute promoted church interests across his empire and exposed Scandinavia to significant influence from English missionaries and clergy. By the time of his death in 1042, Denmark was probably more Christian than pagan. Other Scandinavian regions. Similarly to Denmark, Norway's conversion flowed from the conversion of its kings. Haccon the good reigned from 934 to 961 and was nominally Christians. But it wasn't until the reign of King Olaf Trigvason decades later that Norway would see a serious conversion effort. In 988, Olaf stopped over in the Sicily Isles in the North Sea where he allegedly encountered a Christian seer who correctly predicted a mutiny against him. Olaf quickly converted and returned to Norway to spread his new faith. In 997, he established a royal chapel at Niederos, modern Trondheim, and launched an aggressive campaign to Christianize his country. Olaf tried to force his yarrals to convert and took a harsh stance on paganism. He sailed up the rivers and fjords of his country on his massive longship, names the Long Serpent, seeing to this process in person. Olaf had pagan shrines burned and allegedly ordered the torture and execution of those who refused to convert. Norse paganism experienced a resurgence after Olaf died in battle in 1000, but it wouldn't last. Christianity received renewed support under Olaf II later known as Saint Olaf after 1015, which saw Christianity penetrate deeper into Norway and the establishments of new churches and church structures. Danish influence, especially in the south, further encouraged the spread of Christianity. As Denmark fueled Norway's conversion, so did Norway, fuel Iceland, Greenland, and the North Sea Islands. Around the year 1000, Thorgære Thorkelsen convinced the Icelandic Altheng parliament to formally adopt Christianity after pressure from Norway. Leif Erickson was also baptized in Norway and sent by King Olaf to Greenland with a priest to promote the faith. Orkney, the Faroe Islands, and the Shetland Islands, also embraced Christianity thanks to Norwegian influence. Sweden's conversion was more peace meal, since it didn't have a unified king until much later than Norway or Denmark. Christianity had a small presence thanks to Anzgar's mission and Danish control in the south, but it took until 995 for it to get its first Christian king in Olaf Skotkonon. The Swedish Olaf was much more willing to compromise on Christianity than the Norwegian Olaf. He agreed to respect existing pagan practices and restricted his Christian activities, such as the founding of Bishops in areas with existing Christian communities. pagan beliefs remained strong in Sweden until at least the 1080s. According to Chronicles, this was when King Inge of Sweden attempted to clamp down on pagan worship by ending pagan rituals at Uppsala, arguably the most sacred place in Norse religion. The Swedish people responded violently, resisting Inge's efforts and ultimately forcing him to abdicate in favor of his brother, Blot Swain. Blot Swain declared himself as a defender of the old ways, but he would last for just three years before Inge returned to reclaim his throne. Inge burned Swain alive inside of his own home and reclaimed the throne for Christianity. It wasn't a particularly virtuous way for Christianity to make its mark. In the following decades, Christianity slowly spread into the countryside and cities. Still, areas of paganism held out. In 1123, the Norwegian king Sigurd declared a crusade against the small and region of Sweden, the last regional stronghold of old paganism in hopes of converting it. Conversion of the commoners. Of course, the conversion of the rulers to Christianity didn't mean all of their subjects instantly switched as well. The Christianization of the common people was a slow process that played out over centuries. Some people converted thanks to missionaries, others because they thought it could help them advance socially. A great number of people probably just accepted the changes around them and became Christian because their friends or family were. Conversion to Christianity could mean many things. Some people would declare themselves Christian because they were socially pressured by the nobility or community, but didn't believe it in private. There were sincere conversions, of course, but more Scandinavians probably sat somewhere in between. They might have found Christian beliefs more persuasive than old Norse ones, but that didn't mean they abandoned everything that came before either. Like all religious conversion, the new faith had to adapt to the society it was converting. Religious syncretism was the rule, as existing pagan practices were adapted into Christian belief. For example, Christians often built their churches and chapels near existing sacred places, and it wasn't a simple binary of Christian or pagan either. Many Christian converts still retained old pagan practices. People who professed a belief in Jesus Christ might still utter a prayer to prayer to bless their crops, or clutch an amulet of Thor for protection and battle. It would take centuries for these long standing traditions to truly fade away among regular people. We can't know exactly when the people of Scandinavia switched from majority pagan to majority Christian, but it was probably some time in the 12th century. By then, Christianity had established a permanent place in the North. Clearly, the papacy agreed as well, as Denmark received its first archbishopric at London in 1104, followed by Niederos and Norway in 1154, and then Uppsala in Sweden in 1164. It was a clear symbol that the Vikings of Old had turned their backs on Thor and Odin and established their place in the Christian world.