---
video_title: "Why isn't Michigan, Wisconsin, Indiana, Illinois and Ohio a part of Canada?"
video_id: 7gSRW8uTqJk
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7gSRW8uTqJk
video_date: 2026-06-27T14:21:41+00:00
video_description: |
  Play World of Warships for FREE: https://wo.ws/4egBcPg and redeem my code USA250 to get 500 Doubloons, 7 Days of Premium Account, 1,000,000 Credits, and the Stars 'N' Stripes camouflage
  
  
  The Complete History Edition Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9h7OjK629BU8pNtQo4Lz9Sx
  ♦Get EARLY ACCESS:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  Why isn't The Midwest a part of Canada? 
  
  Over 200 years ago, much of what we know as the American Midwest appeared to be on a trajectory toward becoming part of Canada.
  Once known as the Old Northwest, this vast region stretched from the area north of the Ohio River to the east of the Mississippi River. At this time, it wasn’t American at all, and was instead under the control of British Province Quebec following the signing of the Quebec Act, which significantly expanded Britain's borders deep into the North American continent.
  
  
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work and Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q/join
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  0:00 The Old Northwest
  0:34 Quebec Act Explained
  4:49 Treaty of Paris
  7:56 What If Britain Stayed
  9:01 Holding the Territory
  10:10 Northwest Ordinance
  11:55 War of 1812 & Legacy
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  potatohistory-us, johnathondwigans, MohitAgrawal-d9n, Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
---
Over 200 years ago, much of what we know as the American Midwest appeared to be on a trajectory towards becoming part of Canada. Once known as the Old Northwest, this vast region stretched from the area north of the Ohio River to the east of the Mississippi River. At this time, it wasn't American at all and was instead under the control of British province Quebec following the signing of the Quebec Act, which significantly expanded Britain's borders deep into the North American continent. But that creates the question, why didn't the Midwest become a part of Canada? Why was it handed to the newly formed United States and how close did we come to seeing a vastly different version of North America on maps? In 1773, Canada didn't exist as a country just yet, but a major part of the land we associate with it was primarily within the British colony known as the province of Quebec. Britain had gained control of these North American territories after defeating France in the Seven Years' War, inheriting not just land, but lucrative trade routes and beneficial alliances. To better manage their newly acquired territories, the British Parliament passed the Quebec Act, which, among other things, expanded the borders of the province of Quebec's southward into the Ohio Valley, placing much of the old Northwest under Quebec's administration. This included areas that today make up the states of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, and Michigan among others. By expanding Quebec's borders deep into the North American interior, much of what would later become the American Midwest was, on paper, governed as part of a British colony that would go on to form a core part of modern Canada. This wasn't a random decision, but was largely driven by an economic strategy that aims to maintain and profit from the existing fur trade. Previously, under French rule, the region had been tied together through well-established trade networks and alliances with indigenous nations. However, this caused immediate tension among the 13 colonies, which had long viewed the Ohio Valley as a natural path for westward expansion. By placing the region under Quebec's administration and restricting colonial access, Britain fuelled growing resentment. To many colonial Americans, the Quebec Act was far more than a mere boundary agreement. It was an attempt to limit their growth and influence, but it wasn't just about land. The Act also carried various cultural implications. It allowed the continuation of French civil law and even protected Catholic institutions in Quebec, which alarmed many of the Protestant colonists. To them, it appeared as if Britain was favoring the colonial French at their expense. It was in this environment that tensions reached a boiling point. The Quebec Act was condemned in the colonies and often grouped among the so-called intolerable acts, becoming one of the driving factors that eventually pushed the colonies toward open rebellion and ultimately a bloody war. And speaking of the United States early days, this video is brought to you by World of Warships. 2026 marks America's 250th anniversary. And World of Warships is celebrating with the dawn of a nation event, live June 17th through June 15th. It's a free-to-play naval combat game with hundreds of historically inspired ships, beautiful updated water and weather effects, and new live service content every month. Need to jump into with friends. This is the kind of heritage the event leans into. The USS Constitution is still the world's oldest commissioned warship of float. And here you get to battle through history. Earn exclusive rewards and celebrate the spirit that changed the world. Redeem my code USA250 and you unlock a million credits. 7 days premium 500 de bloons, the stars and stripes camo plus 2 premium American ships, the cruiser USS Albany and destroyer USS Smith. And an additional bonus for new players. Play 10 battles and pick a bonus ship. South Carolina, St. Louis or Wix. Click my link in the description and use code USA250 available for new or returning players. In console, it's world of warships legends. It's believed that as many as 50,000 people died over the course of the war. And in the end, the colonies managed to emerge victorious, securing their independence and forming the United States. With the war over, North America entered into a prolonged period of transformation, and its boundaries would be continuously redrawn over the next century. Almost immediately after the American Revolutionary War, peace negotiations were scheduled to take place in Europe, which culminated in the Treaty of Paris. American negotiators who traveled to Europe, including Benjamin Franklin, John Adams and John J, went with one ambitious goal in mind. To secure the Old Northwest and establish the Mississippi River as the western boundary of their newly formed confederation. But this was an incredibly bold demand. At the time, Britain still had many forts and a lot of influence throughout the Great Lakes region. In theory, it could have attempted to retain control of the Old Northwest, which would have set it on a trajectory to become part of modern Canada. However, surprisingly, this is not the path they took. Under the terms of the treaty, Britain ceded the Old Northwest, known at the time as the territory northwest of the River Ohio to the United States. The agreement established the Mississippi River as the western boundary of the US, and the Great Lakes as the northern boundary. The region included the land west of Pennsylvania, northwest of the Ohio River, and east of the Mississippi River. It comprised present day Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, and part of Minnesota. But why did the most powerful empire ever to exist refuse to try and hold on to the Old Northwest, especially considering how lucrative the trade networks in the region were? Well the answer is quite simple. It was exhausted from the war. This was both shocking and humiliating. The loss of the 13 colonies wasn't just symbolic. It was a severe political, financial, and military blow to the empire. Looking at it from this angle, it's easy to see why Britain didn't want to fight over the more distant and sparsely populated Old Northwest. It simply wasn't worth it. By seeding the Old Northwest, British officials hoped it would avoid any further conflict, and more importantly, preserve stable trade relations with the newly formed US Confederation. But there were also some geopolitical concerns. By granting the US relatively generous borders, Britain hoped this would form a stable relationship and potentially prevent the Americans from forming any kind of alliance with their long-time rival, France. Looking back, it's not hard to imagine a reality where things were different. If British politicians had taken a tougher stance, they might have drawn the new border at the Appalachian Mountains or even the Ohio River. In this hypothetical scenario, the Old Northwest would have remained part of British North America, and over time might have even been incorporated into Canada when it emerged as a nation less than a century later. This would have had serious consequences for the balance of power in North America. We know as the United States could have been a lot smaller and more confined to the east, whereas Canada would have controlled the Great Lakes and a lot of the continent's interior land. But in the end, the Americans managed to pull it off, and with the stroke of a pen, much of the territory that would be later called the Midwest fell under the dominion of the United States. But in the wake of this, a new problem emerged. Now did they plan to keep it? Towards the end of the 18th century, the United States technically owned the Old Northwest, but it lacked the resources to actually control it. On paper, the land was theirs, but in reality several problems existed, many of which started to threaten their control over the region. The Native American tribes living in the region, such as the Miami, Shawnee, Lenape, and Wyendot rejected the terms of the Treaty of Paris. From their perspective, the British had no right to give away their land. This resulted in the formation of the Western Confederacy, a powerful military alliance that resisted American expansion. At the same time, Britain had an entirely removed its presence from the area. The empire continued to occupy several strategic forts in the Old Northwest, such as Mackinac, Niagara, and Detroit. From these bases of operation, the British supplied the Western Confederacy with both arms and ammunition, hoping to maintain a buffer state between Canada and the US. Another major problem they faced was structural. At the time, the federal government had no power to implement a system of taxation due to the articles of Confederation. While it could request funds from the states, they weren't compelled to pay. As a result, there was a lack of reliable revenue, meaning there was no money to fund a standing army that could defend the frontier. A breakthrough came in 1787 with the Northwest's ordinance widely considered as one of the most important yet overlooked laws in American history. This ordinance created a system for transforming the Western lands into fully equal states, which meant they would no longer be treated as distant colonies but as integral parts of the United States. This paved the way for more migration to the region and better governance. The ordinance also banned slavery in the region, which helped shape its social and political character and public education and legal structures that mirrored those of the original states were also promoted. In effect, what would become the American Midwest wasn't just claimed it was systematically integrated into the United States, but it still needed to be protected. After all, migration to the region wouldn't help if the new settlers were constantly attacked by the Western Confederacy. These challenges, along with other political and financial issues, helped drive the creation of the United States Constitution and established a much stronger federal government that had the authority to collect taxes, regulate trade, and ultimately raise and support armies. This was a major shift, as now the government could fund military projects, build forts, and properly enforce its authority in the Western territories. American control was further solidified after the War of 1812. During the War, the American forces dealt a major blow to the Native American Confederacy led by Tecum Sa, whose death in 1813 marked a turning point. The following year, the Treaty of Gent was signed with both sides agreeing to return to pre-war borders. Had the United States failed to overcome these challenges, or even to populate the territory quickly, the story of the Midwest might have been different. A sparsely populated frontier could have appeared vulnerable, inviting Britain to reassert influence over the region from the North. It could have also become a buffer state, neither American nor Canadian, but somewhere in between. Today, the Midwest is one of the United States' largest and most important national regions. Comprising 12 states in the North Central part of the nation, it serves as a central hub between the East and West coasts. In the end, it wasn't just one moment that decided the fate of the Midwest, but instead a series of political choices, military wars, and economic priorities that all worked in America's favor, shaping the North American map as we know it today. If you'd like to help us keep creating and get early access to our videos behind the scenes content and other perks, consider becoming a member right here on YouTube or joining us on Patreon. Every bit of support helps, and as always, thank you so much for watching.