---
video_title: "France Never Became like The H.R.E | Here is Why"
video_id: -9Cx-U-V_yU
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-9Cx-U-V_yU
video_date: 2026-03-24T18:37:58+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦If you like Historical Maps, take a look here: https://knowledgia.co/
  High-resolution digital and framed maps inspired by the stories on this channel.
  
  ♦In the 14th century, France was a fractured kingdom fighting for survival. Four hundred years later, it controlled one of the largest empires on Earth, from the forests of Canada to the banks of the Mississippi. This is how France went from medieval chaos to global superpower: the Hundred Years' War, the rise of absolute monarchy, the Wars of Religion, and the age of exploration that planted the French flag in the heart of North America.
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work and Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q/join
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  Big thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  
  #History #Documentary
---
It's 1100 AD. France isn't a very united country yet, and if the king fails to pull it together, France doesn't become a superpower and could end up fragmented like the Holy Roman Empire. With the chaos caused by the breakup of the kingdom post-Charlemagne behind it, France through the following high middle ages was an increasingly unified and outward-looking nation. However, there was still much work to be done. The consolidation by the Capitian dynasty, who had drawn power to the center and away from regional nobles, helped lay the foundations for the next chapter. These were the defining centuries which included the age of the Crusades, as well as early large-scale internal European conflicts in the form of the Hundred Years War. Emerging chivalric codes, majestic Gothic architecture, and the first organized militaries and administrations would also occur in this defining period for France. An era which would ultimately launch her into the age of the ancient regime, global exploration and the Reformation. France at the turn of the 12th century was emerging increasingly as a nation, but its borders and authority were still a patchwork, far from the modern outline and was increasingly defined by differences with its neighbors and was ruled by a Christian king attempting to centralize power. However, it was still a fragmented kingdom with regional authorities continuing to hold significant power in places, the process would take some time. By 1100, Europe was firmly in the high medieval era with a transformation having taken place since the time of Charlemagne's rule, some 300 years previous, an agricultural revolution including in plowing technology had dramatically increased yields which in turn supported larger populations. This combined with urbanization to swell countless cities through the region creating population hubs served by more infrastructure and increasing labor specialization within them, but bigger populations also meant bigger pressure on land, on lords and on kings. For many of France's peasants, the 11th to 13th century were in fact easier than during the late medieval period. Due to increases in productivity and output, many were able to negotiate better terms with the landowners they rented from, with some leaving surfed them all together for the expanding cities. The use of a heavier plow which rested across animal shoulders rather than necks as a result of an innovative new harness design meant tracks of new land were opened up for farming which had previously been considered too rocky. This again increased food supply which combined with the proliferation of water and windmills throughout France during the period. These mills slashed the labor required to turn grains into flour, transforming a key process in staple food production. The violence which had so plagued West Francia in centuries prior through both external Viking raids and internal conflict was also on the decline. Many of the Viking raiders had now settled in Normandy becoming stakeholders in the region and movements like the peace and truce of God had contributed to a more general reduction in violence across society. This more stable platform allowed other areas to flourish which included the economy. It had increasingly transitioned away from a substance and bartering foundation to a more mercantile approach with broader regional trade networks. This increased affluence gave rise to more investments, businesses and jobs servicing these. All of this meant a very different operating environment for the population of 1100s Francia and in a calmer world. Kings could finally plan long term. King Lou the Sixth was another early capition who made great efforts to centralize power. A key precursor to the emergence of a modern nation. This was often achieved through force and a more conflictual approach with his subjects which may have created animosity but served to increase royal authority. These actions included taking on the robber balance who were powerful regional landowners operating with impunity within their territories. His success in reigning in these elements is symbolic of this broader tussle across not just West Francia but much of wider Europe. The high points of local nobles power had been reached. This was a new age of monarchic top down control where nobles were to know their place as below the king and never equal to him. Of significance, Louis was also among the first capition monarchs to issue ordinances intended to apply beyond his own royal domain, reaching wider parts of the kingdom. The precursor to royal decrees issued over the subjects of France, they were another stepping stone on the road to nationhood. But every push from the crown created enemies. This was the age of the crusades which were of great significance to West Francia. The period from 1147 to 1270 saw seven of the major crusades the second through the eighth with much of the religious fervor, manpower and supplies for them, originate in France. The geopolitical implications for the Levant region aside, for the emerging French nation, they helped deepen the place of religion in society, cement a national identity in the face of a foreign Islamic adversary as well as contributing to a more outward looking world view. The crusades furthered the military capabilities of the nation, providing lessons through combat and giving rise to more organized forces which would prove key to the wars of the coming centuries. It was also a means to channel violence outwards against external enemies which otherwise may have manifested internally. When combined with the previously mentioned peace and truce of God movements, it helped further solidify internal stability and important precursor to effective nation building. And once you build an army for Jerusalem, you can use it at home too. Another significant reign was that of Philip II between 1180 and 1223. Grandson to the reformer Louis the Sick, he would oversee more centralization with the power of regional barons and nobles further reduced, as well as deal with the grave threat from the English and their Angevin Empire. The Angevin Empire was not a single unified state. It was a cross-channel patchwork of lands personally ruled by the Plantanginic kings of England, especially Henry II from 1154 and his sons built through inheritance and Henry's 1152 marriage to Eleanor of Aquatame. It included England plus huge French v such as Normandy, Angeu and Aquatame. Meaning the King of England was also a duke and count inside France. The catch was feudal. For those French lands in feudal law he owed homage to the King of France, so France's most dangerous neighbor was technically also its vassal. At the time of Philip's ascent to the throne, the Angevin's comprised large portions of France. With his success at the Battle of Bovines in 1214, he reasserted French control over a large area, bolstered his own royal authority greatly and severely weakened his English rivals for a period. Alongside his reforms and development of the state, he oversaw a period of economic prosperity and growth of the middle class. All of this helps to transform France into the dominant power in Europe of the period. From the late 12th century onward, he also increasingly titled himself King of France rather than the Franks, another sign of the development of the nation. One victory and suddenly the map of Europe changed. The tussle between regional and central power in this period can also be seen in the infamous Alba Jensian Crusade, which occurred between 1209 and 1229. Overtly, it aims to destroy the dualist Christian Cathar sect, which had gained a strong following in southern France. However, it also very much served the material purpose of reducing regional power and extending the influence of the monarch. The area in which the Cathar group was strongest was administrative by previously autonomous local leaders, including Count Raymond of Toulouse. Here, crown authority had been marginal, and Raymond generally followed a policy of pragmatic tolerance, allowing the Cathar's space to practice their faith often tied to asceticism and apostolic ideals. It was a strict and uncompromising religious movement, sharply at odds with the Catholic churches top down and centralized approach. This provided all the more reason for the church in Rome to want to crush the Cathars. As having it spread further from its heartlands could in time pose an existential risk to the central Catholic church. Hence the bloody alliance in their crusade, the Pope and northern French nobles, with a French crown later intervening more directly under Louis VIII, which remains one of the cruellyst internal European campaigns in history. The Holy War is fought inside France. In the wake of the devastation wrought by the crusade, widespread civilian suffering at the hands of the crusader armies made the job of reasserting royal authority in the chaos which followed simpler. In this way, large parts of the south, from Albe to Toulouse, were made far more loyal crown dependencies. So whether gains through warfare with a pier state as in the Angevin saga, or through crusading against one's own population, as in the Cathar case, both led to the same result of increasing the power of the crown and cementing the monarchic basis of the state. At the time of the reign of Louis IX, the benefits of these bloody years were being felt. With much of the south now absorbed under royal authority, and the English king finally recognising the French crown's authority over the Duchy of Aquitaine, essentially Guien and Gascini, held as a French Fife, Louis would become the most significant landowner in France. After that, internally, he would oversee a host of reforms in legal and civic areas, helping establish the precedent for a monarch's increasing role here. These included the phasing out of trials by ordeal where guilty or innocent verdict was achieved through varying degrees of torture, the expansion of royal bailiff offices, as well as the principle of presumption of innocence in French law, through his remarkably long reign. King Louis would also oversee a Renaissance in French society with magnificent feats of architecture constructed, including defining Gothic cathedrals of the era. Regarding as a fair and pious ruler, he was also respected throughout Europe, all of this contributed to France reaching the peak of its medieval power and influence during this period. A pioneering nation in Europe leading the way, while others remain fragmented territories or in the case of England with a monarch freshly reigned in by the Magna Carta. Externally though, Louis had less success. His attempts during the Seventh Crusade ended in disaster with him captured and eventually ransomed back. And it was during the Eighth Crusade that he would die of dysentery in 1270 at Tunis. He was a tragedy for the French. The Crusading curse would remain with his son Philip III, who would likewise die during the Arganese Crusade in Aragon. However, his son, successor Philip IV, would enjoy more success. Carrying on the legacy of his grandfather Louis IX, he expanded and strengthened the Parliament of France and carried out a wide range of other reforms. He made pioneering use of early civil servants to further rein in the power and wealth of regional nobles, which further boosted the power of the monarch. By taking a much more active role in the dispensing and control of feudal privileges, primarily land granted to regional nobles, he was further able to make the role of monarch unchallengeable and pave the way for a fully centralized early modern state. As part of this consolidation of power, he also attempted to eradicate the Knights Templar, a powerful crusading-era organization which had amassed a great deal of wealth and power in France at the time. Accused of heresy among other things, large numbers were subsequently put to death. This included their leader, Jacques Dumolais, who was burned at the state on the Il-Ojouifs in the Sén in Paris. These charges were more than likely cover for the real motive, which was a power grab by King Philip and removal of another semi-autonomous group, not to mention he owed the group significant amounts of money. With the Templars mostly gone, dynastic winds of change were blowing in again though. As the mighty Carolingian line of Charlemagne before it, the Capitans' time in power too was coming to an end. It had enjoyed over 340 years as the ruling house of France. However, the death of Charles IV in 1328 with no male heir meant the line was terminated. He was succeeded by first cousin Philip VI from the rival Valois dynasty. This new royal house would continue to provide the monarchs of France for more than 250 years until their own suppression by the Bourbon House, the last royal line of consequence for France, leading right up to the days of the revolution. But more on that later in the series. And then comes the war that will chew France up for over a century. Not long after this dynastic shift, a major confrontation was brewing with its rival. England. The kings of England still held territory inside France, and for those lands they were technically vassals and owed homage to the French king. That arrangement, formalized in 1259, meant constant friction over rights, courts, power and control. Because a sovereign king in England could still be summoned as a duke in France. Then the dynastic fused caught fire in 1328. When Charles IV died without a male heir, the French crown was passed to Philip VI, but Edward III of England had a strong blood claim through his mother Isabella. Charles's sister. Edward initially accepted Philip and did homage in 1329. But disputes over the English held duchy of Aquitaine, Gien and Gaskini, and royal authority escalated until Philip moved to confiscate Edward's French lands in 1337. In response, Edward went to war, and in 1340 revived his claim to the French throne, turning a legal feud into open war. What had been small scale conflicts between the parties in the 1200s would soon turn into large scale pit spattles with the breakout of the Hundred Years War. This conflict was a bloody new chapter of European warfare involving the deployment of larger armies and large scale use of new components, such as the English Longbowmen. In the early phase, French hopes were shaken by defeat at sea and disaster on land, with a naval defeat at Sloyce in 1340, and then things would take a turn at the Battle of Cressy. Edward III's army deployed defensively on a gentle slope north of the town. Infantry and archers were positioned to cover the entire distance between Cressy and Wadacourt. King Edward maintained overall control from the rear, intending to force the enemy to attack on unfavorable terms. The English army numbered up to 15,000 men. The French army under Philip VI may have been twice that size. Pressed by circumstances and the overconfidence of its troops, the King chose not to rest for the night and attacked immediately. First sent forward with a Genoese crossbowmen, who engaged the Welsh and English Longbowmen from the lower ground. Conditions for these mercenaries were far from ideal, and they soon retreated. Advancing behind them was the first attachments of French men and arms, who forced their way through the Italians without regard for their allies. This confusion, combined with the uphill charge, potholes, mud, and raining projectiles, contributed to a disorganized attack. Units entered the field in an uneven sequence, crowding the low ground below the English position and reducing cohesion at the moment of contact. French cavalry charged repeatedly while sustaining continuous archery fire. Horses fell, formations broke apart, and subsequent waves collided with those already in retreat or disorder. The attacks failed to gain momentum, and the fighting devolved into brutal, close combat. As the battle continued, the field became increasingly congested with fallen men and animals. Stating Philip himself narrowly escaped death. By nightfall, resistance had collapsed. The French force was decimated, in large part, by devastating English Longbow fire. With a significant portion of the army wiped out, it would take decades for France to regain the initiative in this long-running conflict. The merciless slaughter at Cressy, with wave after wave of French mounted knights cut down by bowfire or by dismounted English-managed arms if they had the stamina to reach enemy lines can be seen as an interesting turning point, not just in the conflict, but for the broader age of chivalry which had existed through Europe. This included romantic chivalric literature which had dominated French society through the 12th and 13th centuries alongside ideals of nightly honor, responsibility towards the week and epitomized by French kings like Louis IX. It also saw the rapid rise of tournaments and jousting with events around these activities becoming parts of the social fabric. There was none of this honor or one-on-one combat idealism with increasingly mechanized slaughter, though. The nature of warfare had changed, with the need for knights gradually reduced in favor of large standing armies, and with it the erosion of much of the accompanying culture. The arrival of the Black Death in France in 1347 also aided this process, reshaping society with a round of third to perhaps half of the total European population killed by it between 1347 and 1352. Despite the carnage, France would recover, and by the 1370s be back on the ascent in the long-running conflict with the English. As if war wasn't enough, the plague arrives. These pivotal centuries had seen the rise of the new capition ruling dynasty and their successful efforts in consolidating power. This in turn helped bolster a central state and lay the groundwork for the early modern nation. It had been a period of contrasts, too, with a focus on a reduction in societal violence through movements like the peace and truce of God, but also great bloodletting with internal campaigns such as the merciless albedegency in Crusade. A cultural renaissance in France documented in Gothic architecture, yet a period of mass slaughter on the killing fields of the Hundred Years War. Undoubtedly, though. From this period of torment and transformation had emerged a bedrock of a modern nation state, a French kingdom ruled centrally by a Christian monarch, who, now for the most part, had the loyalty of his regional nobles. This was the basis on which France would engage with the world through the remaining medieval period, her bitter wars with England and the incoming age of empire. France did not rise in a straight line. At one point, the kingdom came so close to collapse that a treaty tried to hand its crown to England, then in the middle of siege, plague, and civil hatred, a young outsider walks into history and the direction of the war shifts. But that was only the first shot. Because when the fighting with England finally fades, France does not find peace. It finds something worse, a country at war with itself. So how does a battered divided France turn into a global empire and what did it cost to get there? The transformative period from the late 14th to the 17th centuries saw France emerging from the devastation of the Hundred Years War and building a recovery into the new dynamic era of the Renaissance. However, conflict was never far away and with the emergence of Protestantism, new, Europe-wide wars of religion would take another devastating toll on the nation. However, by the late 16th century, with Henry IV on the throne, a policy of religious toleration formalized in the edict of Nantes, helped stabilize internal dynamics and launch France into the colonial era and a new outward-looking global age. Emerging from years of a brutal plague and in the midst of the Hundred Years War with rival England, these were trying times for the nation. The Treaty of Bretonny in 1360 brought brief respite from the conflict and time for France to lick her wings from crushing defeats at Cressie and Poitier over the preceding years until War resumed in 1369. With the reign of John II giving way to Charles V, France though would see its fortunes rise. Charles successfully recaptured much of the territory previously taken during the conflict with England in 1388, holding on to just a few pockets of land around Calais and a handful of coastal strong points, including Bordeaux rather than the broad swathes lost earlier in the war. In achieving this, Charles V had reversed the losing trend and boosted national morale, which had been ground down by years of losses. Alongside his successful management of the conflict, Charles V also had a significant internal impact on the nation. This included steps towards more professional, regular supervised forces and efforts to curb the free companies, which removed the need for bans of unruly mercenaries who had flourished previously. Though the clearest crown-led standardization of recruitment, supervision and pay came later under Charles VII, notably through ordinances beginning in 1439. Other activities during time off from service had often included pillaging rural areas which understandably upset local populations. Reduction of the economic deficit was achieved as well as internal reforms strengthening the state and the wake of the devastation of the Black Death. These helped stabilize the nation and consolidate Valois House rule, of which Charles himself was only the second monarch, so by no means yet a secured dynasty. However, despite his best efforts, they would not account for the poor leadership of his son, a trend seen now all too often over the previous centuries. Charles VI succeeded his father at 11 years old. He was initially under the custodian ship of his two uncles, however, no sooner had he begun to forge his own path at the age of 20 that mental illness struck. Charles VI began asserting personal rule in 1388, his first major attack struck in 1392, and he would suffer from bouts of mania and delusion for the remainder of his life, seriously affecting his ability to rule. Consequently, during his turbulent reign, many of the territorial gains secured by his father were lost to a resurgent England. This losing trend would climax at the Battle of Aging Court, where in October 1415 France suffered one of its most famous military defeats of the war. Despite being numerically inferior, English forces made effective use of the Longbow, with as many as 80% of their troops in this role, with English archers forming the bulk of the army in many accounts, firing off huge volumes of arrows at ranges greater than the French archers were capable of, the English were given a distinct advantage. At the end of the proceedings, up to 6,000 French lay dead. This included a significant portion of the French nobility from across the nation, which would have its own local impacts on regional governance and land ownership. The decisive defeat led King Charles VI to agree to harsh peace terms with English king Henry V, which essentially signed over rights to the French throne to England following his death. These terms were later formalized in the Treaty of Troyes in 1420, which recognized Henry V and his heirs as successors and disinherited the Dauphin. This was a situation not encountered even at the height of the Ingevon Empire's territorial hold over French territory and would take a capable monarch to address. The man tasked with this was Charles VII. Inheriting the legacy of his father's troubled reign, he would manage to turn the tide of the war with England and with it the fate of the nation. This was seen most dramatically in the lifting of the siege of Orleans, which involves the notable contribution of the soon to be later celebrated as a national heroine of the nation Joan of Arc. The English had besieged the important city in 1428 and it looked likely to fall. It wasn't until the arrival of Joan, the peasant who said she was guided by visions that fortunes would turn. She had sought direct permission from King Charles VII to pursue her mission of driving back the English, and within days of her entering the city, the French forces inside had managed to break out and end the siege. After she entered Orleans on April 30th, 1429, a series of aggressive assaults followed, and by May 8th, the English withdrew, a turning point both militarily and psychologically. While Joan's exact role remains unclear, she clearly had a significant effect on troop morale, which was relevant, not just to Orleans, but the remainder of the war, her value, was a symbol for the nation and rallying point for an emerging nationalism was even greater. Capitalizing on this national victory and momentum, Charles would be crowned in Rams' capital in 1429 with Joan of Arc in attendance as a standard bearer. The next decades were characterized by a decline in English fortunes with Spain recapturing much of its lost territory. This process would culminate at the Battle of Formigny in 1450. Here, the English force was shattered, with many killed or captured. This was compounded in 1453 by another decisive French victory at the Battle of Castille, this time in Aquatame. With a similar number of English killed or captured, it dealt a fatal blow to their remaining capabilities. Both of these engagements saw some of the earliest deployments of new artillery technology, which, though used in Sieges previously, had never been deployed effectively in mobile battle before. It would go on to become a defining feature of all subsequent European warfare. Though Castille on brought an end to hostilities, the war wouldn't be formally concluded until the settlement at Piquini in 1475, and England would still retain Calais until 1558. A great success overseen by Charles VII and an important stepping stone for the nation. In contrast to this bloody conflict which had been playing out for over a century, the Renaissance had also been gathering pace. Though France would take some decades to recover from the effects of the war, but the end of the 15th and early 16th centuries, it was fully involved in this now Europe-wide movement. Spreading out from the developed Italian city-states, the Renaissance placed a renewed emphasis on classic literature and great works from the period, ushering in a flourishing of the arts, sciences, and other areas of civic life. It brought about an architectural transition from pure Gothic to Renaissance styles, seen across churches and other grand buildings of the era. The influence of great masters such as Leonardo da Vinci was also felt, with his designs featured in a well-known double helix style staircase at Chateau de Chambore, often linked to Leonardo in later tradition, though the attribution is debated. He in fact took up residence in France at the request of King Francis I himself, at the Chateau de Clolouse in 1516. Here, the now frail old man would reportedly arrive with masterpieces including the Mona Lisa, which it is believed he brought with him and continued to refine in France, a later tradition but symbolic of Francis' place in this important movement. This was a new age, with an increased emphasis placed on humanism and man's reasoning ability, marking a turning point from some of the superstitions of previous eras. New universities were established, which in turn helped to cement Francis' place as a major center of education. This was supported by the rise of new technologies, such as the printing press, which allowed for the dissemination of literature much more widely than before. While for the rural poor, the effects were less widely felt than the urban middle and upper classes, a key impact which reached them was the growth of regional towns and cities. These had been fueled by a boom in Renaissance trade and provided exit options for those wishing to leave the agricultural economy. Over the coming centuries, many would take this route, swelling the racks of the urban poor and growing towns across the country. Many would eventually transition into the newly springing up trades, which were represented by their numerous trade guilds. These were often powerful groups and included artisans such as masons, blacksmiths, carpenters, and others. Another less direct result of the Renaissance, which would certainly be felt nationwide and across social classes, was the emerging Protestant faith. Unsurprisingly, the Renaissance period with its increased emphasis on reason and man's individual capability to apply it had led many to taking this approach towards religion and biblical study. In turn, this had seen the rise of a more personal interpretation of the faith with authority received directly through scripture rather than mediated by the church in the middle. The printing press and growing access to personal bibles and people's native languages instead of Latin also fuels the trend. This emerging religious movement would see a huge shift across Europe and usher in a period of violent religious wars. In stark contrast to Renaissance ideals, which had dominated for the previous period, this oncoming cycle of conflict would cause heavy loss of life and contribute to severe economic strain for France. Protestantism had been ushered in by initial figures like Martin Luther in Germany with others such as Frenchman John Calvin subsequently taking up a cause. By the mid-16th century, it had gathered a significant following and posed a serious threat to the Catholic Church, far greater than the Cathar Heresy suppressed in the medieval Alba Gension crusade. Though repression had been ongoing against Protestants since the 1530s, under the otherwise liberal France is the first, the situation would erupt into broader conflict in 1562 following the massacre at Vasse. Here, Catholic troops killed Protestant worshipers leading to a complex series of violent outbreaks across the country over the coming decades. The conflict also saw the involvement of many outside states. These included Spain and the Papacy on the Catholic side and support from England, the Dutch and some German Protestant princes on the Huguenot side, illustrating the pan-European nature of this schism. The Wars of Religion left death toll estimates that vary widely, with some estimates running into the millions, once famine and diseases are included. Considering France's population was around 16 million total in 1560, this was a devastating proportion. Wars were overseeing by the last three kings from the Valois House, with it helping to cement the end of the dynasty. Henry III was the last of these, and befitting of the turbulent times was assassinated by an individual motivated by religion. His replacement was a distant cousin, the King of Navarre. It would assume the title of Henry IV and the French Crown in 1589, and to many in France's dismay, maintain his Protestant faith. He did so for four years, resisting the efforts of the Catholic League until eventually choosing to convert to Catholicism. He was reported as saying of this that Paris is well worth a mass. A pragmatic approach, and an example of the pragmatic statesmanship he would display throughout his reign. Crucially, Henry would issue the Edict of Nance in 1598, which ended the Wars of Religion by granting Protestants the right to practice their faith, another pragmatic choice which drew to a close the bloody chapter, allowing France to rebuild as a nation and begin to look outwards again into the 17th century. A new age was now upon Europe. That of global exploration. Columbus' discovery of the Americas in 1492 had opened the floodgates to discoveries here, alongside new areas of interest along the coast of West Africa and increasingly Asia. While France had played a role in these early chapters with pioneers like Jacques Cartier establishing a French stake in the St. Lawrence area, it had been the Spanish ruler under the Habsburg dynasty who had dominated this early colonial period. With their lucrative colonies in Central and South America, they bolstered their position in Europe. However, with France now emerging from the chaos of the previous decades and with a recovering economy, they were in a position to develop their colonial assets. This included their primary focus on North America and increasing hold over the Great Lakes region, which also encompassed areas of the West Indies and increasingly lucrative plantation colonies reliant on enslaved labor there. For the time of the death of the second bourbon monarch, Louis XIII, in 1643, new France was still primarily a series of trading posts. The population of French settlers was still only in the hundreds, and most of the work collecting the prized beaver pelt was done by native allies whom French traders then purchased from. Under the reign of Louis XIV, though, and with increased state measures to boost settlement, this began to change. In the 1680s, settlers drove south, opening up the Louisiana area to the French crown, which would remain a core part of new France for nearly a century. In 1682, René Robert Cavaillet, Sier de la Salle, claimed the Mississippi basin for France as Louis XI and subsequent decades saw expanding French movement and fortbuilding through the interior. Collectively, France's rapidly expanding colonial holdings helped bring in wealth to the crown, repairing economic damage from the previous century, as well as cementing the nation's place as a powerful global player. Alongside the decline of the Habsburg since their loss in the 30 years war, and Spain's fall from dominance in Europe, new opportunities were opening up for the ascended France. Louis XIV's long reign of over 70 years helped capitalize on these opportunities, despite also being described as a high point of absolute monarchical power. At home, he was an active reformer, modernizing the state and centralizing the greatest amount of power around a monarch yet achieved. Nobles already diminished influence was further reduced at Louis's gain, as was that of the church. This further cemented absolute power in the monarch's hand, and along with many of Louis' court's splendor and scale at Versailles in many ways contributed to long-term pressures that would later feed into revolution. On the religious front, he revoked many Protestant rights in the Edict of Fontenbleu in 1685. While the motivations for this aren't fully clear, it rode back much of the peacemaking carried out by his grandfather and first bourbon monarch Henry IV, who granted these rights to end the bloody French Wars of Religion. As a result, many Protestants converted to Catholicism, while a significant other number of Huguenots fled to either other Protestant-European states or the Americas. These had been centuries of great transformation, from facing a profound crisis with Charles VI nearly signing over the kingdom to the English at the height of the Hundred Years' War to a France now projecting power globally and centrally controlled by a powerful ruler. The previously autonomous regional nobles had been largely reigned in, and an intricate state apparatus was developing. Into the next era, and the 1700s, France would rise to the height of its global power. However, new challenges lay ahead, with the revolution and Napoleon soon to follow. The maps in our videos, those are the light versions. For our shop, we take the same research and go all in. Finer linework, higher resolution, extra texture, geographic details that would get lost in a video. These are built for people who want the real thing, something you can reference, hang up or just own, because it's the version we actually want it to make. The kind of map you don't scroll past, you keep. Check your favorite on our website at knowledgeia.co, or by clicking the link in the description.