---
video_title: "Why Anatolia didn't Become a part of the Arab Caliphate?"
video_id: OYQzLP1PGLc
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OYQzLP1PGLc
video_date: 2026-06-11T14:26:47+00:00
video_description: |
  Learn faster and retain more with Recall - use my code Knowledgia25 for 25% off a subscription: https://www.recall.it/?t=knowledgia 
    Have you been listening? See if you can top the leaderboard of my quiz: https://app.recall.it/c/1c2edb1b-2a96-5d42-96d3-cb3d77a6c6d4
  
  Watch the Entire Playlist here: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9jamsXtYkz-rXj175Qf_IXu
  
  Why didn't the Arabs Conquer Constantinople ?
  
  The onslaught of the Arab Caliphates and repeated infighting in the 7th century had forced the Roman Empire into a desperate fight for survival, making it necessary to adapt and reform in order to adjust to the state's new strategic situation. 
  Emperor Leo III was now faced with an imminent Arab invasion, as a massive army under the Umayyad Caliph Sulayman's half-brother, Maslama ibn Abd al-Malik, had already crossed the Taurus mountains the previous year and was marching directly on Constantinople
  
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work and Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q/join
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  potatohistory-us, johnathondwigans, MohitAgrawal-d9n, Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  ♦Sources :
  
  Primary Sources
  The Alexiad by Anna Komnene
  History of the Wars: The Persian War by Procopius
  History of the Wars: The Vandalic Wars by Procopius
  History of the Wars: The Gothic War by Procopius
  The Secret History by Procopius
  The Chronicle by Ioannes Skylitzes
  Chronographia by Michael Psellus
  The History by Leon the Deacon
  The History by Michael Attaleiates
  The Chronicle by Matthew of Edessa
  
  Secondary Sources
  Abulaifa, D. (2011) The Great Sea: A Human History of the Mediterranean, Oxford, Oxford University Press
  Arnold, J., et al. (eds.) (2016) A Companion to Ostrogothic Italy, Leiden, Brill
  Browning, R. (1992) The Byzantine Empire: Revised Edition, Washington D.C., The Catholic University of America Press 
  Bartusis, M. C. (1992) The Late Byzantine Army: Arms and Society, 1204-1453, Philadelphia, University of Pennsylvania Press
  Christie, N. (2006) From Constantine to Charlemagne: An Archaeology of Italy AD 300-800, London, Routledge
  Cameron, A. (2011) The Mediterranean World in Late Antiquity AD 395-700, New York, Taylor & Francis Group
  Crawford, P. (2013) The War of the Three Gods: Romans, Persians and the Rise of Islam, Barnsley, Pen & Sword Books 
  Carr, J. (2018) The Komnene Dynasty: Byzantium's Struggle for Survival 1057-1185, Barnsley, Pen & Sword Books
  edit. Cosentio, S. (2021) A Companion to Byzantine Italy, Leiden, Brill
  Dawson, T. (2007) Warrior 118: Byzantine Infantryman, Oxford, Osprey Publishing
  Dawson, T. (2009) Warrior 139: Byzantine Cavalryman c. 900-1204, Oxford, Osprey Publishing
  D'Amato, R. (2016) Men-at-Arms 502: Byzantine Naval Forces 1261-1461, Oxford, Osprey Publishing
  Evans, J.A. (2002) The Empress Theodora: Partner of Justinian, Austin, University of Texas Press
  Evans, J.A. (2011) The Power Game in Byzantium: Antonina and the Empress Theodora, London and New York, Continuum Books
  Elton, H. (2018) The Roman Empire in Late Antiquity: A Political and Military History, Cambridge, Cambridge University Press
  Farrokh, K. (2007) Shadows in the Desert: Ancient Persia at War, Oxford, Osprey Publishing
  Farrokh, K. (2017) The Armies of Ancient Persia: The Sassanians, Barnsley, Pen & Sword Books 
  Goldsworthy, A. (2004) In the Name of Rome: The men who won the Roman Empire, London, Phoenix
  Heath, I. (1995) Men-at-Arms 287: Byzantine Armies 1118-1461, Oxford, Osprey Publishing
  Haldon, J. (2002) Essential Histories 33: Byzantium At War, Oxford, Osprey Publishing 
  Hughes, I. (2009) Belisarius: The Last Roman General, Yorkshire, Pen & Sword Books
  Harris, J. (2010) The End of Byzantium, New Haven and London, Yale University Press
  Heather, P. (2018) Rome Resurgent: War and Empire in the Age of Justinian, Oxford, Oxford University Press
  Jacobsen, T.C. (2009) The Gothic War: Justinian’s Campaign to Reclaim Italy, Yardley, Westholme Publishing
  Kneale, M. (2017) Rome: A History in Seven Sackings from the Gauls to the Nazis, London, Atlantic Books
  Lee, A.D. (2013) From Rome to Byzantium AD 363 to 565: The Transformation of Ancient Rome, Edinburgh, Edinburgh University Press 
  Kaldellis, A. (2017) Streams of Gold, Rivers of Blood: The Rise and Fall of Byzantium, 955 A.D to the First Crusade, Oxford, Oxford University Press
  
  
  0:00 20 Years of Anarchy
  3:25 Leo III Takes Power
  6:33 Arabs Besiege Constantinople
  9:00 The Siege Collapses
  10:11 Roman Counteroffensive
  12:03 Constantine V's Reforms
  17:40 Charlemagne & Irene
  
  #History #Documentary
---
The onslaughts of the Arab caliphates and repeated infighting in the 7th century had forced the Roman Empire into a desperate fight for survival. The Empire was in deep trouble, and just a shadow of what had been a century prior. At the end of the tumultuous century, the rise of Emperor Leoncius in 695 AD would herald a period remembered as the 20 years of anarchy, seeing the Empire weakened even further by internal unrest. The Emperor Leoncius was able to hold on to power for only a few years, and his reign was chiefly marked by the Arabs finally reaching the western provinces and invading Africa, where they conquered its ancient capital of Carthage in 696 AD. Though the city was retaken the following year, the Arabs were able to regroup and seize Carthage yet again in 698. This led to the fall of almost the entirety of the Exocate of Africa, save for the remote fortress of Septum. Leoncius was deposed and exiled shortly after this defeat by Tiberius III, commander of the army sensed to retake Carthage, who ascended as the new Emperor. Leoncius' usurper proved to be just as incapable and undistinguished as the man he had overthrown, and found himself opposed in 705 AD by Justinian II, who now returned from exile in Crimea with the backing of the Bulgars, promising them tribute should they aid him and retake the throne. Justinian swiftly took Constantinople and had both Tiberius and Leoncius executed, after which he embarked on a bitter campaign of vengeance against his political rivals, which distracted the empire enough for the Arabs to gain yet more ground in Anatolia between 708 and 710 AD. The unpopular Justinian was then deposed and executed by the usurper Philippicus in 711 AD, who was now faced by wars with the Arab Umayyad caliphate in the east, as well as Justinian's old Bulgar allies in the west. At the same time, Septum, the last stronghold in North Africa, fell to the Arabs after holding out for several years. Like his predecessors in this crisis, however, Philippicus's greatest threat came from within his own empire, and he was deposed and exiled less than two years after coming to power, following a mutiny by the obsicion theme in 713 AD, who supported Anatius II as emperor. During this period, Anatius discovered that the Arabs were planning a major attack on Constantinople itself and began preparations for a siege, but he was deposed after a brief civil war in 715 AD by the usurper Theodosius III, again with the support of the influential obsicion theme. The new emperor quickly negotiated a peace treaty with the Bulgers, planning to focus his efforts on the Arabs much like his predecessor. Unfortunately for Theodosius, he too proved unable to hold onto power for long, and in 717 AD, faced a rebellion from Leo, a talented soldier from Isoria, and the commander of the Anatolicon theme, who was also backed by the Armenia con theme under Artovastus. Leo was able to swiftly seize control of Constantinople after Theodosius abdicated, bringing an end to the 20 years of anarchy and marking the ascent of the Isorian dynasty. The second Arab siege of Constantinople If you're watching this, you've probably gone down more history rabbit holes than you can count. The fall of Rome, the rise of the Mongols, obscure wars, then a week later, you can barely remember the details. Here's the bigger problem though. You could ask Chatchy-P-T about any of those topics, but they'd give you generic answers from the internet. They don't know what you've been watching. Your trusted sources, your knowledge is invisible to your AI. That's what recall our sponsor solves. A personal knowledge base with one click, you can save any video, article, podcast, or PDF, and it automatically summarizes, organizes and connects it to everything else I saved. So this video on the fall of the Western Roman Empire connects to this other video on why did the East survive. But with the new recall 2.0 update, your knowledge base now powers your AI. Talk to everything you've saved, the internet, or both at the same time. You have the choice and the control. Choose the model, Clodge, GPT, Gemini, and choose what to talk to. Say I'm researching a video on the fall of Rome. I can ask, across my saved notes, research, and history videos, what are the main theories for why Rome fell? And what does newer scholarships say about them? It blends my own material with the internet sources in a single answer. Or I can ask, in that knowledgeia video I saved last week, where exactly was the part about the internal instability behind Rome's decline? And it finds that exact moment for me. With recall, I'm able to access and learn from my knowledge in a way I had never thought of before. In fact, I can even make a quiz and recall on today's video, and I want to see how much you actually retained. It's a public challenge. The link is in the description. Top the leaderboard if you can. I'll be watching. Try recall for yourself for free, or use my code knowledgeia25 for 25% off. Emperor Leo III was now faced with an imminent Arab invasion, as a massive army under the Umayyad Caliph Suleiman's half-brother, Maslama Ibn Ab-Al-Malik had already crossed the Taurus mountains the previous year and was marching directly on Constantinople. Maslama's ground forces are said to have numbered anywhere between 120,000 to 200,000 men, while his fleet boasted 1,800 vessels. However much the figure may have been exaggerated. It is evidence that this campaign represented a major commitment from the Caliphate. With the Romans having been weakened and distracted by several years of infighting, they proved unable to offer any meaningful resistance to the Arab advance, as they besieged the capital on August 717 AD, pitching their main camp at Hebdumon. After establishing their siege the Arabs attempted to storm the Theodosian walls later in the month, but were bloodily repelled by the defenders. The Arabs then started to rage the countryside for supplies, as well as to eliminate Roman outposts in the area, while their fleet arrived at the start of September to block caves of the city. A detachment of the Arab navy was ambushed a few days after this by Roman warships outfitted with Greek fire, and as in the previous siege these incendiary weapons proved very effective. Skirmishes at both land and sea between the Romans and Arabs continued on a regular basis, but a third party now entered the siege. The Bulgars had no desire to see the Arabs extend their influence further west and started to harass their siege lines, winning a pitched battle against them in the autumn. Now caught between the resolute Roman defenders and the Bulgar army, the Arab siege became gradually more difficult to maintain. In October one of the senior Arab commanders was killed, and as winter came, Maslamah found his logistical problems quickly increasing. Food became difficult to forage, especially since the Bulgars remained active in the area, and disease started to take a heavy toll on the Arabs as well. Hope for the besiegers came in the spring of 718 however, as Arab reinforcements were sent from Egypt and Africa by sea, and a second army crossed the tourist mountains in Anatolia by land under the general Mardison, while foraging for food would now become easier. However, before their reinforcements could arrive by sea, they were intercepted by the Roman navy, whose Greek fire once again gave them the advantage in battle. This was followed by the mass desertion of the Coptic Christian sailors in Maslamah's fleet, who had been conscripted into the Arab navy. Leo was also able to send a force of his own to Bethinia from the capital, which linked up with troops from the Absequion theme, and then ambushed and routed Mardison's army somewhere between Libos and Safan. In the wake of these disasters, the Arab fleet was unable to maintain its blockade any longer, giving the Romans control of the sea. In August 718 AD, with nothing to show for his efforts, Maslamah received orders from the new caliph Umar II to retreat. Even this was not the end of the Arabs's woes, as they were next ambushed by the bulgers as they marched through Thrace, suffering significant casualties. To compound this setback even further, the Arab fleet transporting Maslamah and his surviving troops back to the caliphate territory was caught in a series of storms, leading to only five ships surviving and the loss of most of his huge army. Constantinople had survived yet again, and the Roman Empire along with it. The Defence of the Empire The victory at Constantinople allowed the Romans to go on the offensive against the Arabs, and within a year they launched a naval raid into northern Syria and were pressuring enemy strongholds in Armenia. There was a brief attempt by some of Leo's enemies to restore the exiled Anastasius II as Emperor with support from the bulgers, but when the conspirators failed to gain support from Constantinople, their bulger allies deserted them and they were captured and executed. Another controversial issue within the empire during Leo's reign was the Emperor's support of iconoclism, which banned the worship of idols and icons in order to bring people closer to God and his removal of such objects from churches. However, the Eastern Church had a long tradition of venerating such icons, and this would prove to be a lasting issue in the empire. Between 721 and 739 AD, the Arabs launched several more incursions into Anatolia as their military strength gradually recovered, but they were only able to make minimal progress, and Leo was able to successfully deal with the few instances of rebellion among the themes. The Emperor died in 741 AD after a long reign marked by many victories over Rome's enemies. Though his controversial religious policies meant he was remembered less fondly by contemporary's despite his achievements. Leo's son and successor, Constantine V, was almost immediately faced by a revolt led by his father's old ally, Artovastis, now the commander of the Epsichion theme, who defeated the Emperor in battle in Anatolia and seized Constantinople. However, he in turn was besieged in the capital by troops loyal to Constantine and forced to surrender in 743 AD, after which he was blinded and exiles to a monastery. This marked the fifth time that the Epsichion theme had rebelled, and it became clear to Constantine that change was needed. His reign marked another important reform in the Roman military, with a creation of the Tagmada, probably sometime between 743 and 745 AD, which became the second main branch of the Imperial Army, alongside the thematic troops in the provinces. Unlike the themada, the Tagmada were compromised entirely of full-time professional soldiers and were based around Constantinople itself at the side of the Emperor, whose main reason for creating this new branch of military was to try and limit the ability of the themes to rebel. The Tagmada also contained a higher proportion of elite cavalry, which had gradually become the Roman army's main striking arm. Constantine campaigned with much success against the Arabs, storming important strongholds and even launching a raid into Syria, proving that the Romans could still regain the initiative against them. Another source of reprieve from pressure in the east would ultimately come from within the caliphate itself, as the Umayyads were overthrown in a power struggle in 750 AD, and replaced by the Abbasids, whose center of power and main interests were further east, away from the Roman frontier. This allowed Constantine to focus his efforts against the Bulgurs, the Bulgurs, who became his main focus from now on. In the west, the Romans were continuing to lose ground in Italy, as in 751 AD, Ravenna finally fell to the Lombards, marking the end of the exocutive Italy and leading to the loss of Roman territory in the central and northern parts of the area. The city of Rome also detached itself from the Empire under the papacy and hence fourth the Western Empire, once the birthplace and bulwark of Roman rule would be confined to southern Italy and Sicily. Constantine, however, was highly successful against the Bulgurs, fighting many campaigns against them until his death in 775 AD, which weakened this major Roman enemy. Constantine was succeeded by his son Leo IV, whose raid began promisingly by defeating a revolt instigated by his half-brothers in 776 AD, after which he campaigned with success in Syria against the Abbasids. He also relaxed the previous Isorian Emperor's ban on the veneration of icons, which brought him more goodwill. Unfortunately for the Emperor, he suffered from poor health and died from tuberculosis just 5 years into his reign in 780 AD. He was succeeded by his son Constantine VI, but as he was but a boy when he came to power, his mother Irene had effective control over the Empire. Fortunately, she would prove to be an effective ruler. Her first act was to brutally suppress a rebellion led by the general Niki Forus, whose leaders she had executed or blinded. News of this civil war spread quickly to the Arabs, who took advantage of the chaos caused to renew their attacks on Anatolia in 781 AD, though the Romans would ultimately be able to repel them, to bring further stability to the Empire. Irene also had the practice of iconoclism, which had long been a contentious issue for the Romans, revoked after a church council meeting in Nicaea in 787 AD. However, Irene's son, the Emperor Constantine, had come of age by 790 AD, and was eager to assume more direct control over the Empire, which his ambitious mother proved reluctant to allow as it would diminish her own influence. This led to a vicious power struggle within Constantinople and unrest among the Roman military. But Irene and Constantine were able to reconcile in 792 AD and became co-rulers of the Empire. However, Constantine proved to be a weak and incompetent Emperor who was easily overshadowed by his mother, leading to Irene having him arrested and blinded in 797 AD. Now in sole control of the Empire, Irene began referring to herself as Bicilius or Emperor instead of the traditional Bicilisa or Empress. Yet, Irene's position was precarious from the start, and her popularity was further damaged by her disastrous financial policy and neglect of the Roman army. To strengthen her position, Irene attempted to marry the Frankish king Charlemagne of the Carollingean dynasty in 800 AD, but he turns down the offer, refusing to acknowledge her rule. And even more controversial move on his part, however, was when Charlemagne was crowned that same year by the Pope as Roman Emperor, thereby claiming that he and his kingdom were the successors of the ancient Roman Empire. These were the origins of the so-called Holy Roman Empire, as it would eventually be called, though it would not be until many years later that it was more formally created. Despite Charlemagne's new title, neither he nor the rest of the Carollingean dynasty nor the people in his empire were Roman in any sense, nor did they ever develop a sense of Roman identity. With these titles instead being used for the prestige they still convey more over. The German's use of such titles would come to have grave consequences for relations with the Roman Empire to the east. However, a more imminent threat to Irene lay within her own court. As in 802 AD, she was deposed in a coup led by her chief financial official, Nikki Forus, who banished the Empress to the island of Lesbus. Her downfall marks the end of the Isurian dynasty and the beginning of a new chapter in Roman history, despite their dynasty's ignominious end, however. The Isurian rulers had ultimately proven successful in preserving the empire throughout the 8th century after it had been brought to the brink of ruin. It would now fall to the new Nikki Forian dynasty to lead the Roman Empire into the 9th century and preserve this legacy. Yet, despite these achievements, the empire won't get much rest. In the west, another emperor appeared. In the east, the Abbasids watched for weakness, and in the north, Khan Krum of Bulgaria was preparing to become one of the most terrifying enemies Constantinople had faced in generations. The Isorians had saved the empire from collapse, but what came next would test whether that survival had been enough. See you in the next episode. Click the bell button to not miss it.