---
video_title: "How was Portugal Formed?"
video_id: PLFrZxqbi54
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLFrZxqbi54
video_date: 2026-02-09T15:03:05+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦Use code FEBRUARY50 for 50% off any digital product: https://knowledgia.co/
  
  ♦How was Portugal Formed?
  
  Before there was a Portugal anyone would recognize, it began as a frontier county inside the larger kingdoms of Iberia, shaped by war, politics, and a slow-forming  identity.
  
  So how did a small borderland under León become an independent kingdom? Who held power before “Portuguese” meant anything? And how did Portugal take shape from counts and crusading frontier warfare to Afonso Henriques, recognition by the Church and rivals, and finally a kingdom with borders that were largely locked in by 1297?
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work and join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q/join
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider SUBSCRIBING: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  
  Big thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  
  
  #History #Documentary
---
Why does Portugal exist? How did a small country awkwardly shoved into the corner of the Iberian Peninsula go from non-existent to one of the world's most important powers in a matter of centuries? It's a remarkable story of rebellion, crusades, and conquests that turned this unlikely corner of Europe into a nation that would alter the course of global history. Before Portugal the land that would become Portugal did not have a history of unity. When the Romans arrived in the 2nd century BC, they found it inhabited by warrior tribes known as the Lucitanians. Southern Portugal and Western Spain were later organized into the Roman province of Lucitania and stretching into the province of Galicia in the northwest. Because in many places in Europe, Rome laid the foundations for many of the cities that would become critical to Portugal, including Lisbon and Porto. Rome also introduced Christianity to the region, which would play a crucial role in forming Portuguese society and culture. However, there was still no concept of unified Portugal even when the Romans left after 410. After the collapse of the Roman Empire in the 5th century, northern Portugal ended up under the control of the Swabie, while the south soon fell under the Visigoths who proceeded to conquer the Swabie 2 by 535. Aside from the continued Christianization of Portugal, the Visigoths left a mark through their Germanic language and pre-Roman influences to form old Portuguese, but old Portuguese mainly evolved from vulgar Latin. Portugal remained under Visigoth control until the year 711, when Muslim forces led by Tariq Ibn Ziyad landed on the Iberian Peninsula and conquered most of the Visigoth kingdom within 5 years. Portugal would remain under Muslim control for most of the next 200 years as the greater part of Grap Al Andalus, or Western Andalusia. However, Galicia in the north remained under Christian control and the Christian rulers there dreamed of retaking Iberia from the Muslim invaders, the dream of Reconquista. It was in this Reconquista that Portugal would be born, the county of Porto Calais. The kingdom of Astorias in modern Galicia, just north of Portugal, launched raids into Portugal through the 8th and 9th centuries that encouraged Christians to flee north and Muslims to flee south. After 866, King Alfonso III of Astorias managed to conquer the northern part of Portugal from the Minho River down to the Doro River. In 868, his vassal, Vimara Perez, seized the port town of Porto Calais, today's Porto and took Quimbra as well in 879. This freshly conquered region was granted to Vimara Perez as the county of Porto Calais. The Perez family would rule it for centuries to come and laid the foundations for what would later become Portugal, such as with the founding of the city of Gimmarais, which would come to be considered the cradle of the Portuguese nation. The kingdom of Astorias evolved into the kingdom of Leon after 924, with the county of Porto Calais remaining an important part. In 987, the lightning campaigns of the Muslim Almansoor of Cortoba suddenly retook Quimbra and pushed the borders of the county of Porto Calais back to the Doro River. For a moment, it seemed as if he might push north and take Porto Calais as well, but Almansoor's unexpected death in 1002 stopped the Muslim reconquest in its tracks. The rise of the Castile in the 1030s reinvigorated Christian reconquest efforts, with the Muslims of Al-Andalus torn apart by infighting. Concerning forces were able to retake Quimbra in 1064 and push their control down to the Tegus River. Contemporary people would still not have called it Portugal. The area was split between the counts of Porto Calais and Quimbra who were more rivals than friends. Rich, well-armed and quite far away from the seat of power in Castile, it wasn't surprising that the counts of Porto Calais and Quimbra came to be seen as something of a threat to the crown. In 1071, taking advantage of infighting between Leon, Castile and Galicia, count Nuno Mendes of Porto Calais rebels to try asserting his own independence. He was swiftly defeated, ending the rule of the heirs of Imara Perez who had held the county of Porto Calais for 200 years and leading to the abolition of the county of Quimbra 2 and both were rolled back into Galicia. Porto Calais would not be gone for long. The creation of the Kingdom of Portugal. With Porto Calais and Quimbra rolled into Galicia, King Alfonso the sick thought the Portuguese issue was solved. In 1093, he appointed his son-in-law, Raymond de Vergente, to rule all of Galicia. But Alfonso soon had second thoughts. Two years later, he split Galicia again along the Minho River, taking Porto Calais and Quimbra and giving them to another son-in-law, Henry of Burgundy. Henry became the count of the Condando Porto Calens, basically all the territory between the Minho River down to the Quimbra. About one-third of the modern country of Portugal, Henry ruled as a loyal vassal until his unexpected death in 1112. Following the crown to his widow Theresa and their young son, Alfonso. It didn't take long for Galicia to begin moving to regain the territory to the south by trying to marry Theresa. Theresa warms to the offers and began allowing Galicia more influence over the Uraldum. However, many were not happy to see Galicia in influence returning, least of all Alfonso and Reacas. By 1127, Alfonso, who was now an adult, rose in rebellion against his mother and the Galicians. Alfonso enjoyed the support of the nobility and the clergy. After a stunning victory over his mother's supporters at Salma Med near Gimerais in June 1128, Alfonso exiled his mother and declared himself Prince of Portugal. At first, Alfonso reasserted his loyalty to the Kingdom of Leon Castile. Like a good Christian warrior noble, he shifted his focus south, moving his court to Quimbra and dedicating himself to the Reconquista from the Muslims. Alfonso proved an excellent military leader and was immensely popular with his troops, qualities that naturally befitted a king. On July 25, 1139, Alfonso led his troops to victory. At the Battle of Oric. It was a historic victory that convinced Alfonso that he was no mere prince. Instead, he renounced loyalty to Leon Castile. Alfonso, the first immediately, had to contend with his former lord, Alfonso VII of Leon Castile, who considered the Portuguese king a rebel. Portugal fought a brief war against Leon Castile, culminating in the skirmish at Valdeves in 1141, where Portuguese forces prevailed. The Portuguese victory compelled Leon Castile to come to terms. In 1143, they signed the Treaty of Zamora, recognizing Alfonso's status as king of Portugal and tacitly recognizing the northern borders between Leon and Portugal. The whole papal recognition came later with the full manifestus probatum in 1179. These borders are still broadly the same today. Between Spain and Portugal and the north and northeast, down to the Mondego River, Portugal was now a recognized independent kingdom. But it was only a fraction of its modern size and still had a long way to go to become what it is today. With Portugal's independence assured, Alfonso turned his attention back toward Muslim al-Andalus. Alfonso considered the reconquest of Iberia for Christianity to be his highest royal duty. It was good timing too. In December 1144, the crusader kingdoms of Odessa fell to the Muslim Zen-Gid dynasty, leading the Pope to issue the call for the second crusade the following year. A wave of Christian volunteers took up arms, eager to fight the Muslims anywhere they could. Alfonso received crusader reinforcements for his continued campaigns in the south. In March 1147, Alfonso marched on the critical fortress town of Santoram. His knights scaled the walls under the cover of darkness and opened the gates from within to allow Alfonso's army to capture the city, pushing Portugal's borders further south. However, Alfonso's true target remains to be taken. Lisbon. In April 1147, the Pope expanded the crusades to include fighting Muslims in Iberia. In June, the fleet carrying around 13,000 English, French, and German crusaders docked in Porto on route to the Holy Land. While there, they learned about Alfonso's campaigns and agreed to join Alfonso to capture Lisbon from the Muslims. They besieged the city in July and after four months, compelled the Muslim defenders to surrender. On October 25, 1147, the Portuguese took control of Lisbon, adding a major port to the kingdom and expanding Portugal's territory considerably. Many of the crusaders who helped capture the city chose to settle in the area, providing a new loyal wave of Christians to populate the previously Muslim region. Prominent among Alfonso's supporters with a knight's Templar, Alfonso was a strong supporter of the military order and received the loyal cooperation of the Templars in exchange. Templar knights helped with the capture of Sinteram and Lisbon, for which Alfonso granted them rewards, including tax privileges and land, to build strongholds such as Tamar Castle. Alfonso continued to push south, capturing further cities like Beja and Evora. But Alfonso's conquests came to a sudden stop in 1169 when he attempted to capture the city of Badrachos from the Muslims. First, the now 60-year-old king suffered a serious injury that left him unable to fight or ride a horse for the rest of his life. Second, King Fernando of Leon had grown weary of Alfonso's rising power, so sent his troops to assist the Muslims and Halt, Alfonso in his tracks. The siege of Badrachos failed, and Alfonso was captured by Fernando's soldiers. Although he was eventually released, he was forced to give up his hopes of capturing Badrachos, marking the eastern limit of Portugal's borders and lost control of several cities and towns in the south that he had conquered in previous years. Alfonso retired from fighting personally, although his armies continued to wage war in his name. By the time he died in 1185, the kingdom of Portugal had doubled in size from where it began, completing the conquests. Alfonso's successors continued the Reconquista, steadily pushing Portugal's borders south and expelling the Muslim rulers. Like his father, Sancho used the crusades to his advantage. In 1189, members of the Third Crusade joined Portuguese efforts to capture the Silves and the far south, and they successfully captured the city. The Moroccan Almajad dynasty responded with an effective campaign that retook Silves and put Portugal in the defensive, retaking everything south of the Tegas except the enclave city of Evora before Portugal and the Almajads signed a truce. The Tegas River became Portugal's border for the next 30 years, guarded by a network of castles manned by the night's Templar and other religious military orders. The border was a formidable barrier that withstood Muslim efforts to reclaim the territory. The Muslim powers would never cross the river again. Portugal used this time to consolidate its conquests, continuing to settle its conquered regions with Christians and developing administration. In 1211, King Alfonso II called the first Portuguese Cortes, or Parliament at Quimbra, to issue the first general laws which provided legal recognition of royal power. Protections for the rights of Portuguese subjects and outlined certain privileges and limits on the church. It marked an important step in the development of Portugal as a true nation rather than just a territory. In 1212, the Almajads suffered a crippling defeat at the hands of the Castile at the Battle of Navas del Tolosa, which marked the beginning of the end of Muslim rule in Iberia. In 1217, Portugal resumed its southward conquests with the capture of Alcacell de Sal, the last major Muslim port on the west coast of Iberia, using the help of members of the Fifth Crusade. King Sancho II continued the campaign across the Tegas to capture most of the Alentagio region in the 1220s and 1230s, leaving just the Algarve in the southwest of Iberia in Muslim hands. Sancho II proceeded to steadily capture the towns and castles in the region until his death in 1247. With the Almajads unable to put up serious resistance. In 1249, a Fonzó III marched out to finish the John. He crossed into the Algarve and laid seas to the last serious Muslim stronghold at Faro. Isolated and demoralized, Faro surrendered with little fight, and the remaining towns and fortifications soon followed. But the end of 1249, the territory of modern Portugal was united onto the crown. Settling the borders. With Muslim power reduced to the Emirates of Granada, Portugal's biggest concerns became the other Christian powers of Iberia, specifically Castile. Castile saw itself as the supreme power in Iberia and treated Portugal as a lesser partner. Alfonso X considered the Algarve to be his by right and pressed that claim with his army in 1250. In a brief war, Castile's armies routed the Portuguese and captured the Algarve. Castile knew it could not hold the Algarve forever, so instead forced Alfonso III to recognize Castile's ultimate claim over the land. Castile then granted a funds of the Third the right to hold the land in their name and seals the deal with a marriage to Princess Beatrice of Castile. The Algarve would be ruled in practice by the Portuguese crown, but was not technically a part of it, leading to the split title of King of Portugal and the Algarve being adopted. Although the Portuguese took the terms as something of an insult, the marriage between a Fanzo and Beatrice paved the way for a solution through the birth of their son, Dennis. With his grandson, due to be King of Portugal in the coming years, Alfonso X decided to make the Algarve a gift to the future king. In 1267, Portugal and Castile signed the Treaty of Batahos, relinquishing Castile's claims to the Algarve and recognizing them as full territories of Portugal. The Guadiana River was recognized as the boundary between the Portuguese and Telejo and Algarve to the west and Castile's extramedura and Andalusia to the east. In 1297, after another brief war, Portugal and Castile signed the Treaty of Alcanises. To resolve a few lingering disputes over exact borders near Batahos and along the Duro River. But by the dawn of the 14th century, the borders of Portugal had been safely secured. Even the temporary union of Portugal and Spain in 1580 under the Habsburgs had only a minor effect. When Portugal successfully broke away from the union after years of war in 1668, its only mainland loss was the town of Hermesende on the northern border. Portugal was a nation built by generations of conquest and diplomacy. Its borders do not conform to any one geographic feature because it was not made in one go. Each individual conquest, sometimes of whole regions, other times of just a town or a castle, is defined by its own local, political and geographic circumstances. This piecemeal process doesn't sound like a great recipe to build a nation, but the proof lies in the history books. Portugal rose to be one of the greatest powers in the world, with its influence transforming the lives of people from India to Angola to Brazil. And it has protected its independence from foreign conquerors and its more powerful neighbor for centuries. Since we started this channel, we have been obsessed with historical maps. Since some of you might like maps as well, we created a few products for you. High resolution downloads and museum quality prints go to knowledgeia.co and have a look. If you want to own one, use my code in the description below.