---
video_title: "Why Couldn't Rome Defeat Attila's Huns?"
video_id: h3wh08hQ8vE
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h3wh08hQ8vE
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  ♦Want EARLY ACCESS or EXCLUSIVE CONTENT? Support us and get it here:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  The Complete History Edition Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9h7OjK629BU8pNtQo4Lz9Sx
  
  ♦In the fifth century, Attila's Huns tore through the Roman frontier from the Balkans to the Rhine, sacked a hundred cities by one contemporary count, extracted enormous tribute from Constantinople, and twice invaded the West. Rome, an empire that had beaten steppe cavalry for four hundred years, could not stop them. Rome had fought mounted archers since Ventidius crushed the Parthians in the 30s BC, and had gone on beating them: the Sarmatians, the Persians at Satala. The late Roman army was a flexible combined-arms force with heavy infantry, cataphracts, and its own composite-bow archers, and it still won most of the battles it fought. Hunnic tactics did not catch it by surprise. One thing did set the Huns apart: they could take walled cities...
  
  
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  potatohistory-us, johnathondwigans, MohitAgrawal-d9n, Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  
  00:00 An Enemy from the Steppe
  00:35 Who the Huns Actually Were
  02:29 Italy, and the Sudden Collapse
  03:14 Horse Archers and Composite Bows
  05:18 The One Thing That Set Them Apart
  06:32 Rome's Army Had Changed
  08:58 An Empire Fighting Itself
  10:25 Strength or Weakness?
  
  #History #Documentary
---
In the 5th century AD, the Roman Empire confronted a new enemy from beyond the great plains of the steppe. Renowned for their skill as horsemen, these were the Huns who quickly proved themselves to be some of the fiercest opponents Rome fought in late antiquity, taking on the professional Imperial army from the Balkans to the Rhine frontier and sacking several of the Empire's cities. What was it, however, that made the Huns seemingly stand out [music] from the many other enemies the Romans faced at the time? For context, we should briefly mention what the interactions between the Romans and the Huns were. The Huns first came to the notice of the Romans during the late 4th century AD, driving several other tribes before them into retreat, such as the Goths. The Huns' exact

origins remain unclear to this day, but they may have been connected to the ancient Xiongnu who once fought against Han China before they began migrating westward across the steppe. The Huns quickly established themselves as fierce warriors and conquered a large empire stretching across much of the steppe and Europe. During the 440s AD, they campaigned extensively against the Eastern Roman Empire under their leader Attila and raided the frontier along the Danube, sacking several cities and killing and enslaving many people. Attila seemed poised to threaten the Imperial capital of Constantinople as well, and thus the Romans agreed to pay him large subsidies to avoid more costly confrontations. The relationship between the Huns and the Western Roman Empire, by contrast, was more friendly at first.

The Roman commander Flavius Aetius even made extensive use of Hunnic warriors as allies in his campaigns. However, in 451 AD, Attila nevertheless invaded Gaul, coming into contact not just with the Romans, but also the Germanic kingdoms that had been established there during the 5th century. As Roman power waned, the Huns caused widespread devastation. However, they were eventually defeated at the Battle of the Catalaunian Fields by Aetius, who was supported by many barbarian allies. Very soon, however, Attila had managed to regroup and invaded the West once more in 452 AD, this time targeting the empire's heartland of Italy. Although the Huns

once more caused much chaos, such as when they stormed the fortress city of Aquileia, the campaign ultimately ground to a halt and the Huns withdrew, likely due to supply shortages and outbreaks of plague among Attila's army. Attila's death a few years later then led to the collapse of [music] Hunnic power as his successors failed to keep their subject peoples in check. That the Huns were formidable enemies of the Romans is, however, not in doubt. But was there anything new about them that made them a greater threat, or had the Romans' ability to respond to such dangers simply changed? Hunnic warfare. The Huns

were famed for their skill as cavalry, specifically for fighting as mounted archers. They made use of sophisticated composite bows to strike at enemies from a distance and with impressive stopping power, while making use of their high mobility to keep their enemies away from close quarters until they were sufficiently weakened by volleys of arrows. Once this was achieved, the Huns could come in to close quarters and finish off their opponents, making use of a range of melee weapons and lassos. However, it is worth remembering that although the Huns' horse archers were, by far, their most famed troops, as their empire expanded, they also began to incorporate troops from their numerous subject people into their army. Thus, the Hunnic armies faced by Rome would come to also include large numbers of infantry, as well as other types of cavalry. While provenly formidable, we

should note that there does not seem to have been anything radically new in Hunnic tactics that caught the Romans by surprise. The Huns may have been more aggressive than other nomadic armies, but otherwise did not stand out in a tactical [music] sense from other Roman enemies who used similar troop types. Rome had also been fighting armies that included horse archers both as a supporting role and the mainstay of their forces for centuries. And while there had been some heavy defeats suffered at the hands of these types of armies, the Romans, in fact, had a long history of success in fighting horse archers, such as the campaigns of Ventidius against the Parthians in 39 and 38 BC, the Mithridatic War against the Sarmatians in 69 AD, or the Battle of Satala against the Persians in 298 AD. Instead of fighting in any kind of new way, it was instead their aggressive and brutal character that made the Huns stand out to the Romans from other barbarians. There was, however, one

aspect of Hunnic warfare that made them a greater threat than other nomadic and tribal armies: their ability in siege warfare. Unlike the Sarmatians, for instance, who could raid Roman provinces but never seriously threaten well-fortified settlements and forts, the Huns were able to successfully lay siege to Roman strongholds such as Raetiaria and Aquileia, making use of scaling ladders, battering rams, and siege towers. Unfortunately, we don't know how they came to possess such knowledge, made more unclear by the fact that the subject people of the Huns, like the Germans, also lacked great ability in sieges during this time. Some more likely scenarios are that the Huns could have learned the art of siege warfare from warriors who previously served in the Roman army or via Roman deserters. In sum, the tactics and equipment used by the Huns explains some of their success, but were not the deciding [music] factor. A key advantage

compared to other tribal and nomadic forces [music] was the Huns' unusual ability in sieges, which allowed them to directly threaten Roman cities and forts. But to more fully answer this question, we must, therefore, look inward to the Roman Empire and army during late antiquity to determine if changes within them affected the Huns' successes. The Rome of late antiquity. The Roman military of the 4th and 5th [music] centuries was different in many ways from its more famous counterparts during the Principate. Yet, there remained many similarities as well. The

troops were now split into two main branches, each with its own command structure. [music] The first were the Limitanei, who were mostly based close to the Empire's frontiers. The second were the Comitatenses, who were generally based further inland and undertook most major field operations. The Comitatenses have sometimes mistakenly been described as the successors of the famous Roman legions. However, in truth, both they and the Limitanei contained legions, as well as many other units of infantry and cavalry. The Romans fought as a combined

arms army with many different types of troops, with most infantry and cavalry being well-armored and armed units intended mainly for close quarters. They were supported by numerous troops armed with missile weapons, especially archers with composite bows. And the army during this period also contained a higher number of specialist cavalry, such as the heavily armored cataphracts. Using this flexible combination of troop types, [music] the Romans had been highly successful against armies similar to the Huns in the past. And during late antiquity, still won most battles they fought. Much has been made by

commentators in the past of the Roman military's employment of foreign recruits, which were accused of barbarizing the army with unreliable soldiers. However, treachery from these barbarians were extremely rare, and they otherwise performed just as well and loyally as any other Roman soldier. While recruits born within the empire continued to make up the great majority of the regular army. It was only the Western Romans in their empire's final years who started to more heavily rely on barbarian contingents, generally known as foederati, to supplement Roman regulars. But this was the exception rather than the norm during this period.

Although the Romans were still undeniably a great power, the Huns also fought them at a time when the empire was in decline and distracted by internal political squabbling. In fact, it was only on a few rare occasions that the Huns encountered strong Roman resistance and were otherwise able to raid their territory with relative ease. During this period, Roman commanders were generally much more cautious about fighting large-scale battles since they could not afford the potential loss of prestige and influence that a costly defeat entailed. Civil wars and power struggles were also alarmingly common in this period, especially in the Western Empire. Indeed, the reasoning behind the new organization of the Roman military was likely not so much to better fight against foreign enemies, but rather to try and disperse the empire's military strength enough to deter potential usurpers against the emperor, who also kept troops [music] close to the imperial capitals under their own command or a close subordinate [music] with which they could more quickly responds to Roman rivals, just as they could to foreign threats. Thus, the

Romans could not respond as effectively to the Huns as they had to other enemies in the past on [music] account of their military and the trust and political will of its leadership having been weakened over centuries of infighting. Hunnic strength or Roman weaknesses. The Huns were ferocious and skilled warriors whose talent as horse archers made them both valued allies and formidable enemies alike. This, as well as their greater skill at siege warfare compared to other barbarian armies, made them stand out from other Roman enemies, and we should not wholly discount their martial abilities as a reason behind their early successes. The Huns' brutal character and raids also made an impression on the Romans, seemingly setting them apart from other tribal armies in how much more ruthless they could be. The historian Callinicus, for

example, had this to say of their attacks on the Eastern Roman Empire. The barbarian nation of the Huns became so great that more than 100 cities were captured and Constantinople [music] almost came into danger, and there were so many murders and so much bloodshed that the dead could not be counted. They even captured the churches and monasteries and slaughtered great numbers of monks and nuns. However, we should also remember that aside from this ability in sieges, there was nothing novel or unexpected in the way the Huns fought compared to other armies the Romans had faced coming from the steppe, whom they had defeated on many occasions. Nor were the Huns invincible, as they suffered setbacks of their own against the Romans, [music] who were able to mount strong resistance even with the other problems they were facing. Therefore, to conclude, the

successes of the Huns were in large part thanks to weakness within the Roman Empire caused by Roman infighting, rather than the Huns themselves, despite their fierce reputation. If you'd like to help us keep creating and get early access to our videos, behind-the-scenes content, and other perks, consider becoming a member right here on YouTube or joining us on Patreon. Every bit of support helps. >> [music] >> And as always, thank you so much for watching.