---
video_title: "Why did the Orthodox Church have NO Reformation?"
video_id: Iz-fdZZGTDo
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Iz-fdZZGTDo
video_date: 2026-02-19T13:57:02+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦Get your map here: https://knowledgia.co/
  
  ♦Why did the Orthodox Church have NO Reformation?
  
  In the West, the Church fractured into Protestant and Catholic camps. In the East, however, the Orthodox world never had a Reformation that split the faith in the same way. So what changed the outcome?
  
  Orthodoxy did change, sometimes dramatically, but its conflicts usually played out as internal reforms, not a continent-wide Protestant-style break.
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work and join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q/join
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider SUBSCRIBING: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  
  Big thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
---
It's the 1500s. There is corruption in the Orthodox Church. Bishop's playing politics, monasteries owned huge estates, complaints existed. And yet, while Western Europe exploded in reformation and wars, the Orthodox world didn't move. So, what stopped an Orthodox reformation? And why it never happened? Protestant and Orthodox relations. Protestants and Orthodox knew little about each other when the reformation erupted. They each knew the other was opposed to the Pope in Rome, but their understanding of anything beyond that was limited at first. This uncertainty actually allowed Protestants to be more positive towards the Orthodox than the Catholics. In a debate with Johann von Eck in 1519, Martin Luther even pointed to the Greek Church as proof that Christianity could exist without submitting to papal supremacy. Philip Milancheton, an early Protestant leader and a professor of Greek at Wittenburg University, even reached out to the Patriarch of Constantinople to suggest friendship between Protestant and Orthodox believers. A Greek translation of the confession of Augsburg, which outlines the main points of Protestant belief, was delivered to the Patriarch in 1559, but was not well received. In the words of one historian, quote, a brief glance at the confession of Augsburg showed that much of its doctrine was frankly heretical. Rather than cause offence by refuting the message, Constantinople gave no reply, and some historians suggest the letter may have never reached its intended recipient. The Protestants tried again in the 1570s. Lutheran Theologians in Tubingen sent a Greek version of the Augsburg confession to the Patriarch of Constantinople, proposing closer relations and even union as true heirs of the original Christian faith. But Protestant understanding of Orthodox belief was still limited, and the vast differences between them quickly surfaced. In May 1576, the Patriarch of Constantinople gave a historic reply. He took each of the 21 articles in the Augsburg confession and gave an Orthodox response to each of them, declaring several Protestant ideas to be outright heretical and incompatible with the Orthodox faith while agreeing with some general statements. The Patriarch exchanged several more letters with German Protestant leaders explaining the reasons why the Orthodox Church rejected Protestant beliefs. In 1581, the Patriarch politely asked the Protestants to stop writing to him since it was obvious they disagreed on too much to cooperate. There would be no union between Orthodox and Protestant. But why? Nature of complaints. So what exactly prevented Orthodox Protestant cooperation? And why did early Protestants think it could work? Protestants and Orthodox agreed that papal authority was out of control, and that Roman Catholicism was riddled with false practices and corruption. Both rejected the idea that the Pope was the supreme head of the Church, or that Rome had the final say on what was or wasn't Christian truth. For Protestants emerging in Western and Central Europe, these complaints about the Catholic Church were relevant to their daily lives. Many believed they suffered under the corrupt Catholic Church, so Protestant complaints held a lot of persuasive power. But for Orthodox Christians, Catholicism was a distant problem. They didn't live under Catholic rule and didn't have to deal with the corrupt Church directly. It wasn't their lives or societies that were struggling with those problems. In much of the Orthodox world, especially where Orthodox communities lived under Ottoman rule, religious upheaval could be politically dangerous, in a way it usually wasn't for German princes or English kings. Anti-Catholic reforms could not inspire the same level of passion and support in the East, as it did in the West. The underlying nature of the complaints was also different. The Protestants ultimately believed that the Pope was illegitimate, because the papacy did not appear in the Bible. The Orthodox denied papal supremacy over the entire Church, but didn't disagree with having a bishop of Rome itself. They simply believed Rome needed to reign in its power, and accept a more equal place alongside the other Eastern bishops of Alexandria, Antioch, Constantinople, and Jerusalem. At its core, the reason Protestants and Orthodox opposed the papacy was fundamentally different. It was one of many differences that made cooperation impossible. Every map we create takes us days to finish. Now some of them are available on our website. Digital downloads, prints, and framed. Explore the collections. Link in description. Worship and Cultural Differences So what other beliefs prevented the Orthodox Church embracing the Protestant Reformation? The Reformation was more than just rejecting the papacy. It was a revolution in Christianity that cleared away the accumulated traditions of the Catholic Church and returned to the Bible as the highest and only source of Christian truth. This doctrine was known as Solascriptura. In its original meaning, Solascriptura meant the elevation of Scripture above other sources of Christian truth, but grew to become a rejection of non-scriptural sources as authority entirely. The Protestant belief was that the Bible contained every answer a Christian might need. In Luther's own words, a simple layman, armed with Scripture, is to be believed above a pope or a council without it. For Protestants, the centuries of Church councils and accumulated traditions which did not appear in the Bible had obscured the true faith, and true Christianity was to be found by returning back to basics. The Orthodox Church's strongly rejected this. Ecumenical councils evolved Church traditions and the writings of Church fathers are fundamental to Orthodox theology. While they might not appear directly in Scripture, these ideas were still based on Scripture and had emerged from communities and individuals who were well-versed in Scripture themselves. To say that the interpretation of the Bible by the average layman should be held above the interpretations of experienced, well-read, and respected Church figures was absurd to many Orthodox people. The Protestants also differed from the Orthodox on many other theological issues. Some differences, like their refusal to give communion to infants, were carried over from Catholic teaching and were unacceptable to the Orthodox. Several Protestant beliefs which angered Catholics were similarly offensive to Orthodox beliefs as well. The rejection of monasticism was one notable example. Even on the Eucharist, Protestants disagreed among themselves, but Orthodox teaching still did not match either the Lutheran or reformed approaches. Also, like Catholics, the Orthodox Church totally rejected the Protestant position on venerating saints and the Virgin Mary. Protestants respected these individuals, but considered Catholic and Orthodox treatment of them borderline idolatry. However, saints were a fundamental part of religion for Orthodox Christians. The Orthodox believed saints and the Virgin Mary could act as intermediaries for the faithful to God, a belief that was as old as the Church itself. For the Protestants to condemn this as heretical was an attack on the daily experience of Orthodox Christianity. A kid into the Protestants demanding people start working on Sundays or stopped displaying the cross. This attack on a basic daily practice meant that many regular Orthodox people wouldn't even entertain Protestant ideas because they seemed so incompatible with their understanding of Christianity. Whatever agreements they had on the errors of the papacy, the theological differences between Protestant and Orthodox were far too large for them to cooperate. There simply could never be an official union of Protestant and Orthodox churches, and Protestant beliefs were too alien to regular Orthodox believers to inspire a reformation from below. Political and Church Structure Aside from the Church and laymen, we must also consider why Orthodox rulers and political authorities didn't embrace the reformation. The Protestant Reformation was advanced by the support of powerful people. Kings and ministers found Protestantism to be useful for their goals, and many imposed the reformation upon populations who didn't originally want it. Henry VIII of England famously went Protestant over the issue of ending his marriage to Catherine of Aragon. Henry believed royal power should be absolute within its own domain and rejected the Pope's authority to have the final say on religious issues like annulling his marriage. So he made himself the head of the Church after breaking with Rome in 1534. His successors, particularly his daughter, Elizabeth, were motivated to continue the reformation partially out of genuine Protestant belief and because of its political and economic value. The mass seizure of Church lands by the crown and the protection of England from foreign Catholic influence, especially from Spain, ensured that the Protestant Reformation took root with the full support of the government. Henry's actions were the product of centuries of conflict between the Pope and English kings over the limits of each other's power, a conflict that had played out repeatedly across medieval Europe wasn't the case with Orthodox rulers. Firstly, the regional structure of the Eastern Orthodox Church's meant that the relationship between church and royal power was much more weighted in the royal's favor. Just as important, Orthodoxy was still hierarchical, with bishops and patriarchs and Constantinople held a primacy of honor as first among equals. But unlike the papacy, there was no single office with universal authority to impose doctrine or discipline on every Orthodox Church. That meant there was no one Rome to overthrow and no single reform that could instantly remake the entire Orthodox world. Unlike the West, there was no single Pope-like office inside Orthodoxy that a reform movement could topple to instantly reshape the whole church. For example, Zar Ivan IV held the power to appoint and dismiss leading church figures and considered the church a useful tool for unifying Russia under his rule as its first Zar. The great disputes about where royal authority ended and church authority began, which had pushed rulers like Henry to embrace Protestantism, didn't exist in the same way for Ivan. The Zar's reaction to the Protestant Reformation was overwhelmingly negative. He saw the Protestants as dangerous radicals promoting immorality and undermining the church. While he had no love for the Pope, he thought Protestantism's rejection of church tradition and other radical reforms posed a direct threat to the Orthodox Church as well and by extension, his own country. He also recognized that the Reformation had brought instability and revolts to other European powers. There was no way he could invite those same forces into his own country. Similar concerns about the destabilizing effect of Protestantism were shared by other Orthodox rulers, rather than embracing the Reformation as a tool for expanding their own power, Orthodox rulers remained steadfast in their support of the Orthodox Church and its stabilizing power. Cyril of Constantinople, despite everything we've covered, there was one serious attempt to introduce the Reformation into the Orthodox Church. Patriarch Cyril Lucoris of Constantinople had studied in Italy and was familiar with Protestant beliefs before his appointment in 1620. In 1629, he published his book Confession of Faith, where he outlined a theology that was distinctively Calvinist. Some Orthodox contemporaries and later writers even argued the text was not genuinely his, but regardless, it became the flashpoint for a major condemnation of Calvinist theology. It accepted Protestant ideas like Solafide and Calvinistic ideas of predestination. The reaction was immediate and intense. For many Orthodox Christians, this attempt to merge their tradition with Protestant ideas was heretical. Cyril was soon deposed, although he would be restored and deposed again multiple times afterwards and faced intense criticisms for his beliefs until final exile and execution in 1638. The patriarch of Jerusalem, Dosatheus II, wrote a scathing rebuke of Cyril's confession. In 1672, he convened the Synod of Jerusalem to reaffirm Orthodox beliefs and officially reject Cyril's theology. The core Protestant beliefs of Solaf Scriptura and Solafide were specifically called out as false, and Orthodox views on rituals like the Eucharist were reaffirmed. The Synod marked the Eastern Orthodox Church's clearest and most significant rejection of the Protestant Reformation and remains one of the most important synods in Orthodox history. In the end, the Reformation never gained support in the Orthodox Church. Whatever common grounds they had in criticizing the Pope, Protestants and Orthodox were too different in their beliefs to ever join together officially. The Reformation did not appeal to common people or rulers in the Orthodox world like it had in Western Europe and never achieved the support it needed to reform the Church from outside it. The one time it did, it was thoroughly shut down by Orthodox authorities and few people cared for its laws. The Orthodox Church would remain unaffected by the changes that it convulsed its Catholic neighbour.