---
video_title: "Why Rome Couldn't be Restored?"
video_id: DZ811AeSm8M
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DZ811AeSm8M
video_date: 2026-02-28T13:08:34+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦Get your Roman Empire Map: https://knowledgia.co/products/roman-empire-117-ad-digital-high-resolution-map.Great detail wall art for history fans. Perfect for offices or gifts.
  The History of the Eastern Roman Empire Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9jamsXtYkz-rXj175Qf_IXu 
  
  ♦Huge Thanks to: @faryafaraji.and.worldmusicians , for allowing us to use one of his great songs
  (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xVvGkcScfs0&list=RDxVvGkcScfs0&start_radio=1)
  
  
  ♦Why did the East Try to Reconquer the West?
  
  Before there was a “restored Roman Empire” anyone would  recognize, the Eastern Empire was a battered survivor of the old Roman world, holding the line in Constantinople while the West broke into new kingdoms.
   So how did an empire that seemed boxed into the eastern Mediterranean suddenly push back into the West? Who held real power before “Justinian’s reconquest” meant anything? And how did this western expansion take shape from Justin’s rise and Justinian’s ambition, to Belisarius sailing for Africa, the fall of the Vandals, the long, brutal Gothic Wars for Italy, and finally a moment, by the late 550s, when the map looked Roman again, at least on paper, before the cracks, rebellions, and new invasions began to pull it apart.
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work and join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q/join
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider SUBSCRIBING: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
    @faryafaraji.and.worldmusicians -Psalm 135 - Epic Byzantine Music (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xVvGkcScfs0&list=RDxVvGkcScfs0&start_radio=1)
  
  
  
  Big thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  Image (cropped): "Mosaic of Justinianus I - Basilica San Vitale (Ravenna)" by Petar Milošević, via Wikimedia Commons (https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Mosaic_of_Justinianus_I_-_Basilica_San_Vitale_(Ravenna).jpg), licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).
  
  #History #Documentary
---
The Old Empire is lost. It's the sixth century, and the East still survives. But the Persians are waiting for every opportunity to strike. Internal affairs create rebellions, and their former lands now ruled by barbarians pose potential threats. It was enough of constant defending. The East should prevail, and the former Roman lands of the West need to be reconquered. The Empire will expand once again. The Persian War and the Nika riots. Fortunately for Rome, the commander of the Exkupi Torres Guard unit, a man known as Justin, was able to seize power in the capital and effectively consolidate his position via lavish pay raises to the Imperial Guard and by assassinating several potential rivals. Justin proved to be a capable emperor during his time, presiding over a period of relative peace and stability. However, near the end of his reign between 524 and 525 AD, tensions once again grew with the Persians. This time, over control of LaZica in the Caucasus, where its king had converted to Christianity and thus brought him closer to Rome's sphere of influence. When LaZica asked for direct Roman support, this provoked the Persian king Kavad to attack them and led to war with Rome. Justin, however, would not live to see this conflict through as he died in 527 AD before major operations commenced and was succeeded by Justinian. Born as Petrus Sabatius in Torresium, Dardania, in 482 AD, the new emperor had joined the Imperial Guard where his uncle Justin had supported his career and advancement. Before being adopted by him and taking the name of Justinian and being marked as the emperor's preferred heir. Although military campaigning would dominate his reign, we should remember that it was far from Justinian's only concern. Perhaps most notably, Justinian busied himself with a new codification of Roman law to replace the old Codex the Adosianus, which he ordered to be compiled as early as 528 AD. This took the form of several projects, which were completed by 534 AD, and together compiled a mixture of old Roman legislation with new laws that were increasingly issued in Greek instead of Latin. Justinian was also engaged in other administrative reforms in the provinces, as well as continuing to tackle religious issues like previous emperors. Significantly, Justinian issued new edics restricting the rights of pagans to practice their beliefs and their ability to perform rituals. It should be noted, however, that there were other schools of pagan philosophy, such as those in Alexandria that continued to be active throughout Justinian's reign. Still, it marked another step in the gradual decline of paganism in the Roman Empire. The war with Persia was nevertheless something that needed to be immediately addressed by the new emperor, a war which had begun poorly for the Romans. In 528 AD, Justinian appointed a new supreme commander for the war in the form of Belisarius, who had already been active in the region during the earlier Roman setbacks. The Romans were now able to recover, and Belisarius soon defeated a Persian army at the Battle of Dara in 530 AD, while the commander Sitta scored an impressive victory of his own at the Battle of Sitala in Armenia. The Persians attempted a new offensive the following year and confronted Belisarius at Kalinacum, but although they were able to win the battle, their casualties were so high that they were still forced to retreat from Roman territory. At the same time, the Romans also thwarted a Persian attempt on the city of Martyropolis. The war soon came to an end when Kavad died, and the Romans negotiated the so-called Treaty of Eternal Peace with his successor, Cosró, whereby the Persians received a payment of 11,000 pounds of gold to pay for the defense of the Caucasus, although the now Christian Kingdom of Lazica remained aligned with Rome. Since we started this channel, we have been obsessed with historical maps. Since some of you might like maps as well, we created a few products for you. High resolution downloads and museum quality prints go to knowledgeia.co and have a look if you want to own one, use my code in the description below. Now back to the video. The Romans agreed to stop using Dara as a headquarters for their field army in Mesopotamia, although the Persian request to demolish the entire city was refused, and it remained a prominent fortress city on the eastern frontier, which the Persians would henceforth have to contend with. In January 532 AD, however, just as this new peace treaty with Persia was ratified, major unrest broke out in Constantinople when supporters of the city's two chariot racing teams, the Blues and Greens, started to clash directly with the imperial government in the so-called Nicor riots, when some of the charioteers who had been charged with murder escaped from prison. This led to several days of rioting, which even saw the late emperor Anastasius' nephew, Hypatius, proclaimed emperor. Justinian considered fleeing the capital altogether, but was convinced to remain by his wife, Theodora. With his resolve restored, Justinian once again called upon Belisarius to quell the riot, as well as additional troops under an officer named Mundus, who assaulted Constantinople's Hippodrome where the rioters were based. This led to a slaughter with a reported 30,000 casualties, as well as Hypatius' capture and execution. The Vandalic War Soon after the bloody conclusion of the Nicor riots, Justinian would famously begin planning an expedition into the old Roman provinces of North Africa, and now ruled by the Vandalic Kingdom. In older literature, this was traditionally seen as part of a grand strategy to reconquer the old Western Roman Empire, once the frontier with the Persians was stabilized. However, there is little to no evidence to suggest that Justinian had such lofty goals. Instead, the campaign into Africa was one born largely out of a need for military glory in the aftermath of the Nicor riots, as well as opportunism, since the previous Vandal king, Hilderich, had been on friendly terms with the Romans, but had recently been usurped by a nobleman named Gellimer. This gave Justinian the ideal pretext to intervene in Africa, claiming he was coming to the defense of his ally. Belisarius was once again placed in command of the war effort, and the campaign commenced in 533 AD, with the Roman army sailing via the Greek coastline and stopping to resupply in Sicily. Where Justinian had been able to negotiate Roman access to its ports with the Austro-Gothic regent Amalasuntha. Belisarius landed in Africa completely unopposed, as Gellimer remained entirely unaware of the imminent Roman invasion, which now made rapid progress towards the Vandal capital of Carthage. Belisarius had issued strict orders to his troops to treat the locals well, and the Roman army was well received by the native population, who had little affection for their Vandal rulers and welcomed the prospect of once again being part of the empire. Once news reached Gellimer about the Roman invasion, he immediately had hilderic executed and began preparing an army of his own and recalled a second Vandal army from Sardinia, which had been sent there to quell an uprising that was also supported by the Romans. Gellimer's plan was to attack Belisarius's army from multiple accesses at a place known as Addequimum. Unfortunately for Gellimer, this complex plan quickly fell apart as the different attachments of his army failed to coordinate properly, and thus Belisarius' cavalry inflicted a crushing defeat upon the Vandals. The Romans then captured Carthage, but Gellimer remains determined to fight on and was ready to confront Belisarius again in late 533 AD at Tri-Camerum. Now that his reinforcement from Sardinia had returned. Once again, however, the Vandals were bloodily defeated, thanks to the efforts of the skilled Roman cavalry who routed the enemy before the infantry even became involved. Gellimer escaped for a brief time, but he was soon taken prisoner. North Africa was once again in Roman hands, and Gellimer, along with his Vandal prisoners, was taken to Constantinople, to be displayed in Belisarius' triumph, who became the first Roman who was not an emperor to celebrate such a ceremony in over half a millennium. The Gothic War begins. Meanwhile, in the old Roman heartland of Italy, the Austro-Gothic Kingdom was soon to provide Justinian with yet another convenient pretext for invasion. Following the death of King Theodoric, con 526 AD, his kingdom was ruled by the regent Amalasuntha, since Theodoric's heir, Athaleric, was merely a boy. Her position was precarious from the beginning, as she was not popular among the Gothic aristocracy. This led to the nobles conspiring against her, and she even considered fleeing to the Roman Empire in exile and formally surrendering the kingdom to Justinian. However, following Athaleric's death in 534 AD, she declared herself queen, and seems to have gained newfound ambitions to rule alongside her cousin Theodahad, a notoriously greedy and corrupt man, who she assumed would be easy to control. Unfortunately for her, Amalasuntha underestimated Theodahad's ambitions, who had the queen imprisoned and then executed in 535 AD. Once news of this reached Justinian, the usurpation of the former ruler, who had also been a friend of Rome, was once again used as a pretext to invade. The Gothic War would commence that same year, with the main thrust of the invasion under Belisarius, who sailed from Africa to Sicily, while a second army under Mundus invaded Dalmatia. Mundus' forces achieved rapid success and captured the major Dalmatian city of Salona, while Belisarius secured Sicily by defeating the only serious point of Gothic resistance at Ponomus. The fall of this large city in its garrison allowed the Romans to rapidly seize the rest of Sicily, and Belisarius celebrated this important victory at the great city of Syracuse on his consulships last day on December 31st, 535 AD. News of these defeats quickly spread to Theodahad's court, after which the weak-willed king panicked and began to frantically seek a peace agreement with the Romans, eventually agreeing to surrender his entire kingdom over to Justinian. However, news then reached Theodahad that a Gothic counterattack had defeated Mundus and retaken Salona, and being inspired by this unexpected victory, the king abandoned his plan to surrender, thus in early 536 AD. Justinian ordered a second invasion of Dalmatia under Constantinus, while Belisarius was ordered to invade Italy. Once again, the Romans achieved rapid success on both fronts, with Salona falling back into Roman control in short order, after which Dalmatia would be more firmly secured. Meanwhile, Belisarius' army took city after city in southern Italy and faced little effective Gothic resistance, in part because Theodahad refused to take any decisive action against the Romans. The most serious point of opposition to the Romans was at the city of Neapolis, a lucrative settlement close to Rome itself which fell after some stern resistance from its Gothic garrison. With southern Italy secure, Belisarius now turned his attention towards the eternal city of Rome itself. The fall of Neapolis was the last straw for the Gothic nobility who had long resented Theodahad, and they now openly turned against the king. Lacking allies, Theodahad was forced to flee but was quickly tracked down and killed, thus ignomidiously ending the life of King Theodorix's last male heir. Theodahad was replaced by a man named Wittegas, who, while not hailing from an aristocratic family of any great distinction, was regarded as a skilled general and warrior, thus making him seem ideal to lead the Goths in this time of crisis. Meanwhile, Belisarius continued his victorious march to the north where Rome's Gothic garrison shows to retreat from the city in the face of the Roman advance. Belisarius entered the ancient Roman capital and birthplace of their civilization in December of 536 AD, returning the eternal city to imperial rule without a fight. However, under the command of their new and far more energetic king, the Goths were preparing to contest the empire's control of Rome, and Wittegas began to marshal a huge army with which he plans to crush Belisarius's invasion. Siege of Rome, preliminaries. Despite having no special love for their former Austro-Goth rulers, the citizens of Rome also had no desire to be directly involved in Belisarius's campaign, and they quickly started to resent the presence of the East Roman army, having hoped they would simply move on to their next target once the city was secure. Belisarius, meanwhile, dispatched troops to secure some nearby towns which could also give the Romans some advance warning about the approach of the Goths. In the Gothic camp, Wittegas had finished amassing a huge army that reportedly numbered around 150,000 men, a figure that was likely exaggerated, but nevertheless it is clear that the small Roman force of just around 7,000 men was grossly outnumbered. However, Belisarius had been bolstering Rome's defenses, and his army also had a strong advantage in cavalry, which was to prove vital in the coming siege. Wittegas would begin his march towards Rome in February 537 AD, from the Gothic capital of Ravenna, moving down the Via Flaminia. Siege of Rome, the battle. Belisarius had established a small garrison at the bridge overlooking the Tyber, but some of these soldiers deserted to the Goths while the rest fled to Campania, leaving Wittegas' approach uncontested. Once news of this reached Belisarius, he personally led out a force of 1,000 cavalry to delay the Goths, who crossed the Tyber the next morning where they were met by the Romans. A furious melee ensued, in which the Romans were able to repel the lead elements of the Goths before regrouping at a nearby hill. However, the Goths now recovered and overwhelmed the exhausted and outnumbered Romans, which also led to a rumor spreading that Belisarius had been killed. The general, however, was able to rally his men again and defeat the Goths in open battle, allowing him to retreat within Rome's walls. The next day, Wittegas led his entire army across the Tyber and established seven large camps to quarter his troops, six being east of the river and the last on the Naronian plain. He also began building several siege towers and four large battering rams to help storm the city. As vast as the Gothic army was, however, they were not able to completely surround Rome, meaning Belisarius still had an avenue open for supplies and reinforcements. Wittegas had also heard that the Senate of Rome were angry with Belisarius' presence and attempted to take advantage of this by sending envoys to negotiate the city's surrender. These talks quickly collapsed, however, as Belisarius dramatically declared that for as long as he lived, it was impossible for him to relinquish the city. Not long after these events, Wittegas launched his first attack on Rome's walls. This assault quickly stalled when the Romans targeted the oxen being used to move the Gothic siege equipment, leaving them immobile in the field while volleys of arrows, slingshot and artillery inflicted heavy casualties on the Goths. Wittegas then redirected the bulk of his forces to attack other sections of the defenses, mainly at the Porta Prinastina and Porta Cornelia. The fighting here was fierce. And a Roman infantry unit known as the Kings or Regues in Latin became especially distinguished for its efforts at holding the Porta Flominia. Ultimately, the Romans were able to repel the Gothic assault, inflicting significant casualties upon the attackers. This led to a reprieve for the besieged Romans, as the Goths avoided directly attacking the city's defenses, allowing Belisarius to open communications with Justinian and request reinforcements, which arrived in April in the form of 1,600 cavalry, including a contingent of Huns. Belisarius now began to send his mounted troops to make sallys against the Goths, who defeated them in several skirmishes. Emboldened by their successful defense so far and wanting to end the siege quickly, Belisarius' commanders pressured him into challenging Wittegas in open battle. Despite the general's concerns over the Goths' huge advantage in numbers. Belisarius conscripted several of Roman citizens to act as infantry in the coming battle, whose main task was to provide a protective screen for the superior Roman cavalry close to the city walls and gates. On the day of the battle, the Roman horse once again proved highly effective against the Goths, but they were hugely outnumbered. And in this more formal pitched battle, this gave Wittegas an advantage. The Roman cavalry harassing Gotha Glines was soon repelled, and the infantry in turn also fled or were forced back. Thus, the siege largely settled into an uneasy stalemate for several months, as the Goths lacked the ability to storm the Roman defenses, while the Romans in turn lacked the numbers to defeat the Goths in open battle. Instead, Belisarius continued his tried and trusted tactics of sending his cavalry to perform sorties against the Gothic siege lines while maintaining his lines of communication and supply. Belisarius was able to receive more reinforcements in December, whose approach to the city was successfully covered by launching a large attack from the Porta Flamenia and Pinceana on the Gothic lines that inflicted the siege. With his troops bloodied and ravaged by disease and starvation, Wittegas decided to negotiate, during which even more Roman reinforcements entered the city, along with large amounts of supplies. The Goths also attempted to take the city twice in a stealth attack, but were detected and thwarted on each occasion, which led to the negotiations breaking down and the war resuming in early fortitude. However, with his logistical situation worsening, his armies having suffered many losses and Roman defenses having improved, Wittegas decided it was no longer practical to continue the siege and thus began a full retreat in March. Belisarius quickly and mercilessly took advantage of this by launching a sally against the rear elements of the Gothic column as they withdrew, inflicting heavy casualties. After months under relentless siege, Rome had managed to hold out, and Belisarius had won one of his greatest victories, siege of Rome after math. The failure of the Goths to defeat Belisarius at Rome decisively swung the tide of the war against them. The Roman army in Italy was able to resume its advanced northward, where they took the Gothic forts in cities one by one, before taking the capital of Ravenna in 540 AD. King Wittegas' popularity among the Goths had also completely collapsed following his crushing defeat at Rome, and he also surrendered to Belisarius and would return with the general to Constantinople. Here he formally surrendered to Justinian and was permitted to live out the last two years of his life in the Imperial capital. This left almost all of Italy once more in Roman control, and with the Goths lacking a strong figurehead to rally around and unable to raise a large army. Despite his impressive victory however, Belisarius' campaigns would prove to be but a prelude to a new period of warfare in Italy, which would see the ancient heartland of the Roman Empire become devastated from years of brutal conflict. Wars in the West After his victory over the Austro-Goth King Wittegas at Rome in 538 AD, and the fall of Ravenna in 540 AD, Belisarius had left Italy in the hands of various other Roman commanders and returns to Constantinople, with the remaining Gothic forces in northern Italy appearing too weak to contest. There were also continuing operations in North Africa against the Mourish tribes, but although they could prove persistent and skilled opponents, they were not dangerous enough to threaten Roman dominance of their reconquered territory. However, complacency and corruption among the Roman leadership would soon put the Italian theater at risk. Here, the absence of a single overall commander with Belisarius' departure quickly proved to be detrimental, as the various Roman generals in the area were left to their own devices and began to abuse their power and line their own pockets. All the while, the local Italian population was greatly burdened by Roman taxation, while in the north, the remnants of the Austro-Gothic forces remained active, the Goths also quarreled with one another. Until in 542 AD, a man named Totea was able to seize power and proclaim himself, King. Totea quickly proved to be a capable enemy, as he rallied the Gothic forces and defeated the Roman commanders left behind in Italy in the battles of Faventia and Florentia. Totea was then able to overwhelm virtually all of Italy within a single summer and reverse Belisarius' hard-won gains, which unsurprisingly made Justinian furious. The remaining Roman troops merely continued to hold out in fortified strongholds, including the city of Rome, which Totea soon besieged. To make matters worse, the Empire was at the same time suffering from a large outbreak of plague, which had first spread from Egypt and by 543 AD had infected Italy and would even manage to spread to Gal and distant Britain. With a situation in Italy spiraling ever further out of control, Justinian reappointed Belisarius as the commander of the theater in 544 AD. Unfortunately for the general, his standing had declined since he last campaigned in the region and he found it difficult to secure enough troops and supplies. He managed to scrape together only a small force. Belisarius won some victories and attempted to relieve Rome but was unable to decisively defeat the Goths or convince Totea to lift the siege. The eternal city ultimately fell back into Gotha cans in December 546 AD and with this victory in hand, Totea attempted to reopen peace talks with Justinian, threatening to invade Illyricum. Yet, Justinian was unantimidated and thus the war would continue. The city of Rome, however, was too large for Totea to garrison with a strong enough force to permanently hold it and so he destroyed much of its defenses before abandoning the city. Nevertheless, Belisarius was determined to hold on to it and reoccupied Rome and started repairing its walls. The general was able to somewhat stabilize the Roman position in Italy but Totea remained undefeated by the time he was recalled by Justinian in 547 AD, never to return to the region again. Like before, the departure of the skills general gave the Goths an advantage and Totea was able to take several Roman strongholds and recapture Rome itself yet again in early 550 AD. This victory proved to be relatively short-lived, however, as Totea was defeated and killed in 552 AD at the Battle of Tagani by the general Narcés, the new Roman supreme commander in Italy. News of this great victory reached Justinian in dramatic fashion, as Narcés sent the blood-stained crown and robe of Totea to the Emperor as trophies. To further compound this success, the Romans were also able to reconquer territory in southeastern Spain that same year by intervening in a civil war among the Visigoth kingdom in support of a Gothic nobles revolt. The remnants of the Austro-Goths, meanwhile, were defeated by Narcés by 554 AD, who also routed a Frankish incursion into northern Italy at the Battle of Vol turnus. Italy had had long-last been reconquered and the Goths defeated, but the cost had been high and the region was left devastated by the long and hard fought conflict. The once great city of Rome, having been the scene of numerous lengthy sieges, was also in an appalling state. Its infrastructure being severely damaged at its population, a mere fragment of what it once was. For the rest of Justinian's reign, there would be a period of calm in Italy, as the Emperor reorganized its corrupt administration and continued reintegrating it into the empire. But with the Roman army stretched thin and the region exhausted from years of warfare, it was left in a precarious position against any future threats. Wars in the East Meanwhile, the Eastern Frontier had its own lengthy war in the form of a new conflict with Persia. As the eternal peace negotiated by Justinian only lasted until 540 AD. Being well aware of the facts that the Romans were distracted by the Gothic War, the Persians decided to take advantage of the more vulnerable state of the empire to invade, while also was searching their control over the Kingdom of LaZica, where they managed to gain a foothold by taking advantage of the Lazy dissatisfaction towards Rome. Cossero led the Persian army in person and struck directly at Syria, where he sacked the major city of Antioch before storming other areas or extracting payments of gold in return for leaving others alone. Many of the citizens in these areas were captured and deported to Persia, where Cusro forcibly settled them in the newly built city named Vé Antioch Cusro, south of the Persian capital of Tessifon, meaning the better Antioch of Cusro. Bellicarius arrived in the East in 551 AD, and although he engaged in some smaller actions with the Persians and raided enemy territory, there were no major battles fought at this time. The campaign soon became an uneasy stalemate, as a Roman offensive into Persian Armenia was defeated in 543 AD. And the following year, a Persian invasion into Roman Mesopotamia was likewise repelled at the siege of Odessa. Another possible reason behind this law in major operations was the aforementioned outbreak of disease that spread from Egypt, which would become known as the plague of Justinian. The precise details of what this plague exactly was, as well as the effect it had, is something that s been a matter of debate, but it clearly caused widespread fatalities in the Roman Empire and beyond killing thousands in the capital of Constantinople alone. Both empires agreed to a truce in 545 AD, by which time the impact of the plague may have started to die down. However, this only brought an end to the fighting in Syria and Mesopotamia. Both sides were still keen on asserting their influence over LaZica, where they sent additional troops in 548 AD as the Persian presence there became more unpopular and tenuous. The tide of war shifted in Rome's favor when they defeated the Persians at the Battle of the River Hippos in 549 AD and captured the strategically important city of Petra in 551 AD, allowing them to gain a strong foothold in LaZica, whose people had now switched their allegiance back to the Romans. The last major Persian attempts to regain the region took place in 556 AD, but they suffered a disastrous defeat at fascists. This finally led to a long-term peace treaty, which was ratified in 562 AD. It stipulated that the Romans would pay the Persians an annual subsidy of 30,000 solidi. With the first seven years paid up front in exchange for Persian recognition of LaZica as within Rome's sphere of influence, the Persians would also prevent any of the nomadic tribes living beyond the Caucasus from raiding Roman territory. And finally, both sides remained within their traditional borders without exchanging territory. Like in the West with the Gothic War, the Romans under Justinian were able to stabilize the Eastern Frontier without any loss of territory or especially poor concessions to the Persians, though the cost had been high at least in financial terms, with Antioch requiring vast sums of money to be fully rebuilt after its devastation. Not to mention the additional loss of life caused by the plague of Justinian. Fighting these two major wars on Frontiers very far from one another was also having an effect on the Imperial Treasury and Army, as Justinian often struggled to pay his troops during this period, which led to unrest in the ranks, the end of Justinian's reign. Justinian would die not long after the treaty with Persia was finalized in 565 AD and was succeeded by Justin II. Belisarius incidentally also passed away around the same time. In his final years, Belisarius had returned to defeat a contravert invasion into the Balkans in 559 AD. But despite his reputation as a commander, he had found himself increasingly struggling to hold the favor of the Imperial government. Nevertheless, Belisarius and Justinian are still widely remembered today as the chief architects of Rome's significant reconquest of much of the former Western Empire. There has also been debates over the merits of these reconquests and whether they were ultimately in the best interests of the Empire or merely resulted in a waste of resources that left it weaker. It's undeniable that the wars fought during Justinian's reign were bloody and that the Imperial Treasury was on many occasions strange to provide for those campaigns, while the Roman army was now stretched thin, campaigning over such a wide area. The aftermath of the Gothic and Persian wars continued to also be expensive for Rome, as Italy would need to be rebuilt in many years and its administration reformed. While in the east, there was the issue of repairing damage done to valuable cities by the Persians, with Antioch requiring a total of 5,000 pounds of gold to rebuild. There was furthermore the unfortunate coincidence of the plague of Justinian, which took place concurrently to both wars in the west and east. Yet we should not stress this negative image of Justinian's reconquests too far, as the Empire did regain much valuable territory in the west, which would prove to be productive parts of it for a long time. While in the east, the Persian wars had not directly affected most of the provinces there. Upon Justinian's death, the Roman Empire remained a powerful force to be reckoned with. Yet it wouldn't be long after his passing that his successor, just in the second, would be forced to deal with new problems that would see war torn Italy become a battleground once more. And the so-called 50 years peace with Persia fall apart well before its allotted time.