---
video_title: "Why did Roman Coins Reach Vietnam?"
video_id: rEoYMcYx5RU
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rEoYMcYx5RU
video_date: 2026-04-23T17:23:33+00:00
video_description: |
  How did a Roman Coin Reach The Far East?
  
  How did a Roman coin end up in the Far East, thousands of miles from the Empire that minted it? This video explores the trade networks , merchants, and possible maritime routes that connected the Mediterranean to Asia, and what one lost coin can reveal about the scale of ancient global exchange at that time. 
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work and Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q/join
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  Big thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  
  0:00 A Roman Face in Vietnam
  1:21 Tracing the Journey
  1:58 The Discovery at Óc Eo
  3:19 The Funan Trade World
  5:11 Inside a Roman Mint
  7:44 Rome to Alexandria
  10:52 Into the Indian Ocean
  13:26 India: The Turning Point
  14:46 Currency Becomes Jewelry
  15:23 The Final Leg
  16:47 What It All Means
  
  
  
  #History #Documentary
---
In the May Kong Delta, a French archaeologist digs at Auk Aoe and pulls up a tiny gold coin with the Roman Emperor's face. But it isn't money. It has a crude little loop for a cord. Someone wore it. Auk Aoe is deep in Vietnam, thousands of miles from the Roman world. How does an Emperor's portrait end up here? And if this piece is a copy, instead of a Roman-minted coin, the question gets better. Where did the model come from? Even if the Auk Aoe piece is a copy, it still points to something real upstream. A genuine Roman coin, or an earlier copy made from one, likely reached a workshop somewhere in the Indian Ocean world long enough for its portrait to be copied. After that, the image could travel farther than the coin ever did. Chinese records say, a group claiming to represent Dachin, arrived by sea in 166 AD. From beyond the frontier of Rhenon, south of Jiaoji, many historians read this as merchants and intermediaries, not proof of Roman ships reaching Vietnam. So if Romans didn't bring it, who did, to understand how, will follow the story of one Roman coin? And its journey east to Vietnam, or more precisely, how a Roman coin, and then its portrait, could be copied, repurposed, and carried east through the Indian Ocean world. Of course, we cannot know the exact path any of these coins or artifacts took. But let's simplify this entire journey. Let's imagine approximate and trace the trade network Rome plugged into crossing the Mediterranean, the near east, India, and Southeast Asia, and see how, along the way, our coin stops being money at all and becomes something else. The year was the early to mid-1940s, World War II raged on, and Indochina was under intense wartime pressure and changing control arrangements. Despite the disruptions, the French archaeologist Louis Malrae was able to conduct major surveys and excavations at Alc-Aoe, in the far south of the country, building on earlier reconnaissance and expanding the scale of work. The area of attention was Alc-Aoe, long suspected as an ancient site of importance, and sometimes linked by modern scholars to Categara, a far east port, named in Toulommies' second century geography. This identification is debated and not settled. Also relevant in the written record, is the first century paraplyse of the Erathrian Sea, which doesn't describe Alc-Aoe directly, but lays out the Red Sea to India trade highway that fed the same chain of exchanges. Alc-Aoe was likely part of the broader Funan world during the period from around the first to sixth century AD. Known mainly through Chinese sources, Funan is best understood as an early May Kong-centered polity, with strong links across the Gulf of Thailand and into wider maritime trade. This was a lucrative world of long-distance exchange, with cultural and religious links, as well as trade. Through this network, valuables from far-flung regions, including the Mediterranean could arrive indirectly, often via South Asia. Malaray's work revealed a wide range of vines, including gems and South Asian religious imagery, reflecting the spread of Indian ideas and iconography into Southeast Asia. But among the most intriguing objects associated with Alc-Aoe was something else, a gold piece bearing the unmistakable face of a Roman emperor. In reports tied to Alc-Aoe, the best known Roman-faced pieces are now typically identified as locally made gold pendants, copying Roman orii. One is a thin gold sheet pendant, copying a coin type of Antoninus Pius, its prototype dated to 152, and another is a thicker, cast, one-sided pendant, copying a coin type of Commodus from around 192. The latter sometimes misidentified in older tellings as Marcus Aurelius. For researchers, these pieces were striking, not because they proved Roman sailors reached Vietnam, but because they showed Roman gold and Roman imagery had entered the long chain of exchanges, linking the Mediterranean, India, and Southeast Asia. And the pendant's suspension feature is the clue to its meaning. Whatever its exact path, this was no longer just money. It was prestige you could wear. Now, let's go back some 1800 years to the beginning of this journey, before the Emperor's portrait spanned the globe and create this scenario. The year was somewhere in the Antonin era, 2nd century AD, and an imperial mint craftsman, labored late into the evening. This was part of the Empire's monetary system, producing a range of denominations, including bronze asses, silver denari, and high-value gold oreai. In special cases, ceremonial pieces in precious metal could also be struck for gifting and display, blurring the line between money and message. For our story, imagine a real Roman aureus of the kind later copied in the east. Freshly struck under Antoninus Pius, or later Commodus. Antoninus Pius reigned as Emperor for a long and relatively stable period, commanding an empire near the height of its power. If you prefer the later prototype, Commodus ruled after Marcus Aurelius, and his coin portraits also became models. As the current ruler, it was the Emperor's features that were imprinted onto these coins, using engraved dies. Gold was melted, formed into blanks, and struck to create a durable portrait and legend. A hot flan pinched in tongs, a die aligned, and a hammer blow that rings like iron on stone. A new coin had now been born. From there, coins could move through multiple official and private channels, state and imperial treasuries, military pay, taxes, and merchant networks before reaching private hands. What follows is a plausible reconstruction. We can't trace one specific coin step by step, but we can follow real roots and real incentives. The coin entering circulation through a payment tied to Rome's vast supply system, handled by a merchant, engaged in state-linked trade. A contract has agreed, payment is made, and the gold aureus drops into a leather pouch. He thinks he's being paid for business. He has no idea he's holding on to something that can travel far beyond the world he knows. Out on the open road, the coin can begin its long journey. As with many traders of the period, the initial journey is an overland haul to the Port Complex serving Rome, including Austria, and the great harbor works at Portus, expanded under Emperor's like Claudius and Trasian. From here, Rome connected to the wider Mediterranean and beyond. At the docks, merchant shipping was constant. Our merchant embarks on a large trading vessel, bound ultimately for Alexandria, a key hub of Roman Egypt. Routes to Alexandria were not always ships might dock along the way, depending on winds, season, and commercial needs. Stops could include Sicily and Crete, where merchants could exchange goods, take on supplies, and add secondary cargo for resale. In favorable conditions, the sailing time from Italy to Alexandria could be on the order of 10 to 14 days with the wind behind, but far longer in adverse conditions and on the return. Before continuing the coin's journey, it's helpful to pause and examine the role of Egypt within the Roman Empire at this time. Egypt was a crucial grain supplier for the Roman world, and control over Egypt and its shipping routes was treated as strategically vital. Alexandria stood as a beating heart of this system, a dense and cosmopolitan city, where Egyptian, Greek-speaking, Roman, Jewish, and many other communities lived and traded. Alexandria was also a getaway to the east. For some traders, it was a stepping stone to the Red Sea ports, the monsoon routes to India, and the wider Indian Ocean exchange world, and its here, the coin's destiny, changes. Arriving in Alexandria was intense, even for seasoned merchants, warehouses, markets, and brokers, moved goods at scale. To fulfill his contract, our merchant needs grain. He deals with local intermediaries who can supply it. For payment, he uses the forms of currency common in Egypt for daily and regional trade. Egypt operated with a distinct monetary system for local use, even while Roman gold could circulate as bullion and high value payment. And now, the Roman Aureus appears as part of the settlement, not because it is spendable money in the Egyptian market in the same way it is in Italy, but because it is portable gold with a trusted weight and an imperial face. Once it leaves Roman hands, it stops being Roman money and becomes something broader. Gold that can move through many markets, prized for metal, recognizability, and status. The deal is wrapped up, the grain moves towards shipment. The coin, now in new haens, is ready for its next leg. The gold coin doesn't remain long with a single owner. Alexandria drew merchants tied into networks reaching Arabia, the Persian Gulf, and the Indian Ocean. Goods from India and beyond, reached Egypt, and Egyptian goods moved outward in return. A meeting is arranged with merchant connected into these eastern routes. The details vary by trader and era, but let's imagine luxury goods, aeromatics, textiles, gems, and metals moved through hands in long chains. In negotiation, the Aureus appears again, attractive as high status gold, and with a discount or sweetener agreed, the coin changes hands once more. Now it's headed into a world Rome doesn't control, the Persian Gulf trade world. At this stage, the coin can move through overlapping corridors, red sea shipping, Arabian antropos, Persian Gulf ports, and caravan links. Back and forth for months and years, often without any single trader traveling the whole distance, our coin does not need to follow only one fixed path. It moves through multiple hands and multiple corridors, carried by merchants who connect these worlds. Our eastern connected merchant is a man on the move. Someone used to long periods in testing environments. After stocking up on wares, he travels the established route from the Nile to Egypt's red seaports via desert roads and wastations documented in ancient sources and archaeology. At a red seaport, such as Mayas Hormas, one of the major Roman era gateways to Indian Ocean trade, the next leg involves sea travel. The destination is the wider Indian Ocean network, but the route can include stops. Southern Arabia was famous for aeromatics, ports in the region of modern Yemen, including Khana in the Paraplus tradition, supplied frankincense and Mer, that fed ritual and elite status across the ancient world. In these markets, the Roman gold is not just metal, it's an object with cache. Gold with an imperial portrait is trusted because it is hard to fake, easy to weigh, and easy to admire, so the coin changes hands again. From Southern Arabia, the next leap is east, into the Indian Ocean. Often timed to seasonal winds, the target is western India, and the ports of the Malabar coast, names like Musaris and Nelkinda in the Greco-Roman sources. Now, the coin is firmly in the Indian Ocean trade world, far from territory where it could be used as official Roman currency, its value is in its bullion and its prestige, and this matters because India is where Roman gold is attested in significant quantities, and where Roman coin portraits could be seen, handled, copied and repurposed. From India, trade did not end, it branched as before. Goods and people crossed the Bay of Bengal and moved into the time of the peninsula and the Gulf of Thailand, and this is where our story's key transformation happens, because the object found at Alqaio is very likely not that original Roman coin at all. If a Roman orius reached India, it could do more than pay for goods. It could also become a model, in parts of South Asia, converting coins into jewelry, is a documented practice, piercing them, looping them, wearing them. And in Southeast Asia, craftsmen went a step further. They made gold pendants that imitated Roman coin portraits, so imagine our coin reaching a jeweler, a loop is added, or appendent is made to mimic the coin's portrait. Whether that conversion happened in India, or later in Southeast Asia, the broader point is the same. The coin was being repurposed into jewelry, or its portrait was being copied into jewelry. Currency becomes a wearable status symbol. Now the coin, or the pendant made from its model, made off on the last leg of its journey, first east through the Bay of Bengal to the time of the peninsula. And then through the straits and the Gulf of Thailand, into the trading world that fed Alqaio. From here it headed toward the Meikong Delta region, here at Alqaio, over 9,000 kilometers from Rome, the emperor's face reached its last destination. Sold locally, either worn by an elite, or kept as a high status ornament, or used for other reasons, and then lost, or buried in the shifting alluvial landscape. The exact final moment is lost to time. Through whichever means it ended up in the Meikong Delta soils, there it remained for centuries, until archaeological work in the 1940s brought these long distance connections into view. Its presence in Vietnam attests to the staggering reach of ancient exchange networks. And because the Alqaio pieces are best understood as pendants copying Roman coin portraits, the how becomes even more revealing. Not Romans meeting Vietnamese traders face to face, probably, but Roman gold and Roman imagery moving into India, then being remade, revalued, and carried onward by south and southeast Asian networks into funnnd ports. A Roman coin can travel far, and even when the original does not survive at the end of the chain, its portrait can. And this was not a one-off. Similar Roman coin imitation pendants are also known from sites in Thailand, such as U Tong and Klong Tom, including evidence that at least some were produced locally, including a stone mold found at Klong Tom. We used one coin as our guide, because sometimes a single face on a single piece of gold is enough to reveal the whole system. And if one Roman Emperor's face reached the Meikong, what else might still be buried out there, waiting? We loved this story, and we knew we had to make a video about it. If you enjoyed it too, like, subscribe, and hit the bell so you don't miss what's next. More stories like this are in the works. You can now explore our maps in even more detail as prints and downloads. Premium historical maps designed by historians. Link below.