---
video_title: "How did France Survive the last 150 Years | History of France (1870 - 2026)"
video_id: lQc4mbDtJZs
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lQc4mbDtJZs
video_date: 2026-08-05T13:33:24+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦Want EARLY ACCESS or EXCLUSIVE CONTENT? Support us and get it here:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  The Complete History Edition Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9h7OjK629BU8pNtQo4Lz9Sx
  
  ♦♦Why did Germany invade France three times in seventy years? On September 2nd, 1870, Napoleon III surrendered to the Prussians at Sedan with 104,000 men. Two days later, Paris proclaimed the Third Republic. In May 1940, German panzers broke through at the exact same town, and France fell in six weeks. Between those two disasters at Sedan, France lost Alsace and Lorraine, crushed the Paris Commune, held Verdun for 300 days, and won the First World War at a cost of almost 1.4 million dead. This is not the story of a nation that kept losing. It is the story of how defeat built modern France. The Maginot Line guarded the wrong border, Vichy chose collaboration while de Gaulle's Free French fought on, the empire died at Dien Bien Phu and in Algeria, and the Fifth Republic turned a country invaded three times into a nuclear power at the heart of the European Union. From the Franco-Prussian War through both World Wars and beyond, this is the complete history of France from 1870 to today.
  
  
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  potatohistory-us, johnathondwigans, MohitAgrawal-d9n, Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  00:00 From Empire to Almost Nothing
  00:52 The Belle Époque Mirage
  02:02 1914: The Alliances Snap Shut
  05:30 Four Years in the Trenches
  08:06 Boom, Bust, and the Storm to the East
  10:42 Six Weeks to Defeat
  12:02 Free France and the Resistance
  14:13 Liberation and the End of Empire
  16:29 The Bomb, the Franc, and the EU
  18:01 Hard to Govern, Hard to Break
  
  #History #Documentary
---
France went from this huge empire to this. In 1900, it stood at the top of the world with Paris considered the cultural capital of the west and an economy surging forward on the back of industry and trade. But within 40 years, German flags would be flying over the Arctic triumph. Within a single lifetime, France would be invaded twice, lose over a million men in the trenches, watch its capital fall to a foreign army, and lose more than 90% of its global [music] territory. And yet, France would still be one of the most influential countries, help build the European Union, and become a nuclear [music] power, walking out of the 20th century more dangerous than the empire that walked in. This is the story

of modern France. The 1800s had closed with a rare and prolonged period of stability for France. [music] In contrast to the revolutionary era that came before, he was part of the broader belly pock sweeping across Europe. Economic growth, industrial expansion, rapid urban modernization the third republic [music] had now endured since 1870. This stability allowed for forward planning and state projects, including the rebuilding [music] of a large French colonial empire that brought wealth and prestige to the nation. France had

produced figures like Ptor who pioneered vaccination and pasteurization and played an important role in the sciences. But in contrast to this progress, Europe's monarchs and great powers could still cause huge ripples from their feuds. A crisis was brewing and it would play out to the most disastrous end. For a while, it had looked permanent. Progress, prosperity, a France confident in its place as one of the ruling powers of the world. It

was a mirage, and it was about to crack open on a scale no one alive had ever imagined. Tensions had been simmering between European rivals for years, driven by old imperial grievances, new alliances, militarism, and nationalism. Germany, for example, felt that it had been shortchanged in the scramble for Africa. What nobody at the top of Europe fully grasped was how rigidly locked the alliance systems had become. One spark anywhere in Europe would pull in every great power. The Balkan region

had been a tinderbox for years with localized conflict occurring there in the period ahead of World War I. However, in 1914 with the assassination of Austrian Archduke France Ferdinand, things would go global. Through the subsequent triggering of various alliances, the battle lines between groups were formed. The tripolon taunt initially consisting of France, Britain [music] and Russia stood against Germany and AustriaHungary. The Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria would join the central powers later in the war. France to

[music] its great detriment would become one of the main theaters of the conflict. At first, it didn't look like a long war. The Germans enacted the long-prepared Schlieffen plan developed nearly a decade earlier by the field marshal of the same name. The plan was to take Paris in roughly 6 weeks, then pivot east to deal with Russia. A long two-front war they believed would be unwinable, which is exactly what would transpire. The German advance was deadly

and caught France partially offg guard, but with British support, she was able to delay it through rear guard actions. Early engagements occurred initially during the Battle of the Frontiers through August 1914 with a completely different style of warfare to what would later emerge with the stalemate of the trenches. It was nonetheless devastating for France, though, resulting in 329,000 casualties, over 200,000 more than her German enemy. Though Germany had failed to capture Paris and force surrender, it was now established in strong defensive positions well inside France. It would be this line which would evolve into the remarkably static Western Front. Early

September 1914 would lead to one of the most significant encounters [music] of the war. The first battle of the Mann. Here a French force which had previously been consistently pushed back mounted a valiant defense along with British allies. Referred to in France as the miracle on the MN, it effectively marked the end of Germany's lightning advance and the failure of their broader [music] objective to force French surrender rapidly. This would be the first mass-cale confrontation and slaughter of the war. A dark omen of what was to

come. French casualties in the wider fighting of early September were enormous, compounded by the hundreds of thousands already lost in previous weeks. It was a heavy blow for the French army and nation. Around 10% of the nearly 4 million strong army at the height of conscription in 1914 had been killed or wounded. The bloodbath at the MN would give way to the static western front which by the end of the year was pretty well established [music] all the way from the Belgian coast down to Switzerland.

The next four years would be torture for France. Entire offensives dragged on for months and moved the front line by only a few kilometers at the cost of hundreds of thousands [music] of lives. Thousands could be cut down in minutes by wellpositioned machine guns, sweeping in arcs across densely packed formations. Yet commanders were slow to adapt, maintaining mass infantry assaults despite the carnage of machine guns and artillery fire. Desperation at the stalemate led to innovations like poison gas, first deployed in chlorine form by German forces at ERA in April 1915.

A low yellow green cloud drifting silently with the wind. It quickly became a feature of the conflict. Those slow to administer their masks or the unfortunate souls exposed to its early use before masks were used suffered a horrifying end. Essentially choked by liquid generated in their own lungs, often referred to as drowning on dry land. Survivors suffered mass blindness [music] and lung tissue damage. Another

innovation of the era was the tank, pioneered by the British to provide cover for infantry and tear [music] up barbed wire. Though often plagued by technical difficulties, it would earn its place as a key element in all future warfare. Helped by these advances and the US joining the war in 1917, the static front finally began to move. German lines buckled, the tide turned and France was eventually free of foreign forces. But victory in 1918 had come at an enormous cost. Upwards of 1.2

million French soldiers were dead. It was a loss that would shape the country for a generation. Economically, the nation was also battered. A period of intense memorialization followed, more than in any other combatant nation. An estimated 36,000 war memorials were built between 1919 and 1926.

One in nearly every town and village across France. From this grief, economic growth and national hope would slowly return in the 1920s. as in the US and much of Europe. The 1920s was a boom time. Economic growth supported social mobility and culture flourished. But like the Bella Pac, it

would only be another interlude. The first blow came with a great depression. Global shock waves didn't spare France. A recession ensued. And though the country was spared the hyperinflation of Germany, hardship was felt by much of the population through the 1930s.

There would be no reprieve. Far worse was gathering on the horizon. The depression was only the smaller of the two storms now gathering over Europe. The larger one was rising a few hundred miles to the east. And this time, the warnings would not be ignored until it was too late. They would be ignored

until it was almost over. By this point in Germany, also suffering the fallout from the depression and its own financial issues, Hitler was firmly in control. His increasing militarization through the 1930s alarmed France and hastened the construction of the extensive Majino line. This defensive line covering a large portion of France's [music] eastern border was state-of-the-art and designed to hold off or at least slow any German invading force. However, it did not fully cover the route through the Ardens and the Low Countries, which would become the main axis of the German invasion in 1940. As

Hitler's provocations escalated through the 1930s, including the annexation of Austria, war finally broke out with his invasion of Poland on September 1st, 1939, after which Britain and France declared war on Germany in Poland's defense. While German forces were tied up in the east, France launched a limited push into the Sawland on the 7th of September with 11 divisions advancing about 8 km before halting. On paper, the Allied advantage was overwhelming. Around 110 French and British divisions in the west, facing just 23 thinly held German divisions. But within weeks, the offensive was called off and French [music] forces withdrew to the Majinino line. The chance to strike Germany while

its army was focused east slipped away at Nuremberg. German General Alfred Yodel would later admit that Germany's collapse in 1939 had been avoided only because the Allies stayed inactive in the West. When the German invasion of France came in May 1940, its tactics were just as successful as in Poland and French strategy and deployment proved badly unsuited to this new fastmoving style of warfare. In keeping with this theme of obsolescence, the Majino line was simply bypassed with the main German forces advancing through the Ardens and the Low Countries. The French army resisted the initial invasion, losing around 90,000 men in 6 weeks of fighting. By the time German troops

entered Paris on the 14th of June 1940, most of the city had already fled. 2 million people gone, empty boulevards. This would not be a repeat of the Great War. France was now an occupied nation, possibly at its lowest point since the darkest phases of the Hundred Years War. The country was split between a German occupied zone covering around 60% of its territory and a collaborationist zone making up the rest. This vichy

government was led by an aging First World War hero, General Baton, and would remain a blight on the French conscience for many years. The first rays of light seems to emerge with an exiled deaul making his famous radio address from London in 1940. Known as the appeal of 18 June in it he established himself as the leader of free France and declared the resistance against occupying German forces active. He was aided by his capable civil servant, Jean Mulan, who was sent covertly to France to carry out initial unification work between different resistance cells. Parachuted into rural province on New Year's Day 1942. One

civil servant landing in the dark to stitch a broken country back together. He proceeded to carry out his mission successfully, helping build an increasingly cohesive resistance network that would continue to grow through 1943 and 1944. This more connected resistance was a capable force. Significant new support from the British meant radio communications, intelligence, parachuted operatives, and weapon drops. These caches, air dropped by night, helped transform the cells that received them, delivering British-built Sten submachine guns, grenades, and explosives.

Alongside their captured German weapons, resistance groups could now lay down significant fire. This they would do to great effect for the rest of the war, carrying out industrial sabotage, bombing trains and infrastructure to disrupt German troop movements and assassinations of various German officials. In response, the Germans papered walls across Paris with red posters, the notorious of fish rogues, listing the names and photographs of executed resistors as a warning. The reprisals sometimes reached around 50 hostages executed for every German soldier killed. And yet the resistance persisted with a high death rate and the near certainty of torture if captured.

They became heroic figures providing hope for the nation at a time when it was most needed. And then slowly against the odds the tide began to turn. With Germany's eventual defeat, France was liberated, but warweary. Devastated by occupation and heavily indebted to the US from loans running back to the First World War. It would take until the 1950s for economic growth and optimism to return. Marshall Plan

aid and post-war markets helped, and a revamped colonial empire was seen as a way to restore both economy and national pride. Indo-China became the first crisis culminating at the battle of Denbianfu in 1954 where the French were forced to withdraw in disarray. Similar struggles were gaining pace in other colonies including Algeria. The world was entering the age of decolonization. It was no longer the time for new European empires. With

economic as well as demographic growth cautiously returning through the 1950s, French politics would remain unstable. This was furthered by continuing colonial crises, including Suez in 1956. here. Despite winning the initial war against Egypt after its nationalization of the Sewish Canal Company, which was controlled by French and British interests, France was forced by [music] US and international pressure into an embarrassing withdrawal. This along with a humiliating loss in Vietnam 2 years previously sealed by the defeat at Denbenfu in 1954 seems to finally get the message across to French leadership.

France's colonial empire was now rapidly unraveling. Morocco and Tunisia gained independence in 1956. And in the 1960s, often called the year of Africa, most of France's subsaharan African colonies also became independent. After the election of De Gul as president in 1958, he moved to grant Algeria independence in 1962, ending another bloody war that had raged since 1954. At the same time, France sought to preserve its status as a great power through nuclear weapons. Its first

atomic bomb, Jabo Blue, was successfully tested in 1960 near Ragan in the Sahara Desert of French Algeria before later French nuclear tests were moved to the Pacific, especially French Polynesia. By the 1970s, the post-war boom was ending. The 1973 oil crisis hit hard, as did global competition on France's [music] industrial sector, while a powerful labor movement resisted reforms like raising the retirement age. The next decades were characterized by intermittent economic trouble and political instability alongside closer integration with the EU, officially formalized by the restrict treaty of 1992. After many years of economic integration with multiple countries in Western Europe, towards the close of the century, deeper EU integration made it easier for many Europeans to move and work across member states. While in

[music] 1999, the euro was introduced in non-cash form ahead of the arrival of notes and coins in 2002. More broadly, the nation continues on with its strong regional differences and rich traditions. a global tourist magnet and major exporter of high-v valueue food and drink which sustain its cultural influence. In the 21st century, [music] France entered a different kind of struggle, not against foreign occupation, but against slower growth, mounting debt, and the long argument over how much of the old social model could be preserved in a globalized world. After the financial crisis of 2008 and the Eurozone turmoil that followed, French governments tried to keep France at the center of European decision-making, even as support for deeper integration remained uncertain at home. Under

Emanuel Mcronone, elected in 2017, Paris pushed for a more assertive European Union, one less dependent on outside powers and more able to act for itself. At the same time, France also [music] tries to preserve its wider influence abroad, especially in Africa and the Sahel. In 2013, it intervened in Mali. And from 2014 to 2022, French forces remains deployed across the wider Sahel under Operation Ban. Yet, France remained what it had so often been.

Sometimes difficult to govern, sometimes quick to protest, but hard to break. Presidents came and went. Reforms were fought over as the state was repeatedly forced to adapt without ever fully remaking the country. Under Emanuel Mcronone, reelected in 2022, some of that tension remained visible. And still, France endured. a developed

nation, a nuclear power, and a very important global actor, a permanent member of the UN Security Council, and in 2024, again, the world's leading tourist destination. Thank you for watching our series on the complete history of France, a project that meant a great deal to us. If you enjoyed it, please like the video, subscribe to the channel, and hit the notification bell so you do not miss future documentaries. And if you want to keep going, be sure to check out the other complete history videos we have made linked below in the description. If you'd like to help us keep creating and get early access to our videos, behindthe-scenes content, and other perks, consider becoming a member right here on YouTube or joining us on Patreon. Every bit of support helps. And

as always, thank you so much for watching.