---
video_title: "The Entire History of The Seven Years' War - Was this The First World War? (1756 - 1763)"
video_id: TifnwP97IkE
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TifnwP97IkE
video_date: 2026-07-02T14:45:57+00:00
video_description: |
  Lead your own 18th-century army in Master of Command, now 25% off on Steam for a limited time: https://bit.ly/4v1cfOi 
  
  The Complete History Edition Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9h7OjK629BU8pNtQo4Lz9Sx
  ♦Get EARLY ACCESS:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  THE SEVEN YEARS WAR 
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work and Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q/join
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  potatohistory-us, johnathondwigans, MohitAgrawal-d9n, Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  0:00 Europe Before the War
  3:16 Global Sparks & Colonial Rivalry
  7:50 Diplomatic Revolution of 1756
  11:14 War Breaks Out in Europe
  13:27 Battle of Lobosits
  20:57 Prussia Under Siege
  33:57 French & Indian War
  48:14 Britain & France in India
  55:56 Prussia Pushed to Breaking Point
  1:11:13 Britain's Year of Miracles
  1:18:36 Death of Elizabeth & Peace
---
From the Ohio River Valley to daring Iroquois raids against the French in Ohio County and British and Bengali forces clashing in Calcutta, the Seven Years War was a chaotic and bloody affair. One that played out not only across Europe, but multiple global theatres, a conflict of firsts, which in many ways ushered in a new age of warfare. It would reshape European power dynamics for decades and even make a contribution to the coming age of revolutions and a social upheaval. Exploring the European context a little at the time of the outbreak of the Seven Years War is helpful in understanding the conflict. Europe, by the mid-18th century, was a rapidly modernizing society. The enlightenment and rationalism had both taken root, while increased power sharing between monarchs and parliament had begun in Britain. In continental Europe, advisors to the monarch also played an increasing role. This changed the fundamental dynamics of power, with other emerging centres of influence and statesmen of note outside the monarch alone. This included figures such as Prime Minister of England William Pitt the Elder and Foreign Minister of France at Tien Chouazou, both of whom would play a significant role in the coming events. There were also great changes taking place globally. This was the age of empire, and European colonial activity was stepping up a gear. Rampant expansion, exploration and clashes with rivals over new lucrative outposts occurred. From the Caribbean to India and North America, European troops were now facing off in battles over beaver pelts, forts, sugar and ports. Most often involving age-old rivals Britain and France, this provided the unique global dimension to the conflict. With foreign colonies recognized for their strategic value in the war and long-term value as part of a global empire. The more static economic order of medieval society had also given way to an emergent capitalism. This helped fuel economic growth in turn building up a more robust tax base for leaders to drop on for their armies. It also fueled advances across industries, including weapons technology. This helped give rise to a refined firearm, transforming it from something of a side show in the 1600s to an increasingly integral part of European standing armies. The musket, smooth bore field artillery and new howitzers would all go on to play key roles in the coming conflict and all those following it. All in all, Europe in the mid 1700s was a transformed society, and one rife with competition between great powers who now had ever more to fight over. Power players and competing interests. The immediate interests of the European parties are complex, but can be boils down into some key factors in the years leading up to the war. The British outlook was greatly informed by the electorate of Hanover. This was a region in northern Germany whose title was held by King George II. Alongside the British crown. Born and raised in Hanover, he was determined to hold it against any French challenge. This interest sat alongside the constant British desire to gain general dominance over the French, especially in the colonial areas where they faced off. For its part, Austria's long-standing enmity was with Prussia. A key point of friction was Prussia's seizure of Austrian-Sylesia during the war of succession in the 1740s. Felt by Austria to be a violation at a point of weakness, it was keen to see it restored as a territory with it becoming somewhat of a key state aim. Prussia itself was territorially far smaller, but it had an efficient military numbering up to around 130,000 for the mid 1700s. Relative to the population size, this was a large force which was more than capable of projecting power in Europe. With a high degree of discipline to match, it helped make Prussia a key player in Europe at this time. France, in the meantime, was in a troubled economic position. This was due in part to an inefficient tax system, the effects of poor harvests and estate corruption. Its strategy had long-centered on maintaining a significant land force. This likely stood around 250,000 men by 1750, down from a height of 400,000 during the Austrian war of succession. It was intended to both defend its borders as well as project power within Europe. This, however, came at the expense of its navy, which left it vulnerable at sea and on its colonial holdings, which by this time were expansive. So, like Britain, France took a more global view of the conflict, despite its prime concern remaining securing interests on its doorstep. It was this melting pot of regional ambitions, colonial rivalries, and national grudges that would prime the great powers for war. Global sparks. Multiple European powers had significant empires across the globe by this point. It would be bitter rivals, Britain and France, though, that helped set off the Seven Years War with their colonial conflicts. North America had become a particular focal point over recent decades, with both nations' attention drawn to a high-o-country, in particular. The friendship and pushing south from their Canadian holdings, while the British probing west from their colonies along the eastern seaboard. Here, the rich trapping grounds, extensive river systems and potential control over routes west proved irresistible prizes. Fighting had broken out in 1754 in the Upper Ohio River Valley, in what would become known as the French and Indian War. It heavily involved native allies fighting on each side, all pursuing their own tribal agendas. The Shawnee, Lenape and Iroquois proved particularly prominent combatants in this fascinating theatre of the conflict. But North America wasn't the only flashpoint. Other areas included the Caribbean and India. The Caribbean sugar islands were among the most lucrative and contested regions. India, meanwhile, was fast becoming a priority for Britain, without posts established by the East India Company and areas including Calcutta and Bombay. The French, from their primary base in Pond the Cherry, attempted to leverage alliances with local forces to disrupt British activity, with activity focused particularly along the South East coast. This had already erupted in two prior conflicts, known as the First and Second Carnatic Wars. Along with the French and Indian War in North America, they provided the supplementary Tinder for the war in Europe soon to unfold. Diplomatic Revolution The final move before the war came in the form of the diplomatic revolution of 1756. The power blocks had long been Britain and Austria, united against common enemy France. This, however, was all about to be upended. Britain, primarily motivated by its concern over its Hannavarian holding, sought a radical new alliance with old enemy Prussia. This was despite them having been on opposing sides as recently as the Austrian War of Austrian Succession in the 1740s. They hoped the dynamic and clearly capable Frederick could help ensure the safety of Hannavour and act as a general counterweight to the French on the continent. With this new agreement formalized in the West Minster Convention of January 1756, Britain jettisoned traditional ally Austria. Thwarted Austria consequently turned to their previous enemy France, together forming an alliance of their own against the new Anglo-Prussian Axis. Now on one side, the British and Prussians alongside Hannavour and other small allies facing off against the bourbon alliance of Austria, France, Saxony, Russia, Sweden and from 1762, Spain as well. Russia and Sweden were already aligned against Prussia before this shift, but the revolution of 1756 firmly consolidated the blocks. This marked a significant shift in time-tested alliances and illustrates the dynamism and fluidity of power in this period. Old commitments were shed to serve the interests of the present, causing great ruptures in the process. With this British aboutface, the scene was now set for the start of the war in Europe. And with it, the beginning of a new global conflict, one potentially matched only by Napoleon's later wars and the two great wars of the 20th century for scale and active global theaters. And since you're watching our story of the Seven Years War, you might want to experience some of the action yourself. That's why this video is brought to you by Master of Command, a real-time tactical game set in the 18th century. Its new line and eagle expansion adds two more playable nations, the Kingdom of Sweden and the Polish Lithuanian Commonwealth, each bringing new units, mechanics and ways to command your army. In Master of Command, you customize and lead your forces through increasingly challenging battles, stopping its settlements to restock, recover and outfit your men with unique items and upgrades. As your soldiers gain experience, you can reform them into stronger units, turning raw recruits into elite troops like Guard Grenadiers and even customize their flag to reflect their new status. There's also Steam Workshop support, with mods like an American Revolutionary War scenario to try out. The game currently has its biggest discount yet in the Steam Summer Sale, 25% off from June 25th through July 9th. Click my link in the description below and play Master of Command. Outbreak of War The first move of the war was made by France. They began massing troops at Tulan from early in the year for an attack on the British island holding of Menorca in the Mediterranean. While in many ways an extension of their ongoing conflict in North America, it marked a step change by bringing the hot water to Europe. The main British fort on the island at Port Mahan was besieged from the 20th of May and fell on June 28th, 1756. Despite the efforts of a British relief force, it was ultimately unsuccessful and Menorca was seized by the French. This relief force was led by Admiral John Bing, a previously decorated and well-respected naval commander. He was nonetheless court-martialed and subsequently executed by firing squad on the deck of a ship for his role in the failure. Found guilty of not doing his utmost, the incendiary decision demonstrated the charged political atmosphere in Britain at the time. Now it would be Frederick who would make his move. This began in late August 1756 with a preemptive invasion of Saxony, the small state bordering Prussia to the south. As an ally of Austria, Frederick wanted to remove them from the conflict quickly as well as use Saxon funds and forces to bolster his own war effort. Moving with around 60,000 well-prepared troops, this was a significant force and one Austria was not expecting. The element of surprise allowed Frederick to initially occupy Dresden unopposed while the Saxon army was besieged near Pirna. Leaving a force to attend to the siege, he then marched his 28,000 strong components south with the aim of reaching the fertile Bohemian plains where they could overwinter. The plan though would not be a success as the Austrian army lay in weight on his path. Battle of Lobositz. Austrian commander Maximilian Brown had gathered his forces at a defensive position near to the exit of a mountain pass. Frederick needed to use to reach the Bohemian plains. Therefore, it would be Frederick, this time who would be taken by surprise. Here at Lobositz on October 1st, 1756, the two European armies would clash for the first time. With the Austrians arriving in advance, they began to take up positions with the choice of terrain. They opted for the high ground on the slopes of the Extinct volcano. The Elbe River sat to their left while sloped vineyards covered the other flank and access to the heights. In these vineyards were positioned Croatian battalions, supported by a further 8,000 troops nearby who could filter in reinforcements. Many of the other Austrian forces were also carefully positioned behind natural features, including a game reserve, in marshland, and with infantry in one area told to lie down in an area of long grass. A heavy early morning mist also helps to further screen their positions. This meant Frederick emerged into the battlefield with very limited understanding of enemy troop numbers and positions. Not an ideal situation when deciding strategy. His last experience against the Austrian army had also been during the Austrian War of Succession a decade previously. However, it had been reorganized in the intervening period proving it a transformed fighting force and won his troops had not yet sized up. Initially thinking he was up against only a rearguard force of the main army, Frederick ordered a limited cavalry charge towards the Austrian troops he could see ahead. These Austrian bait troops pulled back, allowing the 1,200 strong Prussian cavalry to advance further into what was essentially a trap. Dumbling first upon hundreds of Austrian grenadiers concealed in a sunken road only for the Prussian cavalry to be opened up on by previously hidden artillery in a nearby village. While attempting to resist this onslaught, a further 1,300 fresh Austrian troops descended upon the flagging Prussians. The German and Vierre from deadly smoothbore muskets took its toll and remnants of the Prussian cavalry were forced into a retreat back towards their own lines. Next, in a moment of poor Prussian command, one of Frederick's top generals, Gessler, ordered his entire cavalry force to advance without receiving the command to do so. Behind the main infantry line, over 7,000 riders had to painstakingly pass through these troops before beginning their charge towards the Austrian positions. It must have been a startling sight for Frederick observing the battle with him reportedly exclaiming, my god, what is my cavalry doing? The charge proceeded to get mauled in the same way as the first smaller thrust, hidden Austrian artillery, infantry and cavalry all lying in weight. At the front, the force was mostly wiped out, with the survivors retreating in disarray. At this point, Frederick temporarily withdrew from the battlefield before later returning. Many Prussian troops remained fighting, though, with renewed attempts made on the vineyard area on the flank, which had been held so defiantly by the Kroat troops. With all sides running low in ammunition and stamina, a general halt to the fighting soon occurred. This was not before Prussian howitzers opened fire on the nearby town, likely within Cindyary shells. At least a hundred mostly wounded troops who had been sheltering there, both Austrian and Prussian, were burned alive in the ensuing blades, unable to escape in time. A savage ends to a bloody day of fighting. Frederick, supposedly, had been assuming the resumption of fighting the next day. Austrian commander Brown, however, ordered the withdrawal of his forces during the night. He felt the Prussian advance had been slowed and heavy damage inflicted. Consequently, it was claimed as a strategic victory for both sides, despite the results being somewhat inconclusive. The battle left an estimated 3,000 dead on each side. By no means catastrophic, but a significant loss nonetheless had just under 10% of total troops involved. While not massively tilting the scales of the Austro-Prussian campaign, it did do a few important things. It put a temporary halt to the Prussian advance south into Bohemia, ending any hopes of a lightning advance by Frederick. It simultaneously checked his image of invincibility, which had grown strong in the prior period. Lastly, it gave each side their first taste of battle and the logistics of a new type of warfare. Military planners and strategists now better understood what it was like to advance against line firing infantry equipped with state-of-the-art smooth-bore muskets. Or the challenges of transporting all the necessary ammunition, not just for thousands of muskets, but also scores of artillery pieces to any given battle location. This was no longer medieval warfare, where an army could pretty much carry all they needed with them. Now it was increasingly about supply lines, crates of musket shots, cannonballs, howitzer shells, and gunpowder. All the while protecting against enemy ambush, Prussia's advance was halted for now. Abandoning plans to occupy the Bohemian plains, Frederick's army returned to Saxony for the winter. Despite the incoming lull though, things would soon escalate dramatically, both in Europe and on global fronts. From the complex melting part of rival European regional ambitions to military flare-ups in colonial theaters, the march to war had been gradual. Now though, Europe was engulfed in a new conflict, and one which threatened to be more intense and economically destructive than those before it. Up to now, the bulk of the fighting in Europe had been limited to Prussia and Austria. This was about to change dramatically though, with France, Sweden, Russia, as well as the Holy Roman Empire states, all now actively joining the conflict against Prussia. This opened up a new and bloody phase of escalation in the Seven Years War, which would see a dramatic proliferation of fronts and battles. Prussia was under severe pressure and from Prague to Kallen, casualties were mounting. Against all odds though, and from the very precipice of defeat, Prussia would emerge resurgent following its decisive end of year victories, leaving the fate of Europe in suspense. Beyond the lobusets, the path to escalation. The grueling seven-hour battle of lobusets had provided the first large clash of the war, giving each side a taste of what was in store. However, it had only been an introduction, with events now set to escalate. Following the battle's somewhat inconclusive outcome, Frederick returned to his newly conquered holding of Saxony. Here, he forcibly conscribed a large part of the Saxon forces into the Prussian army, forming ten new regiments from them. This helped replace his own lost troops while at the same time removing a potential future threat. They overwintered in the region, still an important part of campaigning in Europe, and one which had remained relatively unchanged for over a millennia. Several other leaders may have looked to consolidate their new Prussian gains of Saxony and Silisia before it. This wasn't Frederick's style, with his troops recuperating over winter and renewed aid flowing from Britain. He felt in a good position to restart campaigning, and now just waited on spring. This new campaign began in April 1757, with the Prussian army advancing into Bohemia. Bohemia was a state bordering Saxony to the southeast, and under direct Habsburg control since 1620. Unlike Silisia, these were the Austrian heartlands, and about as direct a provocation as it was possible to make. Frederick sought a crushing defeat of the Austrians, so as to make monarch Maria Theresa rethink her position, with draw from the war, and allow him to keep his annexed land. Fighting high from the successful subjugation of Saxony, and following the inconclusive clash with the Austrian army at Lobasitz, it seemed momentum was on Prussia's side, with a swift victory possible. Instead, what awaited them was a grueling campaign of evenly matched and costly battles that would take a heavy toll on both Austrian and Prussian manpower. First of these would occur just outside Prague on the 6th of May 1757. The Prussian army had pushed south in the period from April with around 64,000 men, splitting into four main columns to cross the Ertsberger mountains. After successfully linking up on the other side, attention now turns to Prague, long time hub of the Austrian Empire, and a potential statement prize for the Prussians. Battle of Prague Capable Austrian general Maximilian von Braun had conducted an orderly retreat of his forces from their initial confrontation with the Prussians to the north of Lobasitz. He had now organized them in a strong defensive position just east of Prague, with total numbers significant of around 60,000 men at his disposal. As with their previous encounter, von Braun had the choice of terrain and again chose the high ground. Perhaps this time a position even more unassailable. Located on the tabloor mountains, the town lay on the Austrian army's left flank, with low grounds to the west covered in marshes, and a small stream running through. This would prove significant later in the battle. The Prussians, having broken camp early in the morning, arrived on the battlefield at around 5 a.m. Again, to find the Austrians having taken up positions in front of them. Initially wanting to attack immediately, Frederick was persuaded by a subordinate to try an alternative route with possible access to the Austrian rear. After hours of maneuvers, an attack from this new position was launched by infantry. Except, instead of the expected meadows, they soon found themselves between marshland and pawns. Slow down and vulnerable to Austrian fire. General Winterfelt, commanding infantry, was taken out of action by a musket ball to the neck while riding out in front of the regiment. Then, as Austrian artillery began to dial in, the next command, Schwerin, was mortally wounded by how it served fire. However, the Prussians weren't the only ones to lose important commanders. As the Austrians pressed their advance downhill against the Prussian infantry, General von Braun was killed. He had been the architect of the Austrian response to date and his loss would have significant impacts. In their push against the enemy, the Austrian infantry had also inadvertently opened up a gap between themselves and the rest of the line. It seems, by this time, Frederick was not in a position to command, having suffered something of a breakdown following the death of Schwerin. However, as with Lobasitz, some of his capable subordinates stepped in to take the helm, including General von Ziten. The gap in the Austrian line proved a crucial oversight. In the final phase of the battle, the Prussians began to pour in troops to try and drive a wedge further. This eventually proved successful in breaking their lines and led to an Austrian retreat back into Prague, bringing the battle to an end. As with Lobasitz before, this wasn't a route or clear triumph, yet the Prussians could still claim victory from it with Austria, the one to initiate the retreat. However, it came at a bloody cost for Frederick, with over 14,000 of his 60,000 troops killed or wounded, with the Austrians also sitting at very similar numbers. These were heavy death tolls at around 25% of total troops fielded. Besides the human suffering, it was a difficult, logistical burden to sustain, and one which would come to play an ever more important role as the war progressed. Battle of Colin Exhausted by his losses at Prague, Frederick avoided a direct assault and instead chose to lay siege to the city. Frederick's banking on a slow depletion of Prague's food sources didn't take account of the relief force already on the way though. It was led by Field Marshal Leopold von Don, who had traveled from the Austrian interior with around 54,000 of his own troops, and a further contingent of escapees from the Battle of Prague he picked up on route. This Austrian force arrived on the night on the 17th of June and took up defensive positions in the hills near the nearby town of Colin. By the morning of the 18th of June 1757, the Prussians had arrived and formed up. Unlike Prague, there would be no even match in numbers. von Don's replenished army stood at around 50,000, while Frederick had only around 34,000 men at his disposal. This was after the significant losses suffered at the Battle of Prague and having left a portion of his troops maintaining the siege of the city. This was to contain its residents as well as tens of thousands of Austrian troops trapped there alongside. A breakout of the Austrian army contained within while he was away facing the relief effort would have been problematic. Particularly eager to bring battle to the Austrians on this occasion, Frederick initiated an assault around noon. With his forces waited to the left side, he wanted to overwhelm and envelop the Austrian right flank and ideally bring the battle to an end quickly. The Prussians' center, though, attacked at the wrong point, hitting well-defendant positions instead of the exposed Austrian flank. As a result of concentrated fire, this Prussian attack was repelled, only for the subsequent Austrian right flanks counterattack to suffer the same fate at the hands of Prussian cavalry. As with the Battle of Prague, a gap was spotted in Austrian lines as a result of their counterattack. The same tactic was attempted with Prussian infantry rapidly deployed to try and fill it. There was no success this time, though, and the attempt was snuffed out by Austrian cavalry. The brutal fighting went on for five hours, and by the end of this time, Prussian troops were worse for wear. Disoriented and fatigued, they eventually started to get driven downhill. It was only the belated arrival of a Prussian cavalry relief force that helped ensure some of an ordered retreat rather than a slaughter and route. While Austria suffered heavily, Frederick's losses were nearly double at around 14,000 men killed or wounded. This was after the same number at Prague, so nearly 30,000 casualties in little over a month. With the losses mounting, even Frederick's previously iron resolve seemed on the break. Russia awakens. As well as inflicting heavy losses, the Battle of Kallen marked Austria's first victory in the war, helping to dent Prussia's daunting reputation and break its succession of wins in battle. Counts the sting of defeat for Prussia, the Russians previously dormant to the east, now began to stir. This would dramatically shift the dynamics of conflict and increase pressure on an increasingly beleaguered Frederick. Allied with Austria from the start, Elizabeth had mustered the forces and motivation to begin a campaign against Prussia. Early summer of 1757, 75,000 troops under the command of Field Marshal Aprexin set off west from the Russian Baltics where they had mobilized. Their initial Russian target was Mamel. Currently sitting in modern-day Lithuania, it was at that time in eastern Prussia. It was strategically placed on the Baltic coast, it also had one of the strongest forts in the whole region. But no protracted siege was necessary though. It took only five days of intense bombardment from Russia's artillery for the city to give way to a Russian infantry assault, with Mamel captured. It was now turned into a forward operating base from which further campaigns could be conducted into the Prussian interior. Frederick was occupied far to the south, so delegated commands to Hans von Levolte for the response to the Russian incursion. With 28,000 troops at his disposal, he was undermatched in force numbers, but on home terrain, and with superior supply lines. The first clash between these two forces occurred on the 30th of August 1757 at the Battle of Gross-Jegersdorf. The huge Russian army was difficult to move in an organized fashion and was ambushed by Levolte's forces during one of these maneuvers. The initial Prussian cavalry assault inflicted heavy losses on the Russians, unable to form their usual defensive positions to a cavalry attack. They were heavily exposed, however a route didn't ensue. And after regrouping, the Russian infantry managed to push back the cavalry before taking up firing positions to engage the main Prussian infantry line. They were unable to match the Prussians notoriously high rate of fire, but nonetheless delivered enough musketball into the enemy line that it collapsed. Prussian commander Levolte then organized a retreat to the main camp from which they held off further Russian attack. The Russians had held firm against the deadly Prussian surprise attack and eventually managed to turn back Prussian forces. While by no means a resounding Russian victory, it demonstrated they could engage effectively against the enemy and hold their own in battle. However, despite Russian victories in battle, logistics quickly became an issue. Keeping their huge army fed and supplied across vast distances was a challenge and ultimately forced their campaign to turn back. It demonstrates the new nature of warfare where logistics and supply were fast becoming as important as the battles themselves, a feature of warcraft that remains true to this day. New fronts, Sweden and France join. The reprieve offered by Russia's withdrawal wouldn't last long though. New threats were looming which looked set to increase pressure on an already stretched Prussia. To the north, Sweden made an unexpected move pushing south with a force of 17,000 to seize Pomerania. This was a historically contested region between the two, but this threat would be dwarfed by another to the west. France had up to now been largely occupied with action in colonial theaters against Britain. We'll dive into these in more detail in the coming episode. But what it meant was limited French engagement with the European theatre so far. However, this was about to change. A large French force had been mobilized with the intention of attacking Prussia from its west. They had been cementing alliances with various states of the Holy Roman Empire. This included Bavaria and Mainz who up to now had remained relatively uninvolved. This new force, known as the Reichs Army, alongside French allies introduced a potent new dynamic in the war. It opened up yet another front that Prussia now had to prepare to defend against. From just its focus on Austria and the South before, to now having Russia in the northeast, Sweden in the north, and a French alliance approaching from the west, this was a dramatic shift. The future looked dark for Prussia. Yet it was in these testing times that Frederick would rise to the moment and clinch a series of crucial victories against high odds. Battles of Rosbach and Lutheon. More bad news rolled in for Prussia with the fall of Hanover to a French invasion. This removed a key buffer state to their vulnerable western side, as well as Britain's key concern on the continent. The route into Prussia was now open, and the French and Reichs army forces were making their steady approach accordingly. A direct clash and battle now looked inevitable, with Frederick leading his forces to face the approaching army at the Battle of Rosbach in Saxony. French and Holy Roman Empire forces stood at around 41,000 men, just under double Prussia's 22,000. This, two-to-one advantage, would have been insurmountable to many, but by this point, Frederick and his men were battle-hardened, having built up critical experience from over a year of grueling conflict with the Austrians. The French and Holy Roman Empire forces, meanwhile, were fresh to the arena, having not faced off against Prussia since the war of the Austrian secession. What followed was one of Frederick's masterpieces. But concluded in the space of 90 minutes, it saw the crushing of combined French and Reichs army forces. Prussian cavalry successfully broke and flanked enemy lines, initiating a route and pursuit until nightfall. The battle saw around 500 Prussian to around 8,000 French and Reichs army casualties. So decisive was the victory that France would never again directly threaten Prussia's core territory during the war, effectively removing a key adversary in one fell swoop. Fresh from victory at Rosbach, Frederick wheeled his troops round and headed northeast towards Silisia to meet the Austrian army, which had masked near the town of Brzezlau. Within one month, the Prussians had covered the distance and were ready for battle with their most bitter rival. Frederick was very much on a winning streak and with tactical brilliance would outmaneuver and outwit the much larger Austrian force. While the battle at Lufthand went on far longer than at Rosbach, the outcome was similar. The Austrian army was roundly defeated with around 10,000 casualties and a staggering 12,000 captured. This severely hampered its near term fighting ability and gave a huge boost to Prussian morale. These two battles of Rosbach and Lufthand were of great significance in shifting the dynamics of the war. In just one month, they had drastically turned the tables. From what looked like the point of near defeat, Prussia was now on the front foot and Frederick seemed invincible once again. Austria though would not surrender. Despite Prussian momentum into the new year, the war was set to grind on, with Austria using the winter to lick her wounds and prepare for a new round of fighting. Meanwhile, in distant colonial theaters, Britain and France clashed increasingly fiercely, a global dimension that would become ever more crucial in this bloody war. By the time of the Seven Years War, key European powers now had growing global empires. This gave the potential for conflicts at home to play out across the world in these different colonies. This was both as a direct extension of the conflict, but also the result of separate national aims to increase the size and wealth of their own empires at the expense of competitors. This is how the situation would unfold in the Seven Years War. Bitter rivals, Britain and France, playing out their vendettas across vast new stretches of land, with North America and India being particular flashpoints. It was action which would reshape the future of their national empires, the course of the European conflict, as well as power dynamics in the colonies affected for generations. Since its discovery, North America had been a magnet for European powers. Spain had long been the dominant force, but Britain and France now also increased their focus on the continent. Britain operated from its power base of the 13 colonies on the eastern seaboard and France from her outposts in the North. These were initially centered around Hudson's Bay, but increasingly included the vast wilderness of much of modern day Canada. As far back as the 17th century tensions had flared between the two, over the wealth on offer in North America particularly furs. However, the early decades of the 18th century had seen steady escalation. France was making inroads south from its traditional northern holdings in the Ohio region. Utilizing the extensive river system, they sought fur from the rich trapping grounds and had been building extensive native alliances to secure this lucrative commodity. Britain, meanwhile on the east coast, had also been pushing west into the same region. Similarly, in search of natural resources, but also increased settlement opportunities for its much larger citizen base in the east, up to around 1.5 million people by 1750. These two's simultaneous moves would begin the countdown to war. As the French started to go from informal trading outposts to more enforced positions capable of projecting military power, conflict finally erupted. Beginning on May 28, 1754, it was known as the French and Indian War. Slightly confusingly named, given the main competing forces, were Britain and France. It did however, revolve heavily around native forces, with them playing a crucial role in the conflict. They often pursued their own political agendas as independent tribal nations, rather than being forcibly conscribed or similar. Tribes who featured prominently included the Shawnee, Huron, Irachoy and Lenape, among others. This produced a unique fighting, often with British, French and an array of tribal warriors all present on the battlefield. The Zumanvilla affair and Battle of Manangahila. The Zumanvilla affair was the first battle of the French and Indian War. Occurring on May 28, it saw around 40 troops onto the command of George Washington launch an assault on an unsuspecting group of French soldiers. The encounter was brief but significant. A number of French were killed, including commander Joseph Zumanvilla, whose name gives the encounter its name. By some accounts, he was dealt a fatal tomahawk blow to the head by native ally of Washington, Chief Tana Karasan. Despite the building tension between the British and French in the years prior, they had not been officially at war. This directing counter was a significant escalation and provocation, though, and would be the final spark triggering the conflict. It itself, in turn, a key contributor to the war in Europe which would also be raging within a year. Following their successful ambush, Washington troops were soon forced to surrender from nearby Fort Necessity to a surrounding French force. This would set in place a trend for British fortunes over the next period with multiple calamities to follow. One of these was the infamous Braddock expedition of 1755. This was a significant campaign led by General Braddock, the commander of all British forces in North America. It set out from Maryland on May 29th with the aim of capturing Fort Duquesne from a French in Ohio country. Their challenge was logistical, with thousands of troops to supply and, harder still, the transport of the heavy cannons which Braddock intended to use to besiege the French fort. The slow pace and large wagon train left them vulnerable. Easily scouted by French and native forces, the expedition was put to an end on July 9th. Here, in modern-day Braddock, Pennsylvania, named after the general of this doomed expedition, the British troops came under a sustained attack from French and Allied forces. Known as the Battle of Manongahila, it took place on a narrow road surrounded by dense woodland on either side. It was in these tight surroundings that the French and their native allies got the upper hand. These were tribal hunting grounds and familiar surroundings for France's tribal allies. As such, they made effective use of the slopes above and concealed firing positions which gave them the lethal advantage throughout the encounter. Braddock vainly attempted to form infantry firing lines, but in the forced setting, this only made them easier targets. Multiple hours of this grueling, fighting and sued, including periods of friendly fire from the British, with them shooting on provincial troops who had broken the line and concealed themselves in the woodland. Braddock himself was then shot off his horse, possibly by friendly fire as well. He was fatally wounded with a musket ball to the lung, after which George Washington was then able to organize some kind of retreat back along the road the troops had constructed. For the expedition, a brutal slaughter took place at Manongahila with around 900 of the original 1,300 British troops killed or wounded. It put a temporary end to the British Grand Plans against the French and marked a significant escalation in the North American theater. Britain on the Brink 1756 would begin no better for Britain and France maintaining the momentum and pressing on with its campaign. This time, the target was Fort Bull, located near present-day Rome, New York. It represented a British effort from the previous decades to get a foothold in the French-dominated Great Lakes region. In March 1756, a combined French and native force led by Gaspard Delire, mounted a sneak attack against it. Approaching through forest unseen, they then charged the fort, firing their muskets through gaps in its walls to neutralize defenders before the main door was forced open. The French-led troops embarked on a general massacre with almost all inhabitants killed and subsequently scouted. The fort's gunpowder stores of 45,000 pounds were then ignited, completely destroying this previous British power hub. Humiliation was piling up for Britain in America, and this was despite its theoretical advantage with a much larger population base there who could be drawn on for forces. French reinforcements arrived in May 1756, which was followed quickly by the British Declaration of War with France in Europe. This occurred on May 17th and marked the official outbreak of the Seven Years War. It also shows just how intertwined the different global theaters were. Events in the distant Ohio River Valley could trigger uproar in British Parliament and clamor for escalation, as was seen following the massacre of Bratwick. This response could now play out equally in Hanover as it could in the Caribbean, such was the unique state of this global war. Escalation in India. As Britain reeled in America, half the world away in India, another bitter struggle between the two powers was also escalating. India had quickly become a British obsession through the 1700s, trading posts and activity of the British East India Company had soon morphed into an early empire. Particular areas of British focus had been Calcutta in the Northeast, down to Madras on the East Coast, and across to the port city of Bombay on the West Coast. The French also had their own interests in India, unlike North America where their forces were significant, in India they were far more concentrated and the direct area of geographic concern smaller. Their base of operations focused around Pondacherry in the far south, a product of trading relationships which, like the British, had morphed into colonial ambition. With their own crowned company to match the French East India Company competition had been ratcheting up. India would soon become the second key global front to the Seven Years War and help decide the overall fate of both nations colonial ambitions. Black hole of Calcutta and rise of Clive of India. In tandem with the war's escalation in Europe, Britain and France had been building up their fortifications in India. For Britain, this included Fort William in Calcutta, built initially to safeguard the East India Company's hugely lucrative trade here. This was Bengal, a rich area and jewel Britain and France both wanted claim over. While France complied with an order from the local ruler, Siraj Uddhula to stop fortification work, the British continued. Siraj Udhula responded by laying siege to Calcutta. This was with tacit French support which included military advisors and general supplies for his efforts. The British taking shelter in the fort were unable to hold out against enemy forces and succumbed on the 20th of June 1756. Those not killed were confined to a tiny cell in what became known as the Black Hole of Calcutta incident. While estimates vary as to exact casualties, it is thought at least 60 men were imprisoned in a 4x5 meter cell overnight, with as few as 20 surviving the ordeal. More than just a brutal footnotes to the siege, it helped galvanize British public opinion. This led to a willingness to escalate in Europe as well as more funding made available for the Indian theatre, not to mention fueling hostility against France who were seen to support these aggressors. Famed general Robert Clive was sent to address the situation in Calcutta soon after, which would give rise to one of the most resounding British victories of the Indian conflict, the Battle of Placé. Following his successful recapture of Calcutta, increasingly respected Clive would have his showdown. Sriraj Udh-Dhulah was massing his forces near Placé in West Bengal. Determines to put an end to the threat from this native king, Clive prepared to meet him in battle. With just 3,000 troops under his command, he was numerically far inferior to the enemy's 50,000 men. However, working in Clive's favour was his pre-battle political maneuvering. His diplomatic team had successfully infiltrated Sriraj's court and essentially recruited key members of it to the British side. This included Mir Jafar, the army commander, who was promised the position of next ruler by the British if he defected. Despite a significant artillery detachment supported by French auxiliaries, Sriraj's forces were caught off guard and never able to regain the advantage. Initial artillery exchanges proved inconclusive, while the monsoon rain which followed hampered Sriraj, spoiling his gunpowder reserves while the British remained unaffected. Ultimately though, it was the betrayal from within which would prove fatal. Mir Jafar and others held back their forces at a key moment, which in turn caused a break in the line and a general route. King Sriraj would subsequently be executed by the same treacherous elements. Not only did the Battle of Placé cement Clive's reputation, but it fed directly back into the European theatre. French troops had been present on the battlefield and this had not gone on notice. Their meddling in India and across colonial theatres was transitioning from proxy war to direct engagement in a clear escalation of the situation. It also marked a turning point in Britain's approach to India, with colony building and direct control over the nation taking place at a fast pace from this point onwards. Another perhaps unexpected but no less significant outcome of this wide ranging global conflict unfolding. Meanwhile, back in Europe, and in many ways catalyzed by these far off campaigns, the war was only accelerating. 1757 had ended with Frederick of Prussia's greatest career victories at Rosbach and Luthe. A new campaigning season approached and France looking to hammer home the advantage she had opened up in the North American theatre was preparing to move on Hanover. This was a British prize much closer to home shores and one which King George was in no mood to lose. From the plains of India to the forests of Ohio County, the global theatres of the Seven Years War were already reshaping the fate of empires. Now, the question that remained was how European nations would emerge from the bloody chaos unfolding on home shores. For now, it didn't appear that any of the great powers were ready to fold. So the stage was set for the next bloody chapter in the conflict with Frederick once again at the forefront. From the killing fields of Zondorf in Europe to British and French clashes in North America, the years 1758 to 1759 would prove crucial in the outcome of the Seven Years War, beginning the period with high morale of the back of recent victories. Yet, by its close, Prussia would emerge heavily mauled. Austria too was reeling from the war's economic and demographic fallout, however Prussia, having been engaged on so many fronts, was in a more precarious state and seemingly on the brink of defeat. The only glimmer of hope for the British Prussian alliance seemed to lie in Britain's fortunes overseas. Here, finally, she seemed to have turned the tide against the French. How this would affect outcomes in Europe, however, remains to be seen, and in the meantime, the bloody war looked set to grind on. New Prussian campaign While the conflict in colonial theaters had been steadily escalating, the war in Europe was also set to enter a new phase. France may have held the advantage over Britain overseas, but the situation on the home front was a different picture. Frederick was fresh off the back of his glorious tactical victories at Rosbach and Lutheon. As a result, Prussian confidence was high. Having spent the winter resting and planning a new campaign, Frederick commenced invasion of Moravia in early 1758. A region lying to the east of Bohemia, the invasion was part of an effort to expand the area under direct Prussian control. This already included Saxony taken during the course of this conflict while the valuable Cylizia had gained during the Austrian War of Succession some 16 years previously. This would not, however, be like his invasions of previous years, prolonged and with numerous large battles. Instead, while the Prussian army besieged all emotes in the modern-day Czech Republic, their supply column was effectively ambushed by Austrian forces. Having had all winter, the Prussian advance into Moravia had been well prepared. The supply column reflected this and consisted of around 4,000 wagons loaded with all the necessary materials for war. Ammunition, shells for howitzer's cannonballs for field artillery, food provisions and all the other areas required for a modern campaign. As well as the wagons, it included at least 2,000 cattle. This meant the total column length reached over 40 km on the move. Wipeout of Prussian supplies. With the column reaching over 40 km on the move, it was unsurprisingly hard to conceal. The Austrians, instead of choosing to meet the main Prussian force in battle, as they had in previous years, instead chose to target this sprawling convoy. Appointed by overall commander Don to lead the Austrian forces, was Major General von Laudent with around 12,000 men under his command. Opposing him was Prussian Colonel Mosul with just under 11,000 men. It was their express job to guard the convoy and a task they were instructed to fight to the death for, such was the importance of logistics in this new form of warfare. The Austrians first bore down the supply train around 28th June with an afternoon of inconclusive fighting that brought retreat on both sides. However, this would not be true for the next meeting. Occurring two days later at Domstadt on the 30th of June, it was a resounding Austrian victory. Between 2,700 and 3,500 Prussian men were killed, captured or wounded, compared to just 680 Austrians. And more importantly, a significant portion of the Crucial Prussian supplies were captured or destroyed. No more than 300 of the original 4,000 supply wagons escaped the encounter. More than 2,000 horses were also seized, as well as between 1 to 2 million Prussian talas, a considerable amount of cash. These losses had a significant effect and essentially stripped Frederick of his ability to push on with the campaign. Without the necessary supplies, he was forced to withdraw back into Cilesia. This also significantly marked the last Prussian attempts to occupy new Austrian territory during the course of the war. Here a reflection of their depleted troop strength and logistical capabilities. Russia resurgent and Britain steps up. This was not the campaign Frederick had envisaged, and to make matters worse, the Russians were resurgent again. Occupying parts of Eastern Prussia since January 1758, Frederick had chosen to ignore them initially, while he looked for a decisive victory over his primary Austrian foe. However, there was only a matter of time before the Prussians would have to deal with the threat. In the meantime, some more positive news surfaced for the Prussians. Britain had formalized the Westminster Convention agreed in 1756 with the Anglo-Prussian Convention of April 1758. This updated agreement cemented significant aid flow of around 650,000 pounds yearly in gold from Britain to Prussia. This is around 100 million pounds in current value and was the largest amount of aid Britain had ever given to an ally. Also saw around 9,000 British troops posted in Hanover to reinforce local troops there in the Crown holding. While not a huge force, this was a noteworthy geopolitical pivot and reversal of the previous British position to avoid direct troop deployment on the continent. The French deployment would go on to help turn the tide in Hanover, forcing out the French who had advanced on the region in the previous year. First, the port of Emden was recaptured in March 1758, followed by another victory for the Anglo-Prussian force at Krayfeld. Here, on the west bank of the Rhine on the 23rd of June 1758, French forces commanded by Louis de Bourbon were roundly defeated. Russian forces initially followed them back across the Rhine, including a brief occupation of Dusseldorf before withdrawing again under pressure. Nonetheless, this was a significant victory. It satisfied the clamor on British shores to see the French expelled from this peculiar crown holding while simultaneously securing Prussia's immediate western border. Facing the Russian threat and battle of Zondorf. It's easier to kill the Russians than to win them over, Frederick of Prussia after Zondorf. With the situation somewhat stabilized in Europe and the immediate French threat dispelled, Frederick now turned his attention to the Russians. These ensuing encounters would prove some of the bloodiest of the war and prove once again that underestimating Russian fighting ability came with high risks. Russian forces had moved in and occupied large areas of eastern Prussia from January 1758. With most of Prussia's troops drafted for action elsewhere, resistance had been minimal and the Russians had become well established there. Occupying Prussian heartlands for months and stripping the region dry of supplies to say that the Prussian force was keen to see them defeated and expelled would be an understatement. Following victory at Krayfeld, Frederick began his march back into home territory to face the enemy. Their first encounter occurred in the Brandenburg region at Zondorf on August 25, 1758. It would be one of the bloodiest of the entire war with the memory of it etched into a generation of fighters. The field of battle was a hamlet location surrounded by peat and low scrub. Russian forces stood at around 48,000 with the Prussians at 35,000. Proceedings began with a Prussian attack on an outlying Russian observation core unit consisting of young and inexperienced troops. They held off the Prussians until the famed cavalry under the command of Vons-Salitz smashed through their lines. As the Russian unit retreated towards their infantry line, they were opened up on by Russian artillery which mistook their retreat for a Prussian attack. In pursuing the observation core soldiers, the Prussian infantry was brought into contact with the main Russian force. The primary Prussian attack was directed towards the left side of the Russian line. Here, Frederick was attempting to carry out one of his favored maneuvers, where a weighted wing of troops enveloped the flank of the enemy allowing full encirclement. While successful in previous encounters such as the Battle of Luthin, it would not work here. Possibly in part due to Russian metal and also the unfavorable terrain which effectively prevented their retreat, they held up with their grim resistance. With Frederick's famed strategy falling flat, the battle turned into a frontal slugfest. Infantry lines smashing against enemy lines for hour after hour. Musket ammunition ran out in the first period of battle which meant troops were mostly employing their sabers and other sidearms. This resulted in particularly brutal hands-to-hand fighting, potentially the bloodiest of the war. Prolonged confusion, lines enveloped, friends and enemies alike trampled underfoot as men tried desperately to stay alive. Ultimately, more than 20,000 men from both sides would be killed or wounded in this ensuing melee. Exhaustion would ultimately win out. And despite the Russians vacating the field of battle first in an ordered retreat, there was essentially no clear victor. Losses had been devastating, with Prussia suffering up to 12,000 killed or wounded and Russia around 18,000. The Russians would ultimately withdraw East following the encounter, having blood East Prussia dry of supplies to sustain themselves since January. This was also home turf for Frederick and much easier for him to maintain his supply lines here. And a now familiar pushback East which ultimately sacrificed any gains made earlier in the campaign, giving the Prussians time to regroup. Nonetheless, Zorendorff had been some of the fiercest fighting of the entire conflict and made an impression on Prussian forces. While the Russian retreat would bring temporary respite, the threat from the East was by no means over. Multi-front war and new challenges for Prussia. Meanwhile, with both the French and Russian threat reduced for the time being, Frederick turned his attention north to Sweden and Pomerania. Here, the Swedes had made their opportunistic move to seize the historically disputed territory in 1757. Undoubtedly, a lower priority than the Russians or French, it was nonetheless a serious challenge. Two encounters would follow in late September, ultimately ending the Swedish threat with small losses. The Prussians, though, were fighting a multi-front war and no sooner than the French, Russians and Swedes had all separately been faced. Now the Austrians under von Daune made a new move in Saxony. This attack was the reason given for the lack of Austrian troops supporting their Russian allies at Zorendorff and absence that caused significant diplomatic tension. Daune, however, would stay true to his commitment to mount this second front. He had a huge force of up to 80,000 troops under his command, though perhaps nearer 60,000 was more accurate. These men had been mustard in the period since the crushing defeats at Rosbach and Lothan in late 1757. Frederick, meanwhile, felt compelled to split his forces, leaving a portion in the northeast to deter the retreating Russians from re-engaging while taking under his command the remaining 33,000. This gave the Austrians a huge numerical superiority, one which would turn out to be too large even for Frederiks' tactical prowess. The Austrians fell upon Prussian forces almost completely by surprise at around 5 a.m. on the 14th of October. The tolling of the local church, signaled the start of the battle with sleeping Prussians bayonetted in their tent by rampaging croat troops. Despite periods of both Prussian counterattacks and great leadership on display from Frederick's subordinates, the Battle of Hokyak, as it became known, was a resounding defeat for Prussia. Nearly 9,000 deaths to Austria's 5,000, as well as a large amount of artillery and valuable supplies captured or destroyed, tolling of war and new year of fighting. Frederick's reputation had been badly dented, along with his self-confidence. Perhaps more importantly though, the devastating years of war had also taken a significant toll on Prussian manpower. By this point, Frederick had likely lost more than 100,000 soldiers. This was a heavy demographic toll felt across Prussia. Villages across the land stripped of their young men and local economies faltering with loss of a key part of the workforce. But, terribly, it also meant more new and fresh recruits making up Prussian ranks. This, in turn, eroded some of the lethal advantages Prussian forces had wielded earlier in the war. Their notorious high rate of fire was reliant on training and battle practice, which was not always present to the same level in new and hastily recruited troops, for example. In 1759, though a quieter year, still saw a number of key events. A deflated Frederick suffered yet another defeat at the Battle of K on the 23rd of July at the hands of a Russian force that had re-emerged from the east to Harass Brandenburg. Little over two weeks later, he would suffer one of the worst military defeats of his career to this same Russian army combined with his Austrian ally. The Battle of Kunersdorf ended with up to 20,000 Russian casualties and the army completely scattered. The only time in the conflict, it disintegrated in this way. Even the victory of British and German allies in Minden, which finally forced the French back west, could do little to brighten the Prussian outlook. Frederick was under great pressure and suffering unsustainable losses to manpower. A mirror image and Britons' year of miracles. In marked contrast to Prussia, which had been suffering terribly and seemed on the brink of defeat, Britain was on a roll of victories overseas. The conflict in North America had started terribly for her, with the French holding the initiative for years in this crucial theater, however, now the tides had turned. The British capture of Fort Niagara in July and Quebec following in September put France on the back foot. With a superior manpower reserves from her eastern seaboard colonies and France's overstretched nature by this point, at the end of 1759, the outcome looked almost settled. In India, the picture was much the same. Clives' victories had consolidated British control loop angle and the French were under pressure at their stronghold of Pondicherry. Meanwhile, naval victories at Lagos and Guadalupe helped cement Britain's dominance at sea. Becoming known in Britain as Anus Mirabilis, year of miracles, 1759 was truly a story of opposites. Britain looks to be securing long-term dominance over her main colonial rival while also shoring up Hanover on the continent. Meanwhile, Prussia had been blood-dry of manpower and was scarred from years of grueling battles. 1758 to 1759 had been a bloody few years which had seen heavy blows on each side, but still no clear victor. Clashes had been diminishing in frequency compared to the first years of the war, a reflection of the exhausted and depleted nature of the main continental fighting part. However, when battles did occur, they had the capacity to be just as brutal as seen on the killing fields of Zorndorf. Despite the apparently bleak picture on the continent for Prussia, the outcome was not yet decided. Frederick had proven his ability to rise from the ashes before. Everything was up for grabs and now it was simply a question of who. Could emerge standing. 1759 had been a brutal year for Prussia, with Frederick losing up to 20,000 men at Koonerstorf alone. These were unsustainable losses, driving Prussia towards demographic and economic ruin. Its enemies, however, were also suffering. Austria's capacity to field armies had been weakened too, though Maria Teresa remained resolute. The war was becoming a slow grind of attrition. Losses had been too great, the economic hit too heavy, and each side was now hobbling on hoping for a decisive victory or simply to outlast the other. A rare point working in Prussia's favor was France's inability to break through the war. It was a great opportunity to break through Hanover from the West and unite with Austria in Central Europe. Britain's support for the Allied army in Western Germany, together with Hanoverian, Brunswick, Hessean and other German forces, had helped hold the French back and protect the Hanoverian electorate tied to the British crown. This did not change Prussia's immediate outlook, though. June 1760, at Landisoot, a Prussian force of nearly 12,000 under Heinrich Fuke faced an Austrian army more than twice its size. Nearly 2,000 Prussians were killed, and more than 8,000 were captured or otherwise lost. Losses, the already strained army, could ill afford. More blows followed, with the French capturing Marburg in Hesse proving they could still threaten the West. Meanwhile, the Swedes were resurgent in the far north, recapturing parts of Pomerania they had recently been driven from. The Austrians claimed their own prize with the capture of Glatz in Cilegia, the first time it had been held by Austria since its seeding to Prussia in 1742. Frederick, though, as he had proven many times, could not be counted out. At Liegnetz on 15 August 1760, he secured a notable victory against the Austrians, slowing enemy momentum and stemming the blood loss from a battered Prussia. Despite Liegnetz being another bloody encounter with more than 10,000 combined casualties, most of them Austrian, it was still not enough to end the war. At Torgao in November 1760, one of the bloodiest battles of the war followed. It saw roughly 13,000 to 17,000 Prussian casualties and around 11,000 to 16,000 Austrian casualties, from armies of roughly 48,000 and 52,000 men respectively. A decisive victory was now looking increasingly out of reach for both Austria and Prussia, while both faced the reality of a multi-decade recovery. Austria needed Russian forces at scale for a war-winning victory, while Prussia could increasingly do little without British financial support, as a result of these strains. Prussia began to use more guerrilla-style warfare. It required less manpower while still degrading the enemy. In 1761, raids were launched against Russian supply positions in the East. One raid, led by General Platon, captured around 1,800 to 2,000 Russians and destroyed thousands of wagons, often estimated at around 5,000. Although damaging, especially to a Russian army already plagued by supply issues, this approach could not decide the war on its own. While Prussia raided and tried to raise forces, more blows were inbound. Russian forces stormed and captured Kolberg in December 1761. Deep in Pomerania, it was a costly loss for Prussia, depriving it of its last Baltic port where it could receive supplies. It was also a key gain for Russia, giving it a way to ease the supply problems that had repeatedly forced campaigns to be called off and troops marched back east. Those Russian withdrawals, often after battlefield victories, had given Frederick several lifelines. Now, with Kolberg taken, land supply routes could be reduced in importance, with more supplies moved by sea, faster and safer from enemy attack. The end of 1761 was probably one of the lowest points of the war for Prussia, severely weakened and increasingly encircled, even Britain began pressuring Frederick to sue for peace. Its position looked increasingly untenable, but these factors did not account for fate, and it had a surprise in store for Frederick and Prussia. The Miracle Reversal, death of Empress Elizabeth of Russia. This time, rather than Frederick's military acumen turning the tide, it would be an event outside his control. Empress Elizabeth of Russia died unexpectedly on 5 January 1762. Stonchely committed to the war, she had seemed as unlikely as Maria Theresa to give in, but her successor Peter III was fervently pro-Prussia and a personal admirer of Frederick. He almost immediately halted the Russian War effort against Prussia and even offered troops to assist Frederick personally. A more complete about turn would have been harsh to script. Russia went from having open day superior supply route, with which you could finally tighten the new some Prussia to reversing position and becoming an ally of its former nemesis. It upended the dynamics of the war. With Peter's support, Prussia was able to increase the troops it could field from a low of around 60,000 at the end of 1761 back up to over 100,000 men. Frederick could once again focus almost solely on Austria, with Prussian forces driving them out of much of Cilegia over the coming year. Final phase of the war in Europe and abroad. Demonstrating the wide nature of a conflict, 1762 began with Spain and Portugal both joining the war. Britain declared war on Spain on January 4th, 1762, with Portugal drawn in on Britain's side after refusing Spanish and French pressure to abandon its alliance. Spain invaded Portugal and captured important towns such as Almaita, but was eventually driven back once British forces arrived to reinforce their Portuguese allies. This theater was more of an interesting side note than a key determinant of the war. With battles here, Morrican to skirmishes compares to the large set piece affairs which have been taking place for years in central Europe. Meanwhile, abroad and colonial theaters things were winding down. Britain had asserted near complete dominance over France and India and North America. From around 1760, much of the key fighting in these regions was over, with Britain's superior navy and stronger overall economic position giving it the edge. India, however, deserves more than a passing mention. The British victory at Wondewash in January 1760, followed by the fall of Pondicherry in January 1761, broke the French military challenge in southern India. It also gave Britain a distinct edge over France moving into the new age of empire. India would later become the great prize of Britain's empire, while France's influence would never again flourish there on the same scale. The Treaty of Paris later restored several French trading posts, including Pondicherry and Shandana Gore. But France was no longer in a position to challenge British political and military dominance there, as it had before. France's colonial position was cemented by the Treaty of Paris. Signed in February 1763, it ended hostilities between the parties and the colonial theaters of the war, while also effectively removing them from the European conflict. The Treaty reshaped the wider imperial map. France gave up Canada and most of its mainland North American claims east of the Mississippi to Britain. Separately, by the secret treaty of Fontainebleu in 1762, France ceded Louisiana west of the Mississippi and New Orleans to Spain. Spain ceded Florida to Britain, but recovered Havana and Manila, which Britain had captured in 1762. Back on the home front, Frederick had used Peter III's brief alliance and offer of Russian troops to drive Austrian forces from most of Silesia, nearly restoring the pre-war status quo there. Meanwhile, his brother Henry scored a victory at Freiburg. Helping cement crushes threatened control over Saxony, the region taken first during the war. It was the last major battle of the war and showcased many of the elements which had come to define it. Large-set-piece battles, extensive use of multiple artillery types, innovative maneuvering and the combination of musket-wielding infantry and cavalry working together to great effect. Path to peace. Despite victory at Freiburg, Dresden remained out of reach. Both Austrian and Prussian forces were so depleted by this point that new offensives at scale were becoming almost impossible. There were also other new factors besides the demographic and economic ones driving Frederick towards seeking a resolution. By 1762, the British government under John Stewart, Earl of Bute, had moved away from the Prussian alliance and ended the subsidy system that had helped sustain Frederick's war effort. Further, Peter III, who had been such a gift to Prussia, had been overthrown by his wife Catherine. She reversed his support to Prussia and, while not rejoining hostilities against it, removed all support, including the troops given by her predecessor. Meanwhile, Maria Teresa was also increasingly receptive to an end to the conflict, primarily because of economic pressure and the advice of key advisors and family members who believed the war had run its course. So, on the 15th of February, 1763, representatives of Saxony, Austria and Prussia signed the Treaty of Hubertusburg. This ended the European conflict, and together with the Treaty of Paris agreed five days earlier, effectively brought the global war to an end. Pre-war borders in Europe changed little, while Austria and Saxony accepted Prussia's possession of Silesia, the central issue behind Austria's war claims. Prussia will linkwished its claim to Saxony, which reverted its pre-war independent status. European and global impacts of the war. As of 15th February, 1763, Europe was no longer at war. A brutal seven years of bloodletting was finally over. On the face of it, little seems to have changed, a brutal irony given the scale of human suffering. Central Europe remained as it was before 1756, with Prussia still holding Silesia and Austria still wanting it. Both powers remained competing poles, and the threats of future conflict remained. However, beneath the surface there had been significant shifts. Foremost among these was Prussia, firmly establishing itself as a great power. There could be no doubts any longer about Prussia's capability. Against great odds, it had faced armies of rival great powers from the West, North and East. Despite crushing losses, it had stayed the course and emerged standing. This put it at the top table and helped create a position of strength that would act as a precursor to the future unification of the German states. Austria had suffered similarly to Prussia in manpower and economic damage. It would take years to rebuild, but it had also demonstrated a disciplined and capable military with strong leaders including figures like Dawn. This showed the value of Maria Teresa's earlier reforms and strengthened the broader legitimacy of her rule. Austria did not crumble or suffered devastating concessions to Prussia despite failing to recover Silesia. France, despite being less affected in casualties than Austria and Prussia, perhaps suffered the heaviest long-term fallout. The Treaty of Paris dismantled much of new France. Britain gained Canada and land east of the Mississippi, while Spain ceded Florida to Britain. France kept valuable Caribbean sugar islands such as Martenique and Guadalupe, which mattered enormously to 18th century trade, but the loss of Canada and its mainland North American position changed the strategic balance of the empire. France was left with some Pierre and Miquelon for fishing rights while keeping valuable Caribbean holdings, but it emerged from the war weakened and finances, prestige and confidence. This helped create conditions for the coming French Revolution, though the link should not be overstated as a single cause. France's later involvement in the American War of Independence added even more direct fiscal pressure, but the Seven Years War had already damaged the monarchies' finances, prestige and strategic position. Britain benefited enormously from the outcome of the war and was able to reap the greatest benefits while keeping the main land struggle in Europe largely in allied hands. As well as taking much of France's North American empire, it cemented its naval dominance and position as a key colonial power. The war helped usher in a new age of the British Empire, especially in India, where East India Company rule and British influence expanded rapidly after Bengal and the Treaty of Al-Habad in 1765, although direct Crown rule came much later. It would ultimately contribute to the expansion of British rule and influence across the subcontinent, alongside the extraction of immense wealth and resources over the course of British dominance there. But victory came with a fiscal problem. The war left Britain with a much heavier national debt, and later attempts to make the North American colonies help pay Imperial costs, became one of the pressures that fed into the American Revolution. For many indigenous nations in North America, the outcome was also transformative. The removal of French power weakened their ability to balance one empire against the other, while British frontier policy and settler pressure helped fuel new tensions, including Pontiac's war and the royal proclamation of 1763. The Seven Years War had proven to be a devastating period of European and global history. It inflicted enormous military and civilian losses, as well as economic damage that would take decades to recover from. While it did not fundamentally redraw the map of Europe, it cemented Prussia's rise and weakened France's overseas position. Globally, its effects were even more drastic. Fought across oceans and continents, it helped give rise to British supremacy. Undermind, France's global empire accelerated British dominance in India and helped create the conditions for the later American break with Britain. A new world would emerge from the Seven Years War, with echoes of the conflict reverberating for generations, including a new conflict that would give birth to a new nation, the United States of America. If you'd like to help us, keep creating and get early access to our videos, behind the scenes content and other perks, consider becoming a member right here on YouTube or joining us on Patreon. Every bit of support helps, and as always, thank you so much for watching.