---
video_title: "The Spanish-American War - Why Did it Happen?"
video_id: Pyt_8_8_p3s
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pyt_8_8_p3s
video_date: 2026-06-17T23:41:55+00:00
video_description: |
  Try Abacus AI here: https://chatllm.abacus.ai/kwi
  
  How did the Spanish-American War Happen? - EXPLAINED IN 19 MINUTES
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work and Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q/join
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  Big Thank you to:
  potatohistory-us, johnathondwigans, MohitAgrawal-d9n, Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  #History #Documentary
---
By the 1890s, the Spanish Empire was a shadow of its former self. It had long lost its great colonies in Mexico and Peru and was reduced to a second rate power in Europe. Its grip on the last remaining vestiges of its empire was already slipping. It would take the United States of America just three months to bring 400 years of Spanish imperialism in the Americas to an end. This is the story of the Spanish American War. Cuba had been growing restless under Spanish rule for decades. Like Mexico before it, Cuba had developed a sense of its own identity and pride that could no longer accept Spanish rule. Spanish Cuba was plagued by corrupt and incompetent officials and Spain simply lacked the economic or political authority to rule its colonies effectively. The Spanish had already put down two waves of rebellion in Cuba in the second half of the 19th century, but in 1895, a third and much more serious insurrection erupted. Despite a consistent weapon shortage and the deaths of many of its leaders, the Cuban rebels gained massive support for their struggle. The Spanish authorities reacted with an iron fist. Suspected rebels were shot on sight. Villages suspected of aiding them had their crops burned and entire populations were resettled into towns monitored by Spanish troops to prevent any secret aiding of the rebels. Spain was similarly troubled by rebellion in the Philippines. The islands had suffered exploitation by Spain and the Catholic Church for years. Filipinos were directly involved in Mexico's fight for independence and agitated for their own. In 1896, this erupted into the Philippine Revolution, like in Cuba, Spain reacted with brutality. Suspected rebels were massacred and prominent nationalist leaders, most famously the writer José Rizal, were executed by the colonial authorities. Put simply, by the second half of the 1890s, it was obvious that the Spanish Empire was on the verge of collapse. The empires and kingdoms that lasted were run from single chambers, with maps, the ledgers and the advisers all sat in the same place. The clear the picture, the steadier the rule. That principle is what makes today's sponsor stand out. On dashboard at chatlm.abacus.ai gives you the leading frontier models. Chat GBT, Claude Gemini, Groc and Deepseek plus Root LLM, which automatically picks the best model for each request the way a ruler calls on the right specialist. From there, it does the rest. Image and video generators like Flux and Seed Dance, a presentation builder, and DeepAgent, which takes a task and carries it out from research to small-apsic and deploy. Connectors link it to Google Drive, Slack and Gmail, and tasks let you schedule work to run on its own, like a standing report every Monday. All of it runs about $10 a month, far cheaper than paying for each tool separately. Check out Chatlm.abacus.ai using the link in the description and pinned comment. Now back to the video. The United States of America definitely took notice. America watched the Cuban struggle especially closely. Given its own history, America was naturally sympathetic to its neighbor's fight for freedom from a distant European power. Washington subscribed to the Monroe Doctrine on Foreign Policy, which reserved the right to intervene against any attempts to expand European colonialism in the Americas. While it didn't call for intervention against existing colonies, it was easy to stretch the logic. Stories of Spanish atrocities against civilians made regular appearances in the American press, fueling sympathy and outrage in equal measure and leading to calls for America to step in. Two men bore unique responsibility for the American public's attention on Cuba. William Randolph Hurst and Joseph Pulitzer, media moguls for the New York Journal and the New York World respectively, were locked in an intense fight for sales. In order to capture the public's attention, they filled their newspapers with scandalous and often invented stories, trusting that controversy would sell papers. It worked. Other papers followed suit, and by the late 1890s, the American media landscape was dominated by the so-called yellow press, which made its money by whipping readers into a frenzy. The Cuban issue provided endless material for the yellow press. Stories of Spanish atrocities against civilians were a regular occurrence after 1895. Eager, for even more sensational news stories, the yellow press took an aggressive tone, urging America to intervene with force to protect the Cubans. America's interest in Cuba certainly wasn't all humanitarian. The idea of acquiring Cuba as another state was as old as the Union itself. Thomas Jefferson had considered the island the most interesting addition which could ever be made to our system of states. There were still plenty of people in Washington who felt the same way. There was also significant American economic interest in Cuba. About $35 million of American investments were wrapped up in the island, and 90% of Cuba's foreign exports went to the United States. America had a particular interest in the sugar and tobacco industries, which were particularly affected by the rebellion since many of the plantation workers and farmers left to join the rebels. Onrest in Cuba dealt direct damage to American profits. On March 8, 1895, an American merchant ship was fired upon by Spanish patrols as it passed the east of Cuba. The Spanish ship had suspected it of smuggling weapons to the rebels when it had actually been passing from Panama back to New York. No one was hurt, but American newspapers treated the incident like a declaration of war. Running stories declaring that Spain was a dangerous and aggressive power that America had a duty to destroy. An official Spanish apology ends the cooler head of President Grover Cleveland quickly brushed away the incident, but the war-mongering attitude of the American media would only be silenced for a little while. President Cleveland was sympathetic to Cuba, but didn't believe America needed to intervene directly. His administration rejected calls from American business interests in Cuba to intervene to protect their profits. The administration's position was that the businessmen had taken the risk to enter Cuba by themselves and had to deal with those consequences on their own. So long as the American people weren't in danger, there was nothing to be done. Cleveland's restraint was tested in April 1896 when an American citizen was caught smuggling weapons into Cuba. He was quickly put on trial and sentenced to death two weeks later. Again, the American press exploded with anger. The Chicago Tribune urged the U.S. Navy to sail down to Havana and sink every Spanish vessel there. Instead, President Cleveland appealed to Spain to spare the man, which they eventually did. Cleveland's departed the presidency in 1896, replaced by William McKinley. McKinley, too, favored a peaceful approach. If Spain could be convinced to roll back its harsh treatment of the Cubans, then he would be happy. Direct intervention was always an option, but it was one McKinley was reluctant to use. However, McKinley's stance disappointed many. Press, politicians, and the public all proposed different solutions to the Cuban crisis. One suggestion was to simply buy the island. If Spain was going to lose it anyway, wouldn't it make more sense for them to accept a few million dollars for it instead of fighting a losing battle? Another was to declare full recognition of Cuban independence in the same way that America had for Texas back in 1836. This would provoke Spain and create a justification for America to intervene to protect the newly independent country. Perhaps, as in Texas' case, the U.S. could then annex the island, too. A glimmer of hope arrived in November 1897 when a new government was elected in Spain. They promised to scale back some of the harshest policies if the rebels were willing to lay down their arms. They also promised to grant Cubans and Puerto Ricans equal political rights to those held by Spaniards in Spain. The new government even recalled the Cuban governor general as a sign of good faith. The response was disappointing. By now, the rebels would accept nothing less than independence. For the hardline Spaniards in Cuba, it was a betrayal. After years of conflict and sacrifice, McKinley was cautiously optimistic, but he made it clear that if nothing improved, action by the United States will remain to be taken. Nothing much did. War between Cuban rebels and Spanish soldiers continued in the countryside and a spasm of riots tore through major cities in early January 1898. American interests and citizens in Cuba were an increasing danger every day. McKinley had to do something. The president has determined to send the USS Maine to Havana as a mark of friendship, came the message to Madrid from Washington in January 1896. It was a diplomatic excuse that covered for the true purpose. The ship was a shield and a sword for Americans in Cuba in case the worst came to pass. The USS Maine and its 355-man crew docked in Havana on the morning of January 25th. Curious crowds came out to watch, but there was no protests or unrest. The Spanish naval ships also docked in Havana treated the Americans with forced courtesy, with both sides aware that they could be hours away from open war. It would take the tiniest spark to light that fire and fate gave them so much more. At 20 minutes to 10 on the evening of February 15th, an explosion shattered the peace at Havana Harbor. A colossal blast ripped the USS Maine apart, sending a column of smoke and fire 150 feet into the air. Most of her 355-man crew was killed instantly. The ship's crew quarters where most of the enlisted men slept was entirely destroyed. Rescuers tried desperately to pull survivors from the water. Even the Spanish navy rushed to do what they could to help, but most couldn't be saved. 266 men died. It was the biggest single-day loss of American military lives since Custer's disaster, at the Little Big Horn 20 years earlier. The Maine's commanding officer, Captain Charles Sigsby, survived. By 1am, his message about the explosion was in Washington. President McKinley received the news in his dressing gown. Although the captain suspected that the Spanish had caused the explosion, he did not point fingers and did not speculate on what it could be. He did not speculate on what exactly had happened for fear of inciting a war. Public opinion should be suspended until further report, Sigsby's message said. Those words did nothing to contain the reaction at home. The yellow press had been handed pure gold. For a week straight, the destruction of the USS Maine led every newspaper in the country. The vast impressions of the explosion graced every front page. Lists of the dead were published for all to see. The New York Journal ran an average of 8.5 pages on Maine for days on end. William Randolph Hearst offered a bounty of $50,000 for the conviction of the criminals who sent American sailors to their death. The pro-war crowd rallied like never before, crying out for war with their new slogan, Remember the Maine, to hell with Spain. Modern analysis has concluded that the explosion was likely an accident. The fire broke out near the ammunition storage causing a catastrophic detonation. This was also the general opinion in Washington in the days after the explosion and the conclusion of the official Spanish investigation. Despite this, the yellow press declared it was surely a mine or torpedo launched by the Spanish. There was no other option now, but war, they said. Many agreed. Even Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Theodore Roosevelt called it an act of dirty treachery on the part of the Spaniards. McKinley was unable to regain control of the national mood. As the papers cried out for war and public opinion laid blame for hundreds of American lives firmly on Spain, momentum shifted unstoppably towards war. Worders were sent out to the Navy. The Atlantic, Haysiatic and European squadrons were to ready their sailors and stock up on coal, ready to move at a moment's notice. Not a single senator of either party opposed a bill granting $50 million for the national defense and every purpose connected therewith. Congress also made provisions for recruiting thousands of new soldiers and providing them with arms and equipment. U.S. Senator Redfield Proctor returned from a visit to Cuba with tales of starvation and mass graves, describing the native Cubans as being on the verge of total destruction at the hands of Spanish tyranny. Every grisly detail was eaten up by the newsreading public. The message was clear. America was morally compelled to fight Spain. Over in Madrid, the Spanish government felt the mood shift. Seeing the change in American attitude and funding, the peace faction began to gain ground. A war with the United States would be a death sentence for Spain's American Empire. But it's no longer mattered. The issue was out of Spanish hands. On March 28th, the U.S. government's official report blamed the sinking of the USS Maine on a sea mine. The evidence was non-existent and the report couldn't even justify pinning it on Spain. At the same time, McKinley's diplomats escalated to demand full autonomy for Cuba. If Spain did not respond to this request quickly, the U.S. would have to take matters into its own hands. The Spanish government dithered and delayed. While the Spanish asked for days and weeks to debate the proposal, members of McKinley's own party were labeling him a coward and a sellout. Wall Street doesn't want a war and you are doing their bidding. One angry Republican told him during a visit to the White House. Final attempts to avert war failed. Austria, Britain, France, Germany, Italy and Russia all ordered their representatives in Washington and Madrid to appeal to the government to pull back to no avail. On April 10th, the Spanish made the unprecedented decision to propose an armistice with the rebels. Had that decision been made months earlier, the crisis might have stopped there. But it was too late. When American representatives asked if this meant Spain was preparing to recognize Cuban independence, the Spanish answered with a firm, no. The next day, President McKinley gave a 7,000-word speech to Congress. He stopped short of asking for war, instead asking for the powers to use the military in whatever way he saw fit to resolve the Cuban crisis. Congress moved achingly slowly over the next few days as politicians debated the exact wording and limits of America's next step. At last, on April 20th, the Spanish ambassador received a final ultimatum. Spain had three days to announce its full withdrawal from Cuba or America would kick them out. The Spanish ambassador fled Washington that night. As he packed his things, the US Navy sent out its ships to blockade Cuba. The Spanish governor in Cuba received the news from Madrid that night. Consider war as declared, hostilities will begin immediately. Congress approved a formal declaration of war on April 25th, the government called for 125,000 recruits to fill the ranks. Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Theodore Roosevelt, led by example, quitting his post so he could join the war on the front lines. This video was very interesting to work on. If you enjoyed it as much as we did, hit the like button right now and click the bell before you leave. See you don't miss the next time we uncover history mysteries. See you next time.