---
video_title: "Why was India Colonized?"
video_id: 0J5SkBNR7iI
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0J5SkBNR7iI
video_date: 2026-08-25
video_description: |
  ♦Want EARLY ACCESS or EXCLUSIVE CONTENT? Support us and get it here:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  The Complete History Edition Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9h7OjK629BU8pNtQo4Lz9Sx
  
  ♦This is the story of the colonization of India in a nutshell. From Vasco da Gama to Queen Victoria.  On the 20th of May 1498, Vasco da Gama anchored off Calicut after ten months at sea and offered the Zamorin hats,  striped cloth, honey and other goods. Within twelve years Portugal held Goa, a city on the coast of Western India, and after that, it came the Dutch, the French, and a company of two hundred London merchants, chartered by Elizabeth I on the last day of 1600 with thousands of pounds between them. The first English ambassador stood before the Mughal emperor: Jahangir, master of one of the richest empire on earth, asking permission to trade. For a century and a half the Europeans stayed in coastal forts, from Goa to  Bombay, and Calcutta. As the central power in India began to fade away, the power vacuum started to get filled fast. After Aurangzeb in 1707 the throne passed through weak hands, Nader Shah sacked Delhi in 1739 and carried off the Peacock Throne, and the provinces became prizes. Plassey in 1757 bought Bengal, Buxar in 1764 won the right to tax it, and a century of wars against Mysore, the Marathas, and the Sikhs followed, until the British company that had once asked for a trading license ruled a fifth of humanity. In 1857 much of the indian army turned on its masters. When it was over the Company was gone, Queen Victoria held India for the Crown, and in 1877 she was proclaimed its Empress.
  
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  potatohistory-us, johnathondwigans, MohitAgrawal-d9n, Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  
  #History #Documentary
---
A private trading company run by shareholders in London built its own army, conquered and controlled much of the Indian subcontinent, and ruled over more than a hundred million people. It collected taxes, fought its own wars, signed its own treaties, and issued its own currency. By the time Britain's Parliament realized what it had unleashed, the company had already swallowed one of the richest regions on Earth. This is how Portuguese sailors, French companies and diplomats, Dutch merchants, and a British corporation fought a violent, ruthless struggle for India. The European colonization of India did not begin with dreams of an empire. It

emerged from a desperate search for trade routes that could bypass the routes already in place. Throughout most of the medieval period, India was considered one of the world's [music] wealthiest regions, a place that provided an abundance of spices, cotton, indigo, silk, and precious stones. Yet, by the 15th century, the routes that supplied these goods often passed through layers of Arab, Persian, Indian, Ottoman, and even Venetian intermediaries. As a result, Asian goods became extraordinarily expensive in Europe. In response, European rulers and merchants began searching for their own direct routes to the riches of the East.

This drive eventually led to what historians call the Age of Discovery and to the slow, immense colonization of India. It all began following the arrival of the Portuguese [music] sailor Vasco da Gama at the port city of Calicut in [music] 1498. This marked the first direct ocean route between Europe and India by way of the sea. Portugal became the first major European power to establish a presence in India. Yet, they did not initially seek to dominate the interior, [music] just to control as much of the maritime commerce as they could. To do this, they

slowly established fortified trading posts, often called factories, along key coastal locations. This led to the emergence of Estado da India, the Portuguese State of India, which functioned differently from a traditional land empire. The Portuguese focused their attention on strategic points throughout the Indian Ocean. They took control of ports such as Goa and Malacca, which allowed them not only to maintain a strong navy in the region, but to relegate the surrounding trade routes and tax merchant ships that used routes they claimed to control. Over time, Portugal tried to enforce a monopoly over parts of the spice and maritime trade in regions such as the Malabar Coast, which greatly affected the wider Indian Ocean trade system.

Before they arrived in the area, trade was fluid between Arab, Persian, Indian, and Southeast Asian merchants who operated across large interconnected networks. The Portuguese changed this. Ships were pressured to purchase passes such as cartazes, which functioned as a kind of trade license. Those who refused to pay the duties risked having their goods seized or their vessel attacked. Portuguese dominance held throughout most of the 16th century, but it slowly cracked under internal corruption, a lack of manpower, and competition from rivals who had watched Portugal grow rich and wanted a share. Then, a new

kind of competitor arrived in the Indian Ocean, not a kingdom, but a corporation. The 17th century brought chartered joint-stock companies funded by investors who pooled their resources to finance overseas trade and colonial ventures. One of the most powerful was the Dutch East India Company, often referred to as the VOC. The Dutch had initially focused on the spice trade in Southeast Asia, but before long, they were directly challenging Portuguese dominance across the Indian Ocean. As the VOC expanded its territory in Asia, the English and French had also established trading companies of their own. The British East

India Company and the French Compagnie des Indes both ventured to India in search of cotton textiles, indigo, and many other valuable goods, establishing trading centers in cities such as Madras and Calcutta. In these early years, they relied heavily on the permission of Indian rulers such as the Mughal Empire. As Mughal power declined through the 18th century, local rulers gained autonomy but lacked the central authority the Mughals once held. This political fragmentation slowly opens the door for European powers, with each kingdom and trading company seeking to control as much of the landscape and trade as it could. The rivalry between the British and French intensified during the mid-18th century. Over time,

the British East India Company gains the upper hand thanks to the leadership of Robert Clive. Using a combination of military force, financial resources, naval prowess, alliances, and bribery, the company defeated both Indian rivals and its European competitors. The decisive moment came at the Battle of Plassey in 1757, where Clive's forces of around 3,000 men faced the Nawab of Bengal, Siraj ud-Daulah, and an army of roughly 50,000. The British did not win by fighting harder. They won because the Nawab's own commander, Mir Jafar, had been bribed to stand down. Historians

cite this victory as a turning point in the British colonization of India, the moment the East India Company transitioned from a trading entity into a political power backed by growing military might. It established the foundation for what would become nearly two centuries of British colonial rule. The British victory at Plassey gave Robert Clive and the East India Company decisive influence in Bengal, which was considered India's wealthiest province at that point in history. After Buxar and the grant of revenue rights in 1765, control over Bengal's revenues, [music] thriving textile industry, and agricultural goods led to a surge in financial resources that essentially funded further military campaigns across India. Over the next few decades, the East India Company fought a series of conflicts against many powerful Indian states, such as the Maratha Confederacy and the Sikh Empire in the northwest.

Using both brute force and [music] careful diplomacy, the company slowly increased its control over vast parts of India. By doing so, the East India Company no longer operated as merely a commercial organization. It operated like [music] a sovereign power. It created a tax system, implemented laws, maintained an extensive army, and governed millions of people. At the same time, British administrators introduced educational institutions and large infrastructure projects, such as railways, telegraphs, and canals, which in turn improved both transportation and communication across India while often serving imperial priorities. But, by the

middle of the 19th century, growing resentment against the company had reached its peak, eventually resulting in the Indian Rebellion of 1857. The resistance started among Indian soldiers in the company's army, but in a short amount of time, people across northern and central India rose in revolt. Many of their concerns were centered on annexation policies, economic hardship, and religious matters. The rebellion was suppressed in the end, but it left a lasting effect on British officials. It ultimately resulted in the passing of the Government of India Act of 1858, which stripped the East India Company of its governing powers and transferred [music] its Indian possessions and armed forces to the British Crown. This marks

the beginning of the British Raj. A centralized bureaucracy controlled and governed vast parts of India through both British officials and Indian princes loyal to the Crown. In 1876, Queen Victoria was given the title Empress of India, later proclaimed in 1877, which served to symbolize the integration of India into the wider British Imperial system. By the 19th century, British India was considered one of the most lucrative colonies in the world. It provided an abundance of raw materials, soldiers, and access to markets, while also serving as an important base for imperial [music] power in Asia.

Yet, while the British greatly benefited from the colonial period, many on the subcontinent suffered immensely. Profound inequalities emerged. Famines, economic exploitation, discrimination, and political exclusion slowly hardened a generation. A private corporation [music] has become one of the most powerful corporate empires in history, and the resentment [music] that corporation had planted was about to become a movement the British Crown could not suppress.

If you'd like to help us keep creating and get early access to our videos, behind-the-scenes content, and other perks, consider becoming a member right here on YouTube or joining us on Patreon. Every bit of support helps, and as always, thank you so much for watching.