---
video_title: "What happened to the Greeks of Italy?"
video_id: S5sRZYJ15eM
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S5sRZYJ15eM
video_date: 2026-04-18T19:11:12+00:00
video_description: |
  ♦If you like Historical Maps, take a look here: https://knowledgia.co/
  High-resolution digital and framed maps inspired by the stories on this channel.
  
  ♦What happened to the Greeks of Italy?
  
  The Entire History of Ancient Greece:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PdSgSYkpkNI
  
  ♦Consider supporting our work and Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q/join
  
  ♦Consider supporting us on Patreon : 
  https://www.patreon.com/Knowledgia
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  Big thank you to:
  Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  00:02 Greek settlement begins in southern Italy
  02:44 Founding of major Greek colonies
  07:57 Wealth and power of Magna Graecia cities
  13:38 Conflict and decline of Greek cities
  14:58 Greek and Carthaginian wars
  17:31 Roman Expansion
  20:48 Roman assimilation of Greek cities
  22:37 End of Greek independence
  24:32 Byzantine influence
---
A beach in southern Italy. Night. Eighth century BC. A Greek ship scrapes into the shallows. Overloaded with jars, tools, and families. Men jump into waste deep water. Dragging the hull before the surf smashes it open. Somewhere in the dark you can hear dogs and maybe people. Or maybe it's just the wind. No one here is guaranteed to welcome them. And turning back means dying at sea. So why did Greeks gamble everything to build cities on this coast? And what happened when a rising Rome finally pushed south? Long before the Roman Empire became the dominant power of the Mediterranean. Many parts of southern Italy were shaped by Greek settlers and Greek-speaking city-states that dominated the key stretches of coastline, ports, and trade. Beginning around the eighth century BC, Greek settlers crossed the Ionian Sea and founded cities along the Italian coast. This region later became known as Magna Gracia or Greater Greece. Cities like Terrace, Sibarace, and Neapolis flourished. They became busy hubs of Greek life, filled with trade, learning, art, and new ideas. Over time, these cities influenced the people around them. And later left a lasting impact on Roman art, education, and religion. This is the story of the Greeks in Italy, how they transformed the south, and how Rome eventually absorbed their world, while inheriting much of its culture. Nearly 2,800 years ago, the Italian peninsula was a very different place. It was a patchwork of communities and rising powers, with its own traditions and its own trade links. But nothing like the dense chain of Greek-style city life that would soon appear along parts of the coast. Then something changed. Ships appeared on the horizon, carrying people and customs from a land to the east. Archaeology suggests that, beginning around the 8th century BC, Greek settlement in Italy took off through many separate ventures, not one single planned migration. The earliest Greek settlement is thought to have been founded by the Ubiens, from Calsus and Eritrea. They founded Pithicia in the mid-8th century BC, on what is now the island of Iskia, just off the coast of Naples. Shortly after their arrival, the Ubiens went on to establish the first major Greek colony on the Italian mainland, founding Cumai in the 8th century BC. This settlement became a key center of the spread of Greek culture, and it helped pass on a Ubiens-style alphabet that influenced a Truskin writing, and later the Latin alphabet. A few decades after the initial Ubiens settlers arrived, new waves of Greeks followed. Among them were the Achaeans, who founded powerful colonies of their own. Two of the most important were Sibaris and Croten, both of which were situated on the Gulf of Toronto. Meanwhile, the Spartans left their own mark on Italy. They founded their well-known and only Italian colony, Terras, in the Gulf of Toronto. Legends say its founder, Fulentis, was told by an oracle to travel to a place where the rain fell from a clear sky. In later retellings, rain from a clear sky is explained as tears falling onto him from his wife, Etra, in a moment of despair. This led him to a place near Torres Satoro, a few miles south of modern Toronto. An even older legend suggests a Greek figure, known as Evander, might have founded a city on the site that later developed into the city of Rome. The first century BC Greek historian, Dionysius of Halacarnasus, wrote that Evander was raised in Polansium, just west of the present day city of Tigia. When he became an adult, he migrated to Central Italy in Laceum. Here, he founded a city also known as Polansium, on the banks of the Tyber River, which later became the Palatine Hill in Rome. While there's no direct evidence to suggest Evander built his city here, archaeological evidence has confirmed Rome was settled long before its traditional founding by Romulus in 753 BC, and Evander's story should be treated as myth, not proof of a Greek founding of Rome. Excavations have found huts on Palatine Hill that date back as far as the 10th and 9th centuries BC, and early finds, including imported goods and pottery in later layers, show that the area was not cut off from long distance contacts, long before Rome became Rome. What drove these early Greeks from their homeland remains up for debate. For a long time, researchers argued that hardships in Greece, such as limited land, scarce resources, and possibly even famine, forced travelers to migrate. However, more recently, some have suggested it might have been driven by the desire to expand and create more economic opportunities. In reality, it was often a mix, land pressure, politics at home, and the promise of trade and status abroad. What is clear is the outcome. By the 6th and 5th centuries BC, Greek colonies in Italy and Sicily had reached the height of their wealth and influence. They were no longer just trading outposts, but powerful cities that controlled trade, shaped local politics, and spread Greek culture across the region. The Greek cities interacted with, traded with, and influenced various native peoples. In southern Italy, that included groups like the Enochrians, and later the Luchanians and Brutians. In Sicily, it included peoples such as the Sicils. Over time, many local communities adopted elements of Greek life in a process known as Hellenization. They began writing their own languages, using alphabets inspired by Greek models, worshiped Greek gods alongside their own, and built monuments inspired by Greek models, and even copied Greek styles of art and daily life. But these changes weren't the same everywhere. Some regions became true melting pots, where strong local traditions were preserved alongside Greek influences. Later Greek and Roman authors looked at the Greek cities of southern Italy and Sicily, and described how extensive they had become. Strabo writes that the Greeks increased in power so much that they called this part of Italy together with Sicily, Magna Gracia, at their height during the 5th century, the cities of Magna Gracia, ranked among the most prosperous in the Western Mediterranean. Their fertile farmland produced large food surpluses, while their ports controlled major trade routes between Greece, Italy, and the wider world, and in the wider Greek West, Sicily produced giants too. Syracuse on the island of Sicily is sometimes described as the crown jewel of the Greek West, due to its impressive influence, massive wealth, and strategic maritime location. Over time, it became so powerful that it rivaled the greatest city-states of the Greek world, in culture, size, and influence. The Roman orator and statesman Cicero, famously praised Syracuse as the largest of the Greek cities, and one of the most beautiful. But Syracuse was not alone. Many other cities of Magna Gracia also rose to challenge its claim to greatness. During this period, the Achaean city of Sibarus on mainland Italy also flourished. Many ancient writers even claim that during this time, and some claim it was the wealthiest colony in the archaic world. According to Diodorus Siculus, the city was heavily populated with as many as 300,000 inhabitants, and an enormous army. However, most historians believe these numbers were greatly exaggerated. In fact, ancient writers often present the 300,000 figure, as men under arms, not a realistic headcount of the city itself. But when we consider the idea that the city had a generous citizenship policy, welcoming large numbers of foreigners, and how it ruled over an extensive territory, including as many as 25 subject cities, the core point still holds, even if the numbers don't. Sibarus was wealthy, expansive, and influential. The people of Sibarus became famous throughout the ancient world for their love of luxury and comfort. Thanks to the city's immense wealth, the Sibarites lived in large homes, were fine clothing, and enjoyed rich food, music, and entertainment. According to Athenius, they were so dedicated to their life of comfort that they developed an almost unbelievably advanced piece of infrastructure to support their indulgent lifestyle. In his writings, he claimed the Sibarites created a complex network of underground pipes that transported wine from their vineyards in the countryside, right to the cellars near the sea. Historians still debate whether Athenius' stories served as a cautionary tale about excessive luxury, or simply reflect exaggeration. And there's no archaeological confirmation for a wine pipeline as described. Even so, most agree that Sibarus was exceptionally wealthy, and its inhabitants lived a comfortable life. One of Sibarus's greatest rivals during this era was Croton, which lay around 40 miles to its south. By combining military power, rich farmland, and strong intellectual leadership, Croton established itself as a dominant force in southern Italy. The city was surrounded by fertile land, which allowed it to develop a strong agricultural based economy. With a substantial surplus of food, it created not only wealth, but sustenance to support a growing population. Ancient and modern estimates vary widely, but it may have been numbered in the tens of thousands at its peak. Croton also minted its own silver coins, known as stators. They were highly valued, and widely used throughout the Mediterranean, further establishing itself as an economic powerhouse. Sometime around 530 BC, the philosopher and mathematician Pythagoras settled in Croton and founded his famous school. Over time, his followers, the Pythagrians, gained influence, shaping the city's governing body, known as the Council of 1000. Ancient traditions suggest the Pythagrians gained real political influence in Croton, though the exact institutions and details are debated and may reflect later storytelling about a backlash against elite rule. Under their influence, Croton became a center for mathematics, science, philosophy, and other arts, attracting scholars from across the Greek world. Pythagoras promoted a strict and orderly way of life that focused on health, balance, and self-control. His ideas shaped not only daily life, but also the politics and culture of the city. At its peak, Croton possessed one of the most powerful armies in Magna Gracia. Its soldiers were famed for their physical strength and discipline, shaped by a way of life that heavily emphasized training and sobriety. That power was put to the test at the end of the 6th century, when they were drawn into war with Cyboros. The conflict was sparked by long-standing territorial disputes, and a political crisis triggered when hundreds of exiled Cyborites took refuge in Croton. This is the pattern you keep seeing in the Greek West. A city does not fall because it is weak. It falls because politics turn into panic, and panic turns into war. In 510 BC, the Croton army marched into Cyboros under the leadership of Milo, of Croton, a famous Olympic champion. Croton emerged victorious, and the once-wealthy city of Cyboros was destroyed, bringing a sudden and dramatic end to its power and splendor. Some historians see this event as the beginning of Magna Gracia's slow decline. In the centuries that followed, many of its once-powerful cities gradually lost their influence, and eventually their independence. By the 5th and 4th centuries BC, Magna Gracia cities such as Thurie, Hipponium, Turina, and Posidonia were frequently attacked by italic peoples, including the Lucanians and Brutians. In some cases, the cities were completely taken over, such as Hipponium, which fell to the Brutians. Posidonia was also conquered by the Lucanians, who renamed it Pistos. Sicily, meanwhile, followed its own brutal rhythm. For centuries, the island had been split in two. Phoenician Carthaginian settlements, like Motia and Ponomus, dominated the West, while Greek cities such as Syracuse and Acragus controlled the East. The island was rarely at peace, as the two sides found themselves at war for the better part of three centuries. Known as the Sicilian or Greco-Punic Wars, both sides fought for more control of the island's lucrative trade routes and fertile land. Carthage dealt devastating blows to several Greek cities on the island. In 409 BC, it destroyed several settlements, including Selenus, that same year, the Carthaginian General Hannibal Mago led the sack of Himera. This is not Hannibal Barca, the later commander of the Punic Wars, but an earlier Carthaginian general from the Magnet family. Just a few years later, in 406, Carthaginian forces captured and sacked a Cragus, one of the wealthiest Greek cities in the Mediterranean, but the Greek cities on the island had their own fair share of victories. Carthage ultimately failed in its efforts to take over the entire island. One of their greatest defeats came in 397 BC during an attempt to besiege Syracuse. The Carthaginian army was decimated by the plague and sensing the weakness Dionysius I, who served as the military leader of Syracuse, launched a major counterattack by land and sea. The Greek soldiers struck the Punic fleet at the Bay of Daskon, and they also stormed the Carthaginian camp near Syracuse. The result was not the end of Carthage in Sicily, but a catastrophic setback that forced the besiegers to abandon Syracuse and retreat, buying the Greeks' time. Fighting between the Greeks and Carthaginians continued across Sicily for more than a century, with neither side finding much success in lasting control over the island. Finally, in the early 4th century BC, a series of settlements repeatedly confirmed a rough division of the island and a major piece in 306 BC, left Carthage holding the west while Syracuse retained the east. But just as things were looking up for the Greek cities of Sicily, a new threat appeared. One that threatened all of the Greeks spread across Italy and its surrounding territories. During the 4th century, the Roman Republic to the north had gained control of Central Italy, following its victory in the Samnight Wars. After this, they started to look south to the wealthy cities of Magna Gracia. Over the next few centuries, Rome used various tactics, including diplomacy, legal treaties, and overwhelming manpower to gain influence over and in some cases dismantle the Greek polis or cities. Rome's entry into the deep south often began not with an invasion, but with an invitation. Many of the Greek cities on mainland Italy faced a major dilemma. They had immense wealth, but often struggled to match the manpower of their italic rivals in long wars, so in some cases they looked to Rome as a useful, albeit dangerous bodyguard. When the city of Thurie called out to Rome and asked for help, to repel a luchanian invasion in the mid-280s BC, the senate happily obliged. Rome placed a presidium, a garrison, inside the city. Once Roman soldiers were inside the walls, the city's foreign policy was effectively shaped under Roman influence. It was protection with a price. Once the garrison is in, it is very hard to get it out. This happened throughout parts of southern Italy, with many of the Greek cities opting for protection, instead of letting their settlements fall to italic rivals, but this tactic didn't work with everyone. Cities like Terrace or Tarantum viewed Roman expansion as a negative thing. This city was a proud Greek polis, and a Spartan founded colony. When Roman ships sailed into their territory in 282 BC, the Tarantines attacked, which led to the start of the Piric Wars, realizing they stood no match against the Roman legions. Terrace called in, King Puris, of Epirus, to fight on their behalf. He arrived with around 25,000 well-trained warriors and war elephants. Puris started strong, earning significant victories over the Romans at Heraclia in 280 BC, and then again at Asculum in 279 BC, but he lacked one thing the Romans had. Manpower, after years of war, Puris ran out of men and money, and in 275 BC he returned to Greece a few years later, in 272 BC, Terrace finally fell to Rome. After defeating the Greek cities, Rome didn't always annex them, the way empires would later annex provinces. Instead, settlements varied. Some communities became allied partners in Rome's Italian system. Some coastal cities had naval obligations, and over time, many places were folded into Roman citizenship structures, through later reforms. The terms were often straightforward. Many communities kept local institutions and elites, but there was a catch. The Greek cities lost truly independent foreign policies, and were required to support Rome's wars, usually with troops and for some coastal communities, ships and crews. This did not instantly create Rome's navy by itself, but it did give Rome access to experienced sailors, ship crews, and maritime know-how, from the Greek south and other Italian allies. As Rome became a Mediterranean power, at the same time Rome began to absorb the Greek elites, rewarding them with a share of the wealth taken in future wars. The real end of Magna Gretia's political independence on the mainland came in the 270s BC, but the moment that made many Greek cities fully understand what Roman power meant came during the Second Punic War. During the Second Punic War, some major Greek cities broke with Rome and sided with the Carthaginians, hoping the chaos would restore lost freedom. Cities like Tarantum and Syracuse hoped this alliance would restore their lost freedoms. Rome's response, however, was swift and brutal. When Syracuse fell in 212 BC, the Romans looted its vast wealth, and many people were killed in the fighting and aftermath, while others were enslaved, and its treasures carried off. A few years later, when Rome recaptured Tarantum in 209 BC, after it had defected to Hannibal's side, it too faced the wrath of the Romans. Many were killed in the fighting and reprisals, and tens of thousands of inhabitants were sold into slavery, while vast amounts of wealth and art were taken from the city. By the end of the Second Punic War in 201 BC, Magna Gretia was no longer a collection of independent Greek city states. Almost all of its cities found themselves firmly under Roman control, yet Greek influence did not disappear in the centuries that followed. Greek language and culture continued to shape the Roman world. Greek artistic styles inspired Roman sculpture and painting. Roman religion adopted Greek aspects and ideas, such as the worship of Apollo, and education in philosophy remained heavily Hellenic. Greek culture lingered on into the Roman Imperial period. Neapolis, or Naples, is one famous example where a strong Greek culture survived. During the early empire, the city hosted prestigious Greek-style festivals and competitions, including the sabasta games, and Romans who loved Greek theater and music treated Neapolis as a Greek place inside Italy. However, in other areas, the Greek language started to fade. In many of the former Greek cities, Greek and Latin existed side by side in different ways, depending on the place and period. But for Roman law, administration, and the military in the Western Empire, Latin increasingly dominated. By the imperial era, many once famous Greek cities had shrunk in political importance, and some sites were partly abandoned or rebuilt on a smaller scale. Writers like Strabo and later Roman commentators noted that the landscape of the south was full of famous names, but not always famous cities anymore. After the Western Roman Empire collapsed in the 5th century AD, a new phase began. From the 6th century onward, Byzantine reconquests and long Byzantine rule, in parts of the south, plus later waves of migration and resettlement, from the Greek speaking east helped keep Greek language and eastern Christian traditions alive in pockets of Italy. And so, even as Romans' administration in the west collapsed, Greek language and Byzantine Christian traditions survived in parts of southern Italy for centuries to come, long after the classical period had ended. Greek survived well into Norman times in parts of the south, and today there are still small pockets of Greek-speaking communities in Italy, known as the Gricco peoples. These minority groups are found mostly in the Bovesia area of Calabria and the Solento Peninsula of Apulia, and are considered the descendants of ancient and medieval Greek communities. Their exact origins are debated. Some scholars emphasize direct continuity from Magnagricia, others emphasize medieval Byzantine era roots, and many see a blend of both. While they speak a unique form of Greek shaped by both Byzantine and Italian influences, they continue to pass down stories, create music, and preserve oral traditions that reflect their ancient Hellenic heritage. These communities are not a museum piece, but a living echo of a world that once lined this coastline, a Greek south inside Italy.