---
video_title: "Why Didn't the Ottomans and Crimean Tatars Conquer Russia? - The Battle of Molodi"
video_id: g5ZTm2MMTAI
channel_name: "Knowledgia"
channel_id: UCuCuEKq1xuRA0dFQj1qg9-Q
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g5ZTm2MMTAI
video_date: 2026-08-23
video_description: |
  Massive $30,000 Bass Pro Giveaway with Medal Hunter USA! Download the game via my link https://medalhunter.link/Knowledgia_826 reach locations 2, 4, 7, and 9, and spin the wheel at https://mh-challenge.com/kn - every player wins a prize!
  
  Use my code KNOWLEDGIA for an exclusive welcome package (for new users only). Comment what you won!
  
  ♦Want EARLY ACCESS or EXCLUSIVE CONTENT? Support us and get it here:
  https://www.youtube.com/c/Knowledgia/join
  https://www.patreon.com/c/Knowledgia
  
  The Complete History Edition Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOJtsUMWwR9h7OjK629BU8pNtQo4Lz9Sx
  
  Why Didn't the Ottomans and Crimean Tatars Conquer Russia? - The Battle of Molodi
  
  ♦ On the 24th of May 1571, Moscow burned. Not in a siege, not over weeks, but in roughly six hours. By nightfall the capital of Russia was ash, the river below it choked with bodies, and Ivan the Terrible was offering to hand over Astrakhan to make it stop. The Khan of Crimea sent the offer back with contempt, and a knife, and a suggestion about what Ivan should do with it. One year later, Devlet Giray came north again, this time to take the whole country. He had promised the Ottoman Sultan he would do it within the year. He brought forty to sixty thousand men. Russia could field perhaps twenty thousand. This is the story of Molodi, a battle fought fifty kilometre s south of Moscow in the summer of 1572, where an outnumbered Russian army under Prince Mikhail  Vorotynsky used a chained fortress of oak and gunslits to strip the Crimean horde of the one thing that had made it unbeatable on open ground. Mass horse archery is worthless against men behind timber. The Tatars threw themselves at it for days , lost their commanding general to a Russian raid, and never understood how close the starving defenders were to breaking
  
  ♦Please consider to SUBSCRIBE: https://goo.gl/YJNqek
  ♦Our general knowledge channel: https://www.youtube.com/@MasteringKnowledge
  ♦Music by Epidemic Sound
  
  
  
  Big Thank you to:
  potatohistory-us, johnathondwigans, MohitAgrawal-d9n, Николай Димитров, Tobias Tron, Mahmoud Shahin, Justin Bourke, Augustus Caesar, Chaim laser
  Joshua Kerr, Slayer, John McKeon ,Michael Morale,Rory,Smithy3371, The Angry Celt, Paula Collins-Cook, Jonathon Dwigans
  
  00:00 Six Hours to Burn Moscow
  00:56 Harvesting the Steppe
  02:50 A Country Wide Open
  03:37 The Fire and the Knife
  04:43 The Walking Town
  06:06 The Trap at the Oka
  06:56 Days Against the Oak Wall
  08:31 The Blow from Behind
  09:52 Killed by the Tsar He Saved
  
  #History #Documentary
---
It took about 6 hours to burn Moscow to the ground. By nightfall of the 24th of May, 1571, the capital of Russia was [music] ash, the river below it choked with the dead, and the Tsar who ruled it was preparing to give up a kingdom to make the attackers stop. [music] The man who burned it was Devlet Giray, the Khan of Crimea, and the victory earned him a grim new title, Caesar of the throne. One year later, he came back to take Russia for good. Instead, 50 km south of the same city, his army would meet its match in a forest meadow by an outnumbered enemy fighting from behind a wall on wheels. The battle was called

Molodi, and it is one of the [music] most decisive fights for the Russians. If they lose, the entire Tsardom [music] might collapse. South of Russia lay the Crimean Khanate, ruled by the Giray dynasty, heirs of Genghis Khan himself. It lived, among other means, by raiding north to seize and sell people, a trade they called "harvesting the steppe." Over two centuries, hundreds of thousands of captives passed through its ports. [music]

By 1571, the balance had tipped. Ivan the Fourth, called Ivan the Terrible, had taken Kazan and Astrakhan, seizing the Volga, raided into Crimea itself, and stopped the tributes the Khans considered theirs. The coming war was not unprovoked. It was revenge. If you want the chance to win up to $30,000 in Bass Pro Shop gift cards, check out today's video sponsor, Metal Hunter.

Metal Hunter military dual game. Two snipers, the same target, three rounds each, and no auto aim. A shot lands because the timing was right, or it does not land at all. The first duel I lost was by a fraction of a second. In this game, timing decides these more than firepower. There are nine operations

modeled on real historical battlefields [music] including Pearl Harbor and Warsaw, and three ways to shoot: anti-air flak, artillery arcs, and sniper precision. Weapons and gunners upgrade as the leagues get harder. It is free on iOS and Android. The gift code in the description unlocks the welcome package in the store. Arenas 2, 4, 7, and 9 each unlock at spin at mhchallenge.com.

Player ID goes in, the wheel goes round, and every spin wins something. After you spin, tell me in the comments below what you've won. The gift cards are US only with a few states excluded, and the giveaway closes on the 13th of September. Russia lay wide open. Its armies were sunk in a long Baltic war. Plague and

famine stalked its provinces, and Ivan had turned on his own people unleashing the oprichnina, a terror that gutted the very commanders he would soon need. There would never be a better moment to strike. In the spring of 1571, Devlet Giray rode north with a great army of Tatars, Nogais, and even Ottoman troops. Russian defense held the Oka line, but the Khan never struck it head-on. He swung around it and appeared behind the army between it and Moscow.

The Russians fell back to Moscow, the countryside crowding in. On the 23rd of May, the Khan camped outside the walls. The next day, his men fired on the wooden suburbs, and then the winds turned. The fire swept inward, and within hours swallowed the city. A German in Ivan's service who survived it wrote that everything burned in roughly 6 hours. The prince commanding the

city's defenses died in the flames. The papal envoy would later find barely 30,000 people in a city that had once counted 800,000. Tens of thousands more were marched south in chains. Ivan, who had fled north, sued for peace and offered to surrender Astrakhan, the Volga prize taken 50 years before. The Khan sent back contempt. By one account,

the envoy who delivered his terms sets a knife before the Tsar, the Khan's own blade, with a single suggestion that the surest cure for Russia's disgrace was for Ivan to use it on himself. The demands only climbed from there. It looked like the end of independent Russia. It was not. In the summer of 1572, Devlet Giray came back to finish it. He

had spurned the Astrakhan offer because he wanted the whole country and boasted to the Ottoman Sultan he would take all of Russia within the year. Backed by the Ottomans, he wanted Moscow off the Volga for good. He raised a force historians put 40 to 60,000 men. Russia at that point could field about 20,000, perhaps 35,000, outnumbered as much as two to one. But, two things had changed. The

army now fought as one, no longer split as in 1571, and was led by one seasoned general, Prince Mikhail Vorotynsky, a Kazan veteran who had fortified the frontier. It carried a weapon the Crimeans dreaded, the Gulyaigorod, the walking town. Heavy oak walls cut with gun slits on wheels and chained into a moving fortress. On open ground where cavalry ruled, it turned bare steppe into a wall of gunfire no horseman could cross. One eyewitness wrote that without it, the Khan would have won.

On the 26th of July, 1572, the horde smashed across the Oka near Serpukhov, swept aside a vanguard of 200 noblemen, and drove for Moscow as the year before. But this time, the Russians did something that looked like a blunder. Instead of blocking the road, Vorotynsky let the Khan pass and slid in behind him. Then, his forward regiment under a bold young officer named Dmitri Khvorostinin smashed into the Crimean rear. It was a deliberate provocation, and it worked. The blow was too hard to

ignore. Devlet Giray could not march on with an intact Russian army at his back. He halted barely 30 km from the city and wheeled his whole host around to crush the force that had bitten him. Khvorostinin, badly outnumbered, gave ground on purpose, drawing them towards a low rise near the village of Molodi. On that rise, already waiting, stood the walking town. [music]

At the last moment, Khvorostinin's horsemen peeled away to either side, clearing the ground before them. The Tatars chasing them galloped straight into the wall, into mass musket and cannon fire at point-blank range. The charge shattered, and Devlet Giray, seeing at last what stood in his path, made the choice that destroyed him. He threw his whole army at the fortress. For days, the Crimean and Ottoman host hurled itself at the walking town. The

Tatars' great weapon, the massed horse archery that had terrorized the steppe for generations was useless against men behind oak. The fighting turned close and brutal. Sabers and spears at the slits while the Streltsy fired into the crush. Wave on wave was cut down before the boards. Then, mid-assault, the Russians seized the Khan's senior general, Devei Murza, and dragged him behind the walls a prisoner. In one

stroke, the Crimean army had lost the man directing it. But inside the fortress, the Russians were starving. Cut off behind their own walls, they were running out of food and water even as they held. Both armies were grinding each other down, but Devlet Giray could not see how close the defenders were to breaking. He believed he was the one running out of time. On the 2nd of

August, Vorotynsky bet everything on it. Under cover of the fighting, he pulled his main body quietly out of the fortress, let it down a ravine, and marched it unseen around the rear of the Crimean host while every Tatar eye stayed fixed on the wall in front. At his signal, two blows landed at once. Khvorostinin and the Streltsy fired a massed volley and burst from the front of the walking town. And from behind, out of nowhere, Vorotynsky's hidden army slammed into the Tatar rear. Caught

between the wall ahead and an army that had risen from the ground behind them, the horde came apart. The Crimeans broke and ran for the open steppe, and the Russians rode them down. Devlet Giray escaped with his life, but left behind his tent, his banner, and most of the men he had led north. His standard was taken on the field. Among the dead were a son and a grandson of the Khan.

Russia lost perhaps 6,000 of the hordes that had set out to break it. Only a fraction reached Crimea again, having lost much of a generation of fighting men. In 15 months, Russia had gone from a burned capital and a Tsar on his knees to the wreck of the army that had terrorized it. The Crimeans would raid for another century, but never again to conquer, and the Volga stayed Russian. It became one of the most decisive battles in Russian history, and one of the least remembered. Yet, within a

year, the man who won it was dead, killed by the Tsar he had served. A hostile account by the defector Andrei Kurbsky says Ivan had him raked over hot coals on charge of witchcraft. The registers note only an execution. Russia's savior was killed by Russia, by a Tsar who spent the battle far away from Novgorod. It took only six hours to burn Moscow, and a wall on wheels to save it. The empire that rose from those

ashes would one day span 11 time zones. The Khan who lit the fire died with his ambition broken on a hill he had never heard of, and the general who saved that burning country was repaid with a slow fire of his own, ordered [music] by the one man who owed him everything. Don't forget to try Metal Hunter, an interactive free game on iOS and Android. The gift code is in the description, and the spins at mhchallenge.com stay open until the 13th of September.

If you'd like to help us keep creating and get early access to our videos, behind-the-scenes content, and other perks, consider becoming a member right here on YouTube or joining us on Patreon. Every bit of support helps and as always, thank you so much for watching.