---
video_title: "Your body parts have mad literal meanings."
video_id: O3D9xrYYhGY
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O3D9xrYYhGY
video_date: 2026-05-23T13:00:30+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's explore the weird literal meaning of body part names. And remember that learning a language is easier when you practice real conversations. Preply connects you with 1-on-1 tutors. Get 50% off your first lesson with code "ROB50" here: https://preply.sjv.io/R06AN2
  
  In this video, we take a tour of the body and discover the surprising true meanings of our names for body parts. Find out why some words are ancient, some are borrowed, and some are a lot weirder than they first appear. It's time for an etymological trip from your head to your toes, inside and out.
  
  Shot at Berlin Museum of Medical History: https://bmm-charite.de/en
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Editing: Martyn Williams & Rob Watts
  Camera: Manuel Vering
  Everything else: Rob Watts
  
  Check me out elsewhere:
  https://robwords.com
  https://bsky.app/profile/robwords.com
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
---
Did you know the word “finger” once literally meant “five”? Or that your stomach used to be part of your face? You are built out of bits with fascinating stories to tell, so let’s explore what the names for our body parts truly mean. From inside to out, from head to toe, it’s time For another RobWords. So, the biggest surprise in this vid is coming right at the end because I’m a devil like that.

But with the help of this incredible collection, which I’ll tell you more about later, let’s take it from the top, and head over to the head. Our word head is a rather lazy pronunciation of what a thousand years ago, in Old English, was heafod. But things get even more interesting when you trace it back a few more millennia to the ancestral language shared by languages across Europe and even into Asia. That language is called Proto-Indo-European and it had this: *kaput- The star tells you that no one has seen it written down, because these guys didn’t write. But this meant that bit at the top of your body: your head.

Over time the kuh became a huh, the puh a vuh, and the tuh a duh to give us heafod and then head. But if you follow that Proto-Indo-European root down another branch, you end up at a Latin word that is much more obviously linked: caput. This also means head. So the Latin and English words are related, which means “head” is also related to a heady mix of other words derived from the Latin caput, including captain, chapter, chief, capital, capitulate and decapitate. On top of your head, you might have some hair and here’s a hair-raising fact for you: “hair” is thought to trace back to an ancient root meaning “to bristle”.

That same root is also thought to have given us the word “horror”. So “horror” is literally having your hair stand up on end. Some people have a bristly beard on their faces, don’t they? So let’s move onto the visage next: the face. Face is a word we borrowed from French – as, indeed, is the word visage – and it ultimately means “that which is presented”, the thing that is “facing” you.

It’s related to fascia and facade. Before we had the French words face, visage, and countenance... I’m not really sure why we needed all three… we were sometimes calling your face your “leer”, which is terrifying, or your “onsene”, which literally meant your “seen bit”.

Both old words for your “Chevy Chase”. Your “boat race”. How are you liking this Cockney Rhyming Slang? Chevy Chase isn’t a reference to this guy, by the way, it refers to the site of a skirmish between the English and the Scots in 1388. I’ve been looking up some more rhyming slang for body bits in this magnificent Victorian slang dictionary.

In 19th century London you could have an “east and south” full of “Hounslow Heath” beneath your “I suppose” and your “pudding and pies”. They used “mince pies” for eyes, as well. I can’t believe I did the accent. To be honest, these rhyming alternatives for our facial features are quite a lot more interesting than the actual words we use for them, etymologically speaking, anyway. Because… [singing] Eye has really always meant “eye” and nose has only ever meant “nose”.

[singing] Ear is from a word that means “ear” and mouth is just where your food goes. [singing] Cheek comes from cece and chin just means cin, and that is why your face is BO-RING. Although nostrils is a fun one. The no- is just “nose”, but the -tril bit comes from an old word meaning “hole”. That word was “thirl”, but sometimes this thing happens in languages where people swap sounds around – it’s called metathesis, if you want the fancy word for it – and that’s how “thirl” became “thril” and then “tril” as in nostril.

But not before giving us our modern word “thrill”. To thrill someone was originally to put a hole in them. To pierce them, as if you’ve run them through with your sword. Luckily we very rarely use it literally these days. A little lower down, it’s also worth pointing out that the word “tooth” shares an ancient ancestor with Latin “dens”, and therefore the words dental and dentist.

That amazes me because “teeth” and “dentures” are, etymologically speaking, the same despite looking so different. This is a pattern you’re going to recognise as we continue down the body: that English has a Germanic word for a body part, like tooth or eye, and a Latin-derived word for describing that body part, like dental or optical. We’ll get more into the Latin later, but the Germanic words are really helpful, because if you want to learn another Germanic language, you can easily find a related word in that language. For example, the Swedish for “eye” is incredibly close to the Old English word that became our word “eye”. In fact, I’ve been learning lots of other Swedish words too, because I’ve been having 1-to-1 Swedish lessons thanks to this video’s sponsor, Preply.

Preply introduced me to over 100 tutors whose teaching style matched my learning style, after I answered a few questions about how best I learn. And now, I’ve started regularly meeting with Swedish tutor Andrea. It’s so nice learning from an actual human, which is getting a rare occurrence these days, and we’re having a lot of fun. Hey Andrea. [Andrea in Swedish] How are you today? [Rob in Swedish] I am well.

Learning with Preply is as easy as 1, 2, 3. One: Pick a tutor, They have over 100,000 of them teaching 90 languages. 2: Learn consistently and make progress. And three: Begin to speak confidently. I can already feel myself making progress, because, as I found with French and German too, you develop language skills quickly by actually quickly by actually speaking that language to someone.

And that’s what Preply gives you. Try it out to find that special tutor to get you speaking a new language. And be sure to use my special link in the description, which will give you a juicy 50% discount off your first lesson with Preply. I really couldn’t be anywhere better to tell you about the human body. This is the Medical History Museum in Berlin.

A fascinating and – I don’t think they’d mind me saying – occasionally creepy place at the world famous Charite hospital. And a lot of the specimens here were collected in the 19th century by the founder of modern pathology, this guy, Rudolf Virchow. He called this collection his “favourite child”, which was a bit harsh on his six, actual children. Anyway, back to the bodily word origins… Let’s leave our heads behind and arm ourselves with a few word origins for our arms. The word arm itself is ancient.

It has a relative way over in India, in the language of Sanskrit, in which the īrma meant “arm” or the “foreleg of an animal”. So, like, a cat’s arms. About halfway down your arm, I’d say, you’ve got your elbow and “elbow” is one of an armload of body part names that basically just mean “joint”. Your wrist, knee and ankle and three of the others, all for obvious reasons, I think. Ankle is ultimately related to the word “angle”.

Next let’s give a big hand to the hand, not just for being the key to humanity’s success, but also for its miraculous consistency across the Germanic languages. Check it out. It’s meant “hand” as far back as anyone has been able to trace it. Finger, however, is another story. Historical linguists have traced that word right back to this Proto-Indo-European root, *penkwe-.

But way back then, it didn’t mean “finger”. It meant… five. It’s a common ancestor shared with the Ancient Greek pente, which gives us words like pentagon, a five-sided shape. So we named our fingers for how many of them we ideally have on each hand. And the one that’s a bit chubbier than the others, the one that sticks out like a sore thumb, we labelled as such.

From an ancient root meaning “swell” we get the word “thumb”. Alright, we’ll get to the legs and other… down below bits… shortly. But first I want us to take a look under the bonnet, so to speak. A look under the hood. Let’s explore the bits and bobs that keep us ticking along, our internal organs.

I promise I won’t show anything too gross. I can’t anyway, because my editor Martyn gets queasy. Unfortunately the brain is having something of an identity crisis. It hasn’t been able to work out what its own name means. The best the biggest brains in the business have come up with is the idea that it means “something broken”.

A linguist called Anatoly Liberman suggested that it could mean “refuse”. Just, sort of, amassed stuff, a bit like when we call it “grey matter”. Our hearts are what unite us. At least, most Europeans, and some Asians as well, because the words many of us are using for “heart” are all related. They share a common ancestor, calculated as *kerd-.

Now, remember how the kuh in *kaput- became the huh of head? Well, the kuh of kerd- became the huh of heart. Meanwhile, it also developed into the Latin cor, meaning “heart”, from which we get cardiac, cordial, courageous - which basically just mean “hearty” - and words like concord and record, which respectively imply sharing a heart and knowing by heart. Your lungs are another old Germanic word. Lung literally means “light”, as in “not heavy”.

A reference to the fact that they’re full of air, and when lobbed into a bucket, they’d have floated. Gross. In fact, we used to call lungs “lights” in English. Check out this thoroughly disgusting quote from a hideous 18th century “Collection of many useful and easy remedies for most distempers”. For shortness of breath, it recommends “The lights of a fox dried and drunk, taken in a powder with sugarcandy”.

A fox lung smoothie? I’d honestly rather expire. Moving on, Old English had this word: cwið, which meant your “belly”. It also had this word, ey, which meant “egg” before we borrowed the Viking word egg. These elements together are thought to be the components of kidney.

Making your kidneys your “belly eggs”. Adorable. Meanwhile, your stomach should actually be your mouth. Really. We borrowed stomach from French, but if you go back far enough, you get to the Greek stomakhos, which referred to your piehole.

It’s related to stoma, which is just Greek for “mouth”. I suppose filing your mouth and filling your stomach are the same thing under certain circumstances. I’m standing in the ruins of what was once the lecture hall of Rudolf Vichow’s Pathological Museum. It was all but destroyed by aerial bombing during the Second World War. It was in the places of medical experimentation of the Renaissance that many of our inside gooey bits got their more scientific names.

During this period, and long afterwards, it was common to look to the classical languages of Latin and Greek when naming bits, as you’re going see as we continue to explore our insides. Intestine, for example, is from the Latin intestĩnus, which just means “internal”. In fact the word was even used more broadly as a synonym for “internal” in English. Here’s Shakespeare using it. So you’ve got your large inside bit and your small inside bit.

The first section of your small intestine is your duodenum, which is from the Medieval Latin duodenum digitorium, which meant “space of twelve digits”. That in turn is a translation of the delicious Greek mouthful, Dodekadaktylon – a real taztaziki of a word. It’s a reference to how long one had been measured to be: the width of twelve fingers. I don’t have enough. Most of your large intestine comprises your colon, a word you’d think was related to this colon, but it’s not even semi-related.

The punctuation mark is related to the word “column”, it’s from this Greek word, meaning “limb”. Whereas your colon is from this near identical Greek word meaning “food”. Because that’s what you find in there. Also attached to your large intestine is the tiny tube-like fella known as the appendix. Did you know the appendix of a book and the appendix of a you mean exactly the same thing?

They are an add-on, an appendage. In fact, It’s just the Latin for appendage, which rather underappreciates the organ’s usefulness. It was thought of as somewhat surplus to requirements, which it obviously is a little bit. You can live without it. But the appendix is actually very useful for balancing the good and bad bacteria in your gut.

Your pancreas can be neatly dissected into two more components from Greek. The first is a familiar one: pan- meaning “all” like in “panorama”, “panoplie” or “Pan American”. And the second is kreas meaning meat. That’s right, your pancreas is “all meat” baby! [Meaty musical mega-mix] For what it’s worth, I think the word was coined to describe an animal’s pancreas first, which you might eat, before it was applied to our own internal bits.

The word bladder means a blown-up thing. Indeed, bladder is directly related to the word “blow”. As for the “gall” in “gall bladder”, well it appears to share ancestry with the word “yellow”, which in Old English was spelt with a G. It’s a reference to the yellow bile, or gall, that is stored within it. Yellow bile used to be thought of as one of the four humours – or liquids – that governed our health and moods, before we obviously learnt better.

Too much of it would make you aggressive, or “choleric”. Choler coming from the Greek for bile, whence also cholera, which was once also thought to be caused by yellow bile. We even now talk about anger as being “bile”. Another of the ancient humours was black bile, too much of which was said to make you gloomy or “melancholy”, a word that is constructed from Greek elements meaning “black” and “bile”. The other two humours were blood and phlegm. Eugh.

An imbalance of which could leave you “sanguine” – which is French for “bloody” – or “phlegmatic”. Amazing how these words have stuck around long after the “science” has been rendered obsolete. That’s humourism for you. The word humourist used to mean something very different. Let’s get back to the body and direct to the rectum, a word related to “direct”, in fact.

It’s related to “right” too. It means “straight” in Latin. Again, the name was probably applied to animals first, because a human rectum ain’t straight. But it is in some other species. And here is the “right” place to exit our insides via the anus.

The word “anus” is Latin for “ring”. I’ll give you six seconds to snigger. Go on. Now we’re in the nether regions, allow me to fulfill my promise about private parts. Let’s see if I can do this without blushing.

The word “vulva” is an etymological mystery. We know it’s the word the Romans were using for either the “womb” or the external bit of the female genitals, but further origins are unknown. There’s a theory that it's from the Latin volvere meaning to turn, which would link vulva to the word universe. But nobody’s sure. We are rather more sure of where “vagina” comes from, because it is just the Latin for “sheath”.

As in… where you might put a sword. The word vanilla literally means “little vagina”. It is the Spanish diminutive of the same word, so called because vanilla pods do look like little sheaths. If you’ve got a penis you, etymologically-speaking, have a tail. That’s what pēnis meant in Latin.

Although it is a word that was also used by the Romans to refer to their own personal pipes. And just to mention, because I know I’ll get comments if I don’t: the word “penis” is not related to the word “pen”, despite the similarity in word and the shape. Pen just means feather, in the same way that quill means feather. Why? Because we used to write with feathers, didn’t we?

Testicle is one of those words where the false stories of its origins are just too fun to skip over. A link has occasionally been drawn between testicles and the Latin testis meaning “witness”. As in, testament, testify, testimonial. Making your balls your “little witnesses”. The suggestion being that they bear witness to your virility.

But... Gah. A lot of people who know what they’re talking about say that that is bollocks.

Otherwise, origin unknown. Speaking of bollocks, this ballsy British slang was at one time a perfectly acceptable word for your testicles. Mild enough to turn up this early 14th century bible, where we’re warned not to offer up to the lord any animals that have had their “bollocks taken away”. Bollocks means “little balls”, in the same way a bullock is a little bull, or your buttocks are your… little butts. Your breasts are super old, by the way.

There are similar words to “breast” in languages all over Europe, all meaning the, sort of, top bit of your abdomen where your heart is, or the lower bit where your belly is. And our nipples are… and I can’t believe I’m saying this… etymologicall speaking, “little beaks”. The word is related to the nib on your penis…PEN.

Do you hear that? I think it’s the sound of this video getting demonetised. If you’re enjoying it, please do click “subscribe”, and help get this nerdy little channel over the million mark. We’re nearly there. But now, let’s leave the loins and get to the legs.

“Leg” is actually a word we got from the Vikings. It is an Old Scandinavian term. Before we borrowed “leg” from the Norsemen, we were calling our legs just our “bones”. In fact, to this day, in German, the word “Bein” can mean both “leg” and “bone”. We already mentioned your knees and ankles.

Or should that be “angles”? So let’s skip straight to the foot. Foot is another word with a common ancestor shared by languages across Europe and beyond. Despite looking very different, it is ultimately related to words like “pedal” and “pedestrian”, which are descended from Latin pedis, meaning “of the foot”. It’s also, therefore, related to “sesquipedalian”, which means “given to using long words”.

Ha ha. But literally translates as “a foot-and-a-half long”. Can you see the “ped” hiding in there? And I promised we’d cover etymologies from your head to your toes, so here we go. “Toe” is a Germanic word that just means “toe”.

But don’t take it for granted. Some languages have to make do with calling them “foot fingers”. I also promised we’d round things off with a revelation, so let’s do it. I think the most surprising thing about the language of the body is the word “body” itself. It's unique insofar as no other language is using a word anything like it to describe this bag of flesh and bone that we inhabit.

Many European languages are using words related to “corpse”. Others have words related to our word “life”. And others still have words related to “lich”, a word we used to use for a body… but only ever for a dead one. Our “body” is our own. An English word, through and through.

And I think that’s something to be body positive about. Thank you so much to the Berlin Medical History Museum for letting me poke around. This place is an absolute marvel, you should pay it a visit. And thanks to you for watching. If you like this stuff, I sell some wordy nerdy t-shirts to fit bodies of all sizes.

You can find a link below And maybe watch this video next, and I’ll see you over there. Take care.