---
video_title: "Are these words really \"untranslatable\" into English?"
video_id: 3mItUYXvv84
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3mItUYXvv84
video_date: 2026-07-04T13:00:18+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's bust some "untranslatable" myths! And remember: learning a language is easier when you practice real conversations. Preply connects you with 1-on-1 tutors. Get 50% off your first lesson with code "ROB50" here: https://preply.sjv.io/m4N6ND
  
  The internet loves “untranslatable” words: hygge, saudade, lagom, mamihlapinatapai, and plenty more.  But do these words really mean what the listicles say they mean? Are they even real?
  
  In this video, let's fact-check some of the world’s most famous supposedly untranslatable words, from Swedish and German to Malay, Dutch, Yaghan, French, Swahili and beyond.
  
  Some turn out to be genuine linguistic gems; others are exaggerations, misunderstandings, or outright nonsense. Join me as we separate the beautiful from the bogus in another RobWords.
  
  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿 ROBWORDS LIVE AT THE EDINBURGH FRINGE 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿
  6th-16th August, 2026 @ 8.10pm 
  Tickets here: https://www.edfringe.com/tickets/whats-on/robwords-live
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
---
A Swedish word that means “just the right amount”. A Malay word for “the time it take to eat a banana” A Yaghan word for “the look between two people who want the same thing but neither dares make the first move”. The internet is full of lists of words that are “untranslatable” into English. But are they real? Some of them are.

But some of them are not. So let’s investigate in another RobWords. Now, I’ve had a lot of help with this one. I’ve been asking people all over the world whether these words really do exist in their languages and mean what we English speakers are told they mean. And I’ve uncovered some stuff.

We’re going to test these words for two things: 1. Do they mean what the online listicles and memes say they mean? And 2. Are they really “untranslatable”? Something we have to do first, though, is to define what we mean by “untranslatable”.

Because, arguably no word is untranslatable if you can explain what it means If you have, you’ve translated it. But for the sake of this video, let’s take untranslatable as meaning that you can’t translate it into English with a single word, one for one. Take the Danish hygge. No “untranslatable” list is complete without it, but you can translate it as “A quality of cosiness and comfortable conviviality that engenders a feeling of contentment or wellbeing”. That is translating it but it took 15 words.

15 words I stole from the Oxford English Dictionary. Yes. That’s your first revelation right there: hygge is in the OED. It has been embedded into enough English sentences to make it in. Anyway, hygge does mean what the online lists say it means and you can’t translate it into a single word.

Cosiness comes pretty close, but Danes will tell you that it’s not quite right. So, hygge is legit untranslatable. Another hero of the untranslatable lists that is also in the Oxford English Dictionary is saudade. I’ve just said it in a terribly British way, but it’s a Portuguese word pronounced like this in Portugal and this in Brazil. Now, if you put saudade into Google Translate, you’ll get the one word translation “longing”.

But that really doesn’t cover it. The famous saudade of the Portuguese is a vague and constant desire for something that does not and probably cannot exist, for something other than the present, a turning towards the past or towards the future; not an active discontent or poignant sadness but an indolent dreaming wistfulness. That definition is from a book published in 1912. This word has been doing the rounds in English texts for over a century and it’s a genuine “untranslatable” So what about this one: pisanzapra, Malay for “the time needed to eat a banana”. Hilarious.

I actually found this one in a book. But is it real? Well, I should first say that this is more often listed as two words: “pisan zapra”. But that doesn’t really matter because it appears to be nonsense. The Malay for “banana” is pisang, I’m told, not pisan and zapra means nothing in Malay whatsoever.

One Malaysian commentator on Quora pointed this out, adding “We also couldn’t care less how long it takes to eat a banana!” So what’s gone wrong? Well, a reporter at the Malay Mail called Zaraira A.R. went deep into this one and traced the error back to a couple of English books about extraordinary, untranslatable words.

It’s possible that one of these books had actually got it from the other. The idea spread still further thanks to posts like this one from the British TV show Q.I. After Malay speakers pointed out it was gibberish, they took it down and apologised, and revealed they’d got the word from a review of one of those two books I just mentioned. The one that included this.

Now, I’m not naming the books because starting book beef is not really my style and they’re otherwise good books. But it’s thought the author of one of them may have come across someone using a combination of the Malay pisang “banana” and a Tamil word meaning “eat”. The Malay Mail says this combination, basically, “banana eating”, can have a somewhat vulgar meaning. But anyway, pisanzapra: Forget it. Plenty of more debunking where that came from.

Have you heard of lagom? It’s a Swedish word meaning “just the right amount”. Or is it? Is it real? [Andea] Yup. Lagom? Mhmm.

That’s Andrea, my Swedish tutor – you know how I like to dabble in different languages – and she says lagom is definitely a thing. Lagom is just perfect, and I feel that it describes the Swedish mentality very on point, because it’s not too much and it’s not too little, it’s just the right amount of anything. Is it hot enough or cold enough? Det är lagom. It’s like, it’s perfectly fine.

So that’s a bit old tick for lagom. I’ve been having weekly Swedish lessons for a few months now, and I just so happen to have found her using this video’s sponsor, Preply. They gave me a choice of over 100 tutors whose teaching style matched my learning style after I answered a few questions about how best I learn and Andrea ticked all the boxes. Learning with an actual human tutor is great. It means you can have a good laugh, but also get taught in a way entirely suited to you.

And learning with Preply is as easy as 1, 2, 3. One: Pick a tutor, They have over 100,000 of them teaching 90 languages. 2: Learn consistently and make progress. And 3: Begin to speak confidently. I’m still a bit rubbish, but I can feel myself making progress with Swedish because actually speaking a language is, from my experience, how you learn and Preply is designed to get you doing that.

Try it out to find the tutor that’s going to get you speaking that new language. Use my special link in the description of this video to get a juicy 50% discount off your first lesson with Preply. Now, here’s a beautiful word: plimpplampplettere. A Dutch word for “skimming stones across the water”. It is imitative of the sound the stone makes as it bounces then splashes and it is also not real.

I asked my subscribers to confirm or deny the existence of a few of these words. Plimpplampplettere was among them and the unanimous response from Dutch speakers: it doesn’t exist. Flemish speakers too. Perhaps there is some corner of the low countries where it’s used, the author of this book must have got it from somewhere. Note it has an N on the end of it here, which perhaps makes more grammatical sense than the version that’s doing the rounds online.

But it’s definitely not standard Dutch. Which is a shame, because it’s fun. Actually, while I’m showing off my book collection, I’ll show you this one that I’ve just bought. This Guinness Book of World Records. I bought it because I wanted to show you a specific record in here but I can’t find it. It might not even be in this edition.

So we’ll have to make do with this scan of the 2006 edition and this record for “most succinct word”. It says “the most challenging word for any lexicographer…” that’s a dictionary writer “...to define briefly is the Fuegian word mamihlapinatapai, meaning “looking at each other hoping that either will offer to do something which both parties desire but are unwilling to do.”

You will find this word all over the internet. In fact it's the name of an EP just released by K Pop band Illit. I’m told that’s how you pronounce it. And you can see why. A single word for that look shared between two people who want the same thing, but dare not make the first move.

It’s kind of romantic. Even sexy. But is it real? Well, this is a tricky one but thankfully, I got some more help. Shout out to Paola, who is in Chile and gave me a massive leg up with this.

The Fuegian language that the guys at Guinness are referring to is Yaghan, a language spoken in Tierra del Fuego, in the far southern reaches of Chile and Argentina. At least, it was spoken there, but sadly the last fluent speaker died in 2022. Her name was Cristina Calderón and she was apparently asked about mamihlapinatapai, and didn’t know it. However, it’s not reasonable to expect one person to know all of the words in their language, so that doesn’t necessarily mean mamihlapinatapai is not real. More research required.

And that research, thanks to Paola helping me navigate some of the Spanish sources on this, weirdly led me back to English. Specifically, this Yaghan-to-English dictionary written in 1933. It was written by a missionary, Reverend Thomas Bridges, after spending almost two decades in Tierra del Fuego. This book appears to be the sole written source for this word. All the modern listicles and memes trace back to this.

To be precise, this bit. There it is – I can’t tell you how excited I was when I found this – “Mamihlapinatapai, to look at each other, hoping that either will offer to do something, which both parties much desire done but are unwilling to do.” Now, that fits reasonably well with the definition given these days, doesn’t it? Although there is one little word in there that I think gives a different impression to the sexy definition we have now. The Reverend writes about something which “both parties much desire done” and I feel like the “done” there makes it sound like it's more about avoiding chores than stealing a kiss or more.

But it’s probably close enough, isn’t it? However, is the author right about this word existing and its meaning? It’s worth noting that he mentions it, not as an entry in the dictionary itself, but just as a curiosity in his “general remarks” at the start of the book. It’s hard not to read something into that. The BBC published an excellent article about this a few years back, and it quotes a linguist who’s studied Yaghan saying, though Reverend Bridges “knew Yaghan better than any European before or since” but “he was sometimes prone to exoticising the language, and to being very verbose in his translations.”

The same linguist, Yoram Meroz suggests mamihlapinatapai could in fact mean simply “to make each other feel awkward”. However, the same article includes another interpretation from a Yaghan museum guide, who describes it as “that instant in which everyone is quiet” just before a story is told. So could mamihlapinatapai essentially be a loaded silence or pregnant pause? Unfortunately, we’re never going to be sure whether the source of the modern meaning doing the rounds on the English-language internet is based on truth, or the author’s embellishment. So, I’m going to give mamihlapinatapai a “maybe”.

Wow, I’ve just realised we’ve got over halfway through a video about untranslatable words and we haven’t even mentioned German yet. A particular crime given that I’m speaking to you from Germany and once did a video entirely about “untranslatable” German words. German grammar makes it very easy to create long compound words. It’s a feature of lots of languages, but German catches our imagination for some reason. I came across this as I was riding through Berlin the other day on the outside of a large bakery.

It says “Broteinfahrt” which literally means “bread entrance”. So you could say, “Wow, German has a word for a gate reserved just for bread.” But it doesn’t really, it’s just possible to make that word if you or your marketing department feels like it. I can now imagine Broteinfahrt spreading online as “a German word for the unique ingress that can only be achieved by baked goods.” Profound.

But while I’m being a bit smug, this would be a good time to come clean about some of the words in my “untranslatable German” video, because I did once or twice fall into exactly the kind of trap we’ve been talking about. For example, I repeated a common claim about this word: Kummerspeck. Now, it is a quite genuine term for the weight you put on through comfort eating And it often gets translated into English as “grief bacon”. I, however, now think since doing that video that this is a little bit over-selling the humour of the word. Yes, Speck means bacon, but it also just means “fat” like you’d find on bacon.

So you could just translate it as “grief fat”, but obviously, that isn’t as funny as “grief bacon”. I also cited the word Backpfeifengesicht, a term for someone with a punchable face. Again, it’s real, but this one’s very seldom used. It exists more as an example of German efficiency than an actual insult, I think. Even if Die Ärzte did sing a song about it.

[In Geman] Backpfeifengesicht, If you think anyone likes you, You’re mistaken. Another popular example of Deutsch directness is Schadenfreude, pleasure in someone else’s misfortune. but I’m convinced this is in such frequent use in English anyway that it’s not worth mentioning. You could translate Schadenfreude into schadenfreude with the lower case S instead of the capital S from German. It is in the Oxford English Dictionary.

Ditto zeitgeist and wanderlust. One that I will absolutely stand by from my video about German words is Wegbier. It’s a word for a beer that you drink on your way somewhere. Usually somewhere where you’re going to drink even more of them. But German also has another word for a beer-on-the-go and that’s Fußpils.

Pils is the beer Pilsener. So it basically means “foot beer”, but it gets extra points for being a pun Because Fußpilz is “foot fungus”. It’s athlete’s foot. I think we need to ask the continental Germanic cultures if they’re okay, because they have a lot of terms for seeking solace in beer. For example, Swedish and Danish have gravöl or gravøl, I’m sure I’ve mispronounced both of those, which both mean a “beer drunk at a funeral”.

It’s literally a grave beer. I think it can also refer to the wake itself. But it’s a beer you drink while reminiscing about a lost friend. On the sunnier side of life, Norwegian has utepils, which literally means “outdoor beer”, but I’m reliably informed by you that implicit to the word is usually the enjoyment of said beer in the sunshine. It doesn’t stretch quite as far as “on the first hot day of the year” as some English-language sources claim, but nevertheless, it’s lovely, and all the more precious thanks to the extreme lengths your government goes to to stop you buying beer, am I right Norway?

And while we’re in the northern reaches of Europe, shoutout to the Finns who have kalsarikännit, which means “pants drunk”. It describes sitting at home drinking in your underway with no intention of going out. There is definitely a thing in the Nordics about enjoying the simpler things in life. I was actually discussing this with Andrea, who grew up in the Swedish-speaking bit of Finland. [Andrea] Yeah, we don’t need a lot, I feel.

And I can see this with my friends and people here. There’s not this hustle mentality and always going after something new. We’re just like, “okay, this is enough.” I think this feeling of enoughness is very common. [Rob] It’s very lagom.

[Andrea] Yeah, lagom. We are just… It’s lagom. It’s enough. And so, we associate the Nordics with words for simple pleasures. But what about strange pleasures?

Have you ever come across this word from French, frotteur? Now, I was always told it described someone who got their kicks from rubbing up against people in crowds. In French frotter is “to rub” but I think I always half-believed it was B.S. So, for this video, I thought I’d check it out once and for all and look it up in one of the big French dictionaries.

I searched Larousse’s advert-addled website for the word frotteur and found that it says frotteur/frotteuse because women can be frotteurs too: “Pratiquant du frotteurisme” or “practicer of frotteurism” Okay, frotteurism. So what does that mean then? Click. It is une “Affection psychiatrique caractérisée par la nécessité de toucher une personne non consentante, ou de se frotter contre elle, pour obtenir une excitation sexuelle.” A psychiatric condition characterized by the need to touch or rub against a non-consenting person to obtain sexual arousal.

Yeh. It’s real. While we’re on potential nightclub behaviours, let me mention this commonly cited “untranslatable”: Mbuki-mvuki. Now, it’s sometimes given as being from “Bantu”, which is a language family, not a language, so what’s going on there? Some websites say it’s from Swahili, but not all of them.

Already a bit suspicious. Anyway, Mbuki-Mvuki is consistently quoted as meaning “To shuck off one’s clothes in order to dance.” The verb is always “shuck” in these articles, a term that I have pretty much never heard outside the context of oysters. But anyway: is mbuki-mvuki even real? Well, it is really hard to say.

Reliable sources on its origins are few and far between. The best thing I could find was this glossary of African words in American English, which gives it as the source of our term “boogie-woogie” and says it means “I take off” or “I shuck off”, then there are these brackets doing a huge amount of extra work. It doesn’t specify what language it is from either, so I think we’re very much in a “citation needed” situation here. I also found Mbuki in this Swahili-to-English dictionary, but it’s translated as “a Malagasy” i.e. someone from Madagascar.

Mvuki is not in there at all. It’s actually hard to find mbuki-mvuki outside of the context of explaining the African origin of boogie-woogie, which does rather make me think it might have been sort of wished into existence for precisely that purpose. And for what it’s worth the OED, my favourite, says of “boogie-woogie”: “An origin in an African language, as frequently proposed, is not borne out by early evidence.” Now, that is an etymology burn. I am a bit sceptical about this one, but would love to be proven wrong, because mbuki-mvuki is a fun word for what would be a fun concept.

If you can shed any more genuine light on the subject, then please do leave me a comment. Don’t just put it in a chatbot and then copy and paste what that said. If you can shed some real light on where this word came from, or if it even exists, I’d love to hear from you. So we have busted a few myths and blown a few “untranslatables” out of the water. And that means there’s space to spread some new ones.

I asked for your suggestions and you gave me some real beauties. So let’s see if we get plimpplampplettere replaced on the lists with the actual Dutch word taalleemte, which means “something you don’t have a word for”. How perfect is that? It’s literally a “language gap”, in English we’d call it a “lexical gap”, but the Dutch have it in one word: taalleemte. How about we replace pisanzapra with the Tagalog sumbát, which can refer to the act of bringing up past favours to make someone feel bad.

Faith says “it’s like emotional blackmail”. And instead of repeating mamihlapinatapai for the millionth time in the last century, why not go for the Brazilian Portuguese word for that Friday feeling: “sextou”. “A verb that means “it’s become the weekend”, literally “Fridayed”. Thanks Connor. And lastly a fun word from Scots: slitter meaning “to eat or drink messily”.

If you get food down yourself, “you’ve slittered”. And that is my seamless way into reminding you that I am going to be doing 10 nights of my wordy nerdy live show at this year’s Edinburgh Fringe. I’ll be spending an hour revolutionising the English language, even coming up with a new alphabet, every evening from the 6th to 16th of August. I would love to see you there. I shall put a link to tickets in the description Thank you so much to everyone who helped with this video, Especially Andrea and Paula, and everyone who commented on my community post, giving me their own untranslatables, and also helping me scotch a few myths.

Why not tell me some more untranslatable words in the comments. And while you’re down there, perhaps you could click subscribe? I think you’d enjoy this video next, and I’ll see you over there. Until next time, take care.