---
video_title: "The hidden logic behind #, @, & and §"
video_id: cSsyG2pE-GY
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cSsyG2pE-GY
video_date: 2026-06-13T13:00:09+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's explore where #@&§ came from. And download the Opera browser for free here: https://opr.as/06-Opera-browser-robwords and enjoy its many handy features.
  
  Did you know #, &, @, § and ¶ are all made up of letters? In fact, they each represent specific words. In this video, I'll explain where these little symbols came from and what they're actually called. Join me as we explore the hidden logic of your keyboard.
  
  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿 ROBWORDS LIVE 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿
  At the Edinburgh Fringe from 6-16th August, 2026
  Tickets: https://www.edfringe.com/tickets/whats-on/robwords-live
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  CAMERA: Manuel Vering
  EDITING: Martyn Williams
  EVERYTHING ELSE: Rob Watts
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
  
  ==CHAPTERS==
  0:00 Introduction
  0:20 # Hash/pound/octothorp origin
  5:40 # Musical sharp origin
  8:35 & Ampersand origin
  10:35 @ At symbol origin
  14:26 § Section sign origin
  15:05 ¶ Pilcrow origin
  17:44 * Asterisk and others
  19:35 👉 Manicule
---
This familiar symbol spells something. It may just look like a load of lines, but it is actually two letters. And I’m going to tell you which ones. I’ll also explain where this, this, this, and this came from too. And these.

Let’s explore the weird little symbols on your keyboard. It’s time for another RobWords. So, what do you call this? The pound sign? The hash?

The number sign? The sharp? The octothorp? Fancy. These are all legit names, but they exist for different, fascinating reasons involving axes, pianos, telephones, and the internet.

#obviously But this most social-media-tastic of symbols has its origins in Ancient Rome. When the Romans weighed something like, I don’t know, grapes? They always seem to be eating grapes, don’t they? Anyway, when they did so they weighed them in ounces, or unciae, twelve of which made a Roman pound. The word the Romans used for their pound was libra.

In fact, it’s the word we use for our modern-day measure, the pound, too, when we abbreviate it to lb. That’s LB for the Latin libra. We also nod to it when we write the symbol for the currency the pound as well. That is simply an ornate L for libra with a line through it. But you knew that already because you watched my recent video about currency symbols, didn’t you?

The line through the British pound symbol is there to show that it is an abbreviation of a word, libra, rather than just a letter L. And once the printing press came along, long after the Romans had marched off into the sunset, it became common to print a line through the “lb” representing the pound weight as well, to show that it was also an abbreviation. Don’t believe me? Well, look here. This is a text from the early 1700s, and there it is: lb with a line through it.

Here it is again, labelled as “pound weight”. This is what it looked like printed, but we now need to look at how it was written by hand, because that’s when this gets really interesting. Some scribes would write it out all neat and smooth like this. Can you see the l and the b, and the horizontal line, which has drifted to be above the lb for elegance’s sake? But not everyone wrote it this neatly.

One man, for example, a certain Isaac Newton of gravity fame, scribbled it out like this. Now, can you see where this is going? Because it is this scrawled attempt at the lb pound symbol that is thought to be the origin of our hatched number sign. This gets simplified further to two vertical and two horizontal lines, and there it is: the “hash”. Or I should say the “pound” sign, because it is called the pound sign precisely because its origins are in our abbreviation for the Latin libra pondo, the pound of weight, LB.

Here’s a fun little fact for you: While on an American keyboard, the symbol above the 3 is this pound on a British keyboard, the symbol above the 3 is this pound. So, they’ve both got a pound. Just different ones. Although weirdly, my British Macbook keyboard somehow manages to have both. The fact that we Brits use both of these symbols quite a lot creates a problem.

We can’t be calling both of these things the pound sign, can we? So we don’t. We’re actually more likely to call this a “hash”. Back in the days when people actually did things over the phone, you used to hear an automated voice say “for assistance please press hash”. “Hash” is related to the word “hatched”.

It’s from the French hacher, meaning “to chop up into little pieces” as if with an axe, or in French une hache. Why? Because the symbol looks like it’s been diced up into nine tiny bits. Nine of them. As for the name “number symbol”, well, as this 1903 shorthand book explains, that comes down to where you position it.

Pop it before a number and it means the word “number”. Pop it after one, and it means “pounds”. The major coup for the pound-slash-hash-slash-number sign in the 20th century was its inclusion on telephone keypads. Bell Laboratories wanted to fill the unsightly gap either size of the zero on their touch tone telephones. So, on one side they put the star or asterisk – more about him later – and on the other, they put our four-lined friend.

Although, telecoms engineers decided that they wanted to give it a new name. They called it the octothorp. The octo- bit is simple: it has eight points. But no one knows why they put thorpe after it. One theory is that it’s because cartographers used to mark out villages on maps with this symbol.

A village is a “thorpe”. Another is that it was a tribute to the first Native American to win Olympic gold for the United States, Jim Thorpe. And another is that It's meaningless. It’s a sort of joke. There’s no real agreement on how to spell it, either.

Anyway, 20th century telephone-fame turned into 21st century internet ubiquity when in 2007 Twitter’s Chris Messina suggested using the “pound” symbol to create groups. And lo’ the hashtag was born. It’s called a hashtag because it is a tag marked with a hash. The symbol is not called “hashtag”. I’m don’t know why the people Twitter didn’t call it a “poundtag”.

Doesn’t sound right though, does it? Ooh! And for the musically minded, I need to mention “sharp” don’t I? Now, oddly, the “number symbol” and the musical “sharp” symbol are not the same sign. I know they look alike, but they came about completely independently.

Believe it or not, the sharp started off as a B. It is true. In early musical notation, a B flat, so one semitone below a B, was marked with what was called a B rotundum or “round B”, which is just a fancy name for a lower case B. That’s why the flat symbol still looks like a lower case B. Meanwhile a normal B note, to differentiate it from the flat, was marked with a different alternative shaped B called the B quadratum or “square B” which is this gothic, boxy-looking B.

This became the “natural” symbol that musicians will recognise. Then later, when composers later started throwing in flats for notes other than B, they used the same notation, even though they weren’t dealing with Bs anymore. However, they added a variant of the B quadratum to mark a semitone above the base note, a sharp. That variant looks like this. Ta daaaaaaa.

On that note, I’ve had a marvelous time researching this video, reading through medieval manuscripts to find beautiful old versions of all of these symbols. But that has meant having a lot of tabs open. Luckily I found organising my research easy thanks to this video’s sponsor, Opera. Opera has so many useful functions, like Tab Islands which I used to keep all my manuscript tabs grouped together. Meanwhile I also had another tab island with all my online reference sources in it.

I could then collapse those tab islands when I wasn’t using them and give the islands a unique name and colour. Plus the handy Tab Traces let me see which tabs I’ve recently used thanks to this underline, meaning I can quickly get back to the same document I was just referencing. The darker the line, the more recently I looked at it. I’ve also found it really useful to be able to split my screen between up to four tabs at once, because it means I can have multiple websites open, like, say, the Oxford English Dictionary and Merriam-Webster, and also take notes in Google Docs at the same time. I simply drag the tab down and choose a layout.

Ooh, and I should definitely mention Opera’s Video Pop-out, which works out if you’re watching a video and then detaches it into its own window that can be moved around, even outside the browser. This is useful, particularly for me, for when I want to, say, keep up with a podcast while I’m also doing my work. You can download Opera browser absolutely for free. I will put a special link for you to use in the description of this video. Go down there, click on it, and give Opera browser a go.

Right then. We’ve discovered that the “pound” sign is probably ultimately just the letters L and B. So, what about this one? The “and” symbol or ampersand does not look like a word, but it is one. In fact, it is a full one.

It is the Latin word for “and”, et. The Romans themselves used this. How do we know? Because we have this: the earliest known example of it, graffitied onto a wall in the doomed Roman city of Pompeii. Can you see how it’s a very crude E and a T?

Now, I’d have loved to have shown you an actual photo of the graffiti itself, but it doesn’t seem like anyone has one. Instead, I’m relying on the research of a fella named Jan Tschichold, who wrote the definitive history of the ampersand, [In German] But in German. And he includes it as the first example on a page showing the development of the “and symbol” over the centuries. From this you can really see how it morphed into the & we know today. Some modern fonts make its “ET” origins clearer than others.

As for the name, “ampersand”, that’s thought to hark back to a time when the and symbol was included as a semi-official final letter of the alphabet, like it is in this adorable 19th-century book teaching American kiddies how to spell. When reciting this version of the alphabet, it was apparently typical to end with “zed…’ Well, “Zee… and per say &”. Per se being yet more Latin, this time for “in itself”. And from “and per se &”, we get ampersand. So, weirdly, the word “ampersand” has the word “and” in it twice, which is not great going for what is supposed to be an abbreviation.

The first one turned into an “am” in the same way as it sometimes does in “sandwich”. Have you noticed some people pronounce it “samwich”? Seriously, listen out for it. And that’s it for and. Now we’re at at.

That at. The Dutch call it the monkey’s tail. The Italians: the snail. But to us it’s just the “at symbol”. Why is it called “at”?

Well, long before it was cropping up in social media handles and email addresses, that was the word it stood in for. It was used in accounting and on sales signs or receipts to show how much something was priced “at”. This is “two avocados for 10 bucks” That’s not very good. and this is two avocados AT 10 bucks. That’s even worse.

One is 10 dollars for two avocados, the other is two avocados at a price of 10 dollars each. The @ is crucial. But why are we using this particular sign for that? Well, it’s not something that starts in English. The oldest recorded appearance of the symbol is from 1345 on this Bulgarian translation of a Greek text.

Here, though, it’s just acting as the A at the start of “amen”. So what about our modern usage? The earliest known example of it is from 1536, almost half a millennium ago, on this letter by a Florentine merchant. There are two of them highlighted here. He’s talking about the price of wine.

Yumyum. So let’s assume it doesn’t actually say “at”, tempting as it is, given that we definitely have an A there, don’t we? The first usages are in Romance languages, so languages derived from Latin. So, could it be derived from the Latin ad which can also mean “at”. Could the swirl be the tail of some long-lost D?

Well, maybe, but it’s a bit hard to prove given that it doesn’t look like a D at all. A theory I like more is that it’s from the French for “at”, à, with scribes lazily choosing not to take their quills off the paper to add that accent, instead swooshing over, and then back under again. The origins are clearly a bit uncertain, and the “at” symbol might well have returned to obscurity had it not been for this guy. Ray Tomlinson, the man who sent the first email. Back in 1971, Ray was working for a company called BBN, who had been hired by the US Department of Defense to develop ARPANET, the precursor to the internet.

Now, Ray wanted to be able to send files between shared teletype machines, so realised he needed a character to put between the name of the recipient and the name of the machine that the message was being received on. He later told Smithsonian Magazine he was “looking for a symbol that wasn’t used much”. He considered “an exclamation point or a comma” or an “equal sign”, But he said “that wouldn’t have made much sense.” So he went with @, which did make sense, because it was someone AT a specific machine. And so, he sent that very first email.

He says it said something like “QWERTYUIOP”, dragging his finger along the top row of the keyboard. And he sent it… to himself. From one teletype machine in the room he was in to another. 20 years later, we were sending emails from space. By the way, the at symbol has another, lesser-known name: the asperand.

But I can’t find out anything about it. It doesn’t even appear to be in dictionaries. So, if you know more, leave a comment. And while we’re below the line, let me just tell you that that is where you can find a link to buy tickets for my 10 night run at this year’s Edinburgh Fringe. I am ridiculously excited about this. I can’t believe it’s even happening.

I’m going to be there from the 6th to the 16th of August, 2026. Come join me for an hour of revolutionising the English language. I’ll leave a link in the description. Moving on, have you ever noticed this little fella on your keyboard? It’s most commonly called the “section sign”.

Why? Because it’s used to mark out sections on things like legal documents. You’ll know it well if you’ve ever taken out a mortgage or been sued. I think it’s quite a cool design. Do you know what it is?

It’s two Ss standing for signum sectionis, Which is just the Latin for… “section sign”. So you might as well say that it stands for “section sign”. Although, this character does have another name in English: It's called the “silcrow”. But to understand why, we first need to meet its mate, the “pilcrow”. You don’t meet the pilcrow so much anymore, but in the olden days, when you typed up a document on a computer, these things would pop up everywhere.

They probably still do if you work in publishing. Again, this symbol is a letter. Can you guess which one? Go on, have a think. That’s enough time.

If you thought it was a “q”... you were wrong. If you thought it was a backwards “p”, though… you were also wrong.

Two perfectly reasonable guesses, but both wrong. What the pilcrow originally started out as was a C. The modern-looking pilcrow is descended from this symbol, found all over medieval manuscripts. Here they are in red and blue. Can you see the resemblance?

Well, these were used to mark out points in the text where there was some sort of change. A change of topic or change of speaker, for example. And this symbol, which is just a C with a vertical line down it, stood for the Latin capitulum. Capitulum literally means “little head”, but it is the source of our word “chapter”. Now, because this symbol was written beside the text, it was known as a paragraphos, which is Greek for “beside the text”.

And from there, of course, we get our word paragraph. And to this day we change subject or speaker at a new paragraph, don’t we? But paragraphos doesn’t just give us the word paragraph. It also gives us the word pilcrow. Now, this is a bit mad, but watch how the word changes as it moves from Greek, to Latin, to Old French, to Anglo-Norman French, to Middle English, and to Modern English.

Voilà. Pilcrow. But paragraphs and pilcrows are not the only legacy of the beautiful old capitulum symbol. These characters were written by a different hand and in different ink to the rest of the text. Someone else added them later.

So when the printing press came around, printers would leave gaps for these handwritten characters to be added in. Unfortunately, the rubricators, as the people who wrote these characters were called, couldn’t keep up with the machines, so these inky finishing flourishes were often left off, leaving just a gap. And it is because of these gaps that we still indent the start of a paragraph. Oh, and footnote: “silcrow” is just a play on the word “pilcrow”. I t is pilcrow with an S.

#obviously. Again. And while we’re down here in the footnotes, let’s talk about this: the traditional marker of a footnote, the asterisk. An asterisk is a little star, both in image and in name. “Asterisk” comes from Greek asteriskos, meaning “little star”.

We know for a fact that this little symbol has been used to mark up texts for more than two millennia. But, it hasn’t always indicated a footnote. Sometimes it used to be used to mark out bits of a text that the reader disagreed with or doubted. It was a critical mark rather than a mark added at the start to help clarify the text. And the asterisk had a counterpart, a partner in crime.

One that fans of French comic books will probably be able to guess. As well as the asterisk, we have the obelisk. Yes, Asterix and Obelix are named after them. The obelisk - also known as the obelus - took on a range of shapes, you can see them all here. One of them, we’ve repurposed for our division symbol.

But there was also another shape that it sometimes took on and that it still takes on today. This. Also more commonly known as “the dagger”. I actually come across this most often in the Oxford English Dictionary, which uses it to show you that a word is obsolete, no longer in use, dead. It’s like a little gravestone or as if the word has been stabbed to death.

By the way, we should bring back “brangle”. However, you’ll also see it as a footnote marker if an asterisk has been used elsewhere on the same page. There’s actually a hierarchy of footnote symbols, did you know this? It can vary, but it’s usually along the lines of asterisk, dagger, double-dagger, silcrow, double vertical lines, pilcrow. And doesn’t that nicely bring together a load of the symbols we’ve already looked at?

But before we finish, I still have to tell you about my favourite. It’s this. The manicule. Manicule is Latin for “little hand”, because that’s what it is. You won’t see it all that often these days, but you will find it in old manuscripts, literally pointing out important passages.

And I don’t know why, but I find it endlessly hilarious. Look how long this finger is. And this one. And what on earth is going on here? And this one has a snake.

I suppose the modern equivalent of it is arguably this, which you could perhaps use to click “like” and “subscribe” if you have enjoyed this video. Then drag your little hand over to this video here, and I’ll see you over there. Until next time: take care.