---
video_title: "Why we don't have a sarcasm mark"
video_id: OcPynSc1lyI
channel_name: "RobWords"
channel_id: UC4a9LfdavRlVMaSSWFdIciA
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OcPynSc1lyI
video_date: 2026-07-25T13:00:05+00:00
video_description: |
  Explore lost punctuation‽ Yes please. And see how language shapes perspectives with Ground News. Use my link to get 40% off the Vantage plan:  https://ground.news/robwords
  
  Why is there no punctuation mark for irony? Or to flag up a rhetorical question? Well, the fact is: there once was. Numerous innovative marks have been invented then discarded ( although you can still find them if you look hard enough). 
  
  In this video, let's explore the punctuation marks we nearly had, and the ones we had, but lost. These include the interrobang, the sarcmark, the percontation point, the asterism and many more.
  
  🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿MY EDINBURGH SHOW🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿
  Tickets: https://www.edfringe.com/tickets/whats-on/robwords-live
  
  ⁉️KEITH'S BOOK⁉️
  Shady Characters: https://shadycharacters.co.uk/books/shady-characters-the-book/
  
  👕COOL TSHIRTS: https://robwords.com/shop
  ⭐️PATREON COMMUNITY: https://patreon.com/robwords
  📝FREE NEWSLETTER: https://www.robwords.com/newsletter
  
  Check me out on the web, on Twitter & TikTok:
  https://robwords.com
  https://x.com/robwordsYT
  https://tiktok.com/@robwords
---
This punctuation mark for sarcasm. This one for a rhetorical question. This one for a romantic statement and this for… Well, you’ll find out. Let’s check out some of the punctuation marks we once had and the ones that never quite caught on. It’s time for another RobWords Okay, lost punctuation marks.

This is a big subject. Where the heck am I supposed to start?! Well, how about here. This is not satisfactory.

Having to use two punctuation marks at once like this… well it’s just so inefficient, isn’t it? Surely there’s a better way to flag up an exclamatory question like this. Well, I’m not the first person to have thought there should be. In 1962, an American ad man named Martin K. Speckter shone a light on the problem in Type Talks a publication he edited for the Advertising Typographers Association of America.

I couldn’t find that article but it is quoted in this excellent book, Shady Characters. He used the example of Christopher Columbus’s supposed first words on spotting what would turn out to be the Americas. He wrote that “most historians insist that he cried, ‘Land, hol!’ “but there are others who claim it was really ‘Land ho?’.

“Chances are the intrepid Discoverer was both excited and doubtful, “but neither at that time did we, nor even yet, do we, “have a point which clearly combines and melds interrogation with exclamation.” Now, leave aside the fact that Columbus probably didn’t say those words in English, did he? Mr Speckter had a point. But he didn’t just burden us with a problem, he brought along a solution. So he and his wife Penny had an ad agency in New York.

Keith Houston is the author of Shady Characters and has done more research into the subject than just about anybody. Apparently over a dinner on night, he announced to Penny that he was going to invent a punctuation mark, and he ran off to the phone and called their favourite art studio and said “Is there anyone there who can draw?” And he went into the agency and they sat and they hashed this out. Martin K. Speckter introduced to the world the exclamaquest.

A clever combination of the exclamation mark and question mark. Of course, exclamaquest wasn’t his only suggestion for the name. He also suggested it should be called the interrobang. Now, the middle of these three designs was the clear winner, with readers of Type Talks sending in their own suggested names. How do you like, the emphaquest?

Not bad. Interrapoint? Okay. The Rhet? I’m not so sure about that one. It’s like “rhetorical”.

Hmm. Or the exclaro- Exclarogat- Exclarogative. In the meantime, Martin’s idea was gaining national press, and “interrobang” was catching on as the preferred name for it. It’s a mix of “interrogative” and “BANG!” is a printers’ nickname for the exclamation mark-slash-exclamation point.

And then, just four years after Speckter proposed it, a breakthrough! In 1966, as the US was preparing for its bicentennia, which was still a decade off, to mark 200 years of liberty from us dreadful Brits, the American Type Foundation commissioned a commemorative typeface. Designed by Richard Isbell, they unveiled Americana, Roman and Bold. And just looky down here. What did they include, but the interrobang.

Charged with a new legitimacy, surely this would be the making of the interrobang‽ A couple of years later, in 1968, Remington Rand added it to a typewriter. Or rather, they made a special key that you could buy, and a special type head, so you could choose another key on your typewriter and replace it with the interrobang. For some reason, that was as good as it got. You can, over half a century later, still use an interrobang if you fancy. You can copy and paste it from somewhere, You can copy it from the Windows character map, You can press control, command, space on your mac and search for it there, or you can use its rather convoluted unicode.

Et voilà! How about that‽ I suppose nowadays we might opt to skip the interrobang and head straight for an appropriate emoji. But which one?! Our options are changing all the time, with the Unicode Consortium currently working on an updated list for smartphones.

Thanks to this video’s sponsor, Ground News, I’ve got a headstart on knowing which emoji could be on the way. It says a draft list published by the consortium includes a pickle, a lighthouse, a meteor, an eraser and a net. Ground News is a website and app that brings together news sources from around the world and helps you to understand the coverage. It’s found 11 sources on that story alone. But the best thing about Ground News, in my opinion, is the information it gives you about the different news sources including who owns it, a factuality rating, which I find enormously helpful when doing research, and its political bias.

I’m a particular fan of its blindspot feature which goes out of its way to introduce you to stories that one end of the political spectrum isn’t covering, be that right or the left. I’ve been working with Ground News for ages now because I think it’s never been more important to understand who your news sources are, and whether they can be trusted. And Ground news gives you all the tools to do that. If you want to get the full story, like I do, subscribe to Ground News using my special link. That’s ground.news/robwords

or use my QR code to get 40% off the Vantage Plan. Give it a go. Have a look at this lovely book. It’s from the 1960s and actually, this copy used to belong to a library in France. It’s by a French writer called Hervé Bazin and it’s called Plumons L’Ouiseau, which means “let’s pluck the bird”.

The bird he’s referring to is the plump turkey that is the French language and what this book is, is a proposal for how to pull apart the way that it is written and introduce a new way of spelling it. One under which for example the word oiseau, “bird”, would be plucked of its unnecessary letters and simply written like that. W-A-Z-O. I could do a whole video on just that proposal. I mean, look how cool this version of French looks.

But I’m showing you this book just for the sake of two pages that are in it, where Hervé Bazin says that a new, phonetic spelling regime reflecting how people speak should also take into account the WAY people speak. He uses the example sentence “il est beau”, which means “it’s beautiful” or “he is beautiful”. He points out that you can say “it’s beautiful?” in a basic inquisitive way just asking if it is beautiful. But also “it’s beautiful??” in a way that suggests you actually hold the opposite view.

Likewise you can say “It’s beautiful!” in a way that insists that it is. Or “it’s beautiful” in a sort of amorous fashion. It’s a bit creepy when I do it. But Bazin reckons our current load of punctuation marks aren’t up to the job of making these distinctions, so he proposes a crop of additional ones to sit alongside the question mark and exclamation mark, which he reckons should be kept.

For the amorous “it’s beautiful” or for any other sentence uttered with an air of romance or to express adoration, he proposes the point d’amour, the “love point”, which he explains as “formed by two question marks which, in a way, gaze at one another and draw a sort of heart.” It’s gorgeous. I love it. Love point. He also suggests the “point de conviction”, the conviction point, for when someone is stating something they believe.

It’s “an exclamation point transformed into a cross”, as a nod to religious conviction. I believe it works rather nicely. Conviction point. My favourite - or at least, I think it’s my favourite - is Bazin’s “point de doute” the doubt point. Check it out.

Explaining the shape, he says: “It’s like you: it hesitates, it waivers, before coming - wonkily - to its point.” See what he did there? I like the look of it, but I think it maybe looks too much like a question mark… doubt point? Now, much like his overall proposed spelling reform, dear old Hervé’s proposed punctuation marks didn’t catch on back in the 1960s. But I think recent decades have proven he was on the right track.

The modern use of emoji is almost exactly what he was talking about. Is this really any different to this? It’s up for debate whether emoji are punctuation, but by Hervé Bazin’s reasoning, they definitely are. And if an emoji tells you how to read the words that came before or after it… then surely it is. Now, I’ve deliberately held off on telling you about one of Hervé’s innovation marks, because it opens such an enormous can of worms.

But let’s talk about it now. It’s this one. This exclamation mark with a wry smile was Bazin’s point d’ironie. His “irony point”, a punctuation mark to be used to show sarcasm. Bazin himself said it was based on this Greek letter, psi, because what better sound to suggest a sneaky second meaning than “psss”?

Or the whizzing of an arrow delivering a razor-sharp barb and it is just one of many historical failed attempts to create sarcastic punctuation. Way back in the 17th century, the English natural philosopher and vicar John Wilkins proposed a novel way to flag up an ironic statement: using an upside down exclamation mark. It’s perfect, it's emphatic, while indicating things aren’t quite as they seem. It also has the benefit of looking a bit like an i, the first letter of “irony”. Actually, it doesn’t just look a bit like an i, does it?

It looks a lot like an i. Could that lead to confusion, then? Could you sarcastically order a macaron and end up with some macaroni? It’s clear enough here, but handwritten? Maybe that’s why it didn’t catch on.

It just made the end of every sentence look a little bit Italian. Next to have a go were the French – and a good century before Hervé Bazin. In an article published in October 1841 in the newspaper Le Courrier Belge, the French-born Belgian Jean-Baptiste-Ambroise Marcellin Jobard – that’s too long, for goodness sake – proposed his own punctuation mark. Check it out, it’s a little upwards arrow. He uses it to flag up his own melodramatic – and sarcastic – statements about war, such as “Furrows watered with human blood and covered with ashes yield the richest harvests”.

I don’t know why I did that voice. He flanks that sentence with two of his little christmas trees, with a helpful footnote: Ceci est un point di’ronie. “This is an irony point.” So, you see, Bazin did not invent the name. Yet again, this one didn’t catch on.

But where Jean-Baptiste-Ambroise Marcellin Jobard failed, could the French poet Alcanter de Brahm succeed? Alcanter de Brahm. Weird name, right? Yeah because that wasn’t actually his name. It was an anagram of his actual name, the rather more conventional Marcel Bernhardt.

But convention Marcel/Alcanter was not. While Marcellin Jobard had gone so far as to publish an article featuring his point d’ironie, de Brahm went a step further publishing an entire book peppered with his own take on the same concept. He kicks off his L’ostensoir des ironies by immediately showing off what his mark can do, by using his stylised backwards question mark after “Director of Fine Arts”. He then says “I am looking for the phenomenal oaf who boasts of directing the fine arts”. His point is that art can’t really be directed.

It doesn’t matter. Anyway… He tries to hammer its usefulness home by dropping it in over - and over - and over - in the book. As a result it attracts greater attention than its predecessors. But… have you ever seen anyone use it⸮ Nope. Hold on. What’s this⸮

Ah, yes. Now, Alcanter de Brahm was not the first to think flipping a question mark might be a good idea. It’s possible he even took inspiration from a much earlier usage. Way back in the 1580s, an English printer named Henry Denham started working with a backward question mark too. However – and I think this is arguably a better fit – he used it to show a rhetorical question.

A question said for effect, without the expectation of an answer. Clever, right⸮ It’s a question, but not really. Anyway, neither Denham’s rhetorical question marker nor de Brahm’s irony symbol caught on. Are you starting to see a pattern in this video? The next to have a proper go was arguably Hervé Bazin, whose symbols we’ve already explored.

So who came next? Well the next major attempt would come this century and this time it would take place in the Netherlands. Each year the Dutch hold a massive book gala called the Boekenbal at the start of book week, and each time there’s a theme. In 2007 that theme partly centred around irony. Thus the CPNB – the foundation for the Collective Promotion for the Dutch Book – commissioned a type foundry called Underware – it’s spelt differently – to create a new ironieteken, or “irony sign”.

Underware, not wanting to be caught with their trousers down, produced this. It’s a wiggidy jiggidy punctuation mark. Somewhere in between an exclamation and a question mark. Very similar to Herve Bazin’s doubt point. And it also suggests that things are not as they seem.

The thing that it has above I think most other marks is that it was designed by someone that’s a typographer first and a writer second, as opposed to the other way round and so it looks convincing. It looks good. It fits well into writing, it’s visibly similar to, but distinct from the exclamation mark, so at least in terms of how it works visually, it’s brilliant. Do you think one of the reasons sarcastic punctuation has never truly taken off might be that not enough of us want it? I think I’m of the opinion – shared by many – that it’s the job of the writer to make their intention apparent without flagging it up in such blatant fashion.

That’s the art of sarcasm and irony. That’s the fun of it. I don’t want to telegraph when I’m being sarcastic. If you’ve understood me, you’ll know. Perhaps that’s why the final sarcastic symbol we’re going to look at still hasn’t taken the world by storm.

In 2006 a father and son duo from Michigan named Paul and Douglas Sak set about solving the same problem that so many others had already attempted to solve. They did so by setting up a company called Sarcasm Inc. They say they did this after Douglas Sak was writing an e-mail to a friend and was attempting to be sarcastic. And then It struck him that there was no way to do that, and so, he thought, “there’s an opportunity”. A business opportunity.

To solve this problem, the Saks produced this: the SarcMark™ – written with a ™ because not only did they invent the symbol, they trademarked it. They treated their innovative curly-wurly punctuation as a product, initially charging people desperate to be ironic but so dreadfully incapable of doing it clearly, $1.99 for a font that enabled them to use it. The SarcMark is now free, and a charismatic presence on any page, should you like to use it. But it received, let’s say, a mixed reception.

An unironically enjoyable read is this Guardian article, written entirely in sarcastic prose, with the title “The rise of the SarcMark – oh, how brilliant”. Maybe the author, Tom Meltzer, and I are being a bit snobby when we decry the need for a sarcasm marker. We at least seem to be in the minority. The internet age has brought a multitude of ad doc ways to express sarcasm, whether that’s AlTeRnAtInG bEtWeEn UpPeR aNd LoWeR cAse, using html-style <sarcasm> tags, reverse italics – also known as ironics –, or… oh god… #sarcasm. There is clearly a demand for an irony marker.

But is it likely to come in the form of a punctuation mark, when we can just use these? 💀🙄 🤣 I suspect not. But enough of the punctuation marks we never had: what of the ones we loved, then lost? Because some of them are beautiful, and our emails are uglier for not having them. Take this gorgeous little thing, the hedera.

Drawn to look like a plant, indeed hedera is another name for ivy, this was what was called a fleuron. Scribes used to use a range of florid little symbols to mark up their manuscripts. Here you can see them being used to separate off bits of text like titles without having to jump to a new line. Utterly delightful. Another defunct punctuation mark that leaves me all starry-eyed is this one, the asterism.

“Asterism” is another term for a “constellation”. Both words basically mean “a collection of stars”. And I mentioned in a previous video that “asterisk” just means “little star”. The asterism was previously used by printers to break up text into more manageable chunks. Our pal Monsieur de Brahm deployed them liberally in the same book in which he attempted to introduce his irony mark.

Look, so many stars. What a shame they have now dwindled to nothing. Although, you will occasionally still see three asterisks in a row doing a similar job. Crispy old manuscripts are littered with marks we no longer use. More’s the pity, in my view.

Here’s a revelation for you. You know how Spanish has this guy, the little squiggle that turns a “nuh” into a “nyuh”? Did you know that English used to use that too? In Spanish, what that tilde – as the squiggle is called – is doing is replacing a second N. You can basically see it as one N on top of the other.

The Spanish año, meaning “year”, originally had a double N. So the tilde is replacing an N. Now take a look at this English transcript of a 16th century play, and check out how they’ve spelled “consumed”. See the tilde? And what’s missing after it?

An N. It’s doing the same as the tilde does in Spanish, but there is more: in the same play here’s how “some” and “come” are spelled. With a tilde. But in these cases, it’s an M that is being left off. How cũm⸮ Well, that’s because “nuh” and “muh” have something in common.

They are both nasal consonants. Try it, make an nnn then an mmm sound and just feel how it resonates in your nose. The way the tilde is being used here is to tell you that the vowel it’s accompanying should be followed by a nasal sound, an Nnn or an Mmm. And here it is, being used in Ẽglish. Now, you could argue that’s an accent mark rather than punctuation, but to that I say this: “What is this apostrophe doin’ here?”

It’s showing where a letter has been left off. And that’s all the tilde is doing in cõsumed. And with that, I think I’ve consumed enough of your time. Thank you so much for watching. Thanks for watching. Thanks also to Keith Houston for taking part,

and for all his research on this topic. Can I just remind you that I’m doing ten nights at this year’s Edinburgh Fringe. Come join me for a wordy nerdy hour where we’re going to revolutionise the English language. I’ll leave a link to tickets below. If you’ve enjoyed this video, I reckon you’ll like this one next, and I’ll see you over there.

Until next time, take care.