---
video_title: "I’m Tired of Playing the YouTube Game"
video_id: CGLHXXPHn3o
channel_name: "Design Theory"
channel_id: UCdgUN8rX3SEb9L7FDub3I6A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CGLHXXPHn3o
video_date: 2025-04-07
video_description: |
  BECOME A PATRON: https://www.patreon.com/JohnMauriello/membership
  I have six videos that I plan to launch over the next ~6 months. Help support this effort through Patreon.
---
I love making videos, but I'm not sure how much longer I can do it unless something changes. Now, I'm not asking for your pity. I know how unbelievably fortunate I am to have this job. I'm really grateful to have an audience and a platform that lets me share my ideas, but I don't want to be beholden to one company. I've been through the Silicon Valley tech layoff cycle more than once.

I've done the dehumanizing job hunt that follows. The last time was five years ago and it led me to start this channel and do independent design consulting. For most of that time, I've never been happier. But as this channel grows, it requires more and more of my time. These videos take hundreds of hours to make. I

read a thousand plus pages of articles and books. I talk to industry experts and I reflect on my 15 years of experience in the design industry. YouTube takes a massive amount of time and if you don't get views, you don't get paid. It's really stressful because you never know whether the algorithm will help make your videos go viral or not. Every minute I spend making YouTube videos, I'm losing money. Now, I'm

totally okay with that. That's my choice because I see it as a long-term investment in myself and in worldwide design education. But I don't know how much longer I can do it. The more time I dedicate to YouTube instead of my design consulting work, the more I'm once again dependent on one company, YouTube. I need to bend over backwards for an algorithm that doesn't care if my channel lives or dies. It's exhausting.

It stifles creativity and it leads to worse videos for you guys. I left Silicon Valley techbro culture to escape the cycle of layoffs, dehumanizing job hunts, and the general weirdness of the tech industry. But YouTube in its own way is part of that same system that rewards dehumanizing scale, efficiency, and profits instead of creativity and humanity. Now, I'll always do design work, but I want to be able to dedicate myself to this channel, too. But I can't do that if it means trading one Silicon Valley tech overlord for another. All it

takes is one algorithm shift, and this channel is done. Now, I could say yes to scammy sponsors, and there's no shortage of tried and true ways to turn a YouTube channel into a cash cow. But that's not what this channel is about. I don't make these videos to sell you slop. I make them to explore why our world is designed the way it is. I make them to

examine how design is used, sometimes for good, sometimes to manipulate, and sometimes in ways we don't even realize. And the only way to keep doing that without compromise is if this channel is supported directly by you. If you love these videos, if you want to help build a place where design and culture is discussed with depth and honesty without being censored by algorithms or sponsors, then consider supporting me on Patreon. You can sign up for a few dollars a month, and as a show of thanks, you get early access to my videos, plus a few other perks. If enough of you join, I can make videos the way they should be made. I won't

have to worry about making sponsor friendly content, and I won't be at the mercy of an algorithm that doesn't care if I succeed or fail. Click the Patreon link below right now and watch the next video waiting for you. It's about how useless objects can become priceless in the right cultural context. Obviously, you're free to do whatever you want. If you can't pledge or don't want to pledge, just know that I still really appreciate everyone that watches, shares, and engages with these videos.

Having a community that cares so much about design and culture is so special to me. Have a great day, everyone, and I'll see you in the next video.