---
video_title: "The Real Reason Your Eyesight Keeps Getting Worse (& How to Relieve It)"
video_id: 8hqOmd7GGGY
channel_name: "Dr. Eric Berg DC"
channel_id: UC3w193M5tYPJqF0Hi-7U-2g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8hqOmd7GGGY
video_date: 2026-06-14T13:00:27+00:00
video_description: |
  Digital eye strain can affect far more than just your eyes. Discover what happens to your eyes and brain after 8 hours of screen time, how screen use can contribute to myopia, and the best strategies for eye strain relief.
  
  0:00 Digital eye strain
  0:25 Myopia in children
  1:18 Computer eye strain hour by hour 
  3:25 Sunlight and your eyes
  6:15 Peripheral vision and digital eye strain 
  6:43 Nearsightedness after 8 hours of screen time
  7:11 How to reduce eye strain
  8:38 Daily sun for eye strain relief 
  
  🌟 Take the 2-minute Health Lever Quiz: https://drbrg.co/49YfcYr
  
  Explore more ways to reduce digital eye strain and support healthy vision naturally:
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/nCnZX8zs4LI
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/CozZ1Rcm55E
  ▶️ https://youtu.be/oXhOK2880i8
  
  Check out this article to learn about the most important nutrients for the eyes: https://drbrg.co/4xiUIDA
  
  Just so you know, my full line of high-quality supplements is available on Amazon — search Dr. Berg Supplements. 
  
  Digital eye strain is becoming increasingly common as screen time continues to rise. Because the retina is actually brain tissue, prolonged screen use can affect both eye health and brain function.
  
  The ciliary muscle controls the lens of the eye, allowing you to focus on objects that are near or far away. Extended screen time keeps this muscle contracted for hours at a time, making it difficult for the eyes to relax.
  
  During the first few hours of screen use, you may not notice any symptoms. As screen time continues, your blink rate can drop significantly, reducing the lubrication of the eyes and contributing to digital eye strain.
  
  After several hours of continuous screen use, the ciliary muscle can lose its ability to fully relax, similar to a muscle cramp. This may contribute to eye fatigue, difficulty focusing, dizziness, disorientation, reduced peripheral vision, and other symptoms associated with prolonged screen exposure.
  
  One of the best ways to reduce eye strain and support eye health is to regularly look into the distance and spend time outdoors. Try leaving the house without your phone for 20 minutes and allow your gaze to naturally drift. Taking frequent breaks outside can help relax the eyes, support healthy vision, and may help reduce the risk of myopia.
  
  Dr. Eric Berg, DC Bio:
  Dr. Berg, age 61, is a chiropractor who specializes in Healthy Ketosis & Intermittent Fasting. He is the Director of Dr. Berg Nutritionals and author of the best-selling book The Healthy Keto Plan. He no longer practices, but focuses on health education through social media.
  
  Follow Me On Social Media:
  YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/@Drberg/
  
  YouTube Shorts: https://www.youtube.com/@UCpWhiwlOPxOmwQu5xyjtLDw 
  
  Keto Recipes: https://www.youtube.com/@drbergketorecipes
  
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/drericberg 
  
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/drericberg/ 
  
  Spotify Podcast: 🎧 https://drbrg.co/DrBerg-Spotify
  
  TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@drbergofficial 
  
  X: https://x.com/dr_ericberg
  
  Disclaimer: 
  Dr. Eric Berg DC received his Doctor of Chiropractic degree from Palmer College of Chiropractic in 1988. His use of “doctor” or “Dr.” in relation to himself solely refers to that degree. Dr. Berg is a licensed chiropractor in Virginia, California, and Louisiana, but he no longer practices chiropractic in any state and does not see patients, so he can focus on educating people as a full-time activity, yet he maintains an active license. This video is for general informational purposes only. It should not be used to self-diagnose, and it is not a substitute for a medical exam, cure, treatment, diagnosis, prescription, or recommendation. It does not create a doctor-patient relationship between Dr. Berg and you. You should not make any change in your health regimen or diet before first consulting a physician and obtaining a medical exam, diagnosis, and recommendation. Always seek the advice of a physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition.
  
  #health #keto #ketodiet #weightloss #ketolifestyle #intermittentfasting #lowcarb 
  
  Thanks for watching! I hope these eye health tips help you reduce eye strain related to screen time. I’ll see you in the next video.
---
Let's talk about what eight hours of screen time does to your eyes. Today we're going to discuss what happens hour by hour, not just to your eyes, but to your brain because the retina in your eye is actually brain tissue that's extending outside your skull. So when we're fixated about 18 inches from our eyes, we're not just straining the eyes, we're straining the brain. 80 to 90% of children now have myopia. This is a condition where they're having trouble seeing in the distance. Okay, myopia. When I was a kid, we didn't have that. Why? Because we didn't have computers, we didn't have cell phones, we didn't have screens. So today I'm going to show you what happens hour by hour, but then I want to show you what to do to counter this. The real problem is a little muscle in your eye, called thecillary muscle that controls the lens of the eye. So the only job of that tinycillary muscle is to change the shape of the lens to allow you to focus far away or near. So if you're looking at like 18 inches or 12 inches in front of you, it's like you making a fist, you know, not just temporarily, but for eight hours. So go ahead and make a fist right now and hold it there for eight hours. Let's see what happens. Let's get into hour by hour. The first hour of staring at your computer, what happens? The squeeze begins, but you really don't have very many symptoms because thatcillary muscle can contract and hold a certain position for a period of time. Let's go to two hours, right? Your blink rate crashes. So normally when you're outside looking at various things, you're blinking about 15 to 20 times per minute, okay? But as soon as you start looking at a screen and you don't have that depth or the peripheral type movement of your eye, that blinking goes down to five or six times a minute. That blinking reflex is a physical pump that coats your eye with protective moisture. And maybe you might feel like a little burning or kind of something in your eye at that point, but that's what's happening. Your eyes aren't getting the proper lubrication. All right, hour three, static lock mismatch. Way back in the day, our eyes were designed to look far close, left, right, all over the place, everything and 3D. Now they're very, very static. And there's a lot of cognitive load, but your physical eyes are fixated in this frozen state. So that's a big mismatch. So what this is doing, it's creating a strain on the nervous system and the brain. And you're going to start feeling mentally tired, okay? So a lot of people ask me, what supplements do I recommend? Now, of course, I'm not biased with my own high quality supplement line. But if you go to Amazon and type Dr. Berg supplements, you'll find more information. All right, hour four, the retina starts going dark. Let me explain, when bright light hits the retina, it triggers a very critical neurotransmitter called dopamine, right there inside the eye itself. And dopamine has many functions, but one of the big functions with the eye is it's actually a structural job. In other words, there's a pigment in your eye that triggers dopamine that controls the shape of your eyeball. And what controls the pigment is lux. What's lux? That's bright light. Now, let's do a comparison going outside in the sun. What is the lux or brightness of that sunlight? A hundred thousand units versus inside your office 300 to 500. So you get a lot more lux when you're outside. And this is what our body was designed for and evolved from. It's even more important for children to be outside being exposed to this light. I'm not talking about looking directly into the sun, but I am talking about allowing that sun but to get into the eye. And this is why people that wear sunglasses are creating another layer of deficiency of that bright light because we need that bright light for several things. Number one, to trigger dopamine to create the normal shape of the eyeball. Number two, to control the circadian rhythm, be able to go to sleep at night, sleep through the night, and wake up feeling refreshed. And number three, if you're deficient, it can create seasonal effective disorder. And this is why people during the winter get depressed. And so they might end up stumbling on buying a light that they sit in front of an hour in the morning to get this intensity of lux so they can actually reverse this depression because they're deficient. They're not getting out as much. Our five focusing muscle locks. What is that? When you contract a cylinder muscle for five hours in a row, held in continuous contraction, the eye doesn't just get tired. It begins to lose its ability to let go. This is a clinical problem where even when you stop looking at the screen, your cylinder muscle is still stuck and can't turn it off. So it's acting like a cramped like you would get in your leg. At five hours, they might take a break and start looking at other things and like, wow, I need my glasses. I can't see that well. It's taking longer longer to adapt to focus on certain things. All right, hour six, the balancing system. Sitting behind a computer, your head is kind of fixated in one location and the distance is fixed as well. This is why so many people after a period of time of sitting there looking at the computer feel kind of like out of it, dizzy, disoriented, that type of thing. If your environment is off, everything else struggles. It's like a fish tank. Pallute the water and the fish gets sick. You could feed them the best food. You can treat every single symptom. But if the water stays toxic, nothing recovers. The body runs on 10 signals like insulin, cortisol, inflammation, sleep quality, gut function, every one of them affects how you feel. But there is always one signal that is more broken than the rest. And until you fix that one, everything else stays stuck. I built a free two minute quiz that finds it for you. It tells you which one of the main signals is holding your body back right now. Click the link in the description, take the quiz, and stop guessing. Hour seven, shrinking tunnel. What does that mean? When you are outside navigating the world, there's all these things in nature that you would look at. But when you near that focus in, you collapse the peripheral vision. Okay. So instead of operating at 180 degrees, you just only have this 30 degrees of focus. And so your sensation of peripheral vision is weighed out. Okay. Especially over years of doing this. And then at eight hours, we start developing damage with the shape of the eyeball. And this is called nearsightedness in which you can't see far away as much as you used to. They did an experiment with kids. And they had them spend 80 additional minutes outside per day. And the myopia statistics just plummeted with these kids. And so we know what myopia is. It's not a mystery of how people develop it. All right. Let's talk about what to do with this. Okay. I can't just not work on the computer. This is what I do. I research information for videos. I'm sure you have to do computer work. But what can we do to neutralize the damage? Maybe you've heard of this 2020, 2020 rule before where every 20 minutes, you would look at something 20 feet away, which is the exact distance where there's no more tension in the silery muscle for about 20 seconds. While that's a really good concept, it's kind of useless if you've been doing this for a period of time. It might be a good thing to maintain your eyes. But for most people, that's not going to even be close to what you need to do. Okay. It's going to take a lot more than just a 20 second shift every 20 minutes. If you only have time for one thing, you need to do this step outside for 20 minutes every single day, leave your smartphone at your house and let your gaze drift wherever it goes. Okay. Don't try to focus on anything. Just walk into nature for 20 minutes a day. Walk on, uneven ground, on grass. I do this every single day. A little more than 20 minutes, but it's very therapeutic. Every 60 minutes look completely away from the screen outside your window directly at the open sky if that's available or something 20 feet away for two to three minutes. Ideally every hour, you should go outside and look into the sky just to get your eyeballs completely relaxed. But not only that, to allow that luxe to go into the eyes. This has nothing to do with vitamin D. This has to do with resetting your circadian rhythm. And while you're out there, I would blink 10 times slowly, deliberately to lubricate the eye. I've done another video on this topic. I've had people try it with massive success and it's so simple and it cost you nothing. It's getting out at 8 o'clock in the morning or around that time and just being exposed to the sun. And when I say being exposed to the sun, just letting a little of the sun get into your eyes. Don't wear sunglasses, don't look at the sun directly. Just let it get in there for 20 to 30 minutes every morning. And watch how your sleep is influenced by that simple action. In the winter, if you can't go outside, get a luxe light and turn it on for 30 minutes in the morning right next to your computer. Since you're on the topic of light, sun, and health, if you haven't seen this interview with this doctor, you have to check it out. I put it up right here.