---
video_title: "PACIFICADOR 7ºep, SPIDERMAN 4 com TOBEY MAGUIRE e mais - Nerdolive #52"
video_id: y9WqU7aTuVI
channel_name: "Canal Tragicômico"
channel_id: UCklg1LNIaBzLSgQAHjjfIYg
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y9WqU7aTuVI
video_date: 2025-10-07
video_description: |
  Hoje vamos comentar o 7º episódio de Pacificador, que veio cheio de ação, reviravoltas e loucuras no estilo James Gunn.
  Também vamos falar sobre os rumores de Spider-Man 4 com Tobey Maguire, possíveis confirmações e o que isso pode significar para o futuro da Marvel no cinema.
  E claro, teremos as notícias e tretas mais quentes da cultura pop da semana!
  ------------- 
  APOIE LEGADO: https://www.catarse.me/legadohq
  APOIE INKEBRAVEL: https://www.catarse.me/inkebravel
  APOIE DANTE: https://www.catarse.me/dante
  --------------
  
  ► A Liga Nerdola é:
  
  ◘ Wagner Thomazoni (Canal Tragicômico)
  ◘ Tony e Elvis (Heróis e Mais)
  ◘ Macho Geek
  ◘ Gui Santos (Retro, Geek & MUGEN)
  ◘ Allan (Geek Raiz)
  ◘ Omar (Nerd de Família)
  ◘ Luana (Eu amo falar)
  ◘ Amanda (Eijey Artes)
  ◘ Liana (Cine Jam)
  ◘ Déborah (Debescreve)
  ◘ Giga (Gigante Richard)
  ◘ Barros (purez4)
  ◘ Moisa e Flag (Nerds Barbados)
  ◘ Grifo (CANAL DO GRIFO)
  ◘ Jorgeta (Canal Horaplay)
  ◘ Nilson (50tão Geek)
  ◘ André (Cruzada Geek)
  ◘ Carlos (GeekSP)
  ◘ Gustavo (Barba Movies)
  ◘ Airton (Filho do Elvis)
  
  ------------- 
  #jamesgunn #pacificador #spiderman
---
!! I'll have to go in to see the Elvis that he's changed because he's doing the live show. He's still changing, Elvis. I don't know what's wrong. You're listening to me, right? So my dear friends, starting here on a live show, the beginning of the live show, a very inclusive beginning for the community of the Sour Do Muda community, how do you say that? Exactly. But for them to feel included, we only needed a person here with the indigenous language, with the books to understand, but we're testing new models, new formats of the presentation to understand all the public, all kinds of people. And now it was, right? Now it was. So I'm going to say that. I don't know what happened. Let's talk about free ones here. Good night, I want to say heroines, nerds, thanks to the nerds, my dear Vagna, I've already arrived there, sending V, Tony, the guy from the chat, thank you very much, Perdão. What happens? My audio just enters the live, if Tony sees you live. It's because we're in the same studio, they forgot that we made a little switch here to put the two in different screens, but the audio is the same. Because the screen is different, different cameras, but the audio is the same. So in truth, your audio is coming out of Tony. That's the problem. Inside Tony. Look at him. Look at him. Look at him. I'm going to take the camera, while this, the, the brothers, the heroes will take the account of the live. Go. We are together, my dear welcome to the channel of the nerds, we are live on the channel of the channel of the channel, the Trash Commico, also on the channel of the nerds and also the nerds of the family. I'm coming already. I'm already here because the Omar of the nerds of the family is entering and the guys who are watching us the nerds of the limit, it's a lie to enter the live and just talk to me. Okay, there's a guy there who is wanting to talk about the seller and so on. And he's wanting to talk. He's going to be the advantage. You feel the guest, okay? The content creator there. The nerds of the limit. Today we're going to talk about the Muslim, the the 13 here. Yes, the number is already prepared. The numbers. The numbers and also we're going to talk about the pacifier and all your controversy with the Christians. So I have a new age here. James Gunn has a guy. He has a guy there. A follower of ours. There he is. He's big. Yes, he has a guy. James Gunn has a guy. Yes. He doesn't have a guy. He doesn't have a guy. He doesn't have a guy. He doesn't have a guy. What happens? I've already said once more than once in truth. This market that James Gunn is doing right now. I'm thinking a lot about him. You know, the beauty you put James Gunn right? All the Guardians of Galaxia and so on. Okay? Now, all the time the pacifier has a podcast, man. He's the leader. You know, he's also in the market. He came to Brazil with Rachel Brosner and Dave Corris Vagin. He went to London. He went to all the places. It seems he's very mega-lomaniac. He's not a CEO. He's not a CEO, he's the guy who wants to be there. Which director you saw that made a tournament of the same size. He wants to be the CEO. Exactly. He's a big guy. He's so big that he feels and reacts to his own style. He has this device. He's the rock star. He's traveling, doing the tournament. They give those interviews but they never are in front of the actors. Never. Usually, they're the actors who come from the movie or the movie, the productions are James Gunn. He's talking about Vagin who, a follower of ours, went there and James Gunn responded to him in a post. And the follower, this follower he translated and took the print and James Gunn paid the comment after he responded. Wow. He sent it to you. He sent it to me. I'm looking for you now. Is it true? Someone came to the comment. James Gunn said it was real, but I'm afraid it's like it was real for the analysis. The guy put the print and everything. So let me go down here and send you the received a little bit. The guy sent it. I'm reading it. Let me send it here. But we're going to talk now. We were not sure because we were talking about this news. Someone sent a print to read it to us to comment. But now we're going to talk about demons. But he responds. You know he responds a lot. On the ex, on Twitter. Yes, you know. Yes. I don't understand. I know that he is active in the social networks. I'm good at it. He answered a guy like that. He said, I'm going to ask you a question. He said, it's real. I know. I know. It's just a salve here. To Juliette who is here. Mano is not here with us. Disoccupied with the plant. We're also here. Then I'm asking you if you have news about the data in the comments we have. And then it goes. Man, today I don't know. I don't know if it will go into the audience. I think we'll talk about the basics for everyone to know that we continue working on the characters. I'm always receiving new pages. It's cool more. Everything inside the chronogram for the launch. Every time it's more open, right? The launch of the first-hand... The arrival. But that's it. Here in the store we have the campaign. The campaign is 24% and the prologue, as we have already said, is all ready. The end of the rafi is already ready. Send the prologue to the group. How do you send the three-minute number? No, they sent it. I'll send a... I'll send a script of another character that I wrote to you when you can. I'll send it. No one of the team has five players. I've already been sharing it with the team. I don't know because people have a lot of career. It's hard to tell. No, the 5th- I didn't read the script. The 5th- I didn't. But I'm looking for a good player. I'm looking for what I'm reading later. Why? Because you were very, very strong. You got it. You were the James Gavan. You were the James Gavan. You were the James Gavan. We're with the technical issue today. It's complicated. It's worse than... It's not possible to take the tone. If the tone is the alpha, it's changed. It's going to be a bad memory. It's a bad memory. It's a bad memory. Our opponent is with a problem, guys. He's very strong. And we're with the air conditioning that's running and nothing is going on. So the camera suffers. Take it first. There. Wait, guys. Well, while the technical issue is resolved, I'll talk a little with you from the chat. We were talking about the news about the comics. I have some new things I'm working on, I'm developing. I can't give much spoiler because the other news that we're with and we want to present to you and I'm going to offer some of the news of some things that I'm going to give to you. In these news, that's why I'm controlling the best. But the projects are going very well. In brief, on the channel Trajicómic will have a video more dedicated to talk about the first. I'll show you some things. I brought a spoiler here in a live show that I was drawing, guys. It's a reward to show it here. But it's really amazing. Now we're talking about the things that we're building. It's cool. I'm with Mattoss as you can see. There's someone who's also in the chat. It's impressive. Elves is also bad. I'm doing hours and I've been in São Paulo for a while. I'm back. I'm doing two weeks and I'm not going to record a music in this week's weekend. It's going to be a political music but it's hard. It's not going to be a big deal. We're back. Your voice is not 100%. You're back. I was talking about it. I was talking about it. What? I was talking about it. Before that. You said it was a question. You said it was a question. So, Aguero Dante is 50% able to support the value of the value. Let me see. He's 127% of Aguero Dante. I think he's asking about the way he's already in the middle. The last page that you didn't get the last page that Thiago entregues is 19% and the idea is that there are 40 pages of history. So, we got the most of the age of the page. So, here in this week's Wagner and the guys who want some updates. Tony, we're going to make a video of synopsis. We're going to present some characters the main characters and the people of Brazil have already known them. We're going to make a synopsis that is the character's ficha. The way he's able to have a team and a law in Brazil that rules in a state but in Brazil there's a law that rules the beings with superpowers. The beings that have the beings that have aura the beings with aura Tony is very in the age of the aura. You don't have a notion. All the time, the message is that the blue has a very long time to see him. Tony is very excited. Here in the water. There's a thing I thought to answer. I don't know if I can but I think it makes sense. Because the brand asked me not to send a superchete. So, another novelty. The Leonardo is officially the last month that the brand has been compared to bureaucratic. Everyone has to see a very strong artistic and artistic artistic is not bureaucratic. We don't like to deal with this part of the process. But we have to do what? We also need to be very impressive in this play. And then we're going through a very complicated process. And there's a more bureaucratic process of YouTube that you can talk about, talk about it, etc. You need to wait 32 days. So, during this month we're trying to solve this stop, change, but still, not yet. It will be solved and we will return normally with superchats. For today, you can send a superchete, Mark Tullio, to the channels, individualize. You won't be able to send a superchete to the channel of the league. But you can send a superchete to the others. So, you choose one. And send it there. Okay, guys? Jubilette is asking who is in this company. And I think we can start revealing the companies' sources of the company. Erosimais. Erosimais. Tradicomico. Omar, the family's net. I'm laughing if I was wrong. I think it's Gik. A little. Gigante Rich. And Wagner Thomas. And Wagner. So, you're a 7. 7 people, in the league. 7 is the number of the league. It's a number of the number of the number of the number of the number of the number of the numbers. These 7 channels are in this project. And this project is very important to a another project that also will be revealed in a very cool thing. This is TOP. This is TOP. This is top. And this is top. And this is top. And this is top. This is top. And this is top. This is top. No big deal. In a blog. Now we're going to talk about De muss Lem. But if you want to go in there. Keep going. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. If you want to go in there. We already have a few words. About the Nerdola Comics. Do not forget to I think it's already over 90% right? It's already over 90% Let's see We have a injustice here, we really forget the Griff But keep being on the 7th because Tony Elvis has a channel So, are 7 channels still? Sorry, Griff, sorry Gase, really Gase Tariy to remember us And this Griff really, sorry The Griff is a very emotional guy And he has helped a lot in the bass players The guy outside the series A lot of time But he's also being invited to solve some things To also participate more actively here in the live But in brief, you will see more constantly the presence of the Griff too And by talking about Griff, Nerdola, in the sauces and so on We have one more here We are getting to move forward and then to the good night How are you, my dear? Are you coming? Yes, we are coming We are coming up even more Until the top of the bass Let's go down here Let's go down the water We got to the water in our ears We got to the water And then we got to the live And then we got to the live with the water from above How is the water now? The water is better It's also low, I think it's going to increase a little more And now, it's really worth 120% I don't know why It's good I don't know how it is I'm going to be a little bit more expert It's great, it's great, Mark, how are you? I'm very grateful to the good parents The good parents The chat was already over I really like your videos And I think you are giving good night We are going to the test The degree of our audience When we saw this, you saw that, the person is very good But it's good, good night Good night, good night, noxics I just got there, I didn't see what you were doing We are going to the good night We revealed everything We also revealed the legal company The CNPJ To tell you what we are doing In the moment We are talking about our quadril We are talking about quadril You have already been in the hour When you were talking about your quadril The Omar did a presentation That My parents are my trans parents, and it's Tori and Elves. My parents are my parents. Because Omar is a lot of people, he says he started the channel because of the people. No, we think it's true, it's true, man. It's true, man. I was a big fan of Omar, but he said that he sent a email directly to you to do it in coverage. I'm this guy, but I was just from you, before starting the channel, because I just send a email. He doesn't do this, he does that. I did it. You're not a person who is indispensable now in pop culture. He's in the public debate, which for a long time was sequestrated only on one side, and they asked us to talk about it. Now we're doing our space here, that meme, right? It's a meme, right? It's a meme, right? Oh, you're a whistler, man, everything's fine. I'll go to the gym, and I'll go to the gym. It's going to happen here. It's going to happen here. We're going to be interesting, because we turned the refugged. We turned the bar and the niche of the business. No one wants to get with us, we just turned the internet. And now everyone wants to know. I'm putting the links there, just to finish our chat, I'm putting the links here, I put the first one in the chat, okay, I'll put the Inkebravo, which is 90%, 90% of the Inkebravo is sensational, guys. It's sensational, guys, just... It's coming out, it's coming out, Inkebravo. It's starting to pay, it's starting to pay. It's going to be a waste of money. Tony, so, my wife's asking if I'm in love, can I respond? Well... The tour will be a real life. We're going to give it to him. This guy is... That girl is your wife, is married, right? Yes, exactly. Thank you. I'll hug you with the chaperine. We also send the legacy that we have, 76%, guys, remembering that Wagner has opened, he's 127%, he has kept the company open, so he can get more and more of the second edition. Okay? So, we're inside the schedule here, December, Saturday, Inkebravo, in January, and the legacy. Also, Saturday, in February. Good morning, Jesus. Good morning, Jesus. God is good, it's a great day. Let's go, guys. Let's talk about the battery, just to update it, because it's being destroyed. It's very fast, because it's already been a week past, because Demon Slayer continues to break records and amplifying the previous records. So, the best of the absolute. Is the best of the movie of Capri, Wagner? Damn it. That... I don't even know much about you. If Bebeer doesn't like his movie, it's not his name, it's forgotten. It's Thomas Zahn. A battle between the two. That's it. This movie... Did you really watch this movie? You're really a player. They watch it. This movie cost 210 million dollars, and the movie is now worth this value. 122 million. Two finalists are already left. What's the second one? The second one is the first giga, Leuards Capri, won about 25 million. I'm going to do it for him. Look at that. Here, he has a total of 140 markets, according to the New York Times, the market has 70 million. That's it. He won't pay for it. He paid 25 million, he's still good, he's going to get more or less one of the 14, so he's crazy. I think it's my friend. Three of the other. Let's talk about the demo Slayer. It's not updated on the site, on the aggregators, not even on the numbers, or on the box office, but the battery, by the way, has already paid 700 million. Almost 800 million. Almost 800 million, man, is this movie worth 800 million? I want it. If it's already paid 800 million, is it still on the China? It seems to be. It's not on the China. It's 300 million dollars, it's not the minimum. Damn, man. We have Slayer hitting the billion. Oh, George, George. George. Hey. Hello, guys, beautiful. Good night. I think your audio is really good. Yeah, George. Really. Good night. So, do you think that it's coming with the launch in China? This movie really has potential to hit the billion, right? It's an impressive movie. It's an expectation. I didn't expect it. Now, George, I expected 700 million. And according to the strategy, the projections gave 700 million. Only 8. Or, I'm sorry. I'm 8. It's going to China. I'm 8. After tomorrow. So, damn, we can beat. In China, that's a Katom. It's going to beat 300 there, certainly. And they still do that, because there's the controversy of the Tangerine Blank, for example, because it has the image... It's an image that they say that it's a bit of that flag in the sky in Japan, which is a lot of the thing that's being made in China, because of all the wars that happened in Japan, made a lot of the money there by China using that flag. And then they don't like that symbol. And then they changed the symbol of the Tangerine Blank to not offend the Chinese public. What already shows there is interesting in this market, too. And that they use the Tangerine... They take the Tangerine from the Tangerine Blank. They take the Tangerine from the Tangerine Blank. They take the Tangerine from the Tangerine Blank. The Tangerine Blank is white, and some of the rings are used. I'm saying that we think that white color gives a little bit of a worse connotation. I don't want to talk about white color. The less the worst is when they leave the Tangerine black. That one is black. Exactly. But I want to talk about white color. That's just a quick question. We read it, it's very well known, out of Japan. It's true. But it's not that bad. It's not that bad. It was a success. It's a success. It understood... The reference. It understood the reference. It's just this. We're bringing the update to show the success. Because in the past week we were already impressed with the letter. Now it's even more impressive. Maybe this week we'll be even more impressed. Especially after the launch in China. We'll be following the letter of the demo and... And the demo is very cool. I'm afraid it's going to be cool. I watched it for a second time. I think the next two weeks after the launch, the season continues to roll. The session is still going on. The guys are cutting the mouth, it should be wonderful. Because everyone watched it, I saw it. The movie. The movie. The movie is always telling us that it has problems especially in the Tangerine Rative, but it's what we say. Where they get it, they get it to the face. It's linked. And wanting not, the good part of the guy who likes it too. And the guy who goes there for a visual project. He understands it. To have the good, good, well-designed for special effects from Instagram, understood? No, it's like that. It's very cool to see the making off of the photo there in the movie of the first or in the productions. They show that kind of design. Then they'll have 25 layers of effect. It's cool. But it's very good. I'm not criticizing. I wanted it to be true. The humor that came out, what Berzak has done for her. I'm going to be cool. I want to be cool. I want to be cool. I want to be cool. We... I think everyone wants that his favorite anime or anything has a certain kind of animation. It's awesome. The photo, it makes it play within a safe zone. But it doesn't bring a lot of experimentality that has a lot of anime. The only thing that will come out now is 25. It's the same thing that he believed. The first season of the series was very criticized by not having such an experimental effect and it was a bit of a delay from the author to the manga. The movie, by itself, already concerted this and will have a much more experimental effect. What is it? It's a shame that the characters are completely dislocated because of the speed. It's a very slow thing. But I'll talk about it later. The animation of Cheshire Men or the Wagner Concordra, I think it's great. It's very good. It's very good. It's incredible that it looks like the Chisholmai, which is short. It's great. It's great. It's great. It's great. It's great. It's a long time ago. I could have put it in. I love the search for the TTS. I found it very good. I have to see the Dada. The first season is decided in the character behind the protagonists' balls. It's very strong. I don't know if it's true. I think I like it. It's good. The animation is also good. But let's move on to the next stages. I think it's a bit late. It's less than a few minutes. We'll talk about it later. I'll talk about the pacificator. I think it's the great polemics of this episode. Why not? Because we'll be able to make a good block. Because we've been theorizing something, so far everything we were theorizing was confirmed. In fact, it was something but in this last episode I had a surprise that I didn't know it was a surprise. I was not expecting they would go through this path. I really didn't think they would do something like this. But the problems were seriously. This last episode had a few tweets and I'm sure it was worse than if they had made the obvious that if James Ganty made the same mistake. Because we were talking about it. For me it was clear that now that they showed that the world was in the past, they would show how that power was horrible and to show to show themselves to you this bad vision of the Bigodismo, they showed the countryside of concentration, the heavy things, the cruel things that were commented there. And not really all of this was just in the dialogues. In the end of the episodes they didn't show anything very shocking, nothing very heavy. They just put in dialogues. And then it was much worse. Because the dialogues were loaded of lacrosse like this, in a kind of patetic way. With, for example, I think the first lacrosse dialogue is when the debaillot, which was the black friend who was being persecuted, she was rescued, she was rescued by the Judas Master. And then, he, it is to tell that there was a reality where the Nazis had won the World War II. And then the first reaction of her Jesus Christ and Judas Master said, no, this is Adorno. This is the worst. This is the worst. Let's start with this. Mark, what do you have to say about this dialogue? Just a minute. Jojeda, can you pass on the screen something? What? Pass with trailers. Or just a little bit. Just to show if you have... Open the Twitter. Jojeda, this talk is about Twitter. It will have those images with the legend below. Put this on the screen to illustrate. And this is a very important thing. You can put it on the screen, Jojeda. I need to extract a news today, which is not today, but it appeared today more on Twitter. But it's about the teacher of the USP, right? Carlos Portugal Golfei. I did all of it with the theme. You can put it with your speech. And this guy who was in the United States? Is it the teacher? Carlos Portugal Golfei. You will find a lot of material there in the town's house, right? There are only the people who make news about it. But it's very funny how art can't imitate life. Even that, right? It was the opposite. Because we just had this case, the teacher, for those who don't know news, but the professor Carlos Portugal Golfei. He is a direct teacher in the USP. He is also invited to give an average to a guy who is a director of SG in some companies. He opened fire between the people because he got a gun gun, not a metal. It's a gun, it's not a metal gun, it's not metal. Let's say so. And opened fire against cars and people of a synagogue in Boston. Is it? Is it? Yes. That's it. That's one of the most popular periods of the day. One of the most sacred days for Jews. It's a period. And it's the worst part. This one seems normal from the left to the right. It's not from the left. It's even from that group who helped to SN in the perception of the guy who was in the US. No, no, that was the same. It was a agency that gave support. I remember. He gave support to these high-profile companies. It's a business. No, no, no, no. I remember. No, he's talking about those agencies of information that the guy has brought to fix. It's a con with something. I remember. I'll put it for you. But even the best part when he was going to the crime he said he was just kidding. He used a phrase that was used in the movie Bassizing Górios. Who read the art spillgaming that was for Ausch and Vitts. The Jews were treated as rats. Yes, it's because they were in the box. They were in the porons when the Germans sought the Jews. They were in the box. The Jews were rats and the Nazis were cats. They were in the box. They even were in the box. They describe the box with a box. I want to use this and there is no one pill in the press. He used the gun completely in the box. The galactic is a bigodism. This is not a bigodism. This is a U.S.P. who has tried in the United States. This is not the material. It's not all the jordan's capas in Brazil. He said what he said represents the person can say but it's what he said is what is for me more terrible. This is proof that this serious game is a very innocent. But wait, he disappeared against people. He was causing a problem. He went out with two security because he was in the middle of the ballad in his corner. He went up to security. He went home and started to take away. He went out with the cars. Then he went in and took away. He said he was taking away. He was taking away the car. He said he was in the middle of the ballad. He said he was in the middle of the ballad. He had been backstage." The conclusion was for not separate spots in the with exercise on the track on the left today. So I agree with her that it's not so different, but we know she wants to say that the extreme left, the right left, which is the track, but it's not. You've already pushed the other episode's lacrada, which I brought to talk about later, but the guy for me was even more idiot, because I understand what you're saying, that really the left is in this way of being a semi, and it's too much, and it's not even there. But think about the narrative of the series with the embassy. The debaillot is a black woman, which is officially married to another black woman, and has a leadership card, very important, within the American government, where her mother is, you know, the woman who sends and sends her in all directions, which is another black woman. So this is America, which is the white woman. Then the woman, this reality, for another, where she pushes herself to the street, and the people chase her to play in a concentration camp. And the conclusion of her is, maybe it's not so different from our reality when we would like. This is the fake dialogue, Vagra. This is the lacrador dialogue. What is the other thing? What is the other thing? Fake? What? Speak there, or not. You're the same dialogue. You remember that Judo Master, he was from the side of the Bourbon, to invade the planet Earth. Judo Master was from the Bourbon, he wanted to stay on the side of the religion, and he will criticize the authoritarian government, if he wanted to increase the authoritarian government. It's very different, man. It's very different. But still, with the environmental control of those Bourbon, the parasite is ending the nitro book. Exactly. Vagra, this is the fake dialogue. This already exists within Robert McKay, who is one of the gurus of the writer, says that the fake dialogue is when the characters say things that have nothing to do with their convictions. That is, they are saying things that the writers think. And this is lacrasson, pure and simple. Vagra just brought the contradiction of the D. Bayot, and now I'm bringing the contradiction of Judo Master. The guy, oh, they don't like the atheistic, neither the minority, nor the gay. Oh, nothing I'm talking about. Jesus, they like it. We sent you... Oh, my God, it's true, and this is the truth, man. You're not guilty, man. I'm not guilty. I'm not guilty. I'm not guilty. I'm not guilty. Basically, they spoke to all the letters. They all have the same minorities. The only thing they like is Jesus' religion. And all the religions. They all have the same minorities. They just like white and Jesus' religion. Man, and then... I did that post-class, like Bob Sponger, my God, how do I call it? You're asking me to stay thinking, you're using it today, right? It's basically, James Gunn, thinking of something new that, to be honest, the Nazis will be their villains. Very well, very well used by his part. And more, the Christians will also be the villains. Oh, all of this? No, and you don't know the best part. The Nazis are the Christians. But, what's the deal? How many days? And... I'm God, we're God, we're God. In the first, in the first, in the first, they're two great slaves in this dialogue. They're the Judo Master, and, as I was already saying, the contradiction of this character. He's a character that is there, he has two native functions, give this slave and save the devil to give it to the slave. Yes. You know who liked it, Alvis? You know who liked it? You don't see it on Twitter, I see it. The guy was a TV man, he said he had to have a drama to see this scene. It's true, we think about it. So, we still have to think about it. But, you know. No, we have to think about it. This is very ridiculous, because he criticized the white people. He criticized the Christians, he criticized the Americans, he said the American people are the same thing, and he criticized the beasts. And even if you were to think about the narrative, he didn't feel the Judo Master's sense to do this. Probably because he wanted to put a business and that he was also a Buddhist, because everyone believed, everyone imagined, by the previous episode, that they would put the vigilante to give the slave to save the devil. And it was a character that would make the most sense, because he really, since the first season, is built as a guy that I hate. Because he hated the guy's father, and he infiltrated the prison to beat the guy there, in the support of that cause. And his position, he has a connection, it's a counter-revolutionary. Exactly. So, it would make sense if it were him. But not to put a Judo Master that doesn't make sense to create more scenes of the beasts, but to be a clown. I mean, in the end, the father wasn't a Nazi, or to put the... The existence of the Judo Master, he doesn't make any sense. He's there, because he didn't even think about him, and it was replicated in the first season. So, if they didn't have to take the Judo Master to the X, it would have to be the Judo of the Earth. Because... But to be a clown, it would be another person. Yes, yes, it would be his position, the position here. It would be another person. It doesn't make sense to create a character. It doesn't make sense to anyone. And he still says, we killed the innocent monster in the pool. But there, it doesn't make sense. It's not a narrative of the episode, it makes sense. It shows how it's a game, oh my God, how this is terrible. It's not like he's a guy... On the side of the evil eye. It's not like this episode, as Omar said, it has to be inside the episode, because he's a guy, he's a guy who is a guy who is killing people in the pool. He's trying to kill people in the pool. You know what James said? I just told you, do you think James really wants to say that the Christians really... No, they're creating a certain way. He made it to create... And this scene, the whole thing is... The whole thing is... The whole thing is... The whole thing is more of a thing that really is getting more and more to the form of James Gun. Because this dialogue... This whole interaction with the Judo Master with the D. Bayou serve to create... And to make James Gun's joke, which then is his conversation about Rock band, talking about... And once again, everyone loves Rock bands different and like to talk about that. The Judo Master talking to the D. Bayou about this now. What are the bands? Here's the B. Bayou, the Judo This is really Deus Roger's R НА skull Android. Maybe there is something breastfed, probably it is slightlyapse. He played in thexeum of Michael Mushemble, but the two of us would stand up in front of the dead out there. What we want to say is... It's a relationship that offers James Gann conversing with him. There are two James Gann conversing about Rock Band. And any character, Lois Lane, talking with Clark, will be about this. Debaying with Judo Master, will be about this. Chris, talking with Harcot, will be about this. All characters have this fixation for Rock Band, talking about this and make allegories and references and analogies with this. And when they are doing this, they are playing a game with another idiot joke, because it's just a game that's different from this place. And simply stupid. We don't just accept all the plots, as we know that we doubt that James Gann could be even worse. I don't know if you remember our dialogue about this, that we started talking about. We can't believe it anymore. No, we were good. We said no. We can't tell him to cry so much. You remember well. You remember well. When it was announced, I think in our group, I said, we, James Gann was the worst choice that the Slavs could have done. Thank you. I even got to the ball of the ball. But then when we started to see, in fact, the scenes of Superman, the empty roteurs, then I went to that cinema box and started to pass everything that was empty. In the screen it was like, no, it's possible that everything was right, guys. No, there's no way, man. This is a bad plastic. No, but, Jorge, if there was a protective zone, if you didn't have a hole in the chest, you wouldn't have a big hole in the chest. You wouldn't have a big hole in the chest. It's not like Superman. It's not like Superman. This is the fact that the father of the Superman was bad. So this is a bad thing. In the cinema, James Gann had to hold it. He had to hold it. But that's a great thing. This is not a novelty. Because James Gann, in the cinema, he holds it and in the series, from the pacifier to the writing command, he jumps more to cry. So when he's in the series, what? The problem is that you realize that he wanted to cry with a more and more taste. He's a little bit more secure, just because he understood the size of the thing that he had in his hands. But he's getting a problem. The biggest problem was that the guys had given a giant power to this guy, who was a pacifier. If this guy had nothing to do with Superman, it was a series that was finished now, the security of the device, or whatever it had to be, but it was just to have fun, a comedy, etc. There was no problem, guys. We were worried about this now. The problem is the DCU. This is totally linked to the DCU. This is a great problem. And now... No, no. Just... The author said that on Instagram. He said that... The X-ray is not Superman. That's not a guy. That's not Superman's universe. It's a guy. It's a guy. It's a guy. What a horrible thing. What a horrible guy. The guy can't even have a text. Let's go. The James Gunn responded. A follower. That's the bomb. Because a lot of people say that James Gunn has just made a joke. And he doesn't have the thought of the Nazis being Christians and having a relationship with Christophe. The Jiu Jitsu is there. He sent you the print. It's a print, Jiu Jitsu. We'll show it to the guys. We'll see. They sent it to Tony this print. We don't know if it's a sign. But it looks very real. It looks very real. The James Gunn responds to people. It's not something extraordinary. The James Gunn responds to someone. He responds to everyone. He's on Instagram. You can... You can be a follower. Original? You have an original? No, no. You can't be a follower. No, no. You can't be a follower. No, no. It's fine. 15 minutes is all right. 15 minutes, a like. You think it's funny to say that the Nazis are the Jews. These types of offenses and rotals that you put in people who open space to psychopaths, extremists as they have atrocities against people innocent. And there's the Brazilian flag. The answer is, you see the original, the Copatilha Trades, the four answers, the man has. And then James Gunn responded to the nine minutes. What is a little more crazy is to occupy our TV program for atrocities. It's just historically necessary that the majority of the Germans in the Second World War were in Christian. Man, what a risk. All of the prisoners... James Gunn is the level of the channelism, right? First, the subject is not being guilty. He's not being guilty to the series. He's speaking about the rotals. But I just wanted to scare these hypothesis. First, you have to stop it, go inside the German. You know that there were no atrocities that were happening on the Third Reich. So much so that when the Americans get there, they make movies and salas to show the scenes of the local for people to be terrorized. Second, the party, you know, they're linked to the party, he got this and filtered all the religious views of the country, including the part of the church. There's a very good movie from the Andrew Sturgeon, which contains the story of Bonofer. I think that's our sacred name, which is that guy who criticized and made a very famous stop at the time of the Second World War. And he speaks very well. But all this matter of persecution that makes no sense, you have to put the beggar and the Christianism being on the side, from the moment that the five first books of a thing called the sacred Bible are the same books of the Torah. You understand? And most of the gospel are written by the Jews. It makes no sense. And another thing is that people forget that the good part of the religious of the beggarism is the cultist. You understand? It's pagan. It's pagan. It's not a life on the way. It's an obvious thing. Imagine the superiority of the white aleymon. Yes, and imagine that they would pray to God, the Jews. The Jews? Exactly. And being that the racial issue was important for Hitler, because he defended his science, to justify everything he did. Exactly. So, there's no logic, but that's it. I don't know. Totally, James Gann, how did they do that? He responded to this in Portuguese. I don't know if we can write. When you respond, you can translate. And then you translate. Ah, so, it's the original. He changed. He translated. And this is the truth. When he says, it's just historically that most of the aleymons in the Holy Spirit were in Christ. He is so... He is so... He escorted. Here, he left this so big answer. Most of the aleymons in that time were Christians. But he isn't saying that most were in the Christian. Yes, he didn't say that. You understand? Yes, I understand. But there's one thing that some Christians were persecuted by the Nazi regime. For example, the Muslim people. Ah, and the Jew? No, it's not true. The Pope of Egypt was in the Christian world. And the Jews were... The Pope did this. The Jews were... The Pope did this. The Pope did this. The Pope did this. Now, if he didn't say anything, why did he pay? Tony, but... Exactly. He left the Pope. He was a fool in what he said. So much so that you can say, no, the Jews didn't say that all the Christian were Nazis. But he also told... that the Jews... That the Jews were... Exactly. All the aleymons were Nazis. All the bigots were Christians. Yes. Well, the Christian did a very interesting question. Now, stopping by the memorial, I don't remember. He killed the Jews in the list of persecuted groups. I think so. No. If Paile didn't kill the Jews, the bigots didn't kill the Jews. The bigots. The bigots. What? Show it to the people. Well, it's part of being a fiction. And the bigots... The bigots of the left. The bigots of the left. People. They only killed the blacks. Yeah. Basically that. And there's another sacred and diolta, because he still sustains the argument that that land is perfect. The costs of the slavery that happens in the concentration camps. Because the dialogue says something like, they use these camps of concentration, the training camps, basically, to susten your life style. And the bigots. And the bigots. People. No, and I'm... It's a matter of... It's more a problem with the man. Here I'm talking about our guy, who came in the videos saying that we're exaggerating. You're making us feel... That guy... I said that in our live, when we analyzed the episode Wagner, a dystopia needs to be seen more than that world is different from the normal world to the common world. But you're... You're a Muslim, you're a Muslim. And you're a Muslim, you're a Muslim. Or any... Any authoritarian world. The people won't have that little girl, they won't have a widow, they won't have capitalism, they won't have that land, they won't have peace, they won't have... I don't know, for elite, who dominates the rest, man. Everyone lives in the middle. When the pass is placed in that world, you could put the key and the pay of the pass is placed in the world, because they're heroes. But when they left the tree, when they went to some place to show the signs, but not the James Gammes, you're not seeing Michael there, and this screen is... Wow, really? It's like... It's like... You're a fool, you're going to get it, but there was a joke with the bourgeoisie of the pass who is a protagonist. But it's not actively... It's not actively... It's poor, because it's not the sign, for people, for people to enter this world, for having a really interesting debate. And many of you who are saying, oh, but this is a comedy series, my dear ones, and this is a... I'm a hero, fantasy, and then comedy. Yes. And what Tone said, if he didn't have in DCU, if he didn't have connections with Superman, we wouldn't have here in general. But you... And then, because there was a connection, but the point I wanted to bring to the other, was that this argument of the field of forced labor would sustain an utopia in the end of the contazels, which he represents there, is an argument also in Bessil, since he's wanting to talk about things that are historically needed. As Christian said, it didn't work in Soviet Union. Well, he's still, still passing this idea, that really... So if you create a country with the costs of this forced labor, you can create an utopia where everyone lives wonderfully well, because the others are working there in these fields that we just saw. What is an imbecile? Cora do not, you know? Cora do not, Wagner, now it's happening. Yes, Cora do not. Exactly. So, in addition, he still creates regimes with the economy, the bizarre, which only works in the entertainment industry. But at least, not even that idea of the high of the forest, showing that the only functional society was a common one. Right? And here, just in the fiction. Yes, no, still, there's still a fact... We're still talking about the image of the first season. You're still in the same world. There's still a set of the first here. There's still the fact that it's a vision of Nazism, of the world, completely the left too, because the fact that they do not have perceived and, again, they have created the perfect world about the human being of Nazism, shows much more that the left is concerned with the apes of the symbols of the castles of what really was practiced. Exactly. The human things that were practiced in Nazism, you understand? So, it's clear. But then, it's clear for everyone, for us here, and for everyone in the chat, that James Ganon did not make a joke at all. What is it? No, he's laughing because of the... But that's not... No, there's no shadow of discussion about that. Oh, no, that's just the love of the resist. There's a vague, right? The guys are saying that it's a joke. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Calm down, calm down. The guys are saying that these scenes are taking place. To talk about James Ganon being a genius here, that's really the truth. America is really a nazist. The Christians are really a nazist. The white ones are really a princess. That's what the guys are saying. The guy on the side of our side is saying that it's a joke and we're exaggerating. That's because we're talking about... It's a little more good, right? That's why. No, no, no, no. It's a love of God. You should have made some videos about this, and then they read in the comments that the guy is saying, no, you're exaggerating. No, a love of God. There's no such thing. It's the same thing. It's the same thing. The guy was denying the song that was written in the movie of the Barbie. There's a level that doesn't have anything to discuss. If the guy believes that Barbie doesn't cry, there's nothing to talk about. Sorry, I don't care if it's the right or wrong. I'm sorry. The guy's screaming with the guys, you're so wanted to know more about the movie than me. Because I'm talking about feminism. You're talking about feminism. You're talking about feminism. It's about the funny thing. It's what I'm talking about. It's like, we're analyzing the St.D.P. from Santinel and then our guys say that we're not being biased. It's not biased, guys. Exactly. It's not biased. It's not. The biased is disfac, it's disfac, it's disfac. The biased is a discussion. The biased is the discussion. The biased part of irony. The worst part of irony. The worst part of irony. The worst part of irony. It's extremely obvious. It's obvious. It's obvious. Every punchline of this guy. No, it's a Christian, it's a different one. Let me send one person away. Let me send one person away. If you don't forget here, there was another guy, who was very scared, who is the time they say about the death of 15 policemen. They deserve it. As if they say that the policemen of this land are not so good. Maybe we shouldn't have the police's death. They're not innocent. They say that. It's the father. The father of Chris, at the time of the revelation, at the time of the revelation that in this universe, his father was not a bigotist. He says, He will kill all the policemen innocent. You killed a bunch of policemen in this town. This is something that the policemen are not innocent. It's very difficult. Most people know that they're lying. The policemen are normal. They're authoritarian. They get to his door. I'll talk to the police. I'll talk to the police. Ok? The regime. Ok? The UNDREA said, you want to make a joke? Because all the police didn't have a bigotin. Well, it's... It was a joke, Paul. I remember that. They could have left. This scene, the stop of them not being in the environment, is because they are also looking for a celebrity in that world. The big hero in that world, then they understand that they have a lot of respect for that authority there. But still, man, it's very... It's all extremely forced. It's clearly to pass a message above anything else. We're talking about the characters. They were discharacterized to the character. The characters that Jim got basically created. Because they are all very different. All the other characters are from the same generation. So he created these characters and he himself discharacterized the characters he created to fit into this critical social photo he decided to do there. All the Harkerts that had no concern with the minority and, suddenly, he turned to the white, the white, the white, the Judo Master, who was the favor of finishing a book and a book of all his universe. All his planet. All his planet. Now he turned a guy who is against authoritarian regimes. He destroyed that he lived in America where he is a black woman, lesbian, officially known as a black mother who has a bizarre personality and then she says that she is the same thing where she can't stand on the street because she will stop at the concentration camp. It's the same for her. All the characters are discharacterized. They have no sense of their counterpart. Because the objective of James Gun is to pass the message. It's to show that the white, white, and the black woman is a nazist. And it's the most annoying criticism of all. Because he turned to the enemy. Everyone I don't like nazists. This is James Gun's criticism. He likes to put humor in his works. He makes all that sense, he sees it from the sarcasm of him and to say no, right? It's very nice. Wagner, thank you very much. Omar, George, thank you very much. You're just seeing humor, no sense that love, that's it, there's no problem. Gusto, don't be a joke. You can love all the pantilines of these stones. You can't follow the pattern. And it's the guy. You can't follow the pattern. You can't follow the pattern. Now Elves should follow the pattern. The eagle, killing everyone, the eagle, killing everyone. You can like it. The eagle is not the character of the series. It's not that we're criticizing. I like the eagle. Yes, there are things in the jokes that I like too. I want to criticize this. I want to criticize this. I like the eagle. I will never criticize this. I will never come to say a few things. You can't like it. I like to glean. No, so you know that worst of them is to think that they are brilliant. I see. I'm a fan of no one's taste. You can like it. You can like it. No one else. So you think that in the left you have something worse. When I see, for example, here I do the right analogy. When I see, I do the video tomorrow of the ocean. When I see, she sings the oil in the falsetto of that kind. And the girl is just applauding because she is a militant. She was one of the most proud scenes of the music. Exactly. They have someone applauding the medium-criticism they do. That's why James Gunn is like that. In his head he is like that. He is an amazing guy. He is the visionary James Gunn, the director of the Galaxy. He is a great talent. He is a great talent to dedicate 40 minutes about what he has done. He is an amazing head of James Gunn to make this episode. Wow. The first edition of the show. Who is the protagonist of this series? Hardcore and... He is a great leader. He is a great character. He is a great character. But he is the hero of the guy. He is an evolution. He is a shoran. He is nothing. He is the one who took James Gunn and he got one more. And the hero of the guy... I'm sorry. If I am demanding with a genius. If I am demanding with a superhero series. I want the hero of a superhero. I'm sorry. I even talked about our recent. The vigilante is an imbecile. He is not a heroic. He is not a heroic who brings a spy. A heroic who brings a spy is the chap. He is a shiver. He falls. The vigilante is an imbecile. But who is not imbecile? Who is not imbecile?容易. Only female actors. He is said in the program. He is barked. The girl who is a single. You might say that, No you cannot. You're a wild boar. You haven't said anything. You are executed, right? You may say you have gusto. 1. He is a pure lie that it never takes place. the only scene of the vigilance of action he killed his father, no, he didn't exist. He killed his father, which is precisely the punchline. It's what the punchline said. The guy arrived, he even said, when he was in front of Jesus, you were in your gang, everyone was like, man, the guy is good, the guy wants to kill, even the passer-finger was bad in this, in this T-RX. And the punchline for everyone in the river was the vigilance, killing the guy with several, wow, you laugh too much, my dear, what an amazing person you are, my God, what a great guy, great, I'm sorry, but this is very, it's very bad, no, there's no point, man. I say to the right guy, let's try to take a little the professional vision above these productions, because unfortunately, a lot of people suffer from this kind of hunger, because of the Fieroppimisinal, I mean, no, but the passer-finger, man, that's weird, no, I have to watch because I have to be inside here, okay? I have to know here, at the moment, because otherwise, I'm not a real nerd, oh, by the way, God, it's okay, if you're a bad guy, it's all, man, there are all the indicators that this bad guy is, you know, and if you liked it, there's no problem, there's no problem, everyone has a right to like, to like shit, or here, Elvis likes to go, understand, the love of so many Americans I can't remember one thing, that's a good one, but he loves it. I think about this question, I like it, sincerely, I think the passer-finger, he is a good bastard, especially for the days, because, as the comedy, she was killed by the legend Woke, you don't have so much, even though superheroes, they replaced the comedy genre, because I had a little joke, I had the whole time in the movies, but if I didn't have a better one, even like C.B.B. I don't think it was the last big, phenomenon of this genre. So, James Gray is good at doing it, if you're just on the, on the, on the, on the, on the, on the, just like, on the, on the, on the, no, my stop here is really in love with a bestie, like a, like a whole, a whole, a whole day, it's, it's the same thing that I say about Thor, the love of Trovão. I, I, I say this because I like, I like the bestie, I like the parody, I like the movie of the movie, I think if, if, if, if, if, if these works are created in this way, as a bastard, as a parody, as something completely nothing to see. Not as a work that makes part of a serious shared universe, eh, by the, by the worst, by the worst, by the worst, you can be funny. The worst, the worst of Thor, there, speaking, to, to one of, one of the guardians, there that, no, but so to, for, for the, for you to die at battle, maybe your arm is still involved, to steal the TV, because she survived the arm. That was good for me, so there were good movies in this series. And I understand the person who sees the CL, the movie's assistant, and she just likes the funny and funny part of the movie, like a comedy, a star, a doll, and fun with it. Because there are good movies and because it's fun. I think especially when it comes to new things, it's fun to laugh a lot more about production. But to the end of this, if you stop, analyze the question of the script, the depth, the construction of the characters, and especially you understand that this is part of a series shared, and it's not a whole universe, a whole movie, a whole story. And then the production is extremely problematic, and this is the point. And also to the end of this, you have to be able to realize that even if you are thinking of all this very funny, there is a very clear intention to spend a lot of time, to spend political messages, to fight, to villainize, to stigma. And a very nice channel, because then the guys keep saying, why do you do so much when the actors represent the villains? Like villains. Because you're talking about us. Because for the gay men, the actors are not the guys. It's sad. Because it's obvious that he's talking about that we are the actors. That's what it's like. It's not something like that. It's not something like that. They never get it. Now they can't bring it anymore. That's like a anonymity. They have to be on one side. They have to be on the other side. On the left to distance themselves. To not seem like they are talking about them, even if they are on the larger screen. In the meantime, they are. You know where I believe in James Gun? I'm going to talk about where I believe in him. I would like you to talk to him as well, where you believe in him. I would be interested to hear from you too. I think we have James Gun, the third film of the Gordion of the Galactic. I was also hooked. It's okay, I'm sure. That film is a good superhero film. Yes. That film. That scene at the end. All the construction there of Rocket. All the villains. The villain is very good. That is what you picked me. Now. Now. After Superman, I don't believe more than James Gun, we won. I'm sorry. And this series, after he canonized this series as a song for Superman 2, as Superman, you have to watch this first Superman. And you are obliged to this guy, for me, it was the prequel. So, on the second episode of the last episode, now? From the first one. No, now, it will be the last episode. The Lex Luthor will be the one. He will run. From this one, it will be the winner for the man of the morning. Or the Brenner, who also appears. These two winners. I think the first one appears. But the Brenner and Lex Luthor will have more participation. So, I don't like James. I never liked him. I never. I've never been to him. But I don't like any Galactic Guardians with the third film. And I said, it may be that he really makes a good job there. And so, let's see, Superman is cool. I liked the trailers, I liked the Casting. OK, but I didn't like the movie so much. I don't think the movie is a good movie. There are many problems. But it's not Superman that I would like it to be. We've already battled here for 10 hours, and so on. So, I saw him on the side. But it was there. Where was it? Where was it? Romaki, you were caught by James Gun. Oh, man. I like James Gun. He does time, look. I don't think he has a good story. I don't like the way he did. I think he was already getting a little more infantile. But I like it since Superman. I like it since Superman, I like the leader of the Avengers series. I like the three Guardians. Maybe the two Guardians, I don't like it. I don't like it so much. I don't like it, but I still think it's time. I think we should have the perspective of what we did. This aggression will be back there. You know well, I knew he was always like this. I don't give a damn about that. Because even the Guardians of the Galaxy A1 are politically incorrect. Almost always. You don't have a joke about the Guardians of the Galaxy A1. They're good, I think. They're good. Now, this is the face of James Gun militant. There's no comparison. We can't... We're getting the faces of the best directors of Hollywood. James Gun is one of the most beautiful directors that I'm convinced of. You guys are talking about Paul Thomas Anderson, the film of Leonardo DiCaprio. The guy did it. How is a black guy doing a movie like this? How do you explain this to me? It's good to get Steve Inspiubre now to do this. The Mariela in Brazil now doing everything. You got it? It doesn't make sense, man. It's actually the culture or the predatory with everyone. Because it's destroyed by the human being. And James Gun is this sense of the victim because he is a idiot. I want to get 15 million by the superman. The idiot is so beautiful. He's humorous, he's with money on the board. He's not being able to get it. He's doing the Nazis' legalization with Cristal. He's not being able to get it. You're with money, right? You think it's the same. The Deadpool didn't make a joke, Tony. The Deadpool didn't make a joke at the end of the Deadpool 2. He came back to the time to kill the BB Hitler. It wasn't good. Not everyone was laughable. Tell me the truth. It was good, wasn't it? It was wonderful. Because it's a bad anime. You use the Nazis as an album. It's bad for everyone. We'll let you guys say something. The Deadpool gives an album. Yes, until the last woman. Until the last woman doesn't even say anything. The last one takes my opinion. All James Gun wants to do and do much better. But why? The focus is the other, right? So, you have to get the message. So, this is the question. Or you are the bestie or the guy who is talking about the message. You can't do the same. Because the message is the one who is the bestie. The message is for those who take the message. You can't take the message. No, if you take the message. The guy is going to have to look at the question. James Gun is not making a joke. Tony asked, what is James doing? We all agree that he is not making a joke. He is not making a joke. It's the message. But seriously. And even if you understand that he is making a comic form. He is making a thing that doesn't have anything to do. Because we can take the example of the Sentinel. It's a very militant guy who doesn't really try to be funny. But you can use it. You can pass a message through a joke. It's the same thing as the memory of the Romeran's novel. But the Romeran fight is making a joke. Yes, but it's a joke that passes through a message. It's a joke that shows that the Romeran is a joke. And my God, we have to end with weapons and create logistic clubs. Because it's the best way to get the message. It's a joke. It's a joke. It's a joke. It's a joke. That's the question. I don't know. I don't know. I think it's a joke. Imagine the Deadpool in the past. The speech comes there. But our world is not so different. The Deadpool and the two are losing in the same way. They put the stones in the past. Our Kichata. Someone takes it from here. Exactly. The Batman's wall. The Batman's wall of the blue bird. It's altered to the meaning of the James Gunn's house. Because it's a joke. We were attacked because we didn't understand what was a joke. It wasn't a joke. That's why we're calling it that phrase. It wasn't funny. It was never just jokes. This is the point that has to be this beautiful. This is a question that transcends the artistic part. I already had many people who take... There are youtubers. The guy who... The guy who makes the Deadpool, who likes to be sarcastic, ironic, etc. And they come back to these guys and say a serious thing. And sometimes they give them a joke. Or make a critic and a joke about anything. And then all the public will say, wow, he's taking the seriously. Oh my God, he's... He doesn't understand that everything is sarcastic, etc. He just becomes a shield. And this is a point. The worst can't be a shield so that you can't criticise the message that is behind that. The guy can be sarcastic, he can be ironic, he can be humorous, he can be... Sometimes he's being serious. Sometimes he has the intention to pass the message behind that. And the left has already left, of course, sometimes, sometimes. They think that humor has a social function above the comic function. So humor needs to criticise the real meaning. It's an example we're seeing here. He went to that debate about... Criminalizing the jokes. And the other humorist from the left, who was fighting with him, said that the joke... I think the Sentinel already said that. And several humorists already said that. The joke is just funny when it's above the bottom. When the oppressor... When the oppressed doesn't oppress... If you're a scaredy... I think so. That's already a scaredy. But that's what they leave clear to this. They understand that the joke has a critic function that needs to be made of the minority, the oppressed, the majority or the oppressor. And that's pure suck of the capitalism. The construction of the Cold War, the Marxist War, the whole group. Exactly. They use a joke for that. And you say, you can't criticise it. You can't point it out here. It's just a way of betraying both of them. How much is another joke? Because it's a joke. Because humor. Because it's sarcasm. Because that shitpost. Because that's what... That's a joke. That's a joke. You don't realize the intention behind the joke. You can be a scaredy. And you can even be very funny. And even a social critic. An objective of betraying, of passing a agenda. Of moving the ring of the yogurt. That's all that. And it's obvious that this is the tension of James Gunn. In all these jokes, in all the productions he made for television. And of course, of these humorists. Yes. The militants we see. Do you know what he does? He's scared. He's very good with a message. Jordan... Jordan... Jordan Pio. Jordan Pio. Jordan Pio. Jordan Pio, who made a run. He makes many jokes. And many of them, with a bad message. That he's looking for, for example, I saw these days, a episode there in the center. Speaking of that, the song is... It's a bigot of this. You say he makes a double with another comedian. Exactly. Who or something. It's very funny, but it's a song that's very funny. Let's go. This is the question of Piada. I remember the whole episode. All of the world, Chris, he's linked with Leo Lins. Which is what Leo Lins says. The humor is the fascist. A person who runs for free, who says he can super the owners, the poor and the insurance, and now he's free to make a joke of that. Everyone, Chris, were all the episodes of racist, had drunk with this dog, and they were drunk extremely good, because they were drunk, and reflected a super-ass situation. Look, guys, in the 80s, this happened here, right? But now we look back. And we're super on this. We're in a stadium, and now we're making funny things. The person who is militant, does not make Piada drunk. They don't make language figures. You get to a tree, and you get to a irony, they won't understand. That's why when someone makes a joke, they'll start to make a joke, and they're talking to people. No pro-nome they do. If you get there, what does pro-nome mean? I think they won't explain. And Lude. They won't say pro-nome. That's what people identify. That's the big point. What is your comment? You have a video of Chris Rock. I've been involved in Chris Rock. He's involved because of the world of the world. And Chris Rock is doing two hours of the show. He's just using white. And it's good for the guy. It's good for the guy. It's good for the guy. I'm not a joke. It's the same. I'm not a joke. I was taught by my parents that we shouldn't fight in front of the white. You're a joke. You're a joke. But you see the difference. It's not that victimist to understand. You can understand clearly. Because Chris Rock is the same guy who only have women, dogs, children, and kids are unconditionally loved. So he has many kisses. You know that his story is really just funny. And even when he's going to pass a criticism, it's a universal thing. It's not a part of the area. It's a different militant. But the Thomas is talking about the comments. Sometimes we just have a fix to have fun. Sometimes the worst is done for the river. Sometimes they're theorized with a conspiracy that are not based on anything. But then you see the story. Sometimes it can be. Only a worst, only with intention to make river. Now when the guy consistently always puts a critical social of the left extreme, a critical, clearly the oak, where the worst are always to pass this vision to the public. You've noticed that the extreme is right. It's nazists, the Christians are nazists, the white are supremacists. The American is practically the same thing in Germany, during World War II. You don't have to be a genius to get a magic. And when we talk about the context of Hollywood, where we're in the last decade of the whole, using all kinds of art, because the death is also a type of art. What is the creation? Basically, the creation, the entertainment, the art, the media, to pass a magic of the left, to move the work of the work, to make the left appear always a reasonable, tolerant, normal, natural, and be rejected in our society. They do this through the newspapers, newspapers, novels, films, and through the death. The death is just one way of art that was instrumentalized to do this. And it's what James Gunn is doing here, in these works, and all these other commoners, militants, that they don't even have to do the laugh. It's not just to laugh. Maybe they even can use this effect to make a different worst, to have one or another. But the primordial intention is to pass a message. And the left, which is so much, some breaks, that sincerely, when James Gunn simply proposes to do this new season of Pacificador, whether it's about nazism, with this border he wants, he already knows perfectly what he's doing there. There's no more, like if you're just a series about a historical and controversial question. No, he's using one more time with a break, and all these things that these people do end up breaking up, taking the weight of the nazism was really in the end. Exactly. That's it. The banalization. The banalization. It's a vague, it was coming to say to us that James Gunn was interpreting the terror ex. He's been... He's been... He's been... He's been... He's been... He's been... He's been... He's been... He's been fighting against the territorial regime. He's been the heroic archer, he's been the sacrifice. He's been the demonstration of the entire regime, the entire authoritarian regime, the constitution, the genocide, and everything that's been done is not done by God's love. We don't... The Pope said to me, it's you who's extremely innocent. You're seeing just the positive points of what you like. I love the hero, the hero, the hero, the hero, the hero, the hero, the hero, the hero, the hero, the hero, the hero, the hero. I don't want to be a little bit like Nerdolas, which comes from the whole land. I don't want to be a leftist extremist who wants to live in everything. It's a huge change. It's a huge change. I think it's worse, but I understand what you mean. It's a problem. I think it's always going to be a personal thing. I'm not saying you're a rapper. I'm not saying you're saying that this type of moderate, criticize us directly. But not criticize the other. But not criticize us. If you see on my screen, you know that it's a crime, that it's going to be a consequence of your case. It's not my screen or my soul. And then I'll say that again, I like it. I don't have a problem with someone's taste. But guys, my screen, when you do an analysis, from the pastor, who is a great example here, but the lesson was the same thing. They shot all the rest of the podium. And when they talk about how your episode was the best thing in the world, it's such a superficial thing that this type of analysis I made, because I can't understand. When the guy says that the scene of this episode 7, from the pastor, it was one of the best scenes of action he saw. And he's not being honest. He's doing what he's doing. What is the scene of action? He's taking you straight away from home. He's taking you from the point of view. He's taking you from the point of view. So what happens? The guy likes to say, there's a scene of action. Now he says that it's a wonderful scene of action. And he says that the vigilante is a good character. Here is no more taste, guys. Here is no more taste. There's no more taste. A noble man has to be a public. I like the character of the character. So, you see, he's a good character. But at some point, the character has to be a good character. Because James Gandhi says that. The guy says that the character will make sense at some point. He didn't transform the vigilante into a idiot. If you were a idiot, I would agree with Wagner. I also like the vigilante as an idiot. But he has to be a good character. I like him as an idiot. For me, the political invasion for the characters was not just a idiot. It was an idiot who wanted to pass the message to the police. But he's a bad guy. He's a good guy. He's the vigilante. I don't have it. I don't have it. I don't have it. But it's good. But it's good. It's good. I like him. For me, the vigilante is just the character of the idiot, the comic of a humor series. He doesn't need to be an idiot. He doesn't need to be an idiot. It's like... It's like... It's more or less... It's more or less... It's more or less like you say... That the character, the funny friend of Scott Lange, is the guy's friend. He's the only one who tells me the story. He's the only one who tells me the story. But he doesn't have it. He doesn't have it. He's the comic of a humor series. I don't expect him to have it. If he starts to finish the story of the same guy, just make a little joke about him, making the movie have a grace for me. But it's good. But it's good. The first one, for the second season, we have two vigilantes. One that's a grace. The other one that has it. Absolutely grace. The second one is a joke. I agree with you at this point. But this is a question that is relevant. It's just a joke of the same thing. Because it's the story of the best hero. I think he doesn't have a lot of stuff. Because everyone is funny. I even agree with Diego Wagner. If for the case, for example, this time or the pastor, he would have to be more dramatic. He's not... He's a hero. He's a hero. He's a hero. Exactly. It's never been a proposal. This is a mistake. I think you analyze the series because something that he doesn't propose to be... No, no, no. It's not. No, you decide to rotate. It's not a decision. What is his arch? Why did he go to the temple? Because he wanted to find a hero. He wanted to be a hero and didn't manage to get the justice gang. And the only thing he got was the hardcore. And then he didn't want to. So, what is his intention to be a hero? Because he is a hero in the temple. He is a hero in the temple. So, you are a dramatic hero. So, the series is that proposal is a fact. It's not a mistake. No, but it's the same. But from the beginning, it proposes a dramatic comedy. So, at least, it's a series of comedy. You can't say that it's not. It's a drama. You can't say that a drama is a drama that proposes to be a drama. It's a comedy. So, James played this game. I think that's what I'm saying. So, that's what I'm saying. The way he is, but the合er has no evolution. He continues to be a complete idiot. And then he is the same as the giant. That's what I'm saying. He passed a stone. He passed a stone in the league of games. He passed a stone in the Superman. Superman in the beginning of the episode. He passed a stone in the beginning of the series. He passed a stone in the Superman. Look at the Atari. I saved the world. So, James Ganna evolved the character and committed the mistake that Marvel commits in the Omerendo to Holland. The Omerendo goes forward and then goes back. Because he can't have evolution. So, my problem is that Marvel writes in the movie that you write in the movie. When you make a wall, when you make a group, all the plot is learned about that. The characters have different things. Exactly. The different functions. Exactly. For you to have a debate, for you to have exactly what you said. Well, the Fulano and the character are different. But it depends on the... I understand what you're saying. But in comedy, especially when you go to the Besteron, you get a American Pie. The characters have some differences, but you can say that the Ameri is only a lack of a drop. Like a drop of drop. But they can't start with a drop. But they can't start with a drop. We can't start with a drop. I didn't finish the argument. There are differences. But there are similarities in the sense that all are drop. How do you say that the two are the same? It's the same. It's so strong. How do you say that the Schifler is the same? The other protagonist is the same. It's the same. It's the same. It would be the same at the point they can't reach the death. They're all the same. They're all the same. They're all the same. I think that's what happened. But about the arco-dramatic question. It's obvious. It was a very cliché arc. So much that we got to kill all the characters of the second season. What happens? What is the drama and the evolution of the pacifist? He wants to be a hero. He feels rejected. In that world he's not seen as a hero and not taken seriously by anyone. He finds a wonderful land where people respect him. He can be a hero. In reality, the drama is to realize that this paradise he's idealizing is not the solution. That there's also important issues. It's a shit. And with that process he'll understand the function of his world. He'll start to value the world. If a cliché that was already made in so many stories. It's a classic drama. In romantic comedy. You're in a relationship. Then you go through a whole bunch of things, wanting to re-discover the world. You'll be back in the end. You'll realize that your relationship was good. You had to re-enact your wife. You had to value what you had previously. This is the dramatic arc. This is the evolution of the character. It's the narrative that's being told and it's still here. And it's certainly the same as the one from the past. It's normal. Here is the Russian confegion of narrative and character. Nothing of the kind. The problem is... Everything that we put in the re-sale. The pacifist doesn't pass through these evolutions. He doesn't pass through the only moment you have. He really discovers that world is fast when his father dies. And then he doesn't kill the kiff. But he's passing through the tone. Even when he says that the problem isn't the world, it's exactly the conclusion of the arc. The game is going to be a problem. It's something. If I were you, it's the sixth time, it's a very crazy thing, the body's touch, to learn how to value the character. This is the arc. For me, it's not the problem. I think we're even here. You can't answer the question. We're all in the narrative, we're winning. This is a very long problem. This problem is the DCU. This is the porcaria, this is the big problem. The problem is the creation. The creation. The problem is the creation. The big thing is the creation. The creation. The problem is the one that hides the incompetence. The creation is for that. When we're in the end, we saw the creation. We used to see the creation in a while. We saw the whole thing. He put a lot more. The only plot we've seen to make this... I thought they wouldn't give a redemption to the pacific father. This is a stop. In this universe, his father is not really a bigotist. They use this to make a joke. In the end, like... The real thing, I think. The same time, Wagner, he spent his whole life being the con-invent. Everything was happening in... This was a deep critique. This is... Let's see what Wagner found. This is a good thing. He put it in the script. And it's a... He's a bit of a conformist with the regime. But it's not that everyone who agrees with the regime. And then, man, the argument he used... And this is a script that was written in the script. That's the Cesar's book. This was a good part. Because... Oh, Art. You live in the United States, in the Nazis, and you... You agree with everything that happens in your world? You can solve everything that happens in your world. You fight against everything that happens in your world. That you fight against, that you disagree. I'm doing... I'm doing... The worse he came, the better the person... The better the person was. This is the joke of the Lakers, which is very bizarre. Because, man, this... This part was bad. Because we really want to develop the drug of the bigodista. It's always... Because, really, you don't have to solve all the problems in your world. So, if the guy is in the world, where Germany is in the United States, in the second world. And then the world turned to that, he does what he can. He fights the crime, he does what he can. He can't change the world completely. Like this, like James Guckier, wanting to change the world completely. To do what we live in a reality where... You're good, if you're the only... And if you're not the only one you're the only one you're the only one. He can't do what he can. He tries to make the waves celebrate to people through his artistic productions. It's more or less... At that time, Ovag, it was the exact moment that James Guckier managed to build that... Maybe, the guy tried to do that, but he built the anime narrative. He wanted to bring something that everyone agrees with and will identify with this message. Because this message is a universal message. You don't solve them, you don't care about the world. Because... In this sense, why so much beast, so much human being... ...is a threat to the world. So why don't we change the message? Because we don't bring that to the future, why don't we bring action? Why don't we bring the past to the world? Because we're not once in the past. Because we're once in the past. We're once in the past. Why don't we fight with the truth about this? Because we're not being aware of the world. That's why this phrase is too bad to point out now. Because it doesn't belong to that theory, that theory is idiot. It has no evidence. Exactly. Why did the father of Chris not realize that he was not the real Chris? He started to see the goodness in him. And he was building this evolution for him to realize that he was the one who was hiding in the vagran. The pastor said, What is the problem in his life? There is no problem, it's a big deal. There is no problem. Chris said, the problem is me, it's not the world. It's a world of the world. The world is a witness. This resolution is very... It was already a problem. It was already a problem when it was another person. You are seeing me? I'm not seeing you. It's because you are seeing me. It's a new person. I'm not seeing you. I'm seeing you. It's a new camera. But this is the worst. In this I agree with Elves. The development is bad. The resolution is bad. Because if you stop thinking about it, the pacific person, that world was really the best. And what the friends of Elves did, was to close his life and kill his family. He was good in this other universe. Where he would really be there, calm, living. And that reality doesn't even show. All that bad part of the world. So they disdain the life of a family and family. That was good in that reality. He would have taken his brother and father to his reality. That's it. He would have taken his brother. I would have taken his brother. But when I speak, just to my brother, go to civilian. I'm going. When I talk about this issue, the problem is that he is idiot. I'm not saying he is idiot, because he is a comedy series. He should be a comedy. And that's not it. He is idiot without wanting to be. He still keeps the narrative that this series is being brilliant. That's why we are criticizing Ford here. He is not a genius. He is a genius and he is idiot. That's the point. What we are talking about. Guys, let's go. No, it's a super chat. We have a super chat and everything else. We see a little. I think I said it. I said it because I will have to take a picture. So I think we are already taking it. We just have to talk about the topic. It's the same. I'm going to put you there, I didn't even mention it. You talk about it. Guys, chat. See you guys. Thank you once again for more of the live. It was awesome. It was wonderful. We have already put the flag. Ford is hiding from him. That's it. We put the flag. We put the flag. We are going to play. Let's do the emotions. It was exactly what happened. See you guys. See you for the chat. Everyone is sending. Did you say good night to you? See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. See you tomorrow. I love you guys. See you tomorrow. but by the reason I already explained it again. I admit that I'm not comfortable with change, if I don't know the original characters. So, I don't know the Guardians of the Galaxy, the comics, so I liked James Gunn's version. I don't know the visual, the comics, so I liked this character. If it wasn't lacraced, it was just a mixed-up, well-made, the objective of being the one that I think would be the one that I think would be the one. I would be the one who makes fun of me because I like the comics. I like BB, I don't like the American Pie, I like the whole game, I like the beasts of the Bovages. So, I think James Gunn makes good bovages and good skinned ones too. And how are the characters that I don't know, I don't have the background of them to import me with the changes he promotes? I would be liking it, because even there is everything. But, I always say that, of course. I legitimize the opinion of everyone who knew the Guardians of the Galaxy of the HK and said the version of James Gunn is a shit, because there is nothing to see with the characters that I like the HK. Is it true? This person has the whole right. If you don't know a character, the base of him, you don't have to be as comfortable with it. The same thing that people were talking about as training his dragon. But there is nothing to see with the original books. Well, I don't read the original books, they are the infant books. I know the animation. What is that? I said I'm going to go back, because if you don't have a excuse, now, I'm going to go to the magazine and the magazine is packed and the Merbão Jamal is going to be there. In the BHS, representing you too. And in the Eremos, they will be there with representing the Erotic tragicomic, the most annoying family. He is going to play with the tag of the Trash of Comico and Merbão that is not cool, but there is a name of cool, right? That is Jamal, he will become the hero. That's right. Jamal, is it? Jamal, it's cool. It's cool. That's it. I will have, I was in the room, it was like, I forgot to say the BHS. So who is there? Although we go to the press day, I don't know if the day is going to be in the other days, but we will try to go to the press day to talk to someone backstage there to see if there is something. It's a serious thing. It's this. That's it. Okay, now I'm going to talk to you. I told you, I told you, I told you, I told you, I told you, I told you. It's a good memory of the Mara. Well, we can follow with Super Chat again. Let's go, guys. Did you finish? I want to start saying that. Welles also, welles also liked the Christian Commandos without knowing nothing of the Christian Commandos. And then after I was aware of all the changes that James Gunn made, including Confransten and Noiva, welles, he was angry, he's angry, man. Guys, you guys are fans, you have to be fucking James Gunn. You have to be fucking James Gunn. And this can happen. It can happen, for example, the investor's factor. You like when you don't know and you know the original material, you like it more and you know the boots. Even the cool thing about the original material is not so much better than that. This is deceiving. It can also happen. The question is, you have to have references. If you don't have an impossible reference, impossible, you like to be chateired with something you don't know. Or vigilante, Wagner, if you see the vigilante, you will be fucking angry with this vigilante again, Val. Yes, honestly. I don't know. So, remember, you're not even, if you don't want to be a victim of the video, because the vigilante is another person, even. The film of Elvis, which is not Elvis, Ayrton, even he is making a video about the vigilante. Ok, guys, you see how it is different from other people. The vigilante is just being. Yes. This is how it is different. Malaj, Jiu Jeta, let's see. Marco Tulio, a friend of mine, we're together. Just passing fast to say that you have to be at least three hours of live, and the business of two hours of live, two seconds straight. So, my academy is like this, with a strong hug to this wonderful live, with a match with Tulio there. Oh, the most annoying thing will be another major in media, Juan Carraba, what the fuck? I don't understand. I know if you want three hours of live, you want three hours of live, you want to be trained, but you won't be trained for three hours, you're going to laugh, you have to be trained to be a teacher. Depend on the reading. Depend on the reading. Depend on how many? Depend on how many books you have, because you could do more groups a day. You could train in three hours a week, but then you get more groups, it won't be a train, because you'll be tired the last songs you train will be more dedicated. But sometimes it's like you can do it. Like this, right? This is the time of the day. It's time to get to work. It's time to do an aerobic time, for example. And you do more than one hour of exercise, you've been working for two hours. And you still have the entertainment, right? It's true. It's true. It's true. Let's improve our stamina here. I want to say entertainment, even the gym is at home, even the gym is at home. I think the gym is behind me. You can do it. You can do it. The entertainment of the shadow, which is an important part of the training. It's a good thing. No, entertainment is entertainment. For example, you're a saint, sometimes for the house, even the gym is two hours. Only in the train. So, Manja, great gas, now you're right. When you were used to, I'm here to go in with the Abias corpus and the quadrilha of chucho rejos will not be paid. Ah, gas, I'm happy. I'm happy. I hope it doesn't happen. It's our tourist. I know. Look, how it is? I'm a baritone, I'm a dollar. Look, we're together. We have a lot of channels, we're going to play. After that, we'll send another dollar. You're not going to play. It was a lot of money. It's a lot of money. We showed you the left side of the right side. That's right. That's right. This is interesting comment, because I saw a response to the live cut of the past week of the gym. Finally, the last time we commented, a comment was a person saying, if you come to the Nazis as a right person, the problem is in you, because I see as a leftist. I understand what you're saying. And I even said that, for example, there's a fair cry that passes in Cuba that they keep talking about the government as a fascist government. But it doesn't make any sense. I know Cuba. So I imagine that in that university killing the communist. For more than the game is already talking about that the government fascists Cuban. I say, no, the villains of this game are Cuban, they're the dictators of Cuba, they're all communist. I'm talking to the communist in this game. I'm interpreting. But you have to understand the intention of the author behind that, and not to be manipulated, and to understand the criticism you're doing, because there's a difference between being so politicized that you can get everything and you decide what you're comfortable with in the series, but you also have to understand that people who don't have the level of politicization and that they simply absorb that as if it were reality, which is what the author, but legally, which is doing in the last instance. In the last instance. So you can even, I see the Nazis as a leftist, because they agree with everything the Nazis defend in the end of the stories. But the intention of James Gannon is, especially when he says that the Nazis love Jesus, he clearly teaches that Christianism and Nazism are a collage in one another. So you have to understand the intention of the guy. And even if you can be upset, you have to understand that many people don't get it and they're creating this connection in their heads. This is really Christian. Everything in the Nazis, everything, nothing, it's a disgrace. It's like that. They do it to manipulate the masses. The same question. It's obvious when a cannibal character turned past. It's not that in the game he has nothing here. He was worse. He was worse. Yeah. He was worse. But it was even more. It's the same attack. The same attack. And the guy who did the office who did that character who was my psycho. How did he not do that? That guy who used to be crazy and so on. He had, he didn't have any questions. But that's the way. He came and said, I'm not Christian, but I have many friends who are and they are very good people. And I'm not seeing this parcel being represented in a way that in the Hollywood industry. So this is the big problem. Every Christian reference that Hollywood impregnates is the fanatic Christian religious, very stupid, bigotist. Understand? Which by the father, while on the other side and with the beard exactly. While on the other side, the guy who practices charity, the guy who like happens to be a natural disaster in a city, are the first to move to help people. That guy is not a guy. That's the big problem. The biggest issue of charity of the humanity is the Catholic Church. Exactly. The work of volunteers and so on. And they helped people and stopped. There are many houses that made a service before even having any kind of public, hospital, and so on. I know. But there is no representation of the work. The Natcésio de Molidou that could appear. I think all of them to show the virtuoso part of the church. And the character literally Catholic, literally Catholic, removed all of this. There's only a frame of it for church. Only a frame. So even they put one on another dialogue that is a conversation with the king of the church. But outside of this, there's no one. There's a conversation with the other one. They also put some dialogues that were more than what I was waiting for. The problem is that we are so affectionate of this kind of thing. The migalls appear for us. So, they had a demolition but with a very strong body. When we did our network, we said that the migalls was demolished. This is the demolition that happened. Now it was a migallia. It was very disappointing to say. But I still want to do. Great nerd-lendario. For the OXCaptain, it's Bigodista, the Red Square. That's right. That's right. This is crazy, right? The Red Square. All of this is tied with Jordan Pire. They are there, the 12 regress and so on. And this is a very dangerous thing. We talked a lot of times, right? People can't breathe something that is not political. And then they will write something that has to be political. Everything has to be political. The point that I'm afraid of is something that is not political in the case. They are criticized by the same guys, because they are not there. Trying to make a parking lot where Jordan Trump will have a night of love with a cap. It's in this level, we're talking about. It's in this level of maluchism, right? The hug of the legendary. It's that, even they were complaining about the movie of Superman, not being a more lacrador. They didn't have this movie, they were criticized. They had a other critic that was saying that. Exactly like Jordan said. Captain America. The Sun, the Sun, Captain America is the Sun, they said they were complaining that they were not there. It's my God, the Sun. Oh, man. Great. Peter O'Datillum. Peter O'Datillum became a member. So, he became a member of some channels there, we're together. Why is it not connected? We're talking about several channels here, right? In the platform. And the channel is going to have a problem in the monetization, because we changed from I I ran with his name because of the 1000 promises that exist for Peter and just now with Jordan, I understood what I was saying, because I read before, Peter, I didn't get your name. My friend. My God. Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, what is his name now? Peter. Peter. Peter. We're together. Great. Peter O'Datillum. Peter O'Datillum. Chavirini, we're also together. The other day, the winner will adapt the stories of his style and start he will adapt the stories that will tell will become a director's fight. Man, it's a good phrase. It's a good phrase. Yeah, man. Because he doesn't adapt, he does what he wants. Congratulations. It's what it's superman had the change of the law because he believed that what he had to be a Superman. So in his head, he really didn't adapt the stories of Superman. He liked the stories of Superman adapt to him. Man, it's a good idea. This is a point that we can talk about. The first point with a good director is to respect the original. Respect what is established. Understand? And it's not something that you're talking about. We were doing an react from Frank Stein, the director's dealer, who is a great director. No one. We don't have a discussion about this. Yes. He doesn't like the Christian religion. He had a problem with a trauma of childhood. And he didn't accept the fact that he was what he said to us in the chat. The Netflix called him to adapt the chronicles of the Narna. And he didn't accept because it's a Christian tree. And what he did to distort the tree. So he didn't accept. Look at that face. Look at that face. That's cool. There's a character when he has a mistake. Yes, that's it. But then he got a graphic and he was doing it. But he's already done it. Thank you. Thank you. But it's cool to contrast the differences. A person who has a character and another one has no other. And in a very very good study to put a militant to adapt a Christian tree with clear and allegory and then they were already not prepared that the Aslan and being a woman was a lion. But the Aslan will continue to be Aslan, but he will have the voice of the Aslan of the Aslan. This is beautiful. I'll tell you. It's a creation of this. But it's that, people are saying, it's not going to continue to be Aslan, but it's the voice of the Merstrip. Man, how do you have the Aslan? Because I imagine the Aslan has to have a voice of a trovão, right? He is a man. He is a man. He is a man. He is a man. But it's not just that. I understood that it's not going to be a lion. It's going to be a woman interpreting a man in the case, right? It's going to be a woman. It's not it. So, it's going to be Merstrip will grow up, right? It's going to be a problem. In addition to you took a character that I only by lion, you think it's not a noise. It's difficult to think a lion that has no trovão voice, a powerful voice, a serious voice and a woman can't reach it. I already saw that lion's meme. That's it, Aslan. It's a comic because I don't fish the image with what you're listening. Exactly. It's a expectation, right? It has a expectation of this voice and, suddenly, it's the character in the api that is the peak of the character. It's a big character. It's a character. It's a thing. It's funny. The worst is the name that is funny. He is a giant vagna. He has the power to control the rock with his voice. I like the design. I already saw that. I already saw it. I'm going to ask. And then someone can laugh. Why would he laugh? He kills. So I'm going to get the character and that's funny, right? So, api, that's what will happen. And even like Anderson Silva, who used everyone, right? Because the guy was a negator of this race in everyone. But he said he was a Mickey, practically. That's it. But there is something. The challenge is to take the seriously. And then, then, put it in the air. It's difficult to imagine this thing. It's very funny. It's a epic. It's a thing that works infinitely more in the anime than in a song, right? In a song you are not listening to the voice. There is no same effect as the comic. How does it work? You're just talking about the characters talking about what his voice is. But it's just because the order created the situation that can't laugh. And when he goes with the wolf, the wolf speaks his voice. He puts it. So he creates this situation. Because really, without the anime, you don't have the effect of the movie. But he created this situation of the guy who is laughing and saying, man, it's funny. And I didn't have the anime. I just saw a guy and then I laughed. It's a genius. It's a genius. It's a genius. It's amazing. It's taking time. It took three days. Did you already go to the side? Already to the side? Yes, already. Already. This is Dress Rossa. I think already to the side. Maybe I have watched the version of the version. But I don't remember now. I know that it came out in the 90s, recently in the side. And in the PTR, to the guys who cut it. Super Chat, today we have a lot of people. Tatiana shoots a 20-year-old. He's a real person. And then he sent more then, then, our Tatiana's name. Applying you and selling the Wagner Beige for you. We're together. Beige for you. Big Luiz Carlos well sent two. Don't forget that he said Steve Dick and Dick Dick, right? In the case of Dick. He wrote Dick. But there's no problem. Tatia Sussar. Okay, James Gan is saying Dick is almost Pokémon, right? How is it? Dick. It's just a fall. I remember Mark Mark, I sometimes confused. What did James Gan say? I don't know what James Gan said about this and what he has to say. They said Domeranian, right? The viewer said Domeranian, right? In the episode. Yes, yes. But he said, oh, no Domeranian, just, I don't think it's like, I didn't think it was Domeranian. I didn't think it was Domeranian. Then he was, then he was courageous. He was courageous. But not the first time, I think there was some movie that was in the Marvel too. What I thought was, the first time I had a problem, right? They are very famous heroes. Usually that's it. These are references. What I thought was, James Gan and Aga, I don't think I think that the Deadpool spoke about Batman or Superman in some movie. There was no that. The Deadpool made a joke about Batman. The Deadpool attacked him. Then he said, we are in the universe of DC. Something like that. Oh, there is. There is. That's the sound. What a joke. It's funny. So, it was in the car. He said it was in the car. He said it was in the car. In the last movie. There is a window too. It's the best thing for you to say. We will have to consider much better than it should be. The Shenuous and the person who was Mark and the You should be like a Christmas tree, like a cow. You should be what Azgar wasn't, right? Exactly. We have only white candy. White candy. White candy. White candy is a style. It's a style. But the 10th could be called, what is it? White candy. White candy. White candy is a very good one. White. I don't know how the dubbing would do. White candy. How could we adapt that? I want something like this. I think there are two more things there. Yes, the Peter O'Dattelor sent five more. He was the next one. He was the one. He supported the legacy of the impossible to send to the channel. Of course, my dear. You're here doing your best. Remember, a guy's call is already written on Peter O'Dattelor. What is the content you do? I don't know what this name is. It's about our health. It's a name you can't have a lot of ideas. But guys, let's go. Peter is at least familiar with the name. He's a bit shy. Peter O'Dattelor. Of course, he doesn't like James Gunn. So, in the chat, we have a lot of people who don't. We already have something like this. I'm talking about culture, it's the same. It's a Superbull. Someone is helping us. Let's go. Yeah. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's begin! Yes, let's go. Dude, he was already konnten for this. He got the doctor. Well dynamic. Yeah, let's go. You were already reading the business? Yes, I did. Tell him to read the book. Let's read it to give more highlights to the Leonardo Diabrio comment because 21 months ago, I was reading the book. It was good, Leonardo. Thank you very much. It's a great honor to read the book. You have to read it. It's a great honor to read the book. If you follow Leonardo's channel, you can see that he knows things. Good evening, dear viewers. The serial of Demolidor has ruined a classic arc, the murderous character is the deli of the song, Dose. This arc is wonderful. And there is even a scene in the face of the murderous character. I don't want to bring a long story. But it's a story that was mentioned in the story that the sister of the Captain America has in the world of nothing. There is a scene of the Captain America practically destroying the Demolidor. The Demolidor says, I'm scared. I'm scared. I'm scared. I'm scared. The Captain America will laugh at me. When the Demolidor realizes that he's been persecuted, he says all the attributes. I'm scared. It's sensational. Who didn't read the book? I don't know. Now imagine that the Captain America's Dermolidor is the devil. He's the devil. I'm scared. I thought a teradabra is a devil. You're the second one. Look at the reference. Look at the reference. It was the last one. We have to talk about the Dermolidor. The last link. There is no link. There is no link. There is no link. There is nothing. For the joy of the Tobi Maguire, the elves are very happy. We have a man in the Ariania 4. The Giotra will put on the screen to talk. The Giotra will win the final edition. The Ariania 4 will win the final edition. The Giotra will win the final edition. The PAPEL left. I swear. I never imagined that this was still on the PAPEL. I had a dream. I had an experience. I can't wait to answer when our second Androgythes night comes after what happened next. I justら put my luck in that video. Come on. Not to change a viewer. There is no role in it. Our platform is a friend. Normalis with either only smiling faces or looking at aご Giotra. that takes you more seriously too. There are not many information if they were right, for example, would you bring a sound room back to the direction? Yes. Would you be here? Yes, that's it already? Yes, I'm here. If you're in the robot, the robot will turn it on and it will turn on. Yes, yes, the thing is, it's called the Cylinder. No, that girl there. Seriously, the Cylinder can be hired by Sony and not by the mother. In this movie, Domandre, with the holocaust. She's also here. And she would be the middle-aged woman, right? My mother is the green one. No, but it depends. If she was the middle-aged woman, but as a daughter of hers, because they are older now, a girl who is a father and so on, can work. No, no, not in the movie of the probe. I'm talking in the film of the club. No, the movie of the club is fine. Unfortunately, it's hard to imagine that they would put the middle-aged woman without doing it like Gerotarinha, right? But if it's not the probe, yes. If she is still being a series, which is a actress, It doesn't seem like it would just be this role of being a daughter of... Because it could be something interesting, right? If you rescue the elements of the classic heroes, a villain could be to be a daughter of the Peter and he could work to rescue the daughter of this movie, for example, no, a more serious plot, but it's tense. The best thing is to have a bastard bass, right? Because the hero doesn't have a job to have a bastard bass. It's a guy with a face. He has a face of that. It's not necessary for that. If they were to be confirmed, they would bring the top to be more... 5 or 6. But it's not necessary. It's just the fourth movie. It's about the story of the orange star of the top and the guava. That's it. I just can easily listen to this soundtrack of this... This universe of new movies. This is the best of the soundtrack of the orange star of the long one, but with the new one. One of the best superheroes in the world. I believe that... Maybe only the Avengers managed to do something similar. And he was talking about the stars. In Marvel. In the X-Men. But for me, X-Men is the top 3. I think... You think the movies are good? The X-Men's movie has a... I don't remember. I don't remember. The soundtrack of the X-Men is not the one that she plays. It's not the one that's the worst. It's the worst. It's the worst. I don't know if it's the movie. I think it's not the soundtrack of the movie. It's not the movie that plays a piece of the movie. When the movie is released. It's the worst. It's the worst. It's the worst. I'm talking about the X-Men. It's true. It's a little bit. It's not the movie. It's not the movie. It's not the movie. It's a little bit. Sick! And carnards. I remember drinking Volume diminished. For me those speaking polys! After Gamble had paste düşün, I remember drinkingную koş pot zap and after the symongous beer. It was an honor hom crypto in April. It's a great substitutecipe.itating a drunk man in the store. Uw sẽ usurpаем. I think it's a good idea. No, and another one. It's a two minute credit, and this music, just the lyrics, and you're calm. It's amazing. It's great. This guy, he was the best in the film of Tom Roller, the last guy. He was the best character, the best in the three. For me, I still... He was the best in the film. He was the best in the film. He was the best in the film. He was the best in the film. He was the best in the film. But at the same time, the Ender Garfield, he saved the Ender Garfield, and he was emotionally because he managed to do it. He was really a great guy. Is there any other place to go? So, but there's a problem. This fourth film, I've already been on the road, the villain would be the battery, and there would be the mystery, and there would be the guy's made by the guy from the Yvodete there. Wait a minute, Jojita. You're talking about the road, the Fourth Army, but that's what he planned. He planned it for years. Yes. But there was a structure that actually gave the sequence the third. For example, I would find it interesting if I was not even on the road. I came to see that on YouTube there's a guy from the Yomerean. And he had a video that he compiled the whole Yomerean of the first quarter until the top. And he had a video where he made a fanfic of the Yomerean 4. He put the film's daughter in the top, there, and he told the story of the film. He said, he's happy. He said, he's happy. He got a person from the Yomerean and put the white hair to the Yomerean. He said, you can only get a montage. But you can only get a montage. This is the one that Baramagia is very good. Damn, he leaves a gem. Daniel, this is the best of all. If he really made the Yomerean from the Batman of Tim Burton and the Avengers and the Avengers he's the best of all. I was wondering, it was the same guy that made all of these. Because they are the three best in my opinion. The best of all. The Batman of Tim Burton is a very cool soundtrack. And the Yomerean and the Avengers are the two best. The Avengers is the best. It's true. It was the Avengers. So, gentlemen, let's give Daniel the Super Chat and Daniel made the party. It's true. It's true. But I think they will have nothing to do with it. They put it there because they would be the characters of the Vazado Roteiro but now that they already had the movie and the movie, I don't know if it's a problem of Tom Roller's movie. Yes, and with certainty, I can only see the senses and at least sit in that event. Like, you really compare. So, I think it's another thing. Because there is no problem of the other movie. There is no problem of the movie of Tobel Maguire and Andrew Garfield. There is no problem. The public will see. There is no problem. And I have to understand that. Omemaranya is Peter Park. You understand? People want to see the character of Peter Park. I can keep this official movie but it's true. I doubt that the other movie of the Avengers could be a good movie. No, not the two movies. Not the two movies. The most moral. No, not the two movies. They were really successful. No, but they sell. Because they love animation. I never understood this argument. No, but you see that. Because animation is a bad record. And the guys say that animation didn't make much of the movie. Like, like, many of the biggest movies were for animation. For story, so, Frozen. But the person doesn't know Omemaranya in the audience. It's not the same. It's not the same. Jiu Jita, I put the Super Chat that I just wanted to give a read on the Jubilet that is there. We don't have it. In the case of not being able to become a member of the channels. From the Liga Nerd, you will not be able to get the Jubilet. I tried to be a member of the channel and gave the wrong one. I don't know what's going on. If you are trying to be a member of the channels, on our channels, it was more. Even the Liga Nerd ended up renovating his signature. Now, on the channel of the Liga Nerd, you can't get the chance. What I think is right. For this month, even if the Super Chat comes back to the Super Chat program when we solve this bureaucratic, boring, that the YouTube tabelesque to change the license and you need to wait for 32 days. So, now, it's not going. From the month we have to be corrected. What I suggest to our Liga Jubilet is to look at the carton that is being pushed there, right? In Google Pay, something is being thrown in the carton that you use. Because it can have this pending there. They are not able to get the carton. It can be that too. It can be that. You can get it. You want to get it? I want to ask you to wait. This is the topic. That's why I put it. We can read it and continue to talk about the Romeran. Because Leonardo said, the top and my favorite are in the place of recognition. I didn't like how the Liga Network was made. So, I like it more than... Just remember that there are almost 2,000 people that we have. It's safe for everyone who is watching. 1,800 connections. 1,830 connections. The audience is very good here. Once again, I think it's the guy who is watching. It's a shame that the top and the top have the best films. So, it's understandable. It was the first one. It has a very big, effective allegation. I prefer the Romeran. And the Peter, Andrew, but the top and the top are worse. So, it's a shame to say that. So, I really wanted to mention Andrew Garfield's goal to see if he receives a high-end film from what he has given up here. Because it's very cool. Andrew is the best in all three. Andrew is the best in all three. He is the best actor and he was the best. My problem with the top is that he never leaves the NERD loser. That Peter is not. He never passes through the NERD loser. He has no evolution that is important for the character. And Andrew has a more updated NERD version that many people have made. Because this one is also a bit more discolored. But it was a NERD of his time. It was not that stereotype of the NERD. It was a bit cool. Yeah. But he still suffered the bullying. He was still excluded. He had problems with social issues. He didn't know how to talk right. So he still had these elements. But he was the best. Because he has so much of movement. The scene of Web Swing. They are the most beautiful ones. He has the fights. They are very good. And he has lost his fight. The uniform is the best. And he has lost his fight. It's a good thing. Andrew, did you like the Tio Bene? I thought it was okay. It's not that I liked it. I heard that they made a lot of noise to not repeat the sentences with great powers, great possibilities. But it's the same sentence. That's the word we have. The first movie of the movie. It's wonderful. It's better. It's better. Almost everything in Andrew's universe is better. Because even if it's the first one, they could not make the stops. They have to change to be different. They could not make the most fiest things, which was really. So, I don't know. In general, all the films of the Top Is Are Better and the construction of the other characters. The Meridian is a Meridian. The worst thing in the trilogy of the Top Is More Guided. It's full of truth. What character is it? I think a lot of people who have been to the film Meridian was convinced of this character. But it's a great character. It's the first one. It's great. The second movie is less bad. I like it in the second one. It's not that bad. The second one is the most strange. It's the one in the movie of Jensson. The third one is the best Hollywood movie. It's great. The best Hollywood movie. It's the best Hollywood movie. I like it. The best movie in the world. It's crazy. I like it. There are many problems. The third one is the Meridian. The Ed Broke is a Meridian. No, no. The Ed Broke is very bad. No, no. The Ed Broke is very bad. The Ed Broke is bad. The Ed Broke is bad. But the first two movies that I loved. It was the one in the movie Meridian. I remember that. The film that was the man in the movie. It was the man in the movie. It was the best movie in the movie. The movie Meridian. It appears. It's a very chaotic story. It seems that Sam Ramm really made the movie a mess of revenge. He was beaten. He said that the same thing as the Curiga 2. The director there made it. It's all about the films. I'm going to make it a movie. What's Tony? I wanted to make a photo-logy to ask you one thing. It's just that Sam Ramm made me a movie. I want to take care of my brother. I want to make it a movie. I want to make it a movie because it's an actor. I'm going to make it a movie. I'm going to make it a movie because it's an actor. And then we think about it. Copiano, the Scorsese, right? In the first chorus and such, making references to the Corsese's movie. Then he makes the second movie be the musical that struck him. And the Scorsese, in his career, he had made a musical that struck him, that played in the depression. Look at that, man, as if things just repeat in this drama. So I have a thread that took him from the depression. Tell me, no, let's go to work. My question for you is the big villain. We know that it will not be your battery, it will not be your scorpion, it will not be this mystery, it will not be and it can be C.R.5, because it seems that the contract of it is not loved, it is with the sound, depending on some kind of humor. So you think that you think that we can have a doubt, how is the name of that guy from the Aranhas, Wagner? What technology? The guy from the Aranhas, what technology? The guy from the Roda, Mark Bagley, 10 and a half. What is it? It is the pro-sochiha guy, it will be your villain. No, no, I know, he is talking. He is talking. How do I name that person? I don't remember this villain. I don't know if it's a little bit of a myth, maybe. It's something like this, this guy has a technology, he has the Aranhas, several things. He creates the Magarans, he is the creator of the Magarans, I think you are talking about it. Yes, I'm looking. So, I also have the humor of what he is talking about. I don't know if it's a myth or something, but... It's something that is possible for the sun and the light of this guy, along with the king of the crime, with the king of the crime of this universe in the Magar. Because they will not use the new Venom, they will not want to use the villains that are in the sea, maybe the king of the crime and this guy is a garanhas there. You Wagner, do you think it's cool? This guy is a more technological business, even to develop the daughter of Tobin, Alistair Miff. Alistair Miff. I really like one of my Agaquies, talk about it, if you can. Put it on the screen, Jojeta. Tell me. It's the son of one of the king of the crime, right? One of my Agaquies, his favorite, the 90s, has this guy, but then he is all, all biologically modified, right? Because he usually gets in a box of clothes. He does experiments to recover and gets this strange device. That's it. That's it from the 90s. An even 90s. The guy, one of my Agaquies, his favorite, the 90s, is curiously with the Magarans, but it's pure action, Agaquies is the end of the beginning of the movie. And it's interesting, but it's interesting, but at the same time, the villains of the movie will be robots. It seems that it could be so much more cool, right? It could be so much more interesting. It's the last movie. It's cool. I would think so. You have to be a villain, so that you can do the process. You're a traitor. Again, as a new content. The new content. The Magarans had. But the villain is a problem because of the 3-star, understanding. I don't think he doesn't want this. I think it's the same. And this is the consequence. It's a movie in the show. He doesn't want to again. This is the consequence. See, just the end of the movie is alive now. Dr. Octops also. The two are alive and well. And the man is also there. Thank you. These three are calm and so good. Dude, do you know what maybe I would do? There's something that is very annoying at the time. But maybe I would make a sense with the Amerian of Tobbe. Because when the writer who was writing there for the 2000s was the Strasinsk, he had to make a close friend of Amerian with this version of the movie of Tobbe, he created a concept of Tota in Zaranja and he did that to have a renovation of the character that was born as the other and it was a phase where Peter had the organic ones in the paintings even the other powers. And this stop of the Tottens is, there are the villains that are interesting. There's a cat that is like a giant butterfly, but a very powerful villain and had the main one, right, of this saga that was a murder, but maybe there would be a strong villain, or powerful villain, for a version of Peter's villain that is, I don't know, I don't know how this would be done. But I think that he would take at least for this direction, since this is a Peter who has already tried the organic ones, maybe he could develop that. What is the object? The Iron Man for the villain Doméria 4. Wow, that was that plot in the animation of the 90s, very cool, right? That he was the one who was in the movie. Of course not. He had a clone, because name is not good, Shame on you, it's a big car, many car, which, he said, I think it's really cool. Where he was all private. I think I've already briefly explained the plot. I wanted to invite Peter on The father of Peter, he has the same stories of the HAKES, they were the people of Si, the guy's uncle, and they... It's not a good adaptation. I don't think so, but... I know you don't like it, but I like it. I read the Clone saga of the time, I liked it a lot. I liked it a lot. I liked it a lot, because Mac Baglan was designed. It's a different version, but it's beautiful. It's an even more expensive version. Mac Baglan. I would say to make a movie... I made a race for myself, it would be great. I could be a movie where the villain is... Scorpion and Pro. I could be the one in Macabre. I could be a movie, since I have time. I think the Dwayne de Macabre was already practically gone. I can see it. Yes, but it was called the Dwayne de Macabre. Maybe it would be my repetitive movie. It would be more a movie. But a Dwayne, since he's already faced two. I think he's still there. No, it's not that he's already seen a movie. I think Scorpion will appear, because he's already planned for the movies of Tom Holland. But for me it would be a classic villain. It would work. I think it would be a big hit. I don't know why, because I think the guys... If the Scars were a big hit, they could have put the King of the Crimean. A variant of the King of the Crimean. But what they said... They don't want to be the same. They don't want to innovate. These people want to innovate. The best villain, Dom Eran, who still didn't appear, is a dead man. This would be a way... But I'm afraid of the dead man being lost in one of these. But he's a good one. This is a dead man. He's strong. He's strong. He's very strong. Yes, he's strong. What I would like to see... He's powerful. He's very powerful. But Tom and J.F. It's a mature man. It's a structure. He's intelligent. He's going to find the way to achieve it. But I like this more mafia theme for this movie. It's because of the King of the Crimean. You understand? All the species in the face, with Raj to leave... And what it's interesting. Just make a very serious movie. I'd like to see what that would be. That question? What are the contents of this movie? To the version of Film Don't One? Alright, go for a static before the concurrent. Then, we will see... A Mark Mosque... This player is made aware of what you expect. Let's hope this result Well now you can have such a great score especially in action. The dead is basically a vampire. He is like a evolution of blood sugar in reality, but he ends up becoming a vampire that goes out absorbing Toto in Zanah for all the realities, for all the universe. Even that comes to face our Peter Parker, the Amherian, because this is the mission of his race. The dead does not exist, he is a natural predator of the Amherian, basically. And he is very powerful, very very strong. But the strongest that the winner sees, and Peter says many times that he never took a strong race to emphasize the powerful, this villain is. And then Peter goes the whole day, I think more than one day fighting with the dead, he gets exhalty, and the solution to overcome the dead is very good. Because if my powers come from radiation, maybe I can use that and so on, then he goes to a laboratory. If radiation is like... I know. He put his body in. He put his body in the air, and goes out to exchange with the dead with the dead and radiation. And then the dead absorbs this energy, vital of his... of what he is trying to... He is the predator of the Amherian, then he tries to... of his prey. He wants to absorb this energy and the life of his prey. And then he starts to absorb radiation in each of Peter's eyes. And Peter uses that to knock him down, to finally overcome the villain. Man, it would be insane. It's an immoral and ragey thing, because the spools briliing green to put the poor in the villain in the end to be able to defeat him. And then he dies. That's right. And then the series... That's right, it's a place. And then the two of them... That's right. Let's... I think... Two and a half hours to... to be able to defeat the fish. It's already good, right? The worst thing to be able to be in the middle of the night. But look... A live sensational conversation... We talked about... The military of the Muslim... We talked about... The Amherian, I liked it. The Amherian, I liked it. It's good, man. But the villain was there... It was a lot more... The dinner of the night... And the women are already leaving. Yeah, they are. We have only three projects. Three projects. Three Superjet. Peter O Datilo. I wrote... I had written it wrong. I asked to send the campaign of a legacy on my channel. A survey, man. Oh! By God's love. If you had already sent it... Where? I had already done two days today. Thank you, guys. I'm glad. Thank you, man. Peter O Datilo. Jago Saltis, dish of our heart. Jesus' Ring, внимание, stitchesちゃ, ears... She rings three three bellか Many! Right, welcome to... They give unto yourself... So we won't share this. She won't steal it, we cannot... He does not know that I guys like it He's not always water, he always wants to see. He continues to attempt to prevent the mistakes in all theestreat. someone said something about me, he tries to ta... Dunno, he no longer asks me this São Paulo, the only sur when this date gets wrong he makes a question to fight with my friend to talk about my mother and three. He doesn't want me to fight with anyone, with any leftist, communist, no, that's not what I want. He wants to see me fight with my friend, want to end up with friendship here. I'm not going to do that. And our consular, the syndicate of La Cratte, bandana is the new uniform of the party of the league of gold. It's true. There's Wagner, the Evie is crazy, right? And that's the tone cable, because the black cable is connected, it's bad. But that's it. And wait, Leo sent it here. But it's a cable. It's good to say goodbye to the mother, even more. Well, I'm sure. I loved it. I loved it, man. I loved it. Got it? Here's a content. Another live, another live. From seven hours, every second of the week, the time of the 21st was complicated, because the wives were already wanting to divorce. But from seven hours, we're there. All the night of the live. Thank you very much, Virgio Jorgeta. Thank you, Wagner. We're together. Okay, guys. It's the week that comes. Hello, guys. It's good to hear. It's good to hear. See you next time. It's wonderful.