---
video_title: "Google's New Tool Just Solved A Major Claude Code Problem"
video_id: 0A3NGrPlp_w
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0A3NGrPlp_w
video_date: 2026-03-10T03:19:36+00:00
video_description: |

---
Google's new tool lets you connect to anything instantly. Google just dropped what some are already calling the most powerful workspace CLI on the internet. So if you've got a ton of stuff that lives in the Google environment, just like I do, then you're gonna love this. Because now any of my cloud code projects can access everything. And all I had to do was install one simple thing. So here you can see, I said, what can you do with GWS, which is Google Workspace CLI? So it can search, list, upload, download, move, copy, share, anything in my Google Drive. It can do anything in my Gmail. It can do anything in my calendar. It can do anything with Google Docs, same thing with Sheets, same thing with Slides. And it also has multi-step workflow recipes. So these are basically like skills. So I don't know how many times you guys have tried to use something like Cloud or Niden to build you a Google Doc. And you do this over API. And it ends up just looking like something like this. It literally just looks like raw markdown and it's obviously horrible. And sometimes to go along with a YouTube video, I make resource guides that look like this. But obviously they have to be formatted. I've got like a header up here and I've got links and different things in this format. But now I can literally just take the link to a YouTube video. I can drop that into Cloud Code and say, create me a YouTube resource guide. It's going to go ahead and download that transcript from the video. And now what it's doing is it's creating the Google Doc, not via API call, not via MCP, but via a bash command, meaning it's literally running a terminal command in order to talk to Google and make this. And now it finishes up. It gave me the link. I'll click into this and we can see boom. We have an actual resource guide. It's got the image inserted up here as a header. It's got a link that goes right back to my YouTube channel. It breaks down the market, traditional automation, it goes through all this stuff. And then even has my CTA at the bottom, as you can see, after all of these horizontal lines to join the plus group. So that was obviously just one quick example. But there's so many different benefits here using this workspace CLI, especially as it gets better and better over time. If you want to watch the full breakdown, then click on that play button right here. And I'll see you guys over there.