---
video_title: "Give Me 10 Mins and I'll Save You Millions of Claude Tokens"
video_id: 6cEQEba0i2A
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6cEQEba0i2A
video_date: 2026-05-21T12:58:00+00:00
video_description: |
  My FREE AI OS Course: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society/about?el=claude-prompt-caching&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=free-group
  Full courses + unlimited support: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society-plus/about?el=claude-prompt-caching&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=ais-plus
  Apply for my YT podcast: https://podcast.nateherk.com/apply
  Work with me: https://uppitai.com/
  
  My Tools💻
  FREE MONTH voice to text: https://get.glaido.com/nate
  Code NATEHERK for 10% off VPS (annual plan): https://www.hostinger.com/vps/claude-code-hosting
  
  Thariq's article: https://x.com/trq212/status/2024574133011673516?s=20
  
  Prompt caching is the reason Claude Code can save you 300M+ tokens a week without you doing anything. 
  
  In this video I break down the 80/20: what caching actually costs, the small habits that protect your session limits, and the few things that quietly reset the cache. The free token dashboard and session handoff skill are in my school community.
  
  Sponsorship Inquiries:
  📧 nate@smoothmedia.co
  
  Connect with me:
  https://www.linkedin.com/in/nateherkelman/
  https://x.com/nateherk
  https://www.instagram.com/nateherk/
  
  TIMESTAMPS 
  0:00 91 Million Tokens Saved
  0:32 What Caching Actually Costs
  1:14 Why Anthropic Cares About Hit Rate
  2:16 How the Cache Grows Each Turn
  5:00 Cache TTL Confusion
  6:14 Three Habits to Stop Burning Tokens
  7:43 What Breaks the Cache
  9:15 Free Token Dashboard
  10:05 Final Thoughts
---
So look at this. On this day, I saved 91 million tokens because of cash read. And in the past week, I've saved over 300 million tokens because of it. Now, don't forget, this isn't anything that you have to go change. This is happening automatically if you are using cloud code or cloud. And I know that the concept of prompt caching might seem a little bit overwhelming, but today I'm going to make it as simple as possible. And only really tell you what you need to know in order to make sure that you are saving your session limits and saving tokens. I'll also give you guys this entire token dashboard for free so you can actually start tracking your tokens a little bit better. Anyway, so let's talk about prompt caching why your sessions burn out and how to stop it. So what does caching actually cost you? Well, cash tokens only cost you 10% of normal input. So all the tokens that are getting cached are saving you a ton of money. So if we go back to this example on this day, when I had 91 million tokens cached that cost of me only as if I was processing about 9 million of those tokens. The cash window on a cloud subscription is an hour, meaning if you're working with cloud code and you don't touch it for an hour and then you send another message. Everything in that session gets uncached. So if you leave a session sitting for an hour or longer, then you're going to pay more for it. And if you're using cloud via API or sub agents, then the TCL or the time to live is only five minutes. You can change that, but it's just a little bit more expensive. You can bump it up to an hour if you want, but for cloud code inside of your terminal or your extension, whatever it is, that's an hour. And now here's a quote from Thorick from Anthropic. He said that we actually run alerts on our prompt cash hit rate and declare SEVs if they're too low. So basically them saying we take this stuff really, really seriously. And if we see that the hit rate isn't very high for users, cloud code caching, then we do something about it immediately. And that's very nice of them. But also, of course, it benefits themselves because with a high cash hit rate, cloud code feels faster. They're serving cost is lower, subscription limits feel more generous, you know, because you're using less and long coding sessions stay practical. And then if you have low cash hit rate, this is what happens. And obviously it's just a lose lose for everybody. And that's why I said like, prompt caching can get very, very complex. And if you want to check out more, then I'll link this article right here, which Thorick really goes into some depth here. But if you read this, at least when I did, I was like, okay, this is a little bit overwhelming. I have a feeling I don't actually need to know all of this. But I do need to know at least a little bit, at least you know the 80 20 of prompt caching so that I can get the most out of my session limits. And that's what I'm going to break down today. So let's take a look at an example of how this actually grows. So by default, when you shoot off a message to cloud, there's going to be some information that needs to be cashed right away. And actually, let me just switch back to one of Thorick's graphics real quick. You can see here that we have the base system instructions get globally cashed. We have tools like read, write, bash, grip, glob globally cashed. We have per memory or sorry per project things like cloud, Md and memory, and that gets cash per project. We've got session state. And then we have user messages, which grow each term. So now that we take this into context, when we flip back over here, this is what it looks like. This is an example where we have four turns. So on turn one, there's no cash. Basically, we're matching on a prefix. So don't really have to worry about what that means. But I might mention that later. So anyways, on turn one, there's nothing right. We're opening up a fresh session. We load in the system prompt, the project context, and we shoot off our first message. And all of this is kind of in this like brown highlight border, which means that this is new. And it has to be fully processed and it's being written to the cash here. So before I continued on this graphic in this dashboard, you can see that we have the difference between cash create and cash read. So on these days, you can see what are my input tokens, my output tokens and my cash create. And then over here, you can see my daily cash reads. And just a quick explanation, a cash create is writing something into cash for the first time. It's a one time cost and it pays off the next turn. And thus, of course, everything gets uncashed. And the cash read is tokens that cloud reused from a cash like your cloud, Md or some of the files or some of the global system instructions. These are the things that are 10 times cheaper than fresh input. So anyways, on turn two, given that we're within that one hour TTL window, everything here is already in context. So it's cached. And then all that cloud actually has to process for the first time is reply one and message two. And it caches that so then down here and turn three. So all of that's cached and we are bumping up our reply and a message. And those are the things that only get processed each time. But if we waited an hour and then we sent another message or if we change the system prompt, then everything from the very beginning has to get fully recached. So imagine if you were on message like, you know, 16 and you're way, way, way over here on the right. And you change the system prompt or you wait an hour. So everything getting recached is going to be a pretty expensive move that you just made. So anyways, once again, we have the system layer, the project layer and the conversation layer, the system layer has instructions tool definitions output style. And here's where it might break. The project level or the project layer has cloud, Md memory and rules. And then here's when that might break. And then we have, of course, the conversation, which is just like the replies and the messages, which gets recached every time. But that's how it should be. So here's where there's been some confusion among the community. So how long does the cache snapshot live, which is kind of called the TTL the time to live. So on your cloud subscription, you have an hour by default, because it uses your subscription. But if you go over that weekly limit and you are now playing in your extra usage territory, where you are paying, partoken API, then by default, that will be five minutes, which is very dangerous. So you're managing multiple sessions and you're constantly recaching everything because five minutes is passing. You got to be careful about that. And people were kind of suspicious. I don't know if you remember like a month or so ago when everyone was complaining about their cloud subscriptions, how quick they were eating it up. People thought maybe that they switched the cache TTL from an hour to five minutes without like saying anything to anybody. It turns out they didn't. So it is an hour. But that's just like, you know, there was a lot of confusion around that. And I get why because honestly, it's not super clear. Like if you're on API, you have five minutes by default, but you can increase the cost and you can do an hour. And then your sub agents on any plan are going to be five minutes. And for some reason, all of this is documented about cloud code in the API, which are two very different things. But the cloud at AI, like on the web, we don't know exactly how that works. At least I haven't found documentation on that exact. I'm assuming it's the same as your subscription, but I don't know 100% for fact. Anyways, three habits that cover 95% of people don't pause too long. So if you've gone over an hour on a session, just handed off to a new session. Obviously start fresh when you switch tasks. So do slash compacts, which will break the cache or do a slash clear. Or you can also use my session handoff skill, which I will include as well for free. So both the token dashboard GitHub repo and the scale will be in my free school community, the link for that's down in the description. But basically what that means is let's say right here I've got this project, which helps me build this HTML file you guys are looking at. It's got 205,000 tokens in here. And if I come in here and just do a session handoff, this basically summarizes everything we've done, all the important files that we've built, all of the open decisions exactly where to pick back up. And then I basically am able to just copy that summary, do a slash clear, and then keep going. And it feels like I haven't actually lost anything. So that has been basically my replacement for doing slash compact. I've just enjoyed doing this better. And sometimes the compact takes a long time. This typically doesn't take anywhere over a minute. There you go. So that is my session handoff, I do a slash copy. And then I just go ahead and clear that, paste it in, hit enter. And now I'm basically right back where I was. And then this last one is for if you're using clawed chat specifically, if you're going to be pasting big documents in there, you're probably better off doing a project. Because like I said, I don't know exactly how the caching works in clawed chat. But we do have some confidence in saying that projects, those files are cached a little bit differently and probably more optimized for storing a bunch of documents compared to just dropping them into your clawed chat. So keep it alive, keep it focused and start fresh when you switch. Now there's a few other things that were a little bit confusing to me as far as like what breaks the cash. So the first one is if you switch the model. So you know, if you're in here and you're talking to clawed, hello, hello, hello, and then you go in here and you do a slash model and you actually switch the model, that's going to recash everything because if you remember earlier, I said it's prefix matching, which I'm not going to dive into right now. But if you switch the model, then you are switching essentially the prefix and it can't match on that same cash. So if you switch the model, you are recaching everything. Now, I do want to apologize for something here because if you do model opus plan, which is something that I've shown before in like token hacks videos, this basically means it uses opus for plan mode and then it switches to sonnet for the execution. But if you do that, just keep in mind, that's actually going to break the cash because you're switching model halfway through. So right here, you can see each model has its own cash switching with model means the next request reads the entire conversation history with no cash hits. Even though the contact is identical, the opus plan model setting resolves to opus during plan mode and sonnet during execution. So each plan toggle is a model switch and starts a fresh cash. So it's very interesting because typically the point of that is to save your session limit and I think ultimately long run it does, but it is important to understand that doing that does reset the cash. Now, what you can do is you can edit your claw dot MD and you can do that mid session because the edit actually doesn't apply until you restart that session. So the cash stays safe and then of course the claw dot AI projects cashing it's not exactly documented, but pretty confident that it does help to drop docs and projects rather than in the chat. But anyways, this token dashboard, like I said, is very helpful to just be able to understand, get a little bit more visibility into your tokens. This does track your tokens on a local device. So if you switch over to a laptop, then your dashboard is going to look different than on your main like PC or whatever you use. It's very, very simple. It is a GitHub repo. You will go to my free school community. The link is in the description. You'll click on classroom. You'll click on all YouTube resources and then you'll be able to find it right in there. And once you get that GitHub repo, all you have to do is give the link to cloud code and say, hey, this is a token dashboard set this up on a local host. Boom, you've got it open and it will pull in all of your past sessions. So it's not like you're going to start fresh as soon as you. You know, link in this repo. It will read your past files and it will pull in your tokens. And then of course I will also include that session handoff skill that I just mentioned to you guys. So I know this one was super quick. Hopefully this one was helpful though. It's just important. Like I said, when I hear about stuff like this, I love to understand it to the point where I know how to use it. And I know what's going on under the hood. But truthfully, if I looked at some of these other articles like how in depth they go and how much nuance there is most of the stuff right now, I just don't need to know because I'm not using the API in this way super heavily. So the reason I wanted to throw that out there is because it's important to stay updated and follow things, but just understand what do you really need to know at its core. So if you guys are doing the video or you're learning something new, please give it a like. It helps me out a ton. And as always, I appreciate you guys making it to the end of the video. And I'll see you on the next one. Thanks guys.