---
video_title: "How to Use Your Claude Code Projects in Codex in 5 Mins"
video_id: kB9iMD0EjT8
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kB9iMD0EjT8
video_date: 2026-05-18T19:09:24+00:00
video_description: |
  My FREE AI OS Course: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society/about?el=claude-code-to-codex&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=free-group
  Full courses + unlimited support: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society-plus/about?el=claude-code-to-codex&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=ais-plus
  Apply for my YT podcast: https://podcast.nateherk.com/apply
  Work with me: https://uppitai.com/
  
  My Tools💻
  FREE MONTH voice to text: https://get.glaido.com/nate
  Code NATEHERK for 10% off VPS (annual plan): https://www.hostinger.com/vps/claude-code-hosting
  
  Both Claude Code and Codex can run on the same project. You just need to know what each one looks for so you don't have to duplicate files or rebuild your setup. 
  
  This video walks through what to swap, what stays the same, and a quick prompt you can use to convert any Claude Code project so Codex can read it too.
  
  Sponsorship Inquiries:
  📧 nate@smoothmedia.co
  
  Connect with me:
  https://www.linkedin.com/in/nateherkelman/
  https://x.com/nateherk
  https://www.instagram.com/nateherk/
  
  TIMESTAMPS 
  0:00 Intro
  0:29 Claude vs Codex File Structure
  3:05 Skills & Agents Compared
  4:17 The 3-Layer Mental Model
  5:13 Convert Any Project Fast
  6:23 Using Both Together
  8:11 Final Thoughts
---
In the past few weeks, I've had multiple instances where I was stuck on a problem inside Cloud Code, and then I handed it over to Codex, and it was able to solve it for me. And the cool thing about it is I didn't have to change context or make a new project. As you can see right here, on the left hand side, I've got Cloud Code, and on the right hand side, I've got Codex. So today is going to be a really quick video, and I'm just going to talk about if you want to try Codex, which I think you guys all should, how you can just switch over your same project so that you don't have to duplicate a bunch of stuff or lose a bunch of stuff. And it's so much easier than you think, so let's just dive straight in. All right, so what is the problem? The problem is that Cloud Code looks for a Cloud.MD file, as you guys know, and it looks for a dot Cloud folder. While Codex looks for an agents.MD file, and a dot Codex folder as well as a dot agents folder. So we take a quick look at this graphic. What's really awesome about working with different coding agents, whether that's Cloud Code or Codex or Hermes agent or whatever, comes next, is that they all are going to work out of basically the same shared knowledge. So documents, references, scripts, a bunch of different like context files. But every coding agent has their own kind of terminology for a few things. And that might be the Cloud.MD or the agents.MD. So really, all we have to do is just figure out how do we make sure that our project has everything set up so that any coding agent can come in here and read it really easily. So let me show you how easy that is. So in this specific example, with Cloud Code and with Codex, they have a few different things. We all know that our instructions live in the Cloud.MD file. So if I go up to this Herk2 project, which is kind of like my operating system, and I open up the Cloud.MD, we can say, hey, your Nate, Herk's executive assistant, here's your knowledge base, here's the wiki path, here's pretty much everything you need to know about Nate and what you do in this project. And Codex obviously uses that same sort of thing. It still injects that at the beginning of the sessions, except for the one that Codex looks for is called agents.MD. And you can see right here in my project as well as the Cloud.MD, I also have an agents.MD. And this is going over pretty much the exact same stuff that the Cloud.MD file goes over. You've also got your config file. So if I open up this project again, I have my dot Cloud all the way up at the top. And this is where I have agent memory. I have my different agents. I have some of the rules. I have some skills. And I also have like my settings. And when you look for this config folder in Codex, it is called the dot Codex file. So once again, I open this up. And you can see right here, I've got dot Codex. And this is where my agents live as well as my config document. You guys are going to get access to this actual HTML page. I'm going to put it in my free school community for completely free, which you guys can go download. And I think that looking at this might look a little bit intimidating like you have to memorize all this. But just remember the fact that both of these coding agents can do research and they can also look at their own documentation. So they know what they need. So just a minute here, I'm going to show you a prompt that you can use to basically switch any project over so that you can always make sure you're good with either coding tool. And the other thing is they both still use the same idea of like having global rules or global skills and then having project level ones. So you know the way that you have your sort of like your tilde dot clawed, those are where you can do user global preferences for the like global cloud, Md and the global skills. And then you can do project level ones like you see in here, anything that you're looking at right now in the dot clawed or in the dot agents is project specific rather than global all codex ever. But same thing codex, you can do global and you can also do project level. So what it would look like if you were doing a cloud code project, you will have your project, you'll have your cloud, Md, you'll have your dot clawed with settings with agents and with skills. And then for codex, you'd have your agents. MD with a dot codex folder for your config and your agents and then you'd have a separate folder for your skills called dot agents. And that's where you'd have your skills. But the cool thing is the skill files, which are the markdown files with the Yamel front matter are the exact same. The agent files are a little different in cloud code. Those are markdown files and in codex, they're T O M L files. They basically do the same thing on the left hand side. I can see that I'm going to open up my agent in cloud code, which is called the click up searcher and it looks like this. It's markdown. But then my click up searcher for codex, they do the same job, they understand the same things, except for this one is a T O M L file rather than a markdown file. So there's just a few little nuances, a few little things to change, but the AI makes it so much easier to do so. So here's the cheat sheet. Not going to read this whole thing out. You guys can obviously download this. You could even give it to your agents if you want, but they can do their own research really well. So I included this right here, five things that trip up beginners, but not going to read that out as well because it's super easy to understand when you just treat the AI like the instructor. Think about it like this in these three layers. You've got your shared knowledge, you've got your workflows or your skills, and then you've got your tool-specific config. So shared knowledge, any agent can read that, right? So in here, you can see that if I close out all of these configs and all these things, I've got archives, I've got audits, I've got brand assets, I've got decisions, I've got all these other worlds. I have all these projects and reference files. Any agent ever can get in here and read that and they don't have to change anything. And then you've got skills and agents and that's where you have to just put them in a different place. These can pretty much look the same, right? Whether Codex wants to use my morning coffee skill or Cloud Code, they can read it just the same because it's marked down. They just have to look for it in a different place. Cloud obviously looks for them in the dot-clod and Codex looks for them in the dot-agents folder. And then there are going to be some things that are tool-specific. So real quick example, some of my config settings here are called settings.local.json for Cloud Code. But for Codex, they're called config. So just little things like that. But anyways, the fastest way to convert a project is just using your natural language. Basically, whenever I need to use Codex in a project and I haven't done it before, I say, hey, I built this project using Cloud Code. But I need you, Codex, to be able to use it too. So create an agents.md file that basically just uses the Cloud.md as inspiration. Give me a dot codex config, put all of the skills in a dot-agents, put all of the agents in a dot codex. And by the way, do research on the codex documentation and do research on Cloud Code documentation and make sure that everything important converts over so that I can use it. And that's basically it. It's so simple. The only thing you have to think about is when it comes to the maintenance side, if you make a major change to your Cloud.md, you're probably going to want to say, okay, also just make that to the agents.md as well. Same thing with your skills, same thing with your subagents. One thing to keep in mind is that Codex subagents don't invoke automatically. You have to explicitly call on them. And there's a few other different ways, like the tools work and some of them that have different slash commands and things like that. But essentially, if you've mastered Cloud Code, then you have basically mastered Codex. Like they're very, very similar in the way that they work. They have different strengths and weaknesses and a few little things I'm working on right now, a full comparison video between Cloud Code and Codex. So that's going to be out very soon. But like I said, if you've never used Codex, I would highly recommend that you just pull up your project, your main sort of like operating system, and just start working with both of them together. Like for example, that HTML file that we're looking at right here, I built this using Cloud Code and Codex. You can see here, I had both due research, I had them compare, I had them look at the same files, they created this HTML, Cloud Code styled it, and then over here you can see, Codex said, hey, I kept Cloud's dark design, but I restored the value that he lost. So they were kind of working together on this file. And that's really cool. But you have to be careful, obviously, if you're working on the same file with two agents, they might overwrite each other's stuff. But it's very cool that I can just have my project open. I can have one terminal for Cloud Code, one terminal for Codex, and I can be working on different things. And what I really like to do is I built this skill called session handoff right here, which I will put in my free school community associated with this video. So if you want that, join the free school community link in the description. And so whenever I do session handoff, it basically summarizes, what have we talked about? What are the active files? What are the active decisions? And what are the next steps? And I could take that session handoff, copy it, and then paste it into Codex and keep going on my work. Like I said, sometimes Codex helps me get unstuck. So if you've ever felt like Cloud Code is feeling stupid right now or missing some elements or getting stuck, then try to session handoff and give it to Codex and just keep moving. And it might actually fix it in like 10 seconds, which sometimes it really does. So I'm not saying that I think Codex is significantly better than Cloud Code or even the other way. I'm just saying that it's really important to try both and just know what you like for different scenarios. Now yes, that means you might be paying for two subscriptions, but I think it's important if you can afford it to try different tools. Really the message I'm trying to communicate here is you want to become tool agnostic, don't get locked into one ecosystem. What happens if Cloud Code goes down all day long? Can you work just as fast because you now also have Codex right there? And if you're working inside of VS Code like I am here, both of these have an extension. You can see I can open up the Cloud Code extension. I could also open up the Codex extension. However, I've pretty much converted over to terminal. I'm a terminal boy now. It's really nice because now I can just type in Cloud and then that pulls up my Cloud. Or of course, I could just type in Codex and then that pulls up Codex. And now I have both of them working right here in my project. So that's going to do it for today. If you guys enjoyed the video, you learned something new. Please give it a like. It helps me out a ton. And as always, I appreciate you guys making it to the end of the video and I'll see you in the next one. Thanks guys.