---
video_title: "From Zero to Head of AI in 1 Year (as a regular person)"
video_id: diY71x7GUjI
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=diY71x7GUjI
video_date: 2026-06-12T13:59:30+00:00
video_description: |
  $1000 Free Hyperagent Credits (limited): https://www.hyperagent.com/nate
  My FREE AI OS Course: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society/about?el=ailin-podcast&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=free-group
  Full courses + unlimited support: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society-plus/about?el=ailin-podcast&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=ais-plus
  Apply for my YT podcast: https://podcast.nateherk.com/apply
  Work with me: https://uppitai.com/
  
  AI Automation Society Clips: @aiautomationsociety 
  
  My Tools💻
  FREE MONTH voice to text: https://get.glaido.com/nate
  Code NATEHERK for 10% off VPS (annual plan): https://www.hostinger.com/vps/claude-code-hosting
  
  Ailin spent 15 years as an email developer before her entire team was laid off, leaving her unemployed at 39 with two young kids. 
  
  About a year later, she's Head of AI at a company with 15 brands under it, owning the AI strategy across all of them. In this episode she walks through how she got there with no technical AI background: learning n8n and Claude Code from scratch, building in public, and showing up to interviews with real proof instead of a resume. 
  
  The whole thing came down to one question her interviewer asked: what have you built?
  
  Sponsorship Inquiries:
  📧 nate@smoothmedia.co
  
  Connect with me:
  https://www.linkedin.com/in/nateherkelman/
  https://x.com/nateherk
  https://www.instagram.com/nateherk/
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  00:00 Intro
  1:52 The New Role
  6:36 The Judgment Call
  8:26  Sponsor
  10:52 Fifteen Years of Email
  14:09 The Pivot
  18:28 Show Yourself
  26:05 What Have You Built?
  30:52 Making It Stick
  35:15 The Blueprint
  39:27 Full Circle
  41:35 Final CTA
---
I recently started a new role as Head of AI. I owned the AI strategy for 15 different companies. Real quick, jump back to that IBM survey that I talked about earlier. One of the stats that blew my mind, out of these 2000 CEOs, 76% of them said that they had essentially an equivalent of a chief AI officer. And in 2025, the number was 26%. So it jumped up 50% in just 24 months. This is no longer something that huge companies can have. It's actually something that every company will have. It looks technical, but it's absolutely non-technical. The other thing from this study that really blew my mind was the adoption. Around 85% of their employees have the skills to use AI. But they felt that the actual utilization of this technology were more around 25%. So then, after you showed this person what you've been building, what did the rest of that process look like? I had a cold directly with the CEO of the company. What's big TIGER? If you're not hands-on, literally every day, you're out. OK, Aileen, thank you so much for being here. I'm super excited to chat with you today. You just got a super exciting job offer to be ahead of AI. So congratulations about that. I'm really excited to dive in. So if you'd like to give everyone a real quick intro, a fool you are, and then let's just kind of jump right in. Alrighty, first of all, thanks to you for having me here. Hello, everybody. I'm Aileen. Like Nate said, I recently started a new role as Head of AI. And I am super excited to share everything that I've been going through in the last few months with everyone watching this. So yeah. Awesome. Thank you. Yeah. I'm really, really excited to dive into your journey and your background to understand how you got here. So let's start with the end first. What exactly is a head of AI? So head of AI, this is basically what I do every day. I started recently and I work at a company called Yang, which is basically an entrepreneurial ecosystem. It's one foreign company and then it's got 15 vertical companies underneath it. But they have huge plans to grow. So they really want to grow and make it bigger, which is crazy because they it's quite big already. In a good way, by the way. So what I do as the head of AI is I own the AI strategy across the group, which may not seem huge, but if you think about it, it's actually defining the strategy for 15 different companies. And this is only going to continue growing. So it's a lot in there. There's a lot of things that can be done. And we basically need to think of what we built, where, how, why, what makes sense, what to prioritize, what to live it for the end, or the quick wins and so on. So it's actually, it's a lot of work, but it's really, really good sign. Then there's the implementation because it's not only strategy. I'm actually hands on. So it's not only saying, okay, this is going to come first because of this, but it's actually, let's build it. How do we build it? How do we put it in place? So it's basically working from start to finish until it's live and seeing it work, basically. Yeah, that is awesome. That's really, really interesting. So across these 15 different groups, do each of them have like kind of different, different budgets to work with, and different teams and different, you know, ultimate and goals? I think it's, it's a, you know, I imagine there's so many different sub bullets and decisions that go into just saying, you know, I own AI strategy. Yes, absolutely. So each company is completely different. So it's all under one parent company, but each of them, just, they're also, for example, there's Yanco working, there's Yanco fee, Yanco's, sorry, co-working spaces, Yanco fee, Yanco tells, there's so many of them, and they're completely different. So what company one does is completely different to what the other one does. So this strategy around what to automate and what, well, maybe even what doesn't make sense to automate, it's completely different from one to the other. Yeah. So it's, it's very interesting. It's, there's a lot to learn. Like I said, I started recently, but it's, quite like it's very, very interesting. And then of course, because it's so much, it's not a one person job. So I'm in the process of actually hiring a team. And I'm actually using your community quite a lot because the people there are amazing. And I'm trying to, yeah, I'm trying to hire from there because you can see the energy, you can see the people there, the commitment to learn and implement and so on. So it's, it's a really fun thing to do. Absolutely. So it sounds like you are driving strategy and, you know, kind of managing these projects in a way, but you're not hands-on obviously building this stuff. How technical would you say you, oh, maybe you are. Yeah, yes. You dive into that a little bit for us. So I'm actually, at the moment, I'm actually doing the, the builds as well. So, you know, I jump in, I call with Person A, with the fine, what the process looks like. We think about what makes it to ultimately because not everything makes sense to ultimately. Some things you want to give human. And once we have the whole process marked, it's just a matter of going into code and starting the fun part, which is actually implementing this and seeing what it comes up with and what makes better sense than other approaches and so on. So it is actually put on, you know, hands-on. And I also will be, you know, managing the team and of course driving the strategy and so on. But I do want to be hands-on because this change is so quickly nowadays that if, you know, if you're not hands-on, proud because there's new things every literally every day. So I actually want to keep that part at least for now, very hands-on. So I get to continue learning, continue seeing how the space evolves and it likes. It's good. It's good. Yeah, absolutely. So I've got a quick question for you. I'd love to hear your take on. There was a study that came out or a survey, I should say, from IBM. They surveyed 2,000 CEOs. I think the median annual revenue was about 6 billion of these 2,000 CEOs. And 25% of them said that they are comfortable with sort of like the operational decisions being made by AI, sort of like strategy type decisions. And it's expected to almost double by 2030 to about 50%. So I'd be curious to hear from you when it comes to you brainstorming and driving strategy across these different groups. How comfortable do you feel and how much do you use AI in the brainstorming and like decision-making process? Or do you like to keep that aspect very human? I do a mix. So I like to use AI and I think sometimes it thinks of things that maybe I haven't thought through and it's really good input. But it also, situations where you ask something and it gives you such a reassurance reply and it's like it's the only way and then suddenly you're like hold on. Maybe we can do this this other way and it's like absolutely. I think both is good. Not using it at all. Nowadays I think it's not the way to go because there's a lot of valuable input out of it. But using it for everything, it's dangerous as well. Absolutely. Yeah. There's this quote that I keep hearing which I love, which is that you can outsource the thinking but you can't outsource the understanding. And I think that that's a great example of having AI, think about the different paths and do research and bring you these different decisions. But ultimately you should be the one that understands the pros and cons and the trade-offs of each of these decisions and then you, the human are making that decision. So yeah, I appreciate the the thoughts there. All right, guys, real quick. I need to take a second to tell you guys about the sponsor of today's video, Hyperagent. So Hyperagent is an AI agent building platform that is completely in the cloud and it is actually built by air table. So if you guys already use air table for a lot of your data, then Hyperagent is the next natural step. But if you've never used air table before, don't worry, this is a completely separate platform and just think of it as a cloud AI agent builder. This is what the command center looks like. And by the way, that video you guys just saw, yes, I did build that with my Hyperagent here. And what I love about this is it's got its own little virtual desktop over here that I can move around. I can see its plans. I can see the documents. I can see the videos. It's super cool. They each have their own kind of like little virtual computer. But anyways, if you guys have seen stuff like OpenClaw or Paperclip, that is exactly what this feels like to me, except for you don't have that technical overhead of, oh, do I need a Mac mini or do I need to get a VPS? You literally just log on to Hyperagent and it works instantly out of the box. You can see here I can manage my two agents, which right now I have a sales prospector and a chief of staff. I can see the cost. I can see the breakdown. I can see what needs improvement. I can see what's going on right from here. So let's say I wanted to build a new agent. I would just come over here, click on new agent and I can create an agent with chat or I could start from a template and choose one of these. And what I just asked to create me here is an AI agent that will live in my Slack and basically look at my calendar and proactively do research before I have a sales call and it will give me a brief. And so that's the shift here is we're not thinking of these things as AI agents. We're more so thinking of them as co-workers because they're always on and they live in the apps that you already use like Slack, like Google, whatever it is. So this to me just feels like open claw, but it's way less technical because if you ever want to connect to something, you literally just click on integrations and then you just have to sign into all of these different platforms. And then you can just at mention them in something like Slack and they're awake and they can respond to you. Just a quick heads up though, HyperAgent does use usage base pricing so you can't just plug in your, you know, clawed or chat Gbt subscription. But what's cool about this is you can refer a bunch of friends and you get $100, they get $1,000 and right now because I'm working with the HyperAgent team, they are doing a limited time bonus where you right now can go get $1,000 of free usage right here. It's only for the first 1,000 people that click the link in the description. So go ahead and claim that bonus before it's gone. So anyways, let's get back to the video. Yeah, let's keep on moving through here. I'd love to know about a little bit about your background before you had this role and you know, the steps that people could take if they would like to get a similar sort of role in head of AI or director of AI or maybe even chief AI officer, whatever, you know, they're all being called nowadays. So yeah, let's dive into that. All right. So, sorry, my background, I spent 15 years as an email developer, which is a lot of time. It's ridiculously a lot of people usually move from that to front end developer. I am not a developer. My head doesn't work like that. When, you know, something breaks for a developer, they try to fix it. I'm there motivated where for me, if something broke, I wanted to cry basically. I would like someone picks this. I don't think I've ever heard that term before. What is an email developer? So, you know, when you subscribe to, sort of, or sorry, you know, when you subscribe for a company's email and you want to receive updates or anything that you're interested, you receive an email that has images, has code to actions, text and so on. That for it to render properly, you actually have to code it using HTML and CSS, in line, CSS. Well, yeah, something like that. So for it to, you know, if you click on the bottom and for it to take you somewhere else, you actually have to add the code and punish the images and test in all email clients to make sure that everything looks good. And once you're happy, they can go out. But it's okay. Yeah, it's working properly in all the notes. So you were handwriting all of that like HTML and CSS and Gacha, okay, okay? Yes. But if you ask a proper front and developer is email marketing or HTML is actually developing, they will let your face because it's like the very basic subject. Gacha, okay. So then I got promoted to technical lead and I was the manager of a team of 16 email developers and QAs. And so we were doing a lot of emails every day. I was leading the team. It was a really, really fun job. I really enjoyed being a management leadership role. And then two years later, all of a sudden, the entire team was let go. It wasn't, you know, about performance or anything like that. There were reasons behind it unrelated to anything like that. But it was real, you know, we were all let go. And then from one day to the other, the role that I really loved, it's not existent. And so I think 39 years old, unemployed, I have two kids, very small kids, three and five now. And this was almost a year ago. And I was completely done with email development. But as it usually happens, the day that I found out that I was going to lose my job, I opened LinkedIn and I started looking for email development management, even email development, even though I didn't want to go back. But there are so many tools out there that you can just do a drag and drop without requiring coding or anything that the email development role in itself is actually disappearing. So let alone find a management email development or email team role. It's actually almost impossible nowadays. So I thought, what can I do to actually get out of the email world because I was done with working with emails, 15 years of emails it's insane. Like, I don't want to see any more emails ever again, basically. So I was like, what can I do? This is happening for a reason. I need to find out where or what to do instead of this because I'm done. Like, I don't want to see one more email. So I wasn't going to go with a friend. She mentioned automations and I was like, but isn't that for really technical people? Well, you know, not really. You have tools like an agent and it's like really, you know, it's exploded. People all over are using an agent and the community is great and so on. So I thought, okay, maybe I'll give you a try. So she told me, okay, just give me a try. Let's have a call in, you know, two weeks and you tell me what you think. So I did. I went first into Zapier. Fun, easy, fun. Then I went into make. It was a lot better in my opinion, like a lot more things to do. And then I went into an attend and it exploded. It was like, okay, this is it. The community is amazing. An agent is great. It's non-technical. And if there's any code or anything, I have to go to the code. I opened, at last, the browser with chat to be on the side and I turned on the main window and I started the automations, which meant, hey, chat to be the, I want to create an automation of. So it would tell me not by note exactly what I needed to put, how to put it, how to connect it. And then of course, it would break at some point and it would start to loop that wouldn't help me fix it. And I had no idea what I was doing. So I decided to join your community at the AIS class course. And it was great because I got to go through the whole N10 course. And then the first people came to the club code. And if N10 had long my mind before club code, just exploding. Oh, 100%. Yeah. So something I'd like to to double tap on real quick is the fact that you had a background 15 years in email development. And we're also promoted to a tech lead there. But what I wanted to highlight for people listening is that you didn't have 15 years experience in AI or in automation. You were writing code in, you know, HTML and CSS, but you kind of got, you were very new into the AI automation world. And we're still able to in a very short amount of time take on this head of AI role. So I think it's just really cool to hear. And it's it's inspiring to hear that you don't have to be, you know, someone that's been in the AI game for decades already to be able to earn a spot like this. So it's very cool. I agree. I agree 100% and yes, you're correct on what you say. And one thing to add here is that a lot of people are scared of going into AI because they think it's really technical. And it's not like, especially now with code, it's it looks technical, but it's absolutely non technical. So anyone listen listening to this. Don't be scared of, you know, trying it out because it's as long as you can follow something to learn, it's easy. It's really interesting. And it's actually amazing. Right. Yeah. And I think the best way to approach it is like, whatever your domain of expertise is, just open up something like cloud and say, hey, every day I do x, y, and z, how could AI help me here? It's not like you have to learn in a completely new skill. Like just I already do this. How can AI make me faster and better at this? And I think that's the mindset shift that people who haven't really touched it need to take on. Exactly. Exactly. And literally the skills, right? Because you can also create skills that do this, thanks for you without without, you know, one line of text saying, hey, I need to design this. Done. Absolutely. So awesome. Is it? Yeah. So then after you kind of fell into the cloud code rabbit hole, what what started going on next? So I know you know this. I covered Alex Hormosi on my world change completely. I never heard of him until this point. And I started going on daily walks because I had the time. I was unemployed. And I, well, you heard of, you heard of Nate heard before Hormosi. I would compliment. I can't wear on a call. Anything. So yeah, I thought, okay, I need something to get me interested, interested in during my walks. Otherwise, I would stop doing it. And somehow I got to the $100 million offer smoke. So I thought, okay, let's give it a try. I don't know what this is, but it sounds interesting. I mean, of course, I want that. So I started listening to it. And say, Sean, seriously. Yeah. Yeah. Sean, something that looks so impossible to achieve before I discovered this was actually, it was giving me the path right there in my audio book while I was walking every day. And so, you know, I became obsessed and with both automations and how to make it work and try to practice and think ahead of maybe not just doing any single thing, but doing things that actually interest me and putting myself out there. And the recipe was right there in my ears because I was listening to it. I love that. Yeah. I think then the one thing that Alex, and again, you know, this for sure, the one thing that Alex keeps bringing up is show yourself. If you want to become someone or do something like being the first step, you got to show yourself. You got to put yourself out there. It doesn't matter if it's perfect. It doesn't matter. Just do it. Start. And so, but then this was before the jumping to code. I was starting with an item and I thought I want to become an ambassador. So I reached out to the guy here in Balenciac. He recently became the first ambassador here in Balenciac. Spain. So I reached out. Yeah. And I was like, Hey, so can I give you a hand organizing the next event because I know this kind of adds some points to your application when you do apply. I see with something that left me kind of like, wait, what? He said, do you actually want to be a speaker in the meetup? No. I do not thank you, but no. I keep it slavvy. He said, you know, just think about it. If you decide, no, he's dancer, that's absolutely okay. But if you change your mind, just let me know and you'll become a speaker. So the next 24 hours, I like to think was Alex Formosi said, you got to show yourself. So I'll go there and do it. So 24 hours later, I reached out to this guy and I was like, okay, let's do it. So I decided to give a chat on any tent for non-technical people. And the day came, I was honestly terrified. I hate talking in people. That's the one thing I knew all my life. I was never going to do. And the guy goes to the front. I was like, okay, we're going to start this and you know, shared a bit of information. And the first speaker was me. And when he called my name, I went up the stage and my legs were shaking so bad. But anyway, talking, I started even there, the chat, it felt more comfortable after a couple of minutes. And that was that. Suddenly I had, you know, pictures to show on LinkedIn. And yeah, content to put out there about me putting myself out there. And so on. So this is bringing this up because it actually matters later down the line on how I got the role of FETOBI. By the way, guys, I know we are diving into a ton of information in this episode. So what I did is I broke all of this down into a free resource guide that you can access for completely free by joining the free school community, the link for that is down in the description. Also, if you want to check out some of the key moments from this episode and all future podcasts on my channel, then go ahead and check out the AI Automations Society YouTube channel where we're going to be posting some of the best moments from the podcasts over there. I'll link that YouTube channel in the description of this video as well. Anyways, thanks guys. Let's get back to the podcast. Awesome. Yeah, well, well, you know, good for you. Good for you doing that. It takes obviously a lot of guts to get up in front of a bunch of people in person and do something like that. But it sounds like it certainly paid off. So good for you. It was fun. It was more than 90 people, which I never thought I would do something like that. So it was, yeah, it was interesting. So between everything that had gone through until now, the most or the better advice that I can give is show yourself. So I created two channels. One is in English and one is in Spanish because I'm Argentinian. So it's more comfortable for me. Okay. I'm posting steadily or often on LinkedIn. Sometimes it's great. Sometimes it's not, but still content goes out. Yep. Consistency is good. Exactly. I follow your course from start to finish and I'm recording everything that I'm building just to be able to show it when the time comes. And I am definitely out of my comfort zone as much as I can. So getting on there, putting videos up, I don't have a lot of followers or subscribers or anything in YouTube, but I'm still doing it is creating visibility. So if I build something, I'll put it there and people can check and by the time you get to an interview, that actually shows because if you have things that you can actually show and there's a person there and it's going through it and it's explaining it becomes real. So go and back to the slides in here. What I still do, even in this role, I still try to go out there, I still try to walk one hour a day with my audiobook. I actually, I'm actually listening to listening to her most again. Just to keep motivated and the first time you listen to it, you forget stuff. So I'm going back to it. I keep hearing the show yourself advice. So it's helping me keep on going. And I am part of the 4AM club. So I wake up every morning at 4AM. I have some concentration period where I can learn, practice, build out the nations without any interruptions or anything. And it actually helps me a lot because my day is a lot more structure because of this. Yeah, you set up your own scheduled automation for yourself for your own job. Just wake up every day. I love that because like the majority of people if I made a joke like that would just look at me like I'm crazy, but you got to find the niche people like the automation. Exactly right. And it is throughout the end of the day. It's day in and day out. It's happening. Monday to Friday. That's it. Absolutely. Yeah, I love it. So after all of this, and it might seem a little bit disconnected from some pieces, but it's all coming to this. Okay. I decided to start applying to jobs and it took me a while. I didn't want to go back to doing just anything. I wanted something that actually gave me motivation and that I actually enjoyed what I was doing. So I didn't apply to a thousand jobs. I applied maybe 10 or something like that. And one of these was the head of AI role. And they had my CV because I applied through LinkedIn, but the HR lady sent me an email. And she was lovely. And the one thing that she asked me was, what have you built? So if I hadn't gone to this whole path, I would try to give her an explanation of all the things that I built, but that she couldn't see. And all the things I had in my head, but it's just an email that judge GPT or a clot or anyone can actually create for you. So by the time I actually got this email, I had two channels or two YouTube link channels to share. One in English, one in Spanish, which was really funny because there are some people from Argentina in the company and some people from Netherlands, so it actually they actually watched both of it. I had the LinkedIn proof of everything that I had built. I had the N810 meetup lined up for the following week. So it didn't happen by then, but it was about to happen. I had all the demos that I built through and I was explaining how to do it and how it worked and showing on screen, you know, if you press this, it will generate the replies on emails or whatever it was or agents or whatever. So they could actually see that and it wasn't just a person randomly talking about all the awesome things that I did, but I cannot show you because I don't have a video or proof. Yeah, that's incredible. I mean, that is what separates you from all the other people that they're looking at on paper when they can put a face to the name and maybe even a voice to the face and see this proof. And I think it's just like whether you are applying for a head of AI role or whether you're trying to go get your first client or your seventh, all of them are probably going to ask you what have you built and all of them are going to want to see that. And I think what you said earlier about like, you know, at this point, I didn't even have any followers and I was just kind of posting and, you know, building my proof. I think it's so important because that sort of metric is what might discourage a lot of people. But to me, if I was looking to hire someone and I see that they've been posting consistently on LinkedIn and YouTube and they're not even having anything go viral or having a bunch of subscribers or followers. And to me, that almost makes it like more respectable because it's like, what is this person's incentive here? It's not maybe to blow up. It's not to go viral. It's not for money. It's because this person clearly has a passion for it. And I think that that's just really amazing. Exactly. And honestly, even if you have zero followers, you're able, or sorry, subscriber, you're actually able to show it. So with the timecans and they ask you what have you built, you have links. It doesn't matter how many views they have. You can show it. And it's you there. It's your face. I have so many people on LinkedIn that they just post content and you have no idea who they are or maybe even photos or something. But for me, the videos, they show the person more than a postcard. Absolutely. Awesome. So then after you showed this person, what you've been building, what did the rest of that process look like? I had a call directly with the CEO of the company. Okay. So Street Tiger. Wow. And when straight to the CEO, we decided to do a two week trial. Not hands on building, but more strategic thinking. And she put me on one of the in the hotels, young hotels. And I started talking to the team and seeing what opportunities there were and what I would do. And I would propose things. She gave me some feedback the CEO. And then that became a really interesting work because it wasn't actually doing automation. So it was just thinking about how to improve this, how to do that, what I don't want to automate, what I do want to automate, and what I would do first because it saves money and it makes sense and so on. And within that trial, I had a call with the founder. It's really on board with AI and automation and how to make the best use out of it. So he's actually giving me a really like to do so many cool things, both of them. That actually makes it perfect. It's like the perfect job. It's interesting. It's got strategy. It's actually hands on. I get the team, which is what I left from my other job. It's the perfect role. Yeah, absolutely. I think that that's so interesting. And if I real quick jump back to that IBM survey that I talked about earlier, one of the stats that blew my mind. And now obviously, take this with a grain of salt because this was 2000 CEOs, but out of these 2000, 76% of them said that they had essentially an equivalent of a chief AI officer in their organizations, which is 76% which blew my mind. And in 2025, so just a year before, or sorry, I think it was actually two years before, the number was 26%. So it jumped up 50% in just 24 months, which is crazy for a C-suite role. And the other thing from this study that really blew my mind was the adoption. They basically said that they would predict that around 85% of their employees have the skills, or if they were to take a few lessons or courses, they could have the skills to use AI, but they felt that the actual utilization of this technology and of the skills were more around 25%. So I'd be curious to hear from you, like, when you think about this head of AI role, you're obviously leading strategy and working on projects and making sure that those projects directly correlate with some sort of KPI and ultimately drive profits or grow to the business in some way. But how are you and your team also thinking about adoption and making this stuff stick kind of the change management from top down? What does that look like for you guys? I think most people, I don't know the entire team yet, but I think most people are very excited about this. And I can already see people reaching out saying, hey, I would really like to ultimatize this. What do you think? And I think that people are interested. I went into the first call saying, hey, hello, this is me. First of all, I'm not trying to replace anyone, kind of just getting it out there. And they were like, oh, no, we don't care about that. We're really excited about this. That's awesome. Yeah. Yeah. The team is making it really easy on me. Like it's great. It's great. They want to see it work and they want to use it. They, I think they understand what it brings to the table. It's not about firing people to get replaced by AI, but it's making their life better. So they can actually do more interesting stuff rather than their repetitive automated or not automated or in date today. So it's not taking everything out of their place. It's just taking the boring out. Yeah. I mean, it's got to be a culture shift from the top down. It's not a, you know, two-month workshop that we're doing this quarter or a compliance training you have to click through. It has to be a culture shift. And I think that's what's so difficult, especially for these larger organizations with legacy systems, legacy SOPs, it is tough. And I think it's great that you stepped into an environment where everyone was pretty excited. That's huge. Because I've definitely felt that before where that's not the case. You know, people are like, oh, look at this guy. This is the one that this guy wants to come in here and take my job with his robots. So that's great that you have. Sounds like just a nice supportive culture. Yes. And I was quite scared of that before my first goal. So I honestly, I went in and that was the first thing I said. I'm not trying to replace anyone. Please don't hate me. You know, this is going to be great. And I almost get it. Yeah, it's good that you did it. Yeah, especially because I mean, you are also in-house. But for people that maybe are taking the approach of like being consultants that come from external into the org, it's like consultants already sometimes have a really negative connotation for the actual stakeholders of the process. So very, very important either way. But awesome. Yeah. So what, what kind of happened after you got started then? Yes. So the first few weeks, it was more understanding what the company is and what each branch of it is and so on. And then of course, it was thinking about the processes and better use cases of automations and what was more important within those automations. And now I'm on the process of hiring a team because this is huge. Like the amount of work there is to do. If I'm the only person doing it, I'm going to be the bottleneck and it's going to get stuck and you know, we're going to lose that momentum. So we are actually starting to hire and having interviews with some people or AI, AIS class. Awesome. Awesome. Yeah, seeing how it goes. But it's interesting. There's a lot of people really committed and really looking to make a change in this new era with AI and so on. So it's a good place to be. It's a good place to dive into AI and everything that can come out of it. So you have talked about kind of how you went from not really feeling comfortable with AI and automation to starting to learn how to build. And I think that building to some extent is very important. I'm not saying that everyone needs to go figure out how to build a full stack app themselves. But I think, you know, obviously you have to understand what you're building and why and how it works. You've also talked about building in public and sort of documenting some of this stuff getting on your comfort zone. What else do you have to tell people who maybe would like to be able to step into some sort of role like head of AI? What else could they be doing when it comes to the prep or maybe even like the interviewing and the applications? What else could people be sort of taken away from this? I think a couple of advice is for people going into interviews. Things that I've started to see now is do your research. Research the person that's going to interview you to interview you or research the company. Even more important. I have people coming into their interview saying, so I research young and you know, I know these things and that. And I think we can do some really cool stuff on this and actually showing the motivation of what they want to do and what they want to bring to the table. And then I have other people reaching out and sending abbreviations of the words and like, hey, what happened? I'm like, hold on, are you having a job or like, so I would say try to take it serious, try to do your research, have something to show. Just gonna happen. There's gonna be so many jobs on AI and automations because the world as we know it is changing and this is no longer something that huge companies can't have. It's actually something that every company will have. So if you're interested in doing this, just I did learn it, play with it, apply to jobs, just do the bandaid. Don't stay here waiting to, you know, see what happens or maybe AI won't replace me. Just go out there and make it happen. It's so much fun. It really is. It really is once you get in the mindset that everything that you do in life, everything that you try, you always kind of go through that period. And this is something I talk about a lot in the community, which is something that I got from Hermosi, which is like the entrepreneurial transition curve or just in general, the transition curve. And the idea that you always are excited at the beginning and that's the stage of the uninformed optimist because you just don't really understand the complexities. You come over that hump and you become the informed pessimist. And then you just basically have this decision of do you want to crash and burn or are you going to take that momentum all the way back up again. Now you're also an optimist, but you are an informed optimist. And I think that that's really important for people to understand that everyone has that feeling of overwhelm and it's not just once you get that feeling maybe every week, maybe every month. You just gotta push through. And I think that's really important. So yeah, we covered a lot of great stuff today. What do you have here on this last slide to sort of close us out today? Just a closing. I want to thank you, Nate. If you asked me a year ago, I saw this call coming. I would have laughed at anyone's face like the first thing that came up when I googled outsmation was you and your videos and I started going into it. And then I asked someone on my LinkedIn like, I'm starting on these two, not many courses that I could do. And the guys replies was that course. That's it. Awesome. I love it. So when I started, I was like, this guy is awesome. So having, you know, being here today with you, it feels unreal. And I can't believe it's only been a year since I started this journey. It's insane. It's incredible. A year from basically no way I experienced a head of AI at an awesome company is incredible. It's super, super motivating. And I'm really glad that you were in our community and that I had the chance to get to talk to you today. Me too. Thank you. And if anyone having a look at this, if you want to connect on LinkedIn or follow or subscribe to my channel, English, Spanish, all the QR codes are there. So feel free to give it a go. Once they touch. Awesome. Well, Aileen, thanks so much for joining today. This was an awesome conversation. And I am super excited to follow your journey at young and see what else you get up to. And maybe we'll have to bring you back. And you can tell us about all the great stuff that you've been doing for the past couple of years at young and how the head of AI role has evolved. Because I imagine it's going to evolve a lot over your next couple of years. So yeah, let's keep in touch. Congratulations again on this awesome opportunity. And thank you so much for hopping on today. Thank you, Nate. And seriously, this is a great opportunity. It's really good to get to know you even through this friend. And thank you for the chance of being here. Awesome. Thanks so much. Thanks. Bye. Thanks so much for watching today's episode. I hope that you guys enjoyed. Don't forget that I broke all of us down into a free resource guide that you can access for completely free using the link in the description to join our free school community. I'll see you guys in there. Thanks so much.