---
video_title: "Claude Design Builds Beautiful 3D Websites Instantly (full tutorial)"
video_id: TcFeSjwTo7g
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TcFeSjwTo7g
video_date: 2026-04-21T20:03:42+00:00
video_description: |
  My FREE AI OS Course: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society/about?el=claude-design-websites&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=free-group
  Full courses + unlimited support: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society-plus/about?el=claude-design-websites&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=ais-plus
  Apply for my YT podcast: https://podcast.nateherk.com/apply
  Work with me: https://uppitai.com/
  
  My Tools💻
  FREE MONTH voice to text: https://get.glaido.com/nate
  Code NATEHERK for 10% off VPS (annual plan): https://www.hostinger.com/vps/claude-code-hosting
  
  I used Claude Design to rebuild my AI Automation Society site and my personal site in about 20 minutes each, and the results felt way more polished than what I had before. 
  
  In this video I walk through the full process of going from an idea to a deployed website, including how to plan with Claude, use Claude Design's tweaks and comments, push everything to GitHub, and host it on Vercel. I also break down what actually eats your usage limits so you can stretch every session a lot further
  
  Sponsorship Inquiries:
  📧 nate@smoothmedia.co
  
  Connect with me:
  https://www.linkedin.com/in/nateherkelman/
  https://x.com/nateherk
  https://www.instagram.com/nateherk/
  
  TIMESTAMPS 
  0:00 What We're Building
  1:41 Planning the Brand
  4:13 Live Build in Claude Design
  8:15 Inspiration from Motions.ai
  10:24 Tweaks & Iteration
  14:06 Grab my FREE Skills
  14:48 Back to the Build
  19:23 Deploying with GitHub & Vercell
  25:44 Mobile Optimization
  27:04 Stretching Your Limits
---
So in just 20 minutes, I was able to transform my AI automation society website from this to this. Where now, as I start to scroll, we go on this journey. We go through this scene where we have these different cards that pop up, and you can see they're kind of 3D, they're interactive. And as we keep scrolling, we're going more through the journey. We've got this next slide. We keep going here. We've got this one, everything you need to master AI automation. And you can see that this is a much more interactive and polished feel than the way that it used to be. We've got the final call to action to join the movements. And you can see we've kind of went through the journey of like an evolution of technology, which I just think was super, super cool. And what you'll notice is I was able to take the brand feel and the vibe and the colors and all of the copy. And I was able to just move it over really easily. So it has all the same important information, but it's just a much more interactive feel. And then 20 minutes later, I was able to do the exact same thing with my personal website. Here you can see it's got sort of like dark vibes. It's got a bunch of statistics. It's got different things that I'm up to. And I just kind of transformed it to be a little bit more dynamic. You can see it's me sitting on some floating island in the middle of space and I'm working on a computer. But as we scroll down, we have the same elements. We have the same copy. We have the same feel. But now it just has a lot more depth and it just feels a lot more polished. So what I'm going to show you guys today is how we set up websites like this using Cloud Design. We can have different elements. We can have different feels. And everything is designed in a way that is just way more engaging and professional. And I've been trying a lot of different things here. You can see I've already eaten through my design quota. And I've already spent over $200 in extra usage, just playing around with the stuff. So not only am I going to show you guys the tips and the tricks that I've learned, but I'm also going to go over some important stuff like how do you actually not drain your limit faster? And how do you get the most out of what you're doing here? I don't want to waste any time today. Let's just go ahead and get straight into the video. All right, so I'm about to show you guys everything you need to do step by step to take an idea from your brain onto an actual website and deployed so that other people can actually view it and access it. OK, so let's say you want to transform a website. All you would really want to do is if this has some sort of codebase and GitHub or Cloud Code or wherever this actually lives, you can basically just grab that GitHub repo or you can grab the folder with all of the contents and just give it to Cloud Design. So that's kind of like the first method. The other method is, what if you just have an idea and what if you just need to build a website from scratch? Well, let me show you what I'm doing here in a side of actual Cloud Chat in order to give us an example to build together today. So I said, I want to build a website using Cloud Design. And I'm looking for some inspiration on the type of website that I should build. What is the product of service that we're offering? And what should the hero section and actual copy be like? Help me basically build a brand. And I'll give me the spec for this. So it came up with this idea of having a nightly wind down drink, one scoop of magnesium glycinate, blah, blah, blah. But the brand is called Lull. And it gives me the positioning and the voice, visual identity, and what the site should look like. So that's awesome. And then I come back and I say, cool. I want to create a video that will play in the background of the hero section. And it will just be on an endless loop. I need the video to fit the vibe. And I wanted to have a wow factor so that when people go to the website, they're like, oh wow, this is professional. There's not be any text, but it should also have room where we could insert a block for the hero text and the subtext. So what I'm asking it for is an image prompt for the background and then a video prompt to animate that. So it spits out an image prompts right here. So basically the theme, the concept, is a dark ceramic mug with a warm liquid inside. And then just kind of having that be steaming in the background, which would give it a nice feel. And it will fit the vibe of like, sleepy time, tea, or whatever this is supposed to be. So it gives me the image prompt. And I'm going to go over to key.ai. I'm using nano banana 2. So I drop in the image prompts right here. I make sure that it's a 16 by 9 ratio. And then I get this image, which as you can see, is basically just a mug with some sort of liquid. This is where we put the hero text and the subtext, which is nice. And then it's steaming. And then I take this image and I go back into a different tab and key. And I go to cdance 2.0. And I put that image in as the first frame and the last frame. And I go ahead and I grab that prompts down here for the video prompts in order to animate the image. The key thing here is that the camera isn't moving. It's basically just a still frame or a still video of this coffee or whatever it is being animated. So here's what this looks like. As you can see, it's just steaming and it looks really nice. Now imagine this is the background of a website when you've got text over here. Could look pretty nice. OK, so now we have those initial elements. I'm going to open up cloud design. And I'm going to go ahead and do a new prototype. And we're going to start with a high fidelity prototype. I'm not going to use a design system. Because in this case, we're kind of starting our own new brand. And maybe we can build a design system around this later. But for now, I'm just going to go ahead and say none. And we're going to call this low website, because that's the name of the brand. So I'm going to create. What it's going to do is it's going to spin up this little lovable like interface. If we wanted to, we could start with a sketch over here. So we could literally come in here and say, OK, here's going to be our website. This is where I wanted another square. This is where we're going to have the main video. So it'll be the background of the hero. And I could come in here and say, this is the hero background video. And then we want another box over here, which will be the hero text and subtext, hero text. And then I'll come down here and just say hero subtext. We could also probably want some sort of navbar up top. So this is like the logo might be over here. Oops, that's not how you spell logo. And then we could also have shop or something like that. And so this is just a way for us to visually get on the same page as Claude. And then of course, you can see down here, it would be looking at the sketch. So let's just go ahead and keep this for now. Obviously, if you have a better vision, you can put some more time and attention into this. You could also lay out the rest of your site down here too. And then you can add notes and stuff. But for now, let's just leave it like that. And what I'm going to do now is I'm going to drag in that actual MP4 that we got from seed ants. You can see that it's uploading the file and it's right here. Now, this was an eight second video. It's not going to let you upload videos that are like 30 seconds long. There's a cap. And I believe it's around 30 or 40 megabytes. So just keep that in mind. I've gotten away with uploading 15 second videos. I tried a 20 second video and it worked, but just keep that in mind. So now what I want to do is Claude already did all the hard, heavy lifting for us. If I come back all the way up here, it basically gave us the brand and all of this stuff with a visual identity, the different sections, the footer. And you can see that it also has colors and stuff. So I'm going to take this. I'm going to go back into Claude Design. And I'm just going to paste that in. And that gets pasted in as a little bit of an artifact because it was a long bit of text. So now I just explain what I wanted to do. Hey, Claude Design, I've given you a couple things. I've got a sketch, which is just my basically idea for the hero section. There's going to be a lot of little sections beneath, which you will be on your own to figure out what that should look like. I've given you the sleepbackground.mp4. This is a video that I want you to be playing on an endless loop in the background. And you should see that the hero text will be on the left side compared to that. And then I paste it in 23 lines of text, which is kind of the brand identity, the feel for the website, and how you should write the copy. And just go ahead and write all the copy for now. We can make tweaks later. OK, so I'm going to paste that in. And go ahead and shoot that off. If you guys are curious about how I'm doing voice to text, check the description for the tool. I'm using extra usage, by the way. But it's going to start to build this out. And if it has any specific questions for us, it will come back and it will ask those questions. But right now, it looks like it's just going to run. And also, keep in mind, this is right now using Claude Opus 4.7. So honestly, like the planning phase, I like to use Opus 4.7. If we wanted to later make some iterations and we wanted to do other things, we could bump the model down. But keep in mind, this is going to use Opus 4.7, which is the most expensive model that is publicly available to us right now. But I love how we still have the feel of Claude over here, because it's telling us what it's thinking. We can see what it's doing. It makes it to do list. So it's very easy for us to just check in on how it's going and where we are. It's creating a design system here. So we've got kind of a color palette. We've got text right here. And it's honestly best practice, especially when you're getting used to Claude design to just watch what it's doing. And go ahead and stop it if it's going down the wrong path. Because if it's going down the wrong path, it's going to build stuff. And that's going to use a lot of your session limit. So you might as well stop it and refresh or re-correct it before it was all that time. Now, while this is running, I want to show you guys the way that I was able to get some other inspiration. There's this really cool site called MotionSites.ai. And shout out to my guy, Aiden. He showed me this site and I was like, this is awesome. So the way this works is you can basically look at backgrounds and you can look at actual other sites for inspiration. So what you'll notice here, if you guys remember, my version of AI Automation Society, so this website where we have this kind of scene in the background. And as we scroll through, we have these visual cards. It's like a journey for the POV of the actual end user. I was inspired by this one. So if I open this up, you can see this is a scroll journey. It's got these 3D dynamic elements in the cards. And I was able to literally just copy this prompt. And I gave this to Claude design. And I said, hey, this is a cool concept. I want you to replace the background image with, or sorry, not the background image. I want you to replace the background video with this background video. And I dropped in mine. And I said, I want you to update all of the copy and the brand colors and feel to my brand. And then I gave it in like a design system. So that's basically all I had to do to turn my AI Automation Society into this. And there's so many other ones. Most of these are free. I am on the paid plan, which is literally just 99 bucks for life. So that's pretty cool. But some of these are going to be premiums. Some of these are going to be free. But like I said, you basically just find the ones you like, find the ones that fit your brand, hit copy, give that to Claude design, and it will recreate it. And then you're able to just tweak from there. And then if I go to backgrounds, you can see that there's just a bunch of backgrounds that we can look at. So for some reason, it's not registering that I'm a premium member. But either way, let's say we really like this background. I could copy this. If I open up a new tab and paste that in, it basically just gives me that animation, which I could obviously go ahead and download and then display behind the text on my website, behind the different sections on my website. Considering that most of the stuff here is free, head over to motion sites, and just play around. It's going to give you some inspiration, and there's a lot of cool elements in here that you can work in. So also, if you guys remember my Nate Herk one, I'm sitting here on a floating island and I'm working on who knows what. And I was inspired by some of these. This one was kind of an abyss. This one was someone working. So I'm not necessarily recommending you just copy these elements and put it on your site. You certainly can. But this is just a good way to get a little creative and get some inspiration. OK, but we are back in Claude design now. And what we have is we have our first iteration, which, I mean, this looks awesome. This text, little, this text right here, this all feels very on brand. We can see here that as we scroll down, the image is a little bit dynamic, or sorry, the not the image, I keep saying image. The video is a little bit dynamic. I think this all looks, I mean, just amazing. It feels very on brand. We keep going down, and we can see we get some background. We get some context as far as what the product, the problem that it solves. And this is incredible. Just once again, all of this was generated by Claude. The idea, the design, the prompts, not the actual images and videos, but the prompts. And I love this. Now what's really cool about this, and a great way to save tokens, is that you can just iterate right here. If you put this prompt into Claude code, you would maybe get something that visually looks like this. But in order to go back and forth and make tweaks, you would have to take some awkward screenshots, or you would have to be very specific. But right here, what we can do is we can add comments. I could basically just click on something, and we can change how it works. So for example, the how it works button, let's say I wanted to make this a different color, maybe like the gold color. Go ahead and make this button, the color of the comma in the hero text, make it a gold accent. And so now I can just say, hey, send this to Claude, and it gets the exact comment about the exact element that I was referring to. So it's not going to get confused. We can also do edits straight in line. So if I came here and I was like, okay, I don't want this m-dash, that looks very AI. I could just delete it, and then I could just close that out. And it's going to make that change for us, because I was just able to edit it right there. So I can change the text. I could even, you guys noticed, change the size. So if I wanted this all to be a little bit smaller, I could just come in here, and I could just go, okay, make that 15, or make that 10. And it's going to change it right in real time. And then Claude just makes the change for us. You can also draw. So like right here, let's say I don't love the way that the video just kind of ends so abruptly, I can just kind of make a circle around this, and then I can type and just say, I don't like how this ends so abruptly, add a transition, overlay, or gradient. So it feels smoother, and I shoot that off by hitting send. Now, when I do the drawing thing, the little comments get stuck down there, so it's sometimes it's hard to see. That's just kind of a UI bug. Once again, this is in research preview, so little kinks will get ironed out, but that's a really nice feature to be able to just draw. Okay, so you can see that that button changed colors. I like that. Everything else that we have changed has been changed, and hopefully you can see it added a little line here, so that's not exactly what I wanted. I would iterate a little bit. I was kind of hoping for sort of like a gradient transition, but either way, at least it knew exactly what I was referring to. Okay, so anyways, at this point, we would read through all the copy and we would iterate, and like I said, I think that this looks pretty solid. But now, if you are not someone who's creative, you might be like, okay, what do I even add? If you are someone who's creative, you're probably gonna have a lot of features that you wanna add, and at that point, you'll iterate, make some changes, make some prompts, but let's say you just wanna know what else is possible, and you wanna see what cloud can come up with. Watch this, you come into here. This is a really great iteration one. I wanna see what else is possible. I wanna see how this website could be improved. So just add a bunch of things that I can tweak, and put those on there for me, different colors, different sliders, different panels, and just give me a bunch of things to play with. And this is one of the biggest benefits, and things that I love about cloud design, even compared to other website builders, is that we have this tweaks panel right here. Right now we have none, but it's going to add a bunch of tweaks that we can just play with in real time, and that way we're able to see, okay, I love this, don't like this so much, and it has helped me feel a lot more creative in times when I'm kind of sitting there lacking inspiration. Real quick guys, I know we're gonna be going over a lot of information today, so I'm gonna throw in everything that we're talking about here, all of the different things to keep in mind, into a free resource guide that you can access for completely free by joining my free school community, as you can see, join the free community. This will take you to AI Automation Society, you will go into the classroom, and inside of all YouTube resources, you will be able to find everything. The document that I'm referring to, and I'm also going to include basically the zip file of this website, if you guys want to extract it, and understand how it works, and how the scrolling animations work, you can dive into it, and you can let cloud code or cloud design dive into it. But it's really quite simple, like I said, I basically just said, hey, here's the video, but instead of just playing it, I want you to only associate each frame with like a scroll position, so that as I scroll down or up, the video goes forward or reverses. So anyways, let's get back to the video. Okay, so our tweaks are here, and you can see on the right-hand side, we have a ton of things that we can play with, which is just gonna be so cool. So let's start up at the top, we have a palette. So this is the default, we could also go to more of a blue, or more of a brown, and more of a green or whatever these is. I'm sure you guys can't tell a ton, but the colors here are changing. Now you can see more, the background is changing, we can get sort of like a green, we can get more of a brown, we have more of a light mode here. So this would let you play around with what you think fits the brand the best. And obviously I don't like this because the hero looks weird. So we can tweak that, I kinda like the brown. But anyways, what else? We have the accent hue, so we can change this. You see how the hue was kind of like a gold? We can change this to see what other colors might look good with our main color scheme. For now, I really like the default, which was kind of over here more of like a golden bronze. So we'll keep it there. We have the text as well, so I could switch this around, or sorry, not the text, the font, and I could play with different fonts to see what I actually like. And we can see where else it changes. So it looks like this is changing, kind of the primary font everywhere. This is kind of more of a secondary, but this is changing the main text everywhere. We could also see the headline slider, so this can make it bigger or smaller, and we can play around with the way that it wraps and everything. So that's nice. The headline could be right in all uppercase, it could be lowercase, which actually I like. I'm gonna keep it all lowercase, and then we can change the actual text right here, of course. The hero layout we could play around with, obviously I don't want it centered. We want it left aligned because we made the video that way, so we're gonna keep that. But hopefully you guys are starting to understand what I'm talking about now. We have sort of like this overlay we can play around with. We have the video dim that we can play around with. I'm sure you guys, unfortunately, you can't really see. I wish that they could move. Like I wish you could drag this tweak slider anywhere, but I'm sure that'll come. We have something called section rhythm, which I probably have to scroll down to see what that is. Okay, so this is basically just like the gaps between the sections, so we could make that smaller or larger. We have the ritual card style. I'm not sure where the rituals are here they are. So flat, bordered, or big numerals. I think I like the big numerals. So yeah, I'm sure you guys get the point by now. We're able to just play around with the tweaks, and of course, we can just hit reset, which would reset everything. So there's really nothing to lose here. Actually making tweaks and then saving those changes is going to save you more time. And also more of your session limit, then if you're just having a conversation back and forth with Cloud, because we all know how that can go if you just shoot off prompt after prompt after prompt after prompt. Because also think about the fact that if you were doing this in Cloud Code and you had all these tweaks that you wanted to play with, this is basically like, hey, I wonder what it would look like if the background was blue. And then you would have to go submit the prompt. Cloud Code would change the background. It would put it on a local host and then you'd look at it and be like, I actually don't like that. So then you would have to like, revert back to the old version. And so that could potentially be two prompts. Whereas here, we can see so much stuff and test it out in a way that doesn't actually make us send more prompts and send more prompts. Now one thing I noticed is I don't think there's like a revert button in lovable. You can just like revert back to previous prompts, which is nice. I don't see that here. But once again, this ability to do tweaks saves us from having to do a lot of reverts. Because we can say, hmm, I wonder what it might look like if the font was changed. I wonder what it might look like if the spacing between sections was smaller. And then if you don't like it, it's as simple as just not doing it. So once you're good with the tweaks, you just turn that off. If you made any changes, it would just go ahead and start making those changes for you. And now what's awesome is you have this project set up, whether you're doing this in-cloud design or in Cloud Code, you can keep iterating. Because you understand the idea of how do you get a dynamic element like this? Or how do you do one of those scroll things where you just tell it that as you're scrolling, you want it to play the frames backwards or forwards. So let's say we have this that we love. And maybe down here, we wanna have like, maybe a video of someone sleeping. That would be really creepy. But now if you basically just break the website into sections, so here's section. Okay, cool. Section one. What can we do to section one to make this cool? Maybe we just add like a dynamic background where there's like shooting stars or something like that. And then section three, maybe we have like a little dynamic video of someone stirring coffee, you know? We can just kind of keep taking it section by section. And that way it's not so overwhelming of oh my gosh, I have to build a whole website. Just take it section by section and just use these principles, use Cloud to help you think of, okay, for section two, help me figure out like right here where what type of video should I have or what type of elements should I have. And then, okay, cool, make me the prompts. And then I'll go into key and I'll make the images, I'll make the videos, and then I'll bring them back into Cloud. And you'll just keep iterating. And I think you'll find that it's really, really fun. You have the fundamentals, you understand how the tool works, and now you keep going. But now you're at the point where, let's say you're good with this website. You know, you could also click on present, you could open it up, you could make sure it feels good, you could make sure the buttons are linking to the right spots. And then what do you do next? Well, what we wanna do is we want to get this into Cloud Code, so we can push it into a GitHub repository and so that we can push that GitHub repository to Vercel. So if that makes no sense to you at all, I'm gonna explain it all, so don't worry. What we're gonna do first is we're gonna click on share, and we're just gonna go ahead and download this product as a zip file or a zip folder. So I'm gonna download it as zip. You could also just hit hand off to Cloud Code, which would give you a command, you would copy this, give it to Cloud Code, and then it would be able to pull everything in. Today, this morning I've been having issues with this command, it's been getting a 404 error. So it's worked in the past, this will probably work by the time you see this video, but that's also an option, but the other option is you just grab the zip file. All right, so here is that zip file. I'm gonna go ahead and extract all, and I actually wanna place this into a folder. So I've already created a folder on my desktop, and it is called Lull website, so I'm gonna click into the Lull website, and I'm going to select that folder to extract it into. It kinda sounded like I was saying Lull website, as if website was a wrapper, like Lull website, but now we have Lull website, and this is the folder that we wanna open up inside of Cloud Code. So here I am, I'm using it in the VS Code IDE, and I'm gonna go ahead and open up that project. Okay, so now that we're in here, we're gonna open up Cloud Code, and we're gonna get started. You can see basically over here what we have is we have the background video, we have scraps, which was our sketch, and we have the uploads, and we have the HTML. So this is basically our full project from Cloud Design, but now it's inside of Cloud Code. And I'm literally just gonna say, hey, this is a website project for our brand called Lull. All I want you to do is push this to a GitHub repository, push it to a private repository, and call it whatever you want. And because I've already used GitHub with my Cloud Code, it's gonna be able to just push it, and it's gonna be able to create that repo. But if you've never done this before, all you wanna do is go to github.com, it's free to create an account, you're gonna log in, and then basically you just need to connect this to your Cloud Code. So if you ask Cloud Code to connect it, it'll say sure, just let me pull up the authorization page, you'll have to sign in, and now Cloud Code can talk to your GitHub, push changes, create repositories, things like that. And then the second piece of this is you're gonna need to create an account at VSEL. So VSEL is basically just a place for you to host and deploy your web apps and your website, so it should look like this. And when you sign up for VSEL, you can sign up with your GitHub account, which makes it super easy, because then you can just sync a GitHub repo to VSEL. Because if you think about it, when you have a GitHub repository, all this is basically is, is its folders and its files and its code, and GitHub stores them. So what you need to do is you need to get that code somewhere on the web, and that's what VSEL does. And there you go, super easy, I didn't have to do anything. It says your website is now a GitHub repo. I can follow this link to open it up, and this is the actual repository that we just pulled in from Cloud Design. Now honestly, before we push this, we probably should have made sure that it worked. So make sure that the website actually works as expected and open it up in a local host for me to view. Now I'm actually glad that I had to do this because you'll notice I said local host. So what does that mean? Local host is just a local host that will basically display our website. And so if this comes back with something like local host, 3000, if you tried to give someone that URL, it wouldn't open up for them. It would open up whatever they have running on their own local host 3000, which could be nothing. I actually saw some funny tweets, where it was like a beginner getting into Cloud Code, saying, look at this awesome web app I built, and they sent out the local host URL and everyone was obviously they couldn't open it. So here is the local host. It opened up our website. You can see we have the video playing, we have all of the text coming in dynamically. So everything is basically being transferred over from Cloud Design over to Cloud Code seamlessly, no issues. And now that this is actually a GitHub repo, let's connect this to Versel to put it on the web so that I could actually give you a URL and you could view my website. So back in Versel, you guys are going to be shocked at how easy this is. You click on Add New, you click on Add New Project, and then right here, because I'm signing with my GitHub repo or my GitHub account, I basically just click on this website and I say import. It's looking through my projects, it's going to pull in this project, and then I basically just say deploy. This will take maybe 60 seconds, and then it'll give us an actual URL for our website. Now the cool part about this is, if you ever make changes to your site, you basically now have a practice environment and a real environment. So if I'm on my local host here, and I'm working inside of Cloud Code and I'm doing things, basically what happens is I can make changes and I can iterate, but only I will see these changes. So if I wanted to change the copy or if I wanted to change the background video, but then once we're good with those changes, I come back into here and I say, hey, Cloud Code, push all of these changes to GitHub. And then when the changes come to GitHub, and they come over here, for cell automatically grabs that and deploys it to the live site. So you have a very clean separation between what you're practicing with and changes that you might want to make, and then saying, hey, cool, we love this, push that public, and then for cell we'll grab it, and then it will be live in like 30 seconds later. So anyways, congratulations. You just deployed a new project on for cell. I'm gonna go ahead and click on continue to the dashboard. And now we have an actual domain. So this is a, you know, low-website.versail.app. And if I open this up, aha, okay. So when I open this up, it says 404 not found. So what do we do here? You go back into Cloud Code and you say, so I just push that to GitHub and then I synced that to Versail to host it on the web. And when I opened it up, it gave me this error message. What does this mean? How do I fix this? Do you need any more info from me in order to actually help me fix this? It was able to find the cause right away for cell serves this from the root of your repo by default, but the repo has a different path instead. So that's why I can't find anything. So the fixes, it needs to rename low-website to index.hml and then look, it pushed those changes to GitHub. So if I now go to the GitHub repo, which was this one, and I give this a refresh, we should see here that we have two commits, which means that we've made two different pushes, so we've made a change. And then what happens if I go back to Versail, so back here you can already see the website is now rendering properly. And if I also click on deployments, we can see once again that we have a change that was made one minute ago, which was renaming to index.hml. So now I can click on this domain, and I can see that we actually have our real site just the way that we saw it on our local host. And everything should be coming through properly because we've made that fix. Now one other quick thing I wanted to talk about when it comes to actually deploying your site is that you built this to be optimized for a laptop or for a computer. So if you come into your site on the local host before you deploy it, and you hit F12, or you just open up your developer console, you can click this button right here to switch to mobile view. So this is actually what we'd be seeing if I open up the site on mobile, which obviously is not good. So you would need to go back and iterate a little bit and tell Cloud Code to optimize this for mobile. Maybe we want the image to be, or I keep saying image, maybe we want the video to be kind of down here instead, or maybe we just want the font to be displayed in one line, and then have more stuff down here. So that is something to think about. You need to be thinking about how will this actually look if I'm on a mobile device compared to if I am on my computer, or even like a tablet and stuff like that. So the point being, Cloud Design and Cloud Code don't automatically optimize for mobile, but if you tell it, you need to optimize for mobile, it will certainly help you figure out the way to restructure it. And you can do all that without having it actually impact the way that it appears on the web on your computer version. So just something else I wanted to make sure you guys were aware of. And you can see right here that we're using a .verse cell.app domain. So if you wanted to change this, you would just have to bring in your own custom domain. It takes maybe five minutes, and you can just talk to Cloud to figure out how to do that. It's super simple, but let's hop into some of this other stuff now and dive a little bit deeper into how to get the most out of Cloud Design. So Cloud Design is its own product. It kind of feels like what they did with Cloud Code Work. How they basically packaged up different workflows and different functionality into something that's a little bit more accessible, you know, because everything that Cloud Design does, you could easily do in Cloud Code, but not everyone wants to. And they're keeping all of this in the same environment. It's built on top of Cloud Opus 4.7, which has much more advanced vision capabilities than the previous models did. But of course, the Opus 4.7 model does come at a bit of a cost. So keep that in mind. You can build prototypes, you can build slides, you can build landing pages, animated promos, so much stuff with design. Obviously today we mainly looked at websites, but there's a lot you can do. And in order to use it, you have to be on a paid plan. You cannot be on a free plan. So let's talk about the two meter system. First of all, Cloud Design has its own weekly quota. So if I go back into my usage, you can see you have a current session for your plan. You have all models, you have Sonnet only, and you have your own Cloud Design usage. And this is what I blew through pretty quick. And so what do the burn rates look like? People have been complaining that they're getting their session eaten up really quick. So if you're on 20 bucks a month, after one big website and one big design system, you might already be almost done. If you're on the max five times plan, then you're gonna have maybe four to five serious prompts and you might be able to hit the limit pretty quick. And then if you're on the 20x plan, which I'm on, I was able to build probably a few different video projects and a few different websites, and then I started to get really close to the end of my limit. So what actually drains your limits the fastest? Well, there are a few things. First of all, if you do every single thing with 4.7, then you're obviously gonna be eating more tokens than if you were on Sonnet or even Haiku for some very minor changes. I personally haven't done this myself. I haven't really jumped into the wireframes. I always just started with a high fidelity, but I have seen some people on X talking about that if you do the wireframe first, you're able to basically convert it better to high fidelity with less iteration. And obviously that makes sense. I mean, if you're in Cloud Code, I always talk about how the planning phase is so important. So get clear on your idea, give as much context up front as far as like a sketch, and maybe like that cloud spec that we saw earlier in the live example. This information was able to make it so much easier for cloud design to build what we wanted on the first try rather than having to iterate so much because that's where you're gonna burn a lot of tokens. Also setting up a design system without a URL. In general though, design systems will eat a lot. So if I go back to the app and I go into like creating a design system, which if I went right here, what this does is it lets you set up a system for your brand. So your name, you can put in a GitHub repo, you can put in other folders, other files and other logos and assets, and it will create you basically a template so that if you ever want to make anything, videos, slides, websites, you can create it with that brand. So for example, I made one with AI Automation Society, which is what you see right here. So every time I use this design system, it's going to make everything with that typography, with those colors, with that background, the color scheme, all that kind of stuff. Now when you create a design system, once you put in all this information, it has to ingest it and it has to create that actual spec. And this can eat a decent amount of tokens because it's going to take like 10 to 15 minutes. Now what's interesting is if you actually export this, you can put that into Cloud Code and you can get all of that value already. If you come into your design system, you can see the type of information that's in here, you can iterate on it, but you can actually go ahead and share this with your team, but you could also just download this as a zip. And then you could give that zip to Cloud Code sort of like we did earlier. And now you can say, hey, this is the design system for AI Automation Society, help me build some other stuff, and you could do that then in Cloud Code as well. It's really nothing new, the whole concept of having like a design system or a design MD. It's not a new concept. It's just kind of the way that it's packaged up here in Cloud Design makes it a lot easier. And then of course, like I showed you guys, the ability to tweak stuff in the canvas, we talked about this, right? Being inside of a project and using tweaks and using the comments and the edits, that's going to be more precise and it's gonna give Cloud a better idea of what you actually want to change. So then it doesn't go down the wrong path and waste your time and your session. And then just think about the fact that you might get into some really, really long threads. I haven't proven this for a fact, but just based on the way that Cloud uses tokens, what I found is that if you are in a project, right? And it's getting really, really long and you're still not getting where you want. Maybe you want to export this and then open up a fresh session and you're kind of not really starting at square one again. You're iterating upon something that's already been built and you're making some changes, but now you have fresh context because this is likely all starting to pollute to the context window and it might be leading to some rot and it might be leading to tokens becoming uncaged and then you're basically just processing them again. So that's something to keep in mind. Now you could also come in here and do a slash clear and it says, hey, cleared, we're ready for the next instruction. So that's something else to also play around with, but I can't say with certainty that that actually clears all of this from the context window. I haven't seen for sure yet. So, okay, so best practices to stretch limits. We kind of already talked a lot about that. I just showed you guys the zip export when you're zipping either your actual project or a design system. We talked about model by stage. So maybe you can use Opus 4.7 at the beginning to plan a little bit or when you need some really legit changes. But switch over to Sonic 4.6. I was on Sonic 4.6 for a lot of a different build and it was able to generate the video and it was able to create the animations and create the slide decks and it was working just fine. I think at the end of the day, like Sonic 4.6 is really good. And if you are super clear and super specific about what you want, then you could probably get a lot of the way done with Sonic 4.6. So it's definitely worth testing out. And then some other real quick tips, one visual dimension per prompt. So don't try to throw in a mega prompt with, hey, change XYZ, ABC, DEF, and G. Now I know that some people might disagree with this because sometimes in Cloud Code, you want to send off one big prompt so that it can create its to-do list and it can start to iterate. But what I've found here is that when I ask for multiple different big changes in one prompt, it only actually does like one or two of them well and the rest of them just kind of get disregarded. So I've found more success. And when I talk about being efficient with my prompting, I found more success doing one main big change per prompt. It's also good to do negatives. So tell it what you don't want. Tell it if you don't want these fonts or if you don't want these color schemes, that way you don't have to correct it later. You can also reference real things. So saying something like linear 2023 with higher density, rather than just saying, hey, make this clean or make this minimalistic. Obviously pointing and commenting on things and drawing on things, and then asking for prototypes, flows, demos. And then of course, you can go ahead and export that entire HTML. You could export it to Figma. You could export it to Canva. You could export it to PowerPoint. You can get it out of there and then make the tweaks you need to. If you don't actually need to use Cloud Design for things that you could do pretty easily and pretty quickly by hand. So some other things keep in mind. File uploads. So I have been able to upload MP4s like you guys have seen. I've been able to edit some videos, but there is a cap. And I think it might be 30 megabytes. It might be 40, it might be a little more. But if you try to go and upload like a five minute video, it's probably not going to let you. There also might have just been a bug because this is in research preview and because everyone's using it. But for the most part, you can upload lots of different assets. And the more things that you're able to upload right away, the more context it's going to have and the less you're going to have to repeat yourself and fix things. And then here are just some other quick limitations to flag. Not going to read all these off because I feel like I've hit on a lot of these already. But take a quick pause if you want to look at this. And like I said, that free doc that I drop in the community will have a lot more of this kind of stuff as well. All right, so that is going to do it for today. Now what you can do next is watch this video right up here where I talk about other website hacks and specifically in Cloud Code. Because what might happen is if you burn through your limit in Cloud Design, but you want to keep it or anything, you want to keep building, just do what I showed you. Export your Cloud Design project, get it into Cloud Code. And now you can just keep working on Cloud Code because you have more usage. And then just wait till your usage resets on design and then take it back into design. So like I said, watch that video on screen. I'll see you guys over there. And thanks for watching. Give it a like if it helped.