---
video_title: "Building Beautiful Websites with Claude Code Is Too Easy"
video_id: 86HM0RUWhCk
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86HM0RUWhCk
video_date: 2026-02-19T13:32:53+00:00
video_description: |
  My FREE AI OS Course: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society/about?el=building-beautiful-websites-with-claude-code-is&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=free-group
  Full courses + unlimited support: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society-plus/about?el=building-beautiful-websites-with-claude-code-is&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=ais-plus
  Apply for my YT podcast: https://podcast.nateherk.com/apply
  Work with me: https://uppitai.com/
  
  My Tools💻
  FREE MONTH voice to text: https://get.glaido.com/nate
  Code NATEHERK for 10% off VPS (annual plan): https://www.hostinger.com/vps/claude-code-hosting
  
  Frontend Design Skills: https://x.com/trq212/status/1989061937590837678?s=20
  
  In this video, I'm sharing five simple hacks you can use in Claude Code to build and design better websites. These aren't complicated tricks that require years of coding experience. They're practical techniques that anyone can start using right away, even if you've never touched Claude Code before. 
  
  I'll walk you through each hack step by step so you can see exactly how they work in real time. By the end of this video, you'll have built your own branded, professional website from scratch without writing a single line of code manually. If you've been wanting to create a website but felt intimidated by the technical side, this is the video for you.
  
  Sponsorship Inquiries:
  📧 nate@smoothmedia.co
  
  Connect with me:
  https://www.linkedin.com/in/nateherkelman/
  https://x.com/nateherk
  https://www.instagram.com/nateherk/
  
  Timestamps
  0:00 - Introduction
  1:55 - Hack #0
  3:40 - Hack #1
  8:01 - Hack #2
  9:44 - Hack #3
  17:17 - Hack #4
  21:13 - Deploying to GitHub & Vercel
  27:17 - Want to Master AI Automation?
---
Today, I'm going to be showing you guys five simple hacks that you can use to make sure that your cloud code is building you websites that don't look like they were AI vibe coded, but they actually feel professional and branded. And we're going to be going through this in a way where even if you've never used cloud code before, that's completely fine. You're going to be able to by the end of this video spin up some really awesome looking landing pages and websites. Alright, so don't waste any time at all. The first thing that you need to do is you need to go download Visual Studio Code. So go to a browser and type in VS Code and download this for your operating system. This is essentially just the IDE that we're going to be using cloud code within. So once you've done that and you've opened it up, this is what it will look like. You're going to go to the left hand side right here and click on extensions and you're going to type in Cloud Code and install it like what you see right here. Now once you do that, it's going to prompt you to sign in with your anthropic subscription or your cloud subscription, which you do need to pay to count. As you can see here, if you're on free, you don't have access to Cloud Code, but here on Pro, you actually can use Cloud Code. Whether you're on Pro or Max, you can use it. I'd probably just start with Pro if you hit limits, which you probably will, if you want to build websites all day, then you should probably upgrade to Max. So once you've got that installed, you will see this little button up here, which is Cloud Code. And when you click on that, this is where it opens up the ability to actually use Cloud Code, talk to this little crab agent. And this is very similar to sort of like a chat GBT or using Cloud in the web. Now the way that this works when you're using Cloud Code in Visual Studio code or really wherever you use it is you have files on the left hand side and then you have your agent on the right hand side. So first thing we need to do is open up a project so that we can start working with some files. So I'm going to go up here to the top left and I'm going to click on explore. What you can see is that it says you have not yet opened a folder. So I'm going to go ahead and open up a fresh folder that has nothing in it. So here we are in my website building YouTube folder, which like I said, it's a blank project. If you don't have a folder, just go ahead and create one whether that's in your desktop or your documents. Just create one to start and then open that up and that is where we will be working on this project. So let's get started going through these five hacks. The first one is actually number zero. And the reason that I did this is because the first one is a claw dot MD file. And I put this at number zero because it's kind of a prerequisite, but also a lot of times near the end even after one, two, three and four. You might have to re go back and update your Cloud dot MD file or just have cloud do it itself. So what is a cloud dot MD file? Just think of it as a system prompt. Think of it as every time before you ask Cloud code to do something, it will read the cloud dot MD file first. It will always process that. So what you want to do is make sure that that is pretty concise. You don't want to blow it too much with context, but you want to give it the rules that it needs. So every time you are doing something in this project, this website building project, do this, this and this. And always remember that's kind of the end goal. And so if you don't exactly know your full process yet or the end goal, then you might start without a cloud dot MD file. But luckily for you guys, if you go over to my free school community, the link for that's down the description, you go to the classroom, you go to cloud code. And right here, you will see the web design, cloud dot MD file, which is the one we're going to be using today. You can go ahead and just download that for free right here. Now, once you've done that, you can actually just drag it right over here to the left hand side. Like I told you guys, the left hand side is where we can see our files on our folders. And what that does is it opens up the cloud dot MD file, which if I drag over here, we can see it kind of full screen. Now the dot MD stands for markdown, which is basically just this right here. We've got the pound signs, we've got asterix and it just helps keep the text organized so that the agent can read, you know, what's ahead or what's a subheader, what's bold, what are bullet points, things like that. So you could obviously read through this entire cloud dot MD file if you want to kind of understand what we're telling it to do in this project. I'm not going to read everything because you guys can just look at it here or download it. As we go through these other hacks, you will see why I put some of this stuff in here. But that actually brings me over to our first, technically our first hack, which is the front end design skill, which is why you can see right here in our cloud. MD, the first thing I wrote is always invoke the front end design skill before writing any front end code every session, no exceptions. So first of all, real quick, what are skills? Well, if you go to the cloud code docs, you can read about skills right here. Essentially, they are custom instructions. So every time you build like a custom GPT or cloud project, you're usually putting in knowledge and you're putting in instructions. And basically skills are just that put in a markdown file. And why it's so important and cool is because every time you ask cloud a question, first it reads its cloud dot MD file. But then it will think, okay, the user asked me this, do I have any skills in my library that help me do this better? If yes, I'll grab the skill, I'll read it and then I'll take action. So I'll just use my general knowledge. So that's why we need to have the front end skill because it helps us create designs that are way more modern and professional. And they don't look as much vibe coded AI vibe coded. And the good news is it's super, super simple. You just have to install it. So here's a tweet that showed the power of this all day prompted cloud code to do was use the front end design skill, create a music player app. And here's a few examples of how to create this that has some animations, it has some dynamic elements. And if you would have just told cloud code to do this without that skill, it would have looked much worse. So I'll leave a link to this tweet in the description of this video. You basically just have to run this command and then you run this one and then you should be good with the skill installed globally across any cloud code project that you might use in the future. And when I say run these commands, you can literally just copy this if you wanted to and just paste that right into here in cloud code and it would install that for you. So let me go ahead and show you guys how good this front end design skill really is with such a minimal prompt. So before we prompt this agent, I just wanted to show you guys something else you can do, which is kind of a bonus hack. What I'm going to do is I'm going to create a new folder. I'm going to call this brand underscore assets and our cloud.md file actually explains that this might be a file or a folder that cloud code needs to look at. And what I'm going to put in here are two things my logo and brand guidelines so that it creates this website and it feels very branded towards me and my business. So right here, I'm dragging in the a automation society logo as you can see like that. And then I'm also going to drag in our brand guidelines, which has stuff like our colors, our typography, icons, stuff like that. And so now that cloud can look at that, I'm going to just give it a very, very simple prompt. So all I'm saying is build me a modern professional landing page for a automation society. And I'm also going to tell it that here's my logo and here's my brand guidelines. It would be able to figure it out either way because we put it in the cloud.md. But I just wanted to show you guys that you can actually tag assets directly. So if I do an at it will basically pop up and let me choose or point at the right things. So now I can explicitly say, hey, here are the, you know, here's the brand guidelines and here's the logo because maybe they're not names in a way that's super intuitive. And now I'm just showing cloud code exactly what I want. So I'm going to shoot this off. I'm not even in plan mode. I just want to show you guys how good this front end design skill is. And what you're going to notice is, first of all, what it did is it read the cloud.md file. And now it's reading the brand assets. And now what it's going to do is it should hopefully invoke the front end design skill and start building out that website for us. There we go right on cue. It has invoked the front end design skill right there. All right. So that has finished up. You can see that we've got a nav hero tools marquee. We get stats about benefits. So a full one page landing page. And it should be completely matching our brand as far as the logo, the colors and the typography. It also added some animations. So I'm excited to see how that works. And it threw it on local host for us to check out. So let's head over there. All right. Look at that. We've got like a little animation up here. We've got a line going down. We can see that we do have our logo up here as well as our exact colors and font. We've got a community rating. Oh, that's super nice. We've also got some scrolling tech companies. So we've got edit and make, Claude, GPT 4.0 Zapier air table. We've got some random stats here. Obviously we'd have to fill this in with our own copy. But keep in mind, all of this happened with only us saying create me a landing page for our community called a automation society. That was literally it. And it created all of this. We've got testimonials. We've got a final call to action here. The logo is doing a little floating for basically a one sentence prompt. This is super, super solid with the front end design skill. Now there was another secret thing going on here that I didn't yet tell you guys about. But if you've already read the cloud, then I'm D, you might have noticed. And that brings us on to hack number two, which is the screenshot loop. So the idea here is that AI is really good at getting you where you want to go. But it takes a lot of manual correction and steering. So let's say I just told Claude code to build us that website. Without the front end design skill, it might have gotten us like 40% of the way there. But now that we add the front end design skill, it's going to get us maybe let's just call it 60. What we can do now is use screenshots to help AI iterate upon itself. So instead of it getting 60% of the way there and then we make an improvement and then we make another improvement and we keep doing this. It basically should just bridge this gap itself because it's able to take a screenshot, look at the browser, see what it looks like and then make make changes. So what you guys didn't notice or maybe you did is over here it created a new folder for us called temporary screenshots. And we can see that in that process of building out that first version of our workflow, it took 10 screenshots. So I can click here and I can see what it looked at. It looked at the hero section, which kind of was a random full page. It got the viewport, which was that's more of the hero section. It looked at the stats, it looked at the about page. And what it did is it used these screenshots as it kept clicking through and looking and improved things. So you guys didn't see this but in the actual to do's it wrote the index HTML it started the server and screenshot the workflow and then it did a two pass screenshot review and polish. So it basically uses its eyes to check that what it's building actually looks good. And in order to set that up, it's actually really, really easy. If you go to the cloud.md file, you can see that I've got a section for screenshot workflow and we're just doing this using puppeteer. So literally if you take this cloud.md and say, hey, cloud code, can you set up puppeteer to take screenshots. It should be able to install all of that stuff for you right there. Really simply. And so yes, that's cool on its own, but where it actually comes into handy a lot more is when we look at hack number three, which is using other websites as inspiration. Because what we're able to do is say, hey, cloud code, take this website right here and build me a clone. So you should build one that looks exactly like this one. And then what it's able to do is use its eyes use its screenshot tool to screenshot what it's building and look at the reference and keep going back and forth until it's close enough. So let me show you guys that in action right now. So there's tons of sites that you could go to for website inspiration. Here's one example called dribble. Here's another example called godly dot website. And here's another really cool example called awards with three W's. So there's tons of places that you can find inspiration. So for the sake of this video, I found this one that I want to use. It's got a nice little animation in the background. It's obviously not our color scheme, but it has some cool things as you scroll down like a dashboard. It's got some other little cards down here. None of this is really too animated. Well, I guess that is. But let's just say we wanted our website to look like this one for example. First thing that I would do is I would hit F12. I'm on windows, by the way. I would go to console and I would do control shift P and search for screenshot. What this lets me do is capture a full size screenshot of the entire page rather than just my current view. So here you can see it downloaded this screenshot and you can see that that is indeed the entire website. Now if you're on Mac, that's still doable, but you just have to Google the different buttons to do it. And then the next thing I want to do is on the top right here, I'm going to go to elements and in the style section down here, I'm just going to copy everything. So I'm actually copying basically like the raw code or HTML or whatever you want to consider this as that tells the website how this is styled and we're going to give Claude code that. So I'm going to go ahead and do a clear so we can start a fresh session. I'm going to first of all just paste in the code that we just copied, which is the style information. So I said I want you to spin up a new website for us, get rid of the old one and you can put this one on the local host. I basically want you to clone this website. So I'm going to give you the screenshot, which what I'm going to do is just drag it in from my files and put it right over here. As you can see that as the screenshot would just took and I'm going to point to it so it knows what to use, which is the WWW right there. And then I said here's a screenshot, here's the style and just go ahead and clone this website for us. So that is all we're going to do to start. And then we can come back in later and tell it to use our branding and our colors and logo and everything like that. Now a couple of things keep in mind. When you're doing some of the big processes like spinning up a website from scratch or comparing to websites and cloning them, that coding process and thinking will take longer. But once you have a working version making small changes or tweaks, that happens pretty quickly. And one other thing is you might have noticed that this really isn't stopping to ask me questions. And that's because I'm using bypass permissions mode. So if you don't see this in your instance, you're going to go to settings, you're going to type in cloud code. And then right here you should see allow dangerously skip permissions and that is where you turn that on. Now I definitely have responsibility to tell you that this is dangerous. It has the potential to just kind of like run any command that it wants. But in my practice, I've never really had this be an issue, especially because I'm never like setting this to code all night long and then going to sleep. I'm always still kind of like watching it or I'm nearby and nothing bad really is going to happen. Alright, awesome. So we just got to the point where now it is creating a to do list. And what you can see here is once it actually writes the code for the website, it's going to start up the server and it's going to take screenshots. And it's going to do two rounds at least of comparing. It's going to look at what it built versus the reference. It's going to fix any mismatches and then it's going to do that again. And that is why the screenshot loop is so powerful. So logically, this is really cool. I mean, it's going through and it's looking section by section and analyzing how well it's stacking up. But we will have to see how it actually turns out. Okay, so that just finished up. And before we actually see how good it really built this, I wanted to point out one thing about the screenshots. So you can see that we have screenshot one, two, three, four, all of this kind of stuff. But we don't really know which one is which without clicking on them. So it looks like these are the clones as you can see because they're coming out looking like the website that we gave it. Well, we either should have before we started this new build, we should have told Cloud Code, Hey, you can delete all of those temporary screenshots. Or in the claw.md, we should be more specific about the naming convention of the screenshots so that we can actually tell. Now realistically, these temporary screenshots are more for Cloud Code benefit than for hours. But that is something else that you can be thinking about if you do want to be able to click through and see the changes that were made with each version. Anyways, let's go ahead and open up this link and see what we've got. All right, so I'm going to switch this to English for my head. But we can see we've got the purple colors. We've got your strategic ally for a truly profitable business. We've got the same top menu bar, a similar type of dashboard here. We've got some cards. And as we scroll down, it feels very similar to the real version that we gave it. Which was this one. Obviously, some of the dynamic elements in the background and some of the actual images could not have been the exact same. But for a clone, this is very, very similar. And it is a really good spot for us to actually start. And now we can just start to integrate our own colors and logos and copy right into this template. And it's as simple as just asking it to do so. So I'm going to go ahead and clear this out. I'm going to say, go ahead and delete all of the temporary screenshots in the temporary screenshots. And so now all of those have been deleted as you can see. And we're basically going to say the most recent landing page looks really good. What I want you to do now is work in our brand assets. So our brand guidelines and our AIS logo. And this is for our community called AI Automation Society. So just work in those changes to that website clone that you just built. And once again, we are just going to stay on bypass permissions. I'm going to shoot that off one shot prompt this thing. And hopefully we should get something that looks pretty solid. Now what I'm interested to see is what it ends up doing with this dashboard. And what it ends up doing with this iPhone screen. Because we haven't given any other pictures. As you saw in our website, we obviously gave it some different pictures like the school games dashboard or me with hermose and Sam ovens. But that's what you could do is you would come back into cloud code. And you would say, hey, I gave you some more pictures in the brand assets. Put this one here, put this one there. And it would figure that out for you. And of course, you would also have to say cool. When they click on start for free, take them to this link or when they click on see the demo, take them to this link. So there's other little pieces that you would obviously have to configure as well. But those changes take basically no time. Okay, so that finished up pretty quickly. We've got three screenshots here, but I'm not going to click into them because I don't want to ruin the final reveal here. But it used our colors. We have our primary accent, our secondary, our dark background and our mid background. We've got the right typography. We've got the right logo and everything's fully translated from French to English. Thank goodness. And now it's rewritten for our community, which once again, we didn't actually give it facts about the community yet. This is just very simple prompting. It also mocked up a dashboard. So let's head over to our local host. Let's give this a hard refresh and boom. We now have our new site master a automation build faster earn more for the dashboard. It worked in like a little bit of a, it's got members, it's got automations, courses. It's got, it's kind of like a community tracker dashboard. And it uses our colors in there too, which is cool. We've got different things on here, workshops, templates, expert community. It also changed this iPhone thing to member growth this month. So it's keeping all of this on brand with the actual original reference site, which once again, looks like this. However, now it has our colors and it has our information in here. We've got two paths and then we have some other stats down here and a nice little call to action at the bottom. So cool. What we could do now is obviously go back and forth a little bit, maybe change some texts, make things bigger, you know, change the images and stuff like that. But let's say we're at a spot where we like the overall feel and vibe of the website. But now how do we really up it to the next level to make it feel unique? Well, what we're going to do is unlock the final hack, which is individual components. And what I mean by that is taking inspiration from different places, but for very individual components for small pieces, not entire websites. So what we can do is we can go to a website called 21st.dev, which has some of the best website components you might be able to find. It's got shaders, it's got backgrounds, it's got home screens, it's got buttons, it's got, you know, mouse highlights, it's got so many different things that you can do. So here you can see I've got buttons and I could make them have a rainbow outline. I could make them shiny. We could toggle, you know, dark motor light mode. There's lots of different things we could do here. Or I could just click on backgrounds in here and I could look at other ways that we could have our background. So maybe we want these little kind of drop down pills instead or maybe we want these hero waves in the background. I think we should actually do this instead. So what I'm going to do is just copy this prompt right here. This will basically copy a chunk of code for us to give to Cloud Code. And I'm just going to say I want you to work in this background element right behind the hero text. And after I give it that prompt, I just paste in what we grabbed from 21st.dev. And it should be able to use all of this and understand how to put that into our site. So I'm just going to go ahead and shoot this off. And we will see. Actually, one thing that I forgot to mention is in this case, because we're working with an animation, the screenshot might not always work the best. So sometimes you might want to tell it not to do the screenshot flow. So I'm basically actually just going to copy all of this text once again. I'm going to clear this out. I'm going to paste it back in. But then I'm also going to say, because this is an animated background, do not use the screenshot tool to compare. Just work in the code and then I will let you know if we need to make any changes. So hopefully with that mentioned, even though it's going to read the Cloud.md, it won't do a bunch of screenshots here because I've actually tested this out. And I've had different background elements come through. And because they're dynamic, sometimes the screenshot doesn't fully capture it. So it gets stuck in this loop of thinking, I haven't built this good enough. I'm going to keep trying. And it like over engineers and it just doesn't really work. So sometimes you may want to turn off the screenshot tool. All right, so that just finished up. It didn't take a bunch of screenshots. So it didn't take forever. Let's go to the website. Let's give it a refresh and see. Okay, okay. So we've got a background. It looks a little bit distracting. It also looks a little bit cheap. It looks like too pixelated. So what I'm going to do now is just iterate. I'm going to tell it that. I think that it's a little bit distracting as far as it makes the hero text right behind it. A little bit tough to read. Also in the hero text, I'd like it if the earn more was a little bit more. Was maybe a blue or a different color. I think that doesn't really feel good to have that be orange. It would be good if there was maybe some sort of background behind the hero text so that we could see it. And it would still stand out and contrast against the background animation. But the background animation looks super fuzzy and super pixily. If you could make that look a little bit more professional and clean, that would be great. And if you guys were curious why I was just like staring at that and talking is because I was dictating. And I wanted to be able to look at what I was talking about. So we've given some feedback now. Let's see if they can go ahead and make those changes. And once again, like we're being pretty vague here. And it would be up to the creativity of the model to understand what we're asking for. And be able to make these changes. Now if you were on plan mode, it might be able to do a little bit better job of asking you some questions. And maybe helping you get to a better solution first before it starts coding. But for the sake of the video, let's see how well it does with this prompt. Alright, that just finished up. And you can see that that looks much, much better. This is definitely more what I was looking for when we copied over that animation into this website. So from here, we would just keep going through and we keep being really nitpicky about what we want to change. We'd add our own pictures in. We'd maybe want to change some of these buttons to be more dynamic. We'd want to maybe animate some of this other stuff, which we could easily do just by asking cloud code to do so. So from here, the question is, how do you actually get this onto a real landing page? Because right now we're still developing all of this code and we're previewing this in our local host. So what we're going to do is we're going to use a combination of GitHub and Vercel to do this. Cloud code is where we're working right now. All of these folders, all of these files are local. Meaning if I pulled up my laptop, I wouldn't be able to access them. And when we're building our website, which is obviously this website right here, this is all made up of a bunch of code in our Cloud Code project. So what we need to do with that is we sync that code to GitHub. And GitHub has Virgin control. We can see all of our commits. Other people can work on it, stuff like that. We basically host our code or our project in the cloud. And we set up a really cool auto deploy between Vercel and GitHub. And Vercel is basically just where we deploy our code to a live site. So basically what this means is whenever we tell a cloud code, hey, this looks good, push these changes to GitHub. GitHub grabs the new changes. And then Vercel automatically grabs those from GitHub and then updates the real working version of our site. And I will show you guys that, but let's first of all do this pipeline. So the first thing that you're going to need to do is go to GitHub, create an account if you don't already have one. And you're going to need to create a new repository. So I'm going to create a repository right here called AIS test website. I'm not going to worry right now about a description or all of this. And I'm just going to go ahead and create that repository. Now what you also could do is you could tell Cloud Code, hey, create me a GitHub repository. And it could actually do that. But right now I just wanted to show you guys so you can get a feel for GitHub if you've never used it before. So anyways, now we have this repository called AIS test website. I'm just going to copy the name of that real quick. And I'm going to come back into Cloud Code. We're going to clear this out and say, awesome. So now that this site looks good, we need to actually deploy this on our domain. I need you to help push this to GitHub. And we're going to push it to a GitHub repository called. And then I'm going to paste in the name. So far it has not yet gotten our GitHub credentials. So we're going to have to obviously authenticate into GitHub first so it can push that into GitHub. So I just got logged in as Nate Herk AI. And now it's going to create the .get ignore and get everything set up so it can actually do so. Now it's not too big of a deal right now because nothing that we'd be pushing into the public GitHub or, you know, onto the cloud has API keys or has any user names or passwords or any sensitive information or, you know, web hook abilities. But that is something to be aware of once you actually are pushing automations and things like that to the cloud. Make sure that you're not putting any of your sensitive information out there. Awesome. So it now says that our site is live on GitHub. So if I click into this link, we should see that we now have a new commit. We have all of this stuff like our cloud.md, we have our screenshot stuff, we have brand assets. And now we can sync this to for sale. So that would be step two is you're going to go to for sale.com creating account. When you create that account, it's much easier if you just sign in or create that account with your GitHub credentials. And then all we have to do is go ahead and add a new project. And then we're able to just choose a GitHub repository as simple as that. So I can literally just hit import on our AIS test website, which you guys just saw me set up. And then all I have to do is go ahead and deploy this project. Awesome. So I've deployed a new project to my projects. I can go ahead and continue to the dashboard here. And what this now does is we can actually visit this by going to AIS-test-website.versale.app. I open that up and now this is no longer local. I could open up my phone and type in this. You could open up your browser and type this in. And you guys could all visit this site because it's now deployed on the cloud. But of course, it's got an ugly domain. So what you would have to do now is you would have to go to your project settings. You would go to domains. And then this is where you would actually just have to either buy a domain right here or add an existing one. And it's really simple. It would walk you through the DNS configuration that you need to set up. And it's not too difficult. So I'm not going to actually do that live in this video. So what I wanted to show you guys real quick before we end off this video is what actually happens if we realize that we want to make a change to our website that is on the cloud. Well, that's why it's good that we still have you guys can't see because you can't see the URL. But we still do have our local version. Because if I make a change here and I don't like it, I don't want that to automatically get pushed to. Versale. So what you'd probably want to do is in your cloud.md file, you would say ultimately what's going to happen is we're syncing all of the changes to GitHub. GitHub is going to automatically push them to Versale and will be good to go. But when I'm making changes with you here, we're always going to test on the local host until I tell you explicitly to push that to GitHub or commit those changes to GitHub. Okay, so this is our local version. And let's just say, for example, we wanted to make this button a little bit cooler. So I'm going to ask in cloud code. Could you go ahead and make the join the community button in the main hero text section. Make it more professional. So give it like a cool glow. And once you've made this change, let me see it in local host. Don't push it to GitHub until I tell you to. This thing is getting pretty screenshot happy. I may have to adjust the wording in the cloud.md file a little bit. It literally took one of the main screen and then it took one of where it just cropped the actual button. But hey, it looks good. Okay, so what happens is here's the local host. I'll refresh that. Now we can see the little glow behind the join the community button. And here is the web app version. I refresh this. And we don't have that change yet, which is great because we don't want to push changes if they're not good. But now what I'll do is say, awesome. I love that change. Go ahead and push that to GitHub. So just push that. We have a new commit. If I go to GitHub and I give this a refresh, we can see that we should see right here two commits. This one was add glowing pulse effect to hero join the community button. And then if I go to Versel and we go to our deployments, we should see that we just got a second one come through as well. Just now and now if I go to the site on the web and our fresh, we see the actual glowing join the community button. All right, so those are the five hacks that I wanted to cover today. We have our claw dot MD file, which as you could tell by this video, yes, it's nice to have something to start. But you are going to continue to iterate upon it throughout your project until you get to a good spot. We've got the front end design skill, which is just like way too easy to not use. We've got the screenshot loop, which you've got to be careful about, but it is very helpful. We've got inspiration websites and then we have inspiration individual components. And now it's just a matter of making small tweaks and iterating upon your website. Just a reminder, you can grab this claw dot MD file for free in my free school community. The link for that is down in the description. And if you're looking to dive deeper with cloud code, AI automation, building an AI agency, all this kind of stuff, then definitely check out our paid community, AI Automation Society Plus. We've got a great community of thousands of members in here who are building businesses with AI. And we've also got a full course with tons of more content coming over the next few months. So we'd love to see you guys in this community. But anyways, that's going to do it for today. If you guys enjoyed the video or you learned something new, please give it a like. It definitely helps me out a ton. And as always, I appreciate you guys making it to the end of the video. I'll see you on the next one. Thanks everyone.