---
video_title: "This New Claude Code Feature is a Game Changer"
video_id: YTNvuG1HqKE
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YTNvuG1HqKE
video_date: 2026-03-07T18:50:27+00:00
video_description: |

---
Cloud code can now remind you to do things, check on things proactively for you, and work for days straight without you ever touching it or needing to give any input. So here you can say I just said remind me at 10.23am to check on my project. It goes ahead and uses a Cron create tool to set this reminder. There we go, 10.23 just hit, I didn't touch it, and it just said, hey Nate, this is your reminder to check on your project. So just shot off this one that says every 10 minutes, check my clip up to see if there's any new developments on our project. It's using the loop skill, as you can see, which is a new built-in skill, and it creates a Cron for every single 10 minutes. And now this would run for the next three days, every 10 minutes until I told it not to. And this doesn't have to be every 10 minutes, it could be every hour, it could be every 5 minutes, it could be whatever interval that you want. And this is all thanks to the newly released feature or skill, loop, which is a powerful new way to schedule recurring tasks for up to 3 days at a time. Which means that we could say something like slash loop every 5 minutes, check on the deploy, or we could just say that in natural language, which is awesome. Because it invokes the loop skill, and then it creates that Cron job right here in Cloud Code. And you'll notice that this is in my VS Code. So this is available in your terminal in Cloud Code Desktop app in VS Code Extensions, wherever. This is just a core part of Cloud Code now. And this lets you set up loop intervals or reminders. So reminders like you saw that first demo, I just said, hey, at this time just tell me this. And in that session, it will bump up a message without you triggering it. So now that all the features have been explained and you've seen a demo, let's just go over some of the key highlights. The loop has your 3 day expiry. It's all done within one session. And there's no catch up. It's basically a help me now or help me on this project for today type of function. The schedule tasks are disk stored. They're long lived. They have catch up. And these are like daily, weekly, monthly functions that can run indefinitely. Of course with both of these though, the terminal or the app has to be open. And this one is only currently available in the desktop app. But I can imagine how fast and drop because shipping things. Maybe by the time you watch this video, schedule tasks are already out for the terminal and extensions as well. If you want to watch the full breakdown, then click on that play button right here. And I'll see you guys over there.