---
video_title: "From Zero to Your First Agentic AI Workflow in 26 Minutes (Claude Code)"
video_id: tDGiWn0flK8
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tDGiWn0flK8
video_date: 2026-02-23T14:00:49+00:00
video_description: |
  Firecrawl discount link: https://www.firecrawl.dev/partners/nate
  My FREE AI OS Course: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society/about?el=from-zero-to-your-first-agentic-ai-workflow-in-26&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=free-group
  Full courses + unlimited support: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society-plus/about?el=from-zero-to-your-first-agentic-ai-workflow-in-26&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=ais-plus
  Apply for my YT podcast: https://podcast.nateherk.com/apply
  Work with me: https://uppitai.com/
  
  My Tools💻
  FREE MONTH voice to text: https://get.glaido.com/nate
  Code NATEHERK for 10% off VPS (annual plan): https://www.hostinger.com/vps/claude-code-hosting
  
  From Zero to Your First Agentic AI Workflow in 26 Minutes using Claude Code. This full guide shows exactly how to go from zero to your first agentic AI workflow in 26 minutes with Claude Code, step by step. This is the most valuable video I've ever made on Agentic AI Workflows, so make sure you watch this full tutorial. Hope you enjoy!
  
  TIMESTAMPS
  0:00 - Intro
  0:31 - What are Agentic AI Workflows
  3:27 - How to build an Agentic Workflow
  25:45 - How to build 10x faster
  
  
  Sponsorship Inquiries:
  📧 nate@smoothmedia.co
  
  Connect with me:
  https://www.linkedin.com/in/nateherkelman/
  https://x.com/nateherk
  https://www.instagram.com/nateherk/
---
Agents at workflows are changing how we build AI automations, but not only that, they're also changing the entire industry with more businesses investing in a gentigai to improve their workflows. So if you're looking to start building AI automations to make your life easier, or you wanna make money building these for businesses, then this is the best place to start. I've been building AI automations for a little over a year now, and I've already helped thousands of people build their first AI automation. So I do know how intimidating everything can look at first. So that's why in this video, I'll be telling you everything you need to know, and then I'm gonna show you how to build your first agents at workflow from absolutely zero. My job is to make this as easy to understand as possible for you, so let's get into it. All right, so before we actually build anything, let's make sure that we're on the same page about what agents at workflows actually are. If you've been building traditional automations, you know the drill. You use a tool like Make or N&N, you drag a node onto the canvas, you configure it, you connect it to the next one, you make sure the right variables are passing through, you test it, you add another node, and you keep going. And when you hit an error, which you will, you read the error message, you figure out what went wrong, you fix it, you test again, and you repeat and tell it works. You're basically building the whole thing manually, and if it breaks again later, you're the one who has to go back in there and fix it yourself. Now this was a huge leap in the A automation space because it's significantly lower the barrier entry, and it allowed anyone from any background to learn these tools and build some really powerful automations at a matter of days. But agents at workflows completely flip that whole process because instead of telling the system how to do something step by step, you're just telling it what you want, and then the agent figures out the rest. So think about it like hiring a really talented developer. You don't sit there explaining the code or walking them through the logic line by line, you walk in and you explain the problem, you describe the outcome you want, and then you ask, okay, what else do you need from me? So that's what makes it agentic. The system reasons, it adapts, it asks clarifying questions when it needs to, it makes decisions, it fixes itself on something breaks, and it does research all to make your job as easy as possible. Now I do believe that traditional automation with a tool like Aniden isn't going anywhere. It's still perfect for repetitive predictable tasks, and there are two terms that we use in the A.I. automation space, deterministic, and non-deterministic. Deterministic means predictable, and in automation, predictable is beautiful. Boring is beautiful because you know exactly what's gonna happen every single time the automation runs. Non-deterministic means that given an input, and you don't know exactly what the output will be. There's variability, there's judgment, there's A.I. And A.I. is non-deterministic. So our job as A.I. automation builders is to make a non-deterministic process as deterministic as possible. Because typically, business processes are pretty deterministic or at least as deterministic as they can be. So that's exactly where agentic workflows shine. They unlock tasks that are too variable for traditional automation, stuff that needs judgment calls at every step, just to be a little bit more dynamic. Maybe research, maybe consecration, customer support, lead gen, these are messy processes that can involve a lot of moving pieces. So with agentic workflows, we can handle that variability. And the system actually gets better over time instead of just setting it and forgetting it, or having to go manually in and make improvements by yourself. There's a reason why so many builders right now are shifting to tools that are a little bit more in genetics like cloud code or anti-gravity. Because they fix a lot of the common struggles with traditional automation. There's no more finding and fixing errors manually, no more setting up API calls yourself, no more manually connecting to MCP servers, no more getting stuck on the logic. So here's a really simple way to think about that evolution. Let's say you wanted to get to a carnival across town, and you know roughly where it is, but you still need directions. Traditional automation is like using a paper map and a compass, and you're looking at the street names, and you're trying to figure out your own routes, you're choosing the streets to walk down, and you can get there, and you will get there. It just takes a little bit more effort. And if you make the wrong turn, you'd have to figure it out and course correct. But with agentic workflows, that's just like pulling out your phone, googling for the carnival, and then it basically gives you this blue line and all you have to do is follow it. And if you go off the path, it will like recalculate, and it will make sure that you go back to the actual outcome that you're looking for. So in both scenarios, you can get to the same destination, but it's just a completely different experience getting there. So let's talk about what's actually happening under the hood, and what you need to know in order to build an agentic workflow. So we're using a framework called WAT. You could just hop into Cloud Code right now and start talking to the agent, and honestly, it would do just fine. But without structure, things get messy fast. Think about it like a school locker. If you just threw every piece of paper, every homework assignment, every note from every subject, into a locker with no organization, you could get straight A's, but it would be tough, because you'd be digging through piles of paper, you'd probably forget things or lose things, and that's why you would have finders, shelves, folders, notebooks. Structure makes everything easier. So it's the exact same thing here. We need to tell Cloud Code how to stay organized, and that's why we do that using our framework called WAT. W stands for workflows, A stands for agent, and T stands for tools. Each piece of that framework has its own job, so let me break that down. All right, so first we have the workflows, which are the instructions. These are instruction files that are written in markdown, which is basically just natural language, but it uses things like pound signs and asterix so that the agent knows what are the headers, what's bold, what's important, stuff like that. So I'll put a quick example right up here on the screen if you've never heard of markdown, but just know it's super simple, and you could go read that and you would not be confused at all. So think of a workflow like a job description or an SOP, just a process. It tells the agent what to do. For example, we might have a workflow called competitor analysis. The workflow tells the agent to research businesses, then gather data from five competitor sources, then analyze those findings, and then analyze our business, and then create a PDF report. So it's just basically a process, a sequence of steps, their guidelines. The agent then uses these guidelines to figure out how to achieve that end goal. And here's the cool part. As the agent works and it gives you outputs, you can say, I liked this, but I didn't like that, or go ahead and change this, and it'll actually update its workflow file, so that next time it calls on the workflow, it will do better. Now the A stands for agent, which is the coordinator. This is the actual AI. This is Clawed Code itself. This is the brain. It reads your workflows and it reads those instructions, and it looks at what tools it has available, and then it makes decisions about which tool to use and when. And if something breaks, it will handle the error, it will research it, it will figure it out, and it will adapt for you. So really just think of this as like a project manager. You hand them the instructions, and they will delegate tasks to the right people, except for not people, it's more so, they delegate tasks to the right tools and workflows. So you don't have to figure out the sequencing or the logic, Clawed Code does it. And then the T are the tools, which are kind of the workers or the actions. Tools are Python scripts that actually do the work, and this is where the ugly code lives, but don't worry, you don't have to touch it. Each tool will have a one specific job. The workflow is a big process, a tool is just one specific action, like scraping a website or generating a PDF. The agent then calls these tools when it needs to, based on what it says in the workflow instructions. So for research workflow, your tools might be one to scrape a website, one to analyze findings, and one to generate a PDF. And here's the best part, these tools also get automatically built by Clawed Code, and if they fail, they get automatically updated and fixed by Clawed Code. They're super modular, so you can call a tool with a different workflow if you want to later. So how do these three layers work together? Let me just show you how this connects. Let's say that we give an agent a task, like research company X's pricing, and then create a PDF report for me. The agent reads the workflow, the instructions, looks at the available tools, and decides the sequence. So first, we'd call something like a web search tool to find the relevant info. Then it would call something like a scrape website tool to pull content from those URLs. Then it calls the analyze finding tool to synthesize everything, and finally, it could call the generate PDF tool to create that branded report. Now, the whole time, it's reasoning, and it's making decisions, based on what you told it to do in the workflow. And you're not mapping it out step by step, the agent handles the logic, and updates it. All right, so that's what I wanted you guys to understand about agentec workflows. All right, but before we continue, if you want to follow along with the video, you can download this resource I'll be using in my community. Once you're there, you just need to look at the post with this video, and you'll find it attached as a markdown file. Now, let's get back to building your first agentec workflow. Okay, so we got all of that stuff out of the way. The first thing I need you to do is go to Google, or a browser, and type in VS code, or Visual Studio Code, and go ahead and download this. This is where we are going to be using Cloud Code. So once you install that, it's going to look like this when you open it up. It's just kind of like a welcome onboarding screen. What I'm going to do is just break everything down as far as what you actually need to click on, what you need to know, because there's a lot of buttons in here, and it's probably a new interface, which makes it overwhelming, but it's going to be simple. You'll see. So before we do anything else, we have to actually install the Cloud Code extension. You can see up here, I've got this little button, where if I click on it, it opens up Cloud Code, and we get the little crab, and we can now talk to Cloud Code. So you're not going to have that by default. The way you get that is you go over the left hand side to the menu bar, and you're going to click on extensions. You are then going to search for Cloud Code, so if you just type in Cloud, it should pop up over here, and you'll click on it, and then you just have to install this extension. Now, once you install this, it will prompt you to sign in with your Anthropic or your Cloud subscription. And so you do have to be on a paid Cloud subscription in order to use Cloud Code. You can see here on the free version, you don't have it, but Pro or Max or the higher Max, you will have Cloud Code with Opus 4.5. So once you're on a Pro or Max plan, then you will come back into VS Code. You'll sign in with that, and you should be all set to start using Cloud Code right here. So we've got that configured. Now what I want you to do is click on the button up in the top right, and close out of this window, and you should be able to see that you have Cloud Code right here. So now in order to really use Cloud Code, we have to be in some sort of project. So if I go over to the left hand side, and I go all the way up to the explorer, you can see that it says no folder open, which means basically we're not in a project. So you're going to go ahead and click on Open Folder, and you can see what I did is I created a folder right here called First Agentec Workflow, and it's completely blank. So open up a blank folder or go create a new one, and then select it. So this is what your screen should now look like. You've got your folder on the left hand side with no files in there. You've got these other panels on the right, and what we're going to do is close out of the VS Code agent, and then we're going to open up Cloud Code, and then we're just going to get rid of the welcome VS Code screen. So what we have here is files on the left hand side, and this is where we're going to see any folders that we create, any of the files that Cloud actually makes for us. And then right here is where we can actually talk to Cloud Code, and just think of this as your typical chat, UBT interface, your Gemini interface, or of course your Cloud interface. This is where the agent lives, and then this is where the files live. So this is where we'll see the workflows and tools as we mentioned. So you remember earlier I talked about how we had to make sure that our agent understands our structure, just like it wouldn't want to throw notes and random stuff in a locker, we have to give it structure. So what we're going to do is we're going to give it this file that's called a Cloud.MD file. And if you want to get this, I will have it available for download in my free school community. So this is basically the onboarding document. We're catching the agent up to speed as far as how do we want to work. So you can see what we're doing is we're explaining you're working inside the WAT framework, workflows agents tools. So then we go out and explain. Layer one is the instructions, layer two is you, layer three are the tools. I'm not going to read out this whole markdown file line by line. He vases can access it like I said, but I'll hit on a few of the important things. So we go over how to operate. So we tell it first, look in your existing tools, then you learn and adapt when things fail. So when you hit an error, you read it, you fix the script and you reset. So for example, if you get rate limited on an API, you would dig into the docs, you would see if you could discover a batch endpoint, you would refactor the tool to use it, verify it works, and then update the workflows so that error never happens again. And then of course, you want to keep the workflows current. We explain the self-improvement loop, we explain the file structure, which is going to look like this. These are the different folders we're going to have. We'll have one for temporary files, we'll have one for tools, we'll have one for workflows, and then we'll of course have some other different files in here as well. So anyways, that is our Cloud.MD file. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to drag it over here into the left-hand side, because this is where we have our project files and folders. So I drop it in there, you can see it opens up over here, we could also read it right there, but I'm just going to go ahead and close out of that, and now we have Cloud.MD set up right here. So what you can do now that we have Cloud.MD is you could do a slash command, which is slash init, and that basically just initializes the environment, but we could also just do this in natural language. So I'm going to go ahead and say, hey, Cloud, I just dropped in a Cloud.MD file that explains how I want you to work in this project. Go ahead and initialize the project and get everything set up and ask me any questions if you have any. So when I shoot that off, what you're going to notice is that we can see everything the Cloud's doing. We're going to see it's thinking, we're going to see it's thoughts, we're going to see what it's doing. So in this case, it literally says, okay, I'll read the Cloud.MD file to understand your project requirements, and then I'm going to get everything set up. And then what's cool is we can actually see what it's doing. So we can see that it read the file, we can see now that it understands, and now it's going to create a to-do list and start to make us those folders. So temporary tools, workflows, and you can see on the left-hand side, it actually just built those. Now one thing you may have noticed right here is that when we're talking to Cloud, yours might look a little bit different because you may be looking for this bypass permissions mode. When we talk to Cloud Code, we can either use bypass permissions, we can use ask-before-edits, we can use edit automatically, or we can use just plan mode. So if you want to be able to get bypass permissions mode, you have to go to your settings, and then you're going to type in Cloud Code, and then you just have to allow dangerously bypass permissions. Now yes, I know it sounds dangerous because the word dangerous is explicitly in there, but it's not too bad. It's really just more so if you give it a huge task and you don't do any planning and you don't know what it could do, it's just going to go execute everything without asking. So typically the flow that we like to follow is use plan mode, have it build out a really nice plan, ask you questions, and then once you're confident in it, say yep, go ahead, and you turn on bypass permissions. Which you guys will see me do that exact thing when we start building this workflow. So it did ask some questions, do you want me to continue with a straightforward initialization? Do you want any Python packages? Do you want to do a Git repository? Are there any specific tools or workflows? Right now we're not going to worry about that. All I wanted to do was just get this folder structure set up as you can see. We've got workflows, nothing in there, we've got tools with nothing in there, and we've got a temporary folder with nothing in there. So I'm just going to go ahead and do slash clear, which is just going to reset our conversation. All right, so let's talk about the actual workflow we want to build today. What I want to build is a competitor research workflow. And I want the deliverable to be branded PDFs, meaning I want to give clog code in my logo, my brand guidelines, and information about my business. And then it has to go research competitors. It's going to create maybe a SWAT analysis or opportunities for us or tracking what they're doing really well, and then it's going to report all back with a PDF that once again is branded. So that's basically what I'm going to start with because I know what I want, but I don't know maybe the tools we're going to use or the exact structure. So I'm going to switch over here to plan mode, and I'm just going to say exactly that. Hey, Claude, so I've got an idea for a workflow that I want you to build. I basically at the end of it want a PDF, and I want it to be branded. So I want to be able to give you my company logo and my company brand guidelines, and the whole PDF output should have my logo on there and have our colors and our typography and stuff like that. But what I want you to do is it's basically a competitor, analysis, and research workflow. So I want to also give you information about my business that you need to save. And based on that information, you need to go find competitors, and you need to find the areas to improve my business, maybe see what's working well for them, and just build me out a good way for me to keep tabs on the market and what's going on with my competitors. Yeah, that's kind of what I'm looking for. So help me build a plan for this workflow. And once again, of course, you can ask me any questions that you have if you're confused. All right, so that was my request. You can see it was all natural language. It's very simple. It's probably the way I would just speak to like a human. And what it's going to do now that it's on plan mode is it's going to think it's going to look at some stuff. It might even do some initial research in order to help build a plan. And then what it's going to do is it is going to actually ask us questions. Now, I know that this might seem a little intimidating, but really when I was learning Cloud Code, the way that I did it was I would ask it a question, and then I would just read every single line of what it's doing. If any of these tasks or glob pattern, like what is that? If anything confused me, I would just say, what is this? What did you do here? Why did you do that? So it's really about if you're genuinely curious and you just read and pay attention, you will pick this up really, really fast. So you can see it, first of all, explored existing workflows and tools, and then it's looking at branding and PDF capabilities. This was basically just seeing if it could find any tools in the folder for Python. It's reading other files in our environment to see what's going on. And now you can see that we are in a question phase. So it's got four questions to start. First one is discovery. How should competitors be identified for analysis? I can either provide a list. It can auto-discover based on my business info or hybrid. You know, let's just go ahead and try auto-discover based on my business info. Then it asks us what business information should the workflow collect and save about your company, company description and value prop, products service and pricing, target market and customer segments, key features. Let's just do all of that. We wanted to get as much information about us as possible. For analysis, it asks what aspects of competitors should be analyzed. We've got products, services features, pricing and business model, marketing messaging. I want to analyze all of this. Why would we not? So I'm going to choose all of it. For branding, it says, can I use the existing branding assets I found in your YouTube analysis project? And this is basically because I've got a big project that this first agente workflow project sits in, and it can search through those as well. But I'm going to assume that this is like you guys setting up a first workflow. So I'm going to say no, which is I will provide different branding. So I'm going to go ahead and submit those answers. It's going to take those, adjust the plan a little bit. And it may come back with more questions. It may not. So we'll see. And this is pretty cool because it said, I have all the information I need. Let me launch a plan agent to actually design the implementation approach. It's asking us how often do we want to run this? I'm just going to go with monthly for now. For the output, it asks if we want anything else besides a PDF. That's pretty cool. But I'm just going to go PDF. And then for the budget, what's your comfort level with API costs for this workflow? I like how it's showing us different approaches here. And I'm just going to continue to go with the recommended approach. And we're going to go ahead and do this middle one. All right. So I finished the plan. So if I scroll all the way back up so when it started telling us, you can see this is super comprehensive. So I'm still scrolling. OK, competitor analysis workflow implementation plan filled a monthly recurring competitor analysis system that automatically discovers competitors, researches their offerings, generates a fully branded PDF report with actionable insights. So user requirements would be discovery, business info, analysis, output, frequency, budget. We've got the architecture. We've got the tech stack. So it's going to be using CloudSonic. It's going to use FireCrawl and Perplexity. It's going to use Sonnet. And it's going to use Report Lab for PDF generations. So it'll probably prompt us to go grab an API key there. And it's also going to generate charts using Matplotlib, which I believe is a Python extension or plugin. And it's going to help with charts. It's also going to add some things in our folders over here. So you can see it's going to add a new folder called Brand Assets. And that's where we will upload our logo and our brand guidelines. And it's basically planning to create a few different things. It's going to create some files in the temporary folders you can see. It's going to create a workflow called competitor analysis. And it's going to create these five tools. So collect business info, discover competitors, research competitors, analyze competitors, and generate competitor PDF. So exactly like I said, it's going to create this workflow. It's going to create these tools. And then we should be good to run it. Now one thing I noticed is it has a brand configuration file. And this basically made up our brand information. And it would probably want us to come in here and choose, you know, a name and maybe a logo path. But what we're going to do is we want to actually just drop in those files for it. So that's something that we will have to change. But we'll just keep going for now. We can see that it's decided how to handle edg cases like competitor websites, block scraping or insufficient competitors found rate limiting, invalid brand assets, and data completeness issues. It's also giving us a cost breakdown. It's pretty cool. So the first run will be about a dollar and a half. It's also going to be doing subsequent runs on a 30 day cycle, which will be a huge cost savings because it's going to cash some of the data. And then if you're adding some new competitors, it'll be maybe another 50 cents. So anyways, that is the end of the plan. We could basically go ahead now and auto accepts or we could keep planning. And I do want to say no keep planning because there's one thing I want to change, which was our brand assets. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to take a logo, drag it into the left hand side, take the brand guidelines and drag that into the left hand side. And you can see that we have these things up here that pop in and we can actually see them. That plan looks good. The only change I want to make is about the brand guidelines and the assets. So I just dropped you in two files, a is png.png and a is brand guidelines dash one.png. Those are the ones that I want you to use to create the branded PDF. So look at those, extract the information out of them and make sure that the logo and the colors and everything appear on the final output PDF. And if you need to, you can throw those into a folder in this project to keep things organized. So this is awesome. It said I found your logos and I'm creating a brand asset guide. So we've got the logo and then it also extracted our colors and typography. And now it's going to update the plan to use those assets. And now since that has been changed, we're going to go ahead and auto accept the plan. Hopefully it will get working for us. Of course, it's going to create a to do list and then it's just going to start building all these different scripts, whether that's a workflow or a tool and then it's going to test the workflow. And like I said, it'll probably have to come back and ask us for an API key or something like that. All right. So the workflow is ready. We can see that we have our branded assets set up. We've got the workflow completed. We've got the Python tools completed. We've got some setup files. So we also have a readme that we could open up, which should basically just tell us pretty much how this actual workflow works. So that's pretty cool. Now we do have to go get two API keys to start. We need to then then drop it key and we need a firecraw key. So it does actually tell us that here again, we have to install dependencies. We have to set up those API keys and then we have to run the workflow. So first of all, to install the dependencies, I'm just going to say, can you do this and then paste in exactly what it gave me? And so it's interesting. It asks us to do that when it could have just done it itself. As you can see, it's able to just run that command for us. So once it did that, now it says, okay, you have to go create two API keys. So we need to create a .eunv file, which is just going to be a copy from .eunv.example. So I'm actually just going to run this command and it's going to copy that file for us. And now we have an actual .eunv file right here. And so you can see it says, okay, cool. Now we need your inthropic key, your firecraw key. And if I open up the .eunv, it gives us those placeholders. So basically all we have to do is go grab those keys and then put them in here instead of these placeholders that you can see right there. So first, let's go to the inthropic. I'm going to go to my cloud developer platform. I'm going to create a new key. This one's going to be called competitor analysis demo. We're going to have this key right here, copy that and go into VS code, paste it in there. And then the next one we need to get is the firecraw key. So you can use the link in the description to go to firecrawl. You can actually get 10% off and a thousand free credits if you use code Nate and using the link in the description. And I'm going to go to my dashboard here. And then all I have to do is grab my API key from right here, paste it into this section. And then what you have to do is make sure you save this file. So you could do control S or you could just go file safe. But now that that file has been saved, we actually should be good to go ahead and run the workflow to see if it works. So before I do that, you can see that we have this little thing down here, which is context. So 23% of your context remaining until auto compact. So usually when this goes over 60%, I usually just like to clear because there's this thing called context rot, which basically means the more and more you use one conversation, the worse the model kind of gets. So we're going to clear the conversation. We're going to go ahead and ask it to run competitor analysis. And then we're going to go ahead and see what happens. Now, the one thing I did notice is that we still haven't given it a ton of information about our business. So I am a little confused why it hasn't asked about that. But we will see what happens. I'm going to keep it on bypass permissions mode to just see what it does. And I'm going to ask it to generate a competitive analysis. And I'm going to give it a really small amount of information about our business. Hey, Claude, I need you to help me run a competitor analysis. My business is called Git Leads with AI. And we basically help you scrape leads, build lead lists, and do personalized outreach at scale using AI. And we're starting to see a lot of competitors pop up. So I want to understand our opportunities and what we need to be doing better. All right. So what happened there is I just shot off a prompt. And I didn't explicitly say like, hey, go use your competitor analysis workflow. But what it's going to do is it's going to think about what we have. So you can see that it just searched through our workflows. It searched through our tools. It said we already have a competitor analysis workflow set up. Let me read how this works and let me just go do it. So let's just see what it comes up with. I'll let you guys know if we have any questions. Otherwise, I'll check in with you guys when we get that output. Okay. So here we are getting some questions. So this is the part where it realized it didn't actually have enough information about us yet. So what's your primary target for Git leads with AI? We're just going to go with, we'll just say marketing agencies for pricing. I'm going to go with credit based usage. What's your key differentiator? I'm actually going to go ahead and say other. And I'm just going to say our key differentiator is an all in one platform. But make sure you're saving all of this information that I'm telling you about my business somewhere in this project. So I don't have to tell you it again. And so I'm pretty sure it would have done that either way because that's kind of the whole point here. But just to make sure that it does it for the sake of the example, I wanted to show you guys, you have the ability to just tell it to do things. So I got it. I'll save the information. So that's all you have to do. And now it's going to continue on with its to do list. And actually it does come up with some more questions. So we're a single all in one product and our price range, let's just say 200 to 500 a month. Now this is good. I know what you guys may think of you thinking is that's a lot of questions. Well, the thing is, as you use it more and more, it gets smarter and smarter because each time you use it, you know, it has more information and you give it feedback. So yes, the initial setup may seem like a lot. But think about the questions that's asking and think about how good it's going to get now that it has all this info. So you can see what it did is it created this file right here called business profile JSON. And this is where it decided to store all of the information about our business. And now if we ever tell it something else and it needs to add like a new memory or fact about us, it will just go ahead and update this JSON file. Here's a great example of it fixing itself. So it basically went ahead and started looking up for competitors and it found an error. So I see there's a unique code encoding issue with the script on Windows. Let me fix that. It reads how to fix it and then it goes ahead and fixes it because there were some emoji characters or something like that. And then it said, let me update it. And what it's doing now is it's actually changing the script and changing the tool to make sure that that error doesn't happen again. It's also now created a new file called competitor list. So it was able to do research and find different competitors like Apollo, outreach, clay, instantly, LEM list. And now if it ever needs to save more information about different competitors, it will just put it here. All right, looks like it's finishing up right now. So it found some key insights. Your position does a mid market blah, blah, blah. Your eight main competitors, what you're doing right, critical gaps you need to address. Top three recommendations. Let's see what those are. Add white labeling, introduce 99 to $149 starter tier and double down on build for Aidencies positioning. So it created three different files or sorry, four different files. It created the business profile, which we looked at. It created the analysis competitor data and the PDF report. Wow. So it created a new folder called competitor and it made an individual file for every single one of our competitors. So that's really cool. We can actually see a lot of data about them now. It created a folder called analysis history. So this is where we can see pretty much all of the data that it ran and got for this specific run. And now of course, it has the PDF. So let's check out the final output. All right. So here it is. Now I can definitely say that these are my colors and the typography. Good, but I don't see the logo and I really I think it's just because it is a white PNG logo. So I bet that it's up here. I just think that we probably can't see it. But anyways, we'll see if we can fix that. For now, we've got executive summary. We've got business profile. We've got competitive landscape with feature analysis. We've got competitor profiles. So high threat, medium threat. We've got all these different companies with strengths and our advantages. And then we also have our strategic recommendations at the end that we saw earlier. So really the problem with this report is that our logo isn't visible because it's white. It said that that run costed a dollar and forty three cents. So not too bad. But what I'm saying now is that's great, but we can't see the charts or logos on the swimming because of the same colors, the background, investigate and fix these issues. Now typically I would put this in plan mode and go back and forth a little bit again, but for the sake of the demo, I want to see how good it's able to do when we just let it run with a super, super vague request as you can see. All right. So here's the thing. It said the PDF generator has several problems and listed those out. And now it's going to go ahead and fix those issues. So once again, this is just me telling you guys about you have to run the workflow a few times to discover those holes. And once you discover those holes, it'll fix them. And then you'll get to a place where you have more of a battle tested workflow. Okay. So a regenerated the PDF. And once again, we talked earlier about the caching. It's saving all the data it had already. So it doesn't have to do a new search, which is really good. And in the future, it will still do current research, but it already has the business profile about all of our competitors and it's already researched them. So now it just has to see if there's anything new. But anyways, let's open up the new report and see how it looks. All right. So here's the new report. Okay. So we've got competitive intelligence report. Today's date. And now we do see the logo. So executive summary, we can see this business profile. Once again, competitive landscape, competitive profiles. However, there we go. We can finally see a pricing analysis chart, which looks pretty solid. Cool. So at this point, it would just be a matter of making tweaks because obviously this isn't perfect. There's some things we might want. We might want more details because like up here, you know, it's pretty, it's not super, super, super, wordy and super detailed. So maybe you like that. Maybe you don't. At this point, you've got enough info and you've got every tool you kind of need and you just go back and forth and ask for feature enhancements. And once again, you can do that all with completely natural language. And you can see I didn't have to go look at any API documentation. I didn't have to figure out how to prompt something to run a competitive analysis. I didn't have to go figure out how to generate these PDF reports or charts. It handled all of that for me. So I hope you guys were able to follow along and I hope you're excited to go build your first agente workflow. So as you can see, building your first agente workflow is actually so simple. And if you still have doubts about what you need to do or where to start, you can always join my community. In here, you can get every single resource that I've ever used in my YouTube videos, all the templates, the workflows, the prompts, the files, all completely free. Also, if you ever have a problem making something work, you've got tutorials in there on different topics and the support of over a quarter million people willing to help you. The link for this is down in the description. And if you want to turn these skills into a business, I have tutorials and tips to help you make your first dollar building AI automations. But anyways, that's going to do it for today. If you guys enjoyed the video where you learned something new, please give it a like. It definitely helps me out a ton. And as always, I appreciate you guys making it to the end of the video. I'll see you on the next one. Thanks, everyone.