---
video_title: "Claude Code 2.0 is Finally Here"
video_id: XuVvSq_EeIE
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XuVvSq_EeIE
video_date: 2026-03-07T05:47:57+00:00
video_description: |

---
Cloud code is now a 24-7 AI employee, which means that it is always cloud code a clock. And that might be the nerdyest thing I've ever said. A topic has finally done it and launched scheduled tasks natively for cloud code, which means every single process, every single skill, everything you've been building and using inside of cloud code just got 10 times more powerful. So here I am in cloud code in the cloud desktop app. Now right now you do need to be using the desktop app in order to access these scheduled tasks. And there's a few ways that you can set them up. The first ways you go over here to the schedule tab and you just click on it and you can see right here run tasks on a schedule or whenever you need them type slash schedule and any existing session to set one up. So those are the two ways you can either click right here, new task, you can give a name, a description, give it a prompt. You can choose the model you want it to run on, you can choose the modes to run on and you can also select the folder. And then finally you just say hey I want this to run every hour, every day, every week, at this time, boom, you now have a scheduled automation. And the huge unlock here, which is so exciting to me is that this isn't a deterministic workflow. And what I mean by that is if you've been following some other cloud code videos I've done in the past, we build either like a Python script or a type script and that is the actual automation and that is deterministic logic code. Meaning that will always happen step one, step two, step three, if there's an error, it can't fix itself. It just errors and then we get notified. But this isn't just a Python script. This is cloud code agent running the same exact way it runs when you talk to it. And that's why this is so exciting because agentic workflows are self-healing. So as you guys know, you tell it to go do something and it starts trying. If it runs into an error, it doesn't just come back and say, eh, I tried. It says, okay, here's the error. Let me try three other things. And then after I see which one of those three other things work best, I'm going to update myself so that I never run into that error again. So now you are no longer the bottleneck and these skills and these workflows can actually get better and better over time automatically. If you want to watch the full breakdown, then click on that play button right here and I'll see you guys over there.