---
video_title: "Claude Code Just Added What Everyone Wanted (Remote Control)"
video_id: EqhKw0Oro_k
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EqhKw0Oro_k
video_date: 2026-02-25T20:57:23+00:00
video_description: |
  My FREE AI OS Course: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society/about?el=claude-code-just-added-what-everyone-wanted&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=free-group
  Full courses + unlimited support: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society-plus/about?el=claude-code-just-added-what-everyone-wanted&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=ais-plus
  Apply for my YT podcast: https://podcast.nateherk.com/apply
  Work with me: https://uppitai.com/
  
  My Tools💻
  FREE MONTH voice to text: https://get.glaido.com/nate
  Code NATEHERK for 10% off VPS (annual plan): https://www.hostinger.com/vps/claude-code-hosting
  
  Claude Code Remote Control Links:
  https://code.claude.com/docs/en/remote-control
  https://venturebeat.com/orchestration/anthropic-just-released-a-mobile-version-of-claude-code-called-remote
  
  In this video, I walk you through the new Claude Code remote control feature. What it is, how to set it up, and how to start using it from anywhere. 
  
  I demo the full setup process so you can follow along step by step, and I cover some key limitations and things you should know before diving in. By the end, you'll have everything you need to get Claude Code remote control up and running on your own. 
  
  Whether you're managing projects on the go or just want more flexibility in how you work with Claude Code, this is a game changer.
  
  Sponsorship Inquiries:
  📧 nate@smoothmedia.co
  
  Connect with me:
  https://www.linkedin.com/in/nateherkelman/
  https://x.com/nateherk
  https://www.instagram.com/nateherk/
  
  Timestamps
  0:00 - Demo: Controlling Claude Code from your phone
  1:12 - Results & switching between devices
  1:40 - What is Claude Code Remote Control?
  2:06 - How to set it up (4 simple steps)
  3:58 - Things to know & FAQ
  6:22 - Why this is exciting
---
Normally when we want to use Cloud Code, we have to do so in a chat window like this on our local machine, or we could obviously pull up the terminal typing cloud and then access it this way. But now we're able to type in this command, Cloud Remote-Control, and that basically gives us this QR code, which we can use to remote into this from our phone or anywhere else. So if I go ahead and scan this QR code right here, it opens up my remote control session of my Herk 2.0 project. And so what I can do is shoot off this message in this session that says, run a comment analysis from my YouTube videos and ID8 new topics. And this is actually going to do it really, really well because in this project, my Herk 2 personal assistant, it's got these different agents, it's got these different skills, and it can actually use all of these from my phone. So here you can see it says, let me kick off the ID and mining process. I'll check the data freshness first, and then I'll spin up those agents in parallel. It has contacts on my business, my current priorities, what I'm working on, and it's going to make this way better. So I basically now have Cloud Code in my pocket. It's doing the exact same things on here as you can see, and I could go off to lunch, I could go to the gym, and I could still keep working and checking in on my Cloud Code. Okay, so that just finished up. It ran a YouTube analyzer agent and my research agent, and now we have a full brief for February 25th with top video ideas. As you can see, it's going through what's trending, but it's also looking at my comments. What else is cool is if I close out of this terminal here, even though this is still running, and I go to my past conversations, you can see this is exactly what I just triggered from my phone, and I could now pick up the conversation over here, and then I could jump back over my phone, and I could just keep working all the time. As long as I'm able to maintain an internet connection, so this is all thanks to Cloud Code's new feature, the remote control. So that's exactly what I'm going to be talking to you guys about today, showing you how to set it up, going over some things you need to know, and why this is exciting. So my one sentence overview here is that you start a coding task on your computer and you're kind of desk bound, but then using the remote control, you can control it from anywhere. You could be having lunch, having cup of coffee, going on a walk, and all of your different agents can be running for you, the work keeps going. And what's so great about this is that the setup literally cannot be simpler. You type a command, you scan a code, and then you're connected. So heading over to the official Cloud Code docs right here for the new remote control, it says that you're able to continue a local Cloud Code session from your phone, tablet, or any browser. When you start this session, Cloud stays running locally, so nothing ever moves to the Cloud. So like I mentioned in the demo, I was working in this local project, so I had access to all of this context and all of these skills and rules. And you can work from both services at once. The entire conversation stays synced. So the requirements are you have to have a pro or max plan. You can't use an API key, and then all you have to do pretty much is you run Cloud and you log in, and then you just have to give that workspace trust. And then if you're already in an existing session, you just do slash remote control. And if you want to start a new session, you just do Cloud Remote Dash Control, like you guys saw in my demo. So you guys can search more through these docs. It'll explain pretty much everything about this, but like I said, it's super, super simple. It's literally just these four steps, and you're all set. Now one thing to keep in mind is the session URL. Don't put that on the internet. Don't show that to people or the QR code. So if I was to open up a new terminal and I wanted to just go ahead and do a Cloud Remote Control, you guys can see that we get right here this actual URL. And I could hit space if I want the QR code, but this URL works too. So if I follow this link, this will basically open this up in my web browser right here on my desktop, or I could put this in my phone, and then I'd be able to connect to the remote control session. As you can see, here's all the ones I was doing during testing, and we still have some active sessions right here. But the point is, anyone could go to this link and then control your local file. So just don't give that to people. Now I will say I tried logging in from like a different cloud account with a different email, and it was taking a long time to connect, and I'm not convinced it would actually let me in, but I would still just say don't share that URL. But you just need to be mindful of what sessions you have open. As you can see, if they're disconnected and won't let you chat, but if they're connected, you can see that they still technically could access stuff. Okay, so some real quick things to know, or maybe just to hammer home, the first one would be if you're having trouble, then try to update things, try to update your cloud code, or the app on your phone, or maybe some settings on your computer. Just try to update some things before you assume the worst has happened. The first question I wanted to address, which we already kind of covered, is that is this running in the cloud? No, your phone is just the window to what's actually happening locally, which is different from cloud code on the web, which is running on and through our servers. But of course, the AI models are connecting to and through our API, but the files and everything like that, that is still all local. And then I had a really hard time here spelling and through our app, as you can see. But I got it right right there. So I don't know. Question two is what has to stay on. So you have to maintain internet connection. If you don't have connection for like 10 minutes, I think that's when you get disconnected, your laptop or desktop needs to stay on. I think sleep is okay, but it has to stay on and the terminal has to stay open, meaning if you wanted to go away for like a couple hours, you might be fine. You might just want to change the settings on your laptop. So it doesn't shut off. But if you wanted to go away for like a week, which this product definitely isn't built for that, you would also have to make sure that things aren't getting updated and automatically restarting and that your internet connection is going to be good, stuff like that. Now because of that, unfortunately, we can only start new sessions for remote control from our terminal. If you're away from your computer and there's not a session running, you couldn't start a new one. If your computer falls asleep, the session dies. If there's no terminal running locally, there's nothing that your phone or the remote can actually connect to. And that's what I would really love to see next. Obviously, there are some ways that you can sort of frame and sign your solution to wrap up cloud codes so you can access it anywhere and start up conversations anywhere. But I would love to see this native and that is really what I hope comes soon. The next question is who can use this, which is also pretty much all this is covered in the docs. But you have to be on the pro or max plan. So the pro is the around 20 bucks a month. The max is either 100 or 200. And you can't be on a team or enterprise plan yet. I'm sure it'll come soon, but right now it has to be personal plan. And of course, you cannot authenticate through APIs. And finally, I just wanted to say this one more time. Do not show people the QR code or the session URL unless that session has been killed already. Because if you can just click on a link and access all your local files, then so can anyone else that has that link. Because if you remember, there wasn't too factor authentication. There wasn't a password. We basically just opened it up. Now, I will say I tried logging in from like a different cloud account with a different email. And it was taking a long time to connect and I'm not convinced it would actually let me in. But I would still just say don't share that URL. And I wanted to end off this video just by talking about like, why is this exciting and kind of what's going on with Anthropic? So I found this article right here that I thought had some cool stats. And I just pulled out a few of the ones that I thought were kind of cool to highlight, but I'll link the full article in the description. The $2.5 billion agent, the launch of remote control serves as an escalation force in what has become a dominant business for Anthropic. Cloud code has now hit in just basically a year, $2.5 billion annualized run rate, which has more than doubled since the start of this year. So, you know, in the past two months, they're currently having their Chagy BT moment surging to $29 million daily installs with individuals to your code. So super cool. And this statistic might actually feel fake, but moving towards everything sort of being vibe coded and all the stuff I've heard about Anthropic engineers, not really coding anymore and having a ton of code reviewer agents as well that are catching things that humans are missing. But apparently we're entering this era where AI tools are writing roughly 41% of all code. And I imagine over the next few months that will definitely be able to bump over 50% of code being written by AI. And obviously we've seen this all over with how quick POCs and startups and, you know, different products all being written with AI coding tools. Anyways, I know it was a quick one, but I just wanted to show you guys how this kind of stuff works. And what I thought about it, if you love nerding out about this kind of stuff, then definitely check out my plus group. The link for this is down in the description. We've got over 3,000 members who are building with AI every day, building businesses with AI, and it's a great place to be if you have similar goals. So I'd love to see you guys in this community, but that's going to do it for today. If you enjoyed the video or you're lensing the new, please give it a like. That'll be helping us me a ton. And as always, I appreciate you guys making it to end of the video. I'll see you on the next one. Thanks, everyone.