---
video_title: "Claude Fable 5 Made This Entire Video By Itself."
video_id: ONmaDdOBGig
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ONmaDdOBGig
video_date: 2026-06-12T20:20:00+00:00
video_description: |
  My FREE AI OS Course: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society/about?el=fable-made-this&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=free-group
  Full courses + unlimited support: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society-plus/about?el=fable-made-this&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=ais-plus
  Apply for my YT podcast: https://podcast.nateherk.com/apply
  Work with me: https://uppitai.com/
  
  My Tools💻
  FREE MONTH voice to text: https://get.glaido.com/nate
  Code NATEHERK for 10% off VPS (annual plan): https://www.hostinger.com/vps/claude-code-hosting
  
  The video you just watched made itself. I gave Claude Fable 5 one prompt inside Claude Code, walked away, and came back to a finished video I never filmed, edited, or even watched while it was being built. 
  
  In this one I show you what Anthropic's new Mythos-class model can actually do, then break down exactly how it wrote the script, cloned my voice, rendered the avatar, built every motion graphic, and edited the whole thing on its own.
  
  Sponsorship Inquiries:
  📧 nate@smoothmedia.co
  
  Connect with me:
  https://www.linkedin.com/in/nateherkelman/
  https://x.com/nateherk
  https://www.instagram.com/nateherk/
---
So I literally just opened up Cloud Fable, gave it this slash goal, went down to the gym, and came back to this. What you're watching right now was not filmed. This avatar is AI. The voice you're hearing is a clone of mine, and every single word of this script was written by Claude. I didn't write this, I didn't film it, I didn't edit it, and while it was being made, I never saw a single frame of it. I just typed one prompt into Claude code and walked away. And everything else, the research, the script, the voice, the avatar, the motion graphics, all of it happened on its own. So this week, Anthropic release, Claude Fable 5, and that's basically the only reason this video can exist. It's the first time a mythos class model, that's the tier above Opus, has been available to anyone on a paid plan. Until now, that tier was locked to vetted security partners, and it's state of the art on nearly every benchmark they tested. So let me show you guys what this thing is actually good at, and then exactly how it made this video. So the coding numbers first, because they're kind of nuts, Stripes said Fable 5 compressed months of engineering into days. And in the announcement, there's a 50 million line Ruby code base where it ran a full migration in a single day, a job that would have taken a whole team over two months by hand. And Vision took a big jump too. It can rebuild a web apps source code just from screenshots. And it actually beat Pokemon Fire Red, start to finish on raw screenshots alone. No maps, no navigation aids, where older clawed models needed a whole helper harness just to play. But the one that matters most for this video is long horizon focus. This thing stays locked in across millions of tokens. Anthropic gave it a file-based memory, like literally just files it could write notes to, and had it play slay the spire. And it reached the final act three times more often than Opus 48. Now it's not cheap, 10 bucks per million input tokens, 50 on the output. But you guys are about to see what that buys you. Okay, so real quick, how did this video actually get made? First, the script. Claude Red Anthropics full announcement, fact checked every claim you just heard, and wrote this entire thing in my voice, using a voice playbook built off my actual transcripts. Then the voice. It sent that script over to 11 labs, where I've got a voice clone trained on my real videos. And the trick is, you can't just generate like four straight minutes of audio, because the longer a generation runs, the more the voice starts to drift. So Claude split the script into chunks, just under a minute each and generated them separately. Then every chunk went to Hagen to render on my avatar on the Avatar 5 model, their newest motion engine. And for a while you couldn't even select Avatar 5 through the API, so the workaround was Claude literally driving a browser with playwright and flipping every video by hand. Their new API finally exposes it, so this one went straight through. But at that point it's just a pile of raw Avatar clips, and nothing's been edited yet. And then the editing, which is usually the part that takes a human days. Claude stitched the Avatar clips together with FFM Peg, ran a word-level transcription, and built every motion graphic in this video as actual code, HTML animated with G-SAP inside hyper frames. Time to the exact words I'm saying. Then it checked its own work. It rendered out frames from every scene, and visually reviewed them, and anything that looked off got fixed and re-rendered until it all passed. So one prompt went in, and a finished, fully edited YouTube video came out the other side. That's what a MyThos class model does, the same week it comes out. But anyways, that's going to do it for this one. So if you guys enjoyed the video or learned something new, please give it a like. It definitely helps me out a ton. And as always, I appreciate you guys making it to the end of the video. I'll see you on the next one. Thanks everyone. I mean, isn't that amazing? Even all those sound effects, everything in there, one shot by Claude Fable 5. Now two quick things to keep in mind. First of all, if you copied that exact same prompt, I'm not convinced you would get the exact same results, because I've got a few different like hyper frame skills that are already in there. And then number two, I don't think you actually need Fable to do all this. I could definitely replicate this style, now that I've already built it out once, I could build a skill around it. But I think that I could replicate that style with probably even saw it. This is the actual session that I ran. This only took an hour, as you can see, and I used slash gold. So the goal was achieved in an hour. It took about 400,000 tokens, 380,000 tokens. But keep in mind, I did have it spin up a dynamic workflow at the end to verify everything. So it had a bunch of agents, taking screenshots and verifying everything, even those sound effects, all of the sound effects in that final render was built right in here with Claude Fable and hyper frames. You'll also notice that I was on max. So obviously there was a lot of energy being put into here. But when it spun up the sub agents, all of those sub agents in the workflow were not fable. But you do seriously have to be careful. This was obviously me doing an experiment, and I just wanted to see what it could do. This ate up about 40% of my $200 a month plan. So in one hour, it ate up almost half of the plan. So obviously be careful. You can see here it says done. The video is ready to upload. This is where it lives. This is how long it is. Here's what I built. Here's how it was verified. And it has this weird thing where I'm trying to scroll up to show you guys the prompt, but it like cut off. So let's see if I can recover that. Okay, so here is the exact goal prompt that I set. I'm not going to read this entire thing, but you guys can pause the video and read it if you want. You'll notice here at the end what I did is I gave it context. I said you should only stop when you were 100% confident that this is a high quality video. This will be going out to my YouTube channel. So if it doesn't look good, you know, it's high risk. It will damage my reputation. Now, obviously like with slash goal, you want to do things that are pretty objective. But I have found that when I give it context, so it understands why we're doing something, it tends to understand a little bit better. I also said here, now after you build it, verify it. Use a dynamic workflow to visually verify and validate that the entire video is perfect. The motion graph has come in on time. There's nothing out of bounds. Everything is aesthetic and everything fits within the goal of a completely finished and fully vetted and reviewed YouTube video. So anyway, as this was my glido word vomit into clawed goal. And then that's what we got. So that is going to do it for today. You'll even notice that my agent ended the video the exact same way I always do, which is if you enjoy the video or you learn something new, please give it a like. Definitely helps me a ton. And as always, I appreciate you guys making it to the end of the video. I'll see you all the next one. Thanks guys.