---
video_title: "Anthropic Just Dethroned OpenAI. Here's What Happens Next."
video_id: -nG-9vlSkho
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-nG-9vlSkho
video_date: 2026-05-13T21:20:51+00:00
video_description: |
  My FREE AI OS Course: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society/about?el=free-sample-phase&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=free-group
  Full courses + unlimited support: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society-plus/about?el=free-sample-phase&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=ais-plus
  Apply for my YT podcast: https://podcast.nateherk.com/apply
  Work with me: https://uppitai.com/
  
  My Tools💻
  FREE MONTH voice to text: https://get.glaido.com/nate
  Code NATEHERK for 10% off VPS (annual plan): https://www.hostinger.com/vps/claude-code-hosting
  
  Free Codex application form: https://openai.com/form/codex-enterprise-promo/
  Ramp article: https://econlab.substack.com/p/anthropic-beats-openai
  
  Anthropic just passed OpenAI in business adoption for the first time, and within hours both companies dropped offers to lock users in. Codex gave 2 months free. Claude Code bumped limits 50%. 
  
  Here's why I think we're in a "free sample phase" where the real product isn't the subscription, it's you. Use it like crazy, but build projects flexible enough to swap tools the day pricing resets.
  
  Sponsorship Inquiries:
  📧 nate@smoothmedia.co
  
  Connect with me:
  https://www.linkedin.com/in/nateherkelman/
  https://x.com/nateherk
  https://www.instagram.com/nateherk/
  
  TIMESTAMPS 
  0:00 Anthropic Passes OpenAI
  0:55 The Free Sample Phase
  2:01 You're the Training Data
  4:18 The Industry Pattern
  5:08 How to Actually Play It
  6:32 Final Thoughts
---
So today for the first time ever, and Thropic has passed OpenAI in business adoption. And this research article dropped this morning. You can see the overall trend where OpenAI has been leading in business adoption since pretty much early 2023. But you can see right here in April of this year, and Thropic has now passed OpenAI. Right after that article dropped, Sam Altman tweeted, Codex is the best AI coding product, and we want to make it easy to try. For the next 30 days, we are giving companies that want to try switching over from Cloud Code, two months of free Codex usage. This tweet dropped about an hour ago. And then about 45 minutes after that tweet, we saw this one from Cloud, that said, Cloud Code weekly limits are increasing 50%, all the way through July 13th. So that's two months from now. So Codex says, hey, free Codex for a month, and Cloud Code says, hey, you're going to get 50% extra usage on Cloud Code for the next two months. And I was reading these two tweets, and I was like, that's pretty funny. I mean, they're obviously going right back and forth at each other. But this made me think about something else, of the whole way that we should be thinking about AI. And that's what I want to spend some time talking about with you guys today. And before you guys ask, I am currently working on a Codex versus Cloud Code video, so that will be coming very soon. Appreciate your patience. So I have this document here, which I'm calling the free sample phase, kind of thinking about this AI coding war. So we got these two tweets, right? Codex free, extended Cloud Code usage for the next two months. And I want you to really think about, okay, let's say you're paying 200 bucks a month for Cloud Code or whatever amount you're paying. The amount of output that you can actually get from 200 bucks a month of actually using Cloud Code every week, hitting your limit, is absolutely absurd. I'm not a formal software engineer anything, but I guarantee you you could be getting that same amount of output from a full-time software engineer hire, which might be anywhere from five to 10 to 15K a month. And if you took these coding agents away from companies and from organizations, they would feel the pain, because they have now gotten so used to defaulting to Cloud Code or Codex for pretty much everything. If you surveyed a ton of people, thousands of people that are using Cloud Code every single day or Codex every single day, and said, how much would you actually pay for what you're getting out of this? I would honestly be shocked if the vast majority of them said something less than 200 bucks. 200 bucks feels like a steal. So anyways, you are not the customer, you are the training data. Now, I obviously don't know this for a fact, but I've seen some conversation online and it really feels like we're kind of just in a free sample phase. Because there are two major things that come to my mind when I think about what these companies need right now, which is adoption and data. Adoption, obviously, because they want people using their stuff, they want people to be addicted to their stuff, which I'm sure a bunch of you guys are addicted to the AI tools that you use every day to the point where if it got taken away from you or if the API is down or whatever, you feel the pain and you almost think like, how do I even work normally now? And that's exactly what they want you to feel. And then of course, the other thing is data. That proprietary data that they're getting is one of the most valuable resources to them. And ultimately, it's probably the biggest moat because these tech companies that are trying to build better AI models that don't have data as far as how people are using it and how they converse and what they're asking the model to do better at. All of that data, all of those patterns are making the models better and better and it's interesting to think about. We saw this tweet from Sam Altman back like a year and a half ago that basically said, we're currently losing money on opening I Pro subscriptions. People are using it much more than we expected. And we all know that if you took your typical usage for the month and you were routing that straight through API rather than using a fixed cost subscription, you would be paying so much more money. Five to 25x more money on those tokens compared to what you're actually being charged on your subscription. And obviously, these companies are eating costs on their own and all of that compute that they have to actually use in order to send you a response back from their model. They're eating that cost and they're okay with it because right now they need the adoption and they need the data more than they need your 200 bucks a month. So yes, Anthropic rose 3.8% in April to 34.4% of businesses and opening I fell 2.9% to 32.3%. And overall adoption across businesses was still rising. Now this is purely an adoption graph and metric. This doesn't actually mean that Anthropic is the definitive leader in business adoption or that they have the best AI model or the best coding harness. This article pointed out a few of the things like Anthropics incentives are misaligned with those of business customers. They obviously make more money when more businesses use more tokens. And they're incentivized to drive users to their more expensive models. We've also seen some other weird stuff like people saying that cloud has gotten worse as well as a bunch of stability problems with their compute and all of these new feature releases. And this isn't a new thing. If you always try to look at like what's happening in the industry or in your line of work and look at the patterns across other areas of business and other like ebbs and flows of cycles that we've seen in history, this has happened with a lot of other things because the companies need adoption. Now obviously there's just like general inflation but basically the idea is like land grab, the habit forms, competition, things, and then the reset. So things like Facebook ads have gotten way more expensive. Google AdWords, Uber, DoorDash, Netflix, AWS. There's lots of other things that go into the pricing for all of these businesses. So I'm not saying it's like a exact correlation and that's exactly what they did and that's exactly what opened AI and Anthropic and all these other AM models are doing. I'm just saying look back at some of these other patterns. I mean, like this is exactly what I'm doing with my YouTube channel. I'm gonna start charging for every single YouTube video I post ever. I'm just kidding. Wouldn't that be crazy though? So really what I'm trying to say is use it like crazy. Now this bullet point I don't necessarily agree with because you also have to think like, okay, open source models are getting better. They're also getting smaller, which means that I'm gonna be able to run them for cheaper. And I don't exactly know which way these close source models are gonna go as far as like pricing. But still, what I know right now is we are getting this stuff very cheap, especially in the next one month for Codex and two months for Cloud Code. So just use them both. I don't really know who's gonna come out on top of this war. I don't know, it might not even be open AI or Anthropic. But what I do know is that I'm going to start building my habits. I'm gonna build my patterns. I'm gonna build up a bunch of different projects that can move from Codex to Cloud Code to Hermes to OpenClaw to whatever's next. And the ability to be able to have a project that is so flexible that if one day Anthropic just disappeared, like literally out of thin air just disappeared. If you could move everything over to a different tool in the matter of like an hour and the rest of your week is completely unchanged, that's a win. And you need to make sure you're setting yourself up and something like that so that you're not becoming extremely dependent on one thing. Now this is just where I landed. After I kind of sat with these two tweets and really thought about what's going on here, I would love to hear in the comments if you guys have differing opinions. And I think that there's definitely room for some really great discussions around this. I'm not out here saying that everything that I just told you guys is 100% fact and 100% true besides like those actual metrics that I called out. You know, a lot of this is just my opinions and what I feel about the space. So please let me know if you guys disagree and why. Anyways, the closing frame that I had here was you're not paying 200 bucks a month for AI. You're paying 200 bucks for 12 to 24 month exception from real prices. Now that's me just kind of throwing something out there. I don't know if that's true, right? But like that's just where I feel we might be heading towards. Like that's not me saying that I know the strategy and I know what's gonna happen, but it's something to think about. So anyways, I just wanted to come in here and talk about that real quick because I could almost feel some people looking at these two tweets and just getting a little bit more of that overwhelm or more of that panic. And instead of approaching it as like, oh my gosh, like what do I do? These tools are going at each other. Just like think about it more like, this is actually a blessing. I get to try more and more and I get to see what I like better for basically the same price. I don't have to pay any more to do this. Now I guess I don't exactly know when they say we're giving companies a free month of codex usage. I don't exactly know like what qualifies for a company to get a free month of codex usage, but still. So anyways, let's get to this one. I know it was quick, but hopefully it made you think a little bit and if you guys enjoy or you learned something new, please give it a like. Anyways, I appreciate you guys making it to the end and I'll see you in the next one. Thanks guys.