---
video_title: "Claude Code Dynamic Workflows Clearly Explained"
video_id: jZgcWCzxh1I
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jZgcWCzxh1I
video_date: 2026-05-30T17:34:30+00:00
video_description: |
  Get started with Lovable for FREE: https://lovable.link/FZfjuMb
  My FREE AI OS Course: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society/about?el=claude-dynamic-workflows-release&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=free-group
  Full courses + unlimited support: https://www.skool.com/ai-automation-society-plus/about?el=claude-dynamic-workflows-release&hcategory=youtube-videos&utm_campaign=ais-plus
  Apply for my YT podcast: https://podcast.nateherk.com/apply
  Work with me: https://uppitai.com/
  
  My Tools💻
  FREE MONTH voice to text: https://get.glaido.com/nate
  Code NATEHERK for 10% off VPS (annual plan): https://www.hostinger.com/vps/claude-code-hosting
  
  Claude Opus 4.8 added dynamic workflows to Claude Code, and they look a lot like skills, subagents, agent teams, and the /goal feature, so it's easy to get confused about when you'd actually reach for one. 
  
  In this video I break down what dynamic workflows really are, how they stack up against everything else on the complexity ladder, why one prompt burned through half my $200 monthly plan, and the simple question I ask before deciding if a job is even worth a workflow. 
  
  I also cover the hidden stuff like ultracode mode and /deep-research so you don't accidentally torch your session limit.
  
  Sponsorship Inquiries:
  📧 nate@smoothmedia.co
  
  Connect with me:
  https://www.linkedin.com/in/nateherkelman/
  https://x.com/nateherk
  https://www.instagram.com/nateherk/
  
  TIMESTAMPS 
  0:00 Intro
  1:06 What Are Dynamic Workflows
  1:40 Skills vs Subagents vs Teams vs Workflows
  5:47 Climbing the Complexity Ladder
  8:39 Goal vs Workflow: Depth vs Width
  10:13 The Token Cost Question
  11:18 When You Actually Need It
  12:17 Running a Workflow Live
  14:08 Ultracode Mode
  15:25 One Slide + Wrap-Up
---
So I just ran this Cloud Code Dynamic Workflow that analyzed all of my skills. You can see here that it spun up 41 high-coup scoring agents because I have 41 skills here. And then it's feeding all of that analysis into an OPIS synthesis agent. Now, because all of those ages were working in parallel, which is pretty cool, it didn't take that long, but it did take a ton of input tokens. It ate up basically 5 million input tokens, but there wasn't that much to output. So it wasn't super expensive. And I ended up with this HTML file where I could now look at all of my skills. It's ranked them worst to best. And it's also given me feedback on how it could actually go and fix all of these skills if I wanted it to. It gave me patterns, and it gave me other things to be careful of as I'm building more skills in the future. So what I want to talk about today is what this feature is and how it works. I want to compare it to other things like skills and sub-agents and agent teams because there's so many features in here that feel very similar. And also kind of talking about the money aspect. Like did Cloud Code make this feature just to incentivize people to burn more tokens? And I also want to talk about some of the little hidden features and things that you really want to be careful about when you try out this new workflows feature. So don't want to waste any time. Let's just jump straight into today's video. So with the release of CloudOpus 4.8, we got dynamic workflows. And when I first started reading about this stuff, immediately I was a bit confused because I was like, well, we already have sub-agents, and we have agent teams, and we have this whole slash goal feature. So what really is the difference between a workflow and when do I want to actually use it, especially after I've been seeing all this stuff about how much money it costs? And with my testing, I, and one workflow prompt burns through half of my $200 a month subscription with just one prompt, and it took a little over 30 minutes. So if you're not being careful, you will obviously eat up your session limit very, very quick. So the first thing that I wanted to start off this video by is talking about skills, sub-agents, agent teams, and workflows. Because they're very different for different use cases, but they all sort of feel similar. So a skill is a reusable recipe. And this is just when you're talking to your own Cloud, you can run these skills, or you can have these skills be an automation. And you can also have a sub-agent executive skill, or a sub-agent within an agent team, execute a skill. And of course, you can have workflows execute these skills as well. So really what's changing here is how many agents are in the loop, and if they can talk to each other or not. So with a sub-agent, sometimes these get executed, or spun up automatically. Sometimes you ask one to get spun up, and sometimes you build your own agent files that you invoke manually. And these are basically just parallel agents that don't have the same context window as the main session. So keeps it clean. There's one of them unless you spin up multiple, but they cannot talk to each other. They only talk back to the main working session that you are talking to. Agent teams are kind of like a small crew, and these are also pretty expensive, because they do talk to each other. And they can share like a task list. They have their own context window, but they talk to each other. And that's really cool to have things like war rooms and councils, and opportunities for agents to debate and work on an end goal together. And they have individual roles and individual tools and individual like specializations. And then workflows are basically Cloud Code writing a script that runs these many agents. And it can be hundreds. It can be tons of different agents, but these are kind of more of a sub-agent. They work alone. And then all of the results at the end get merged and sent back to the main Cloud workflow. Now, one separation here is who actually holds the plan? Because typically in Cloud, if you're doing sub-agents and stuff, the whole plan is right there with Cloud. But what happens with the workflow is Cloud basically creates a JavaScript file, and that's what gets executed. And that is the actual workflow that spins up and delegates all these different agents. So it's very much still you describe the end goal, and then Cloud just invokes this whole workflow idea to dynamically create the way that it's going to run. And what's cool about this is these workflows can be obviously saved and reran whenever you want to use them again. And so what I want to talk about here is the ladder of these different things. Because as you move up the ladder, you get more complexity and more functionality. But of course, you start to bring on more risk and more money. So I love this little ladder diagram. And speaking of love, let's pause real quick for a message from today's sponsor. I wanted to take a quick moment to thank the sponsor of today's video, Lovable. Now, I know that we can build websites and deploy those in a tool like Cloud Code, which I've shown on this channel. But hear me out. If you're just getting started in this AI world, a tool like Cloud Code has a lot of different things that are pretty confusing. And what Lovable does really well is makes everything super easy and minimizes the setup time. You can come in here with completely natural language and build an app or website or whatever you want. You can even power your app with a bunch of connectors that you already know and love. And you don't have to worry about handling API keys or a .nv file. You literally just connect with a one click of a button. And as you can see, it is so many different tools that you already know and love like I just covered. I actually had all of my websites built out and Lovable. And then we ended up moving them over to Cloud Code later. Once we were ready to scale and once we got a little bit more advanced, but I started out in Lovable and I iterated in Lovable because like I said, you basically just come in here, you have a chat with your agent and you get exactly what you want on this right-hand side. And then thanks to Lovable Cloud, you just publish it right here. You don't have to sync it to GitHub, you don't have to sync it to something like for sale. You literally just click Publish and then it's a live URL. And that's a massive advantage over something like Cloud Code, for example. I was also able to drop in a bunch of different loom links and it actually just displayed them right here in my website for people to be able to click on, which I thought was pretty cool. And this site has obviously been deactivated because it was a very specific offer, but you also can get analytics about your site right in Lovable as well. And what else is really cool is you can connect Lovable to a bunch of different tools because it has an MCP server. So and it then you can connect it to there. You could also connect it to Cloud, to actually be T, cursor, Cloud Code, Codex, OpenClaw, Hermus agent, literally anything you could now connect it to because Lovable has an MCP server. So if you want to play around with Lovable, you can get started for free, just use the link in the description and let's get back to the video. So anyways, you kind of start here at the bottom where you're just talking to your main Cloud Code session and you're just asking and it's reasoning and maybe it's doing things like web fetch or an API call. And then when you start to have these reusable, you know, workflows essentially reusable processes, that's where you create these skills and they get better and better over time. Now sometimes you need to do things parallel to your main session and that's when you delegate stuff to sub agents, but then when you want to delegate stuff to sub agents but you want them to talk to each other, then you have your agent teams. And then from there, I would say the last and final result because it's gonna be, I can't confidently say like more expensive than agent teams, but it's definitely up there with just like the way it could go rogue having a workflow. And the good news is you're not gonna ever like accidentally invoke a workflow. It is gonna confirm with you and it takes a lot to get them to actually run. So that's kind of the way that I think about moving up based on your use case. And honestly, one thing I want to say is for me because most of my Cloud Code usage is building automations and knowledge work rather than building like software and building apps, I don't think I'm gonna use workflow that much. Like I just truly don't. I think there are some features in Cloud Code that are purely built for heavy code usage. When you need tons and tons of things to be brought into the context, doing a full sweep of a PR or doing a full sweep of code base and things like that. And so for example, the example that I alluded to earlier, which was me eating up like half of my $200 a month plan was I asked to search through basically my whole desktop. It crawled all my local files, all of my repos, everything. And I was looking for an analysis and I just wanted to see what it looked like to have a bunch of sub agents go crawling and looking and searching through this stuff. And that's where it ate up all my tokens. So anyways, just because you see a feature like this, like workflows, it's good to understand the what, which is okay, what does it do? And when would I use it in relation to something like an agent team or a skill? But it doesn't always mean you need the how and that doesn't always mean that you need to use this thing every day or you're falling behind, right? It's just good to know what it does. And more specifically, if it solves a problem or a pain point that you actually have right now, and that's usually how I think about using stuff or not. So do the agents talk to each other? No, right? They have got sub lanes and they talk back to one result whereas an agent team is kind of like more of a group chat. It's legit and only a team, which is super, super cool. If you guys do want to see a full video where I broke down cloud agent teams and I'll tag that one right up here. So can a skill go inside a workflow? Yes, of course it can nest inside because the workflow is just basically spinning up a bunch of these different little sub agents and sub agents have access to read your skills and to use your skills. So you can do that. Of course they can also use things like your MCP server connections or your API keys or whatever you've got stored in there that you want those sub agents to use. The skill is kind of like the how, the workflow is like the how many. And the width or the depth of execution. And now the one that I started to get confused about because I have been using slash goal a lot which I plan to make a new video on slash goal just on that topic. But I've been using it a lot and so I started to think, okay, when would I use slash goal rather than workflow? And so the thing that I started to think about there was depth versus width. So here's two visualizations that I thought explained it well. Goal is a loop where you're looking for kind of explicitly like does done equal true. And so the agent where in goal you can have sub agents get spun up, don't get me wrong. But let's just say we have one agent in a slash goal. It's going to take multiple turns and multiple passes and tell that end criteria has been met. So that's kind of like that loop where you could really have this thing run for 24 hours plus if you wanted. I've never done that, but you could. And then workflow is more of a width play where you're getting a bunch of different sub agents doing different things or researching different things. And then everything gets sort of synthesized together at the end, which means you could have 50 plus agents horizontally working on stuff. But they're not all checking against some sort of criteria of is done equal true. They're more so executing on a plan that was established from the beginning and say, hey, this is what you do, you do it, and then you shoot that result off. So there's not like that endless loop of checking against a criteria. Now what would be interesting is if you combine these two together and you had like maybe a workflow within a slash goal or something like that, but obviously you'd want to be very, very careful about that level of autonomy because it's very powerful, but obviously a great way to burn money. So some people out there are saying, hey, you know, they're just wanting you guys to use this workflow feature. So you eat more tokens, which I don't think that's true, but that would be pretty funny because there is value here, right? It's just a matter of like, do you actually need this in your workflow or would that just be overkill? A lot of the times it probably would be overkill. So the bill that you're going to get for your workflow is dependent on how big of a job you point this thing at. And each agent is a full-cloth call, right? Each agent has its own window and has to read through its own context, and many of them get spun up. So it can get very expensive. Now most of your tokens here will probably be on the input, like you saw with my example, which means that it's not as expensive as the output tokens, but still it can get expensive. So when you are shooting off a workflow, you want to be very careful about like, you know, how explicit you're being and how specific you're being with what you're actually looking for. Similar mindset when you're running a slash goal. Like if you give it a very vague request, it might just loop for a long time because it doesn't actually know when done equals true. So bound the scope, name the deliverable, and then all your sub-agents can be put on Hiku. Now there is a cool feature within the workflow thing, which is a slash deep research function, which automatically invokes a workflow. It spins up a bunch of different agents to do parallel research. They vote on each claim, and then you get a cited deep research report at the end. So that is a pretty cool feature if you are doing a lot of research and maybe you're building your own deep research skills or whatever it is, definitely test out this one to see how that works as a workflow. And when you start to think about, do you actually need it? Some stuff like this, right? If you're reviewing every file in a code base or you've got a 400 file migration, and you've got things where the risk is high, and you want as much compute and reasoning dedicated towards individual pieces as possible, that's when you maybe want to go or something like an agent team or a workflow. But if you're doing single edits or quick questions or you're just working towards a deliverable or you're doing general knowledge work, you probably don't need the workflow. So the question that I would ask is, does this break into many pieces that can run individually of each other at the same time? If that's true, then go ahead and try out a workflow. So when I actually ran this in my cloud code, let me just real quick switch over to show you what the prompts look like. Here I'm on the ultra-code thing. This was the prompt that I ran for this workflow. I said, run a workflow at audits all of my cloud code skills in two places. My user level, global skills, and this project skills, and I said, I need you to grade it on clarity, front-matter pass, fail, trigger quality, and give me the single highest value fix. And I said, one final agent ranks, every skill works the best, labels blah, blah, blah, blah. And so after it did that, that's how I was able to get the output that I was looking for, and I also was able to have it have all of those workers being on Hikou. Now when I invoked that, what it did is it said, okay, can you let me run a dynamic workflow to do this? And I had to explicitly say yes, run it, or you could see here that I could also view the raw script, because as we know, this is basically writing a script, and then we just execute that script, rather than having it be like all this, you know, sort of dynamic back and forth. And then while this was running, you can do slash workflows to actually view all of your open workflows if you wanted to stop them or view them. As you can see here, I could see all 41 of these agents running and looking at different skills. I could see that they were all on Hikou, I could see how many tokens they had used, what tools, and how long they had been running. And so what happens is this creates a JavaScript file, you know, you're able to keep it, it's in a workflows folder, you're able to run them again later, which is pretty cool. But what you may notice is that they might not go into your project immediately. They might sit somewhere else. So you can see here, I basically had to tell it to save it inside of this project in my dot-clod slash workflows. If I open this up, I have dot-clod, I have workflows, and I have these two right here. Because by default, it was storing them somewhere else more global in my Cloud Code working directory. And I didn't want that. I wanted to see those right here inside of my Herk2 operating system. So now if I ever wanted to maybe do another skill audit, or a different one I did was a Cloud Code feature ranking, I would just have to point it at that workflow and say, hey, run this again. And then the last thing I wanted to bring up here was the Ultra Code, which I just showed you guys, because I thought it's very funny that they did this. When you go run slash effort to look at your Cloud Code Opus model effort level, you've obviously got low, medium, high, extra high, or max. But then you have Ultra Code, which is going to be the smartest, but the most expensive, because what this does is it uses X-high as the effort reasoning level. But every prompt I'm pretty sure is just going to be a workflow. That's kind of X-high plus workflows. It's going to default here to using those workflows. So if you're on this mode, it's going to bypass a lot of those permissions, and it's just going to start orchestrating, so it's going to be very expensive. Now besides that, when you're in here, if you do slash workflows, that is how you can browse your history. I can see what is running right now, as far as what's a dynamic workflow it's running. Or if you just go ahead and type workflow, you see that it highlights in Rainbow, if I do an S, it's still there. And this is typically how you can request to do one on a turn. Now, you still want to be explicit. The best way that I found to invoke them is say, hey, I want you to set me up a dynamic workflow to do this, because sometimes the word workflow just lives naturally in your speaking. So not every single time that you have this word, does it mean it's going to automatically invoke a workflow. It'll just highlight up in rainbow colors, which is pretty fun. So anyways, the whole thing in one slide, if you just have a quick thing, just ask log code. If it's a thing you repeat, use a skill. If you've got a messy side task, use a sub agent. If you need a small crew that talks together, use agent team. If you want something to keep going until an objective criteria has been met, use slash goal. And if you want a giant parallel job, use the new dynamic workflows, just be careful. And obviously, MCPs, CLIs, API endpoints, all of that can be plugged into any of these here in order to actually connect data to your own systems. And I know that we just covered a ton of information. So I put all of this into a free resource guide that you guys can access for completely free. The link for that is down in the description. All you have to do is join the free group, like I said, and then in here, you'll click on classroom, you'll click on all YouTube resources, and you can get everything I've ever shared. GitHub repo skills, guides, all that kind of stuff. You can also come in here and take our free seven day challenge or the free build your AI operating system course. So I'd love to see you guys in this community, but that is gonna do it for today's video. So I hope that you guys enjoyed and you learned something new. If you did, please give it a like, it helps me out a ton. And as always, I appreciate you guys making it to the end of the video. And I will see you all in the next one. Thanks guys.