---
video_title: "ClickUp Brain2: The AI That Replaces All Your Software"
video_id: AZXV1zzuFuQ
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AZXV1zzuFuQ
video_date: 2026-07-11T00:30:25+00:00
video_description: |
  ClickUp Brain2 is like a supercomputer inside your workspace. Switch between AI models you already use, build 24/7 super agents you can tag right in ClickUp, and generate a full animated pitch deck from one prompt. 
  
  Use code NATEHERKB2 for 15% off Biz+ (ends soon): https://clickup.com/ 
  
  #ad
---
Click up is the software to replace all software, which I think is pretty funny, but it's very true. If you guys have been following me for a while, you know that I've been using Click Up for a long time. Everything that I do with my team lives in Click Up, all of our communication, project management, and everything that I was doing with my clients back when I was running an agency day to day, who were also using Click Up. So basically it had replaced Slack as well as project management tools for us. So if you're already using Click Up, you have to try this new feature called Brain2. But if you don't already use Click Up, then Brain2 is an amazing reason to check it out. It's kind of like a super computer that can do a ton of cool stuff, and they also have a bunch of super agents inside of it. And you can switch between the different chat models that you probably already use and love every single day. Right here, you can see that I've used Brain myself to look through everything that's going on in our business, our projects, and then create me a monthly presentation for the team. So what that could look like is me asking Brain to create an investor presentation pitch deck for our text-to-speech startup called Glido, and I told it to just use mock data, but make sure that it's professional and engaging. And just like that, we have the deck, which I can open up full screen right here. And as I start to navigate through here, you can see that we also have animations, so it's not just a static slide deck. We get to actually go through and we feel the animations. And think about the fact that this was just a one sentence prompt. If we really started to put more and more data into this thing, it would be really solid. And this right here is just one of the many use cases of Brain2, so it's not just a chatbot, like I said, it can do things, and you can build your own super agents inside of it. And what I think is really cool about the super agents is that they're 24-7. You can tag them and Click Up, you know, you can add message them, and they'll wake up and respond to you. It can search through everything, which is why, in my opinion, it's a lot cooler that Click Up is doing this, compared to something like just chucking an open claw or a Hermes agent into Click Up, because these agents in Click Up already have full context and can search through everything. So right now, because you're watching this video, you can claim this super awesome offer that is on-screen right now by using the link in the description.