---
video_title: "Claude Code Just Added What Everyone Wanted (Remote Control)"
video_id: TWkh56TQZcA
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TWkh56TQZcA
video_date: 2026-02-27T14:19:42+00:00
video_description: |

---
Cloud codes remote control is finally here. Normally when we want to use Cloud code, we have to do so in a chat window like this on our local machine, or we could obviously pull up the terminal, typing Cloud and then access it this way. But now we're able to type in this command, Cloud Remote-Control, and that basically gives us this QR code, which we can use to remote into this from our phone or anywhere else. So if I go ahead and scan this QR code right here, it opens up my remote control session of my Herk 2.0 project. And so what I can do is shoot off this message in this session that says, run a comma analysis from my YouTube videos and ID8 new topics. And this is actually going to do it really, really well, because in this project, my Herk 2 personal assistant, it's got these different agents, it's got these different skills, and it can actually use all of these from my phone. So here you can see it says, let me kick off the ID and mining process. I'll check the data freshness first, and then I'll spin up those agents in parallel. It has contacts on my business, my current priorities, what I'm working on, and it's going to make this way better. So I basically now have Cloud Code in my pocket. It's doing the exact same things on here as you can see. And I could go off to lunch, I could go to the gym, and I could still keep working and checking in on my Cloud Code. Okay, so that just finished up. It ran a YouTube analyzer agent and my research agent. And now we have a full brief for February 25th with top video ideas. As you can see, it's going through what's trending, but it's also looking at my comments. What else is cool is if I close out of this terminal here, even though this is still running, and I go to my past conversations, you can see this is exactly what I just triggered from my phone. And I could now pick up the conversation over here, and then I could jump back over to my phone, and I could just keep working all the time. As long as I'm able to maintain an internet connection. So this is all thanks to Cloud Code's new feature, the remote control. If you want to watch the full breakdown, then click on that play button right here, and I'll see you guys over there.