---
video_title: "Huge ChatGPT Update You Need to See!"
video_id: c1TWmKILaeM
channel_name: "Nate Herk | AI Automation"
channel_id: UC2ojq-nuP8ceeHqiroeKhBA
channel_category: "Film & Animation"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c1TWmKILaeM
video_date: 2026-07-21T13:00:33+00:00
video_description: |
  Big news! 🚀
  
  ChatGPT Work is available today in ChatGPT on web and mobile for Pro, Enterprise, and Edu, with Plus and Business rolling out over the next few days. In the ChatGPT desktop app, Chat, Work, and Codex are available on every plan, including Free, and is available globally to download on Windows and Mac.
  
  💻 How to get it:
  Go to chatgpt.com/download to get the app for your computer!
  
  🔗 Link in bio for 7-days!
  
  @ChatGPT #ChatGPT_Partner
---
ChatGPT isn't just a chatbot anymore, opening I just turns it into an AI operating system. For the first time, ChatGPT, Codex, and a brand new agent called Work all live inside of one connected desktop app. So Chat's where you ask questions, Codex is for developers, and ChatGPT Work actually gets things done for you by taking on long running projects and connecting to the apps you already use. And the best part is, it's also coming to Web and Mobile. So your workflows stay in sync across every device. There's also a cloud browser with plugins for more than 100 apps, and if there isn't a native plugin, the computer use can handle it. I even built my own AI chief of staff, so every morning at 6am, it runs a workflow that reviews my clickup tasks, my project ideas, my team chats, and my calendar, so that by the time I wake up, I already have a game plan for the day. Things like what needs my attention, what's blocked, and what can wait. And where I should spend my focus that day. Before I used to have to piece all that together myself through five different apps, and now everything lives in just one workflow. So instead of spending my morning organizing information, I can actually just spend it executing. And that's the bigger shift here. ChatGPT isn't just something you talk to anymore, it's becoming the place where Work actually gets done. And then download the new ChatGPT desktop app and check it out for yourself.