---
video_title: "The arrival of AGI | Shane Legg (co-founder of DeepMind)"
video_id: l3u_FAv33G0
channel_name: "Google DeepMind"
channel_id: UCP7jMXSY2xbc3KCAE0MHQ-A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l3u_FAv33G0
video_date: 2025-12-11T17:03:41+00:00
video_description: |
  Shane Legg, Chief AGI Scientist and co-founder of Google DeepMind, has been talking about artificial general intelligence, or AGI, for more than a decade. So what’s changed? According to Shane, now is the time to take it seriously.
  
  In this episode, Shane walks host Hannah Fry through his AGI framework, breaking down the levels from minimal AGI to full AGI, and his timelines for each. They discuss the economic and societal shifts AGI will bring, the potential impact on work, and the extraordinary possibilities for human flourishing.
  
  Timecodes
  00:00 Coming up
  00:41 Intro
  13:43 Defining artificial general intelligence
  26:20 Ethics of AGI
  40:10 Societal and economic transformation 
  45:10 Future of work
  50:00 Potential for human flourishing
  
  Further reading
  
  Levels of AGI paper: https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02462 
  The road to AGI (Google DeepMind Podcast, S2): https://youtu.be/Uy4OYU7PQYA 
  
  ___
  
  Thanks to everyone who made this possible, including but not limited to: 
  Presenter: Professor Hannah Fry
  Series Producer: Dan Hardoon
  Editor: Rami Tzabar
  Commissioner & Producer: Emma Yousif
  Music composition: Eleni Shaw
  Audio engineer: Richard Courtice
  
  Production Manager: Dan Lazard
  Studio Manager: Nicholas Duke
  Video Director: Bernardo Resende
  Video Editor: Bilal Merhi 
  Audio Engineer: Perry Rogantin
  Camera and Lighting Operator: Robert Messere
  Production Coordination: Zoey Roberts, Sarah Ellen Morton 
  Visual Identity and Design: Rob Ashley 
  Commissioned by Google DeepMind
  ___
  
  Subscribe to our channel https://www.youtube.com/@googledeepmind
  Find us on X https://twitter.com/GoogleDeepMind
  Follow us on Instagram https://instagram.com/googledeepmind
  Add us on Linkedin https://www.linkedin.com/company/deepmind/
---
So is human intelligence going to be the upper limit of what's possible? I think absolutely not. I do wonder what all of this means for people. I mean, if we are getting to a point where essentially, I mean, human intelligence is dwarfed by superintelligence, what does that mean for society? It means a massive transformation.

This is actually something which is going to structurally change the economy and society and all kinds of things. And we need to think about how do we structure this new world.

Welcome to Google DeepMind, the podcast with me, your host, Professor Hannah Fry. AGI is coming. That's what everyone seems to be saying. Well, today my guest on the podcast is Shane Legg, Chief AGI Scientist and Co-Founder of Google DeepMind. Shane has been talking about AGI for decades, even back when it was considered, in his words, the lunatic fringe.

He is credited with popularizing the term and making some of the earliest attempts to work out what it might actually be. Now, in the conversation today, we're going to talk to him about how AGI should be defined, how we might recognize it when it arrives, how to make sure that it is safe and ethical, and then, crucially, what the world looks like once we get there. And I have to tell you, Shane was remarkably candid about the ways that the whole of society will be impacted over the coming decade. It's definitely worth staying with us for that discussion. Welcome to the podcast.

We last spoke to you five years ago, and then you were telling us your vision for what AGI might look like in terms of the AI system that we've got now today. Do you think that they're showing little sparks of being AGI? Yeah, I think it's a lot more than sparks. More than sparks. Oh yeah. Yeah.

So my my definition of AGI or sometimes called minimal AGI is it's an artificial agent that can at least do the kinds of cognitive things people can typically do. Yeah. And I like that bar because if it's less than that it feels like well it's failing to do things with cognitive things that would expect people to be able to do. So it feels like we're not really there yet. On the other hand, if I set the minimal bar much higher than that, I'm setting it at a level where many people, a lot of people wouldn't actually be able to do some of the things we're requiring of the AGI.

So, you know, we believe people have some sort of unknown general intelligence, you might call it. So it feels like if if I can do the kinds of cognitive things people can typically do at least, possibly more, then we should sort of consider it within that kind of a class. This stuff that we have now, where is it on those levels. Right. So it's uneven.

So it's already much, much better than people at, say, speaking languages. So it'll be 150 languages. I mean, nobody can do that. And as general knowledge is phenomenal, I can ask it about, you know, the suburb I grew up in a small town in New Zealand that happens to know things about it, right? On the other hand, they still fail to do things that we would expect people typically be able to do.

They're not very good at continual learning, learning new sort of skills over an extended period of time. And that's incredibly important. For example, if you're taking on a new job, you know you're not expected to know everything, to be performant on the job when you arrive. But you have to learn over time to do it. There also have some weaknesses in reasoning, particularly things like visual reasoning.

So the AI is a very good at recognizing objects. They can recognize cats and dogs and always sort of things. They've done that for a while. But if you ask them to reason about things within a, within a scene, they get a lot more shaky. So you might say, well, you know, you can you can see a red car and a blue car and you ask them which car is bigger?

People understand that there's perspective involved and maybe the blue car's bigger, but it looks smaller because it's further away. Right? AIS are not so good at that. Or if you have some sort of diagram with nodes and edges between them, like a network, a network. Yeah.

Or graph, as mathematician would say. And you ask questions about that, it has to count the number of, you know, spokes that are coming out of, you know, one of the nodes on the graph. A person does that by paying attention to different points and then actually mentally maybe counting them or what have you. The AI is not very good at doing that type of thing. So there are all sorts of things like this, that we currently see.

I don't think there are fundamental blockers on any of these things. And we have ideas on how to develop systems that can do these things, and we see metrics improving over time in a bunch of these areas. So my expectation is over a number of years these things will all get addressed. But they're not there yet. And I think it's going to take a little bit of time to go through that, because quite a long tail of all sorts of cognitive things that people can do, where the AIS are still below, below human performance as we reach that.

And I think that's coming in a few years. Unclear, exactly. The AIS will be a lot more reliable, and that will increase their value quite a lot in many ways. But they'll they will also, during that period, become increasingly capable like to, professional level and beyond and maybe in coding mathematics already in, you know, normal languages, general knowledge of the world and stuff like this. So it's kind of a it's an uneven thing if you think that they will become more reliable over time, like, how is it just a question of making the models bigger, doing things a larger scale?

Is it more data? I mean, do you have a clear path to make them more reliable? I think we do. And it's not one particular thing. It's just not bigger models or, more data.

In some cases, it's more data of a particular kind. And then when you collect data that requires that visual reasoning, then the models learn how to do it. In some cases, it requires algorithmic things like new processes within. So for example, if you want to do continual learning. So the AI keeps learning over time, you might need some process whereby new informations may be stored and something some sort of retrieval system or episodic memory if you like.

And then you might have systems whereby that information over time is trained back into some underlying model. So that requires more than just more data. It requires some sort of algorithmic and architectural changes. So I think the answer is a combination of these things. And it depends on what the particular issue is.

I know that you don't think the AGI should be this this single. Yes. No. Like a threshold that you crossed that, but more of a sort of spectrum, as it were, that you have these levels. Just just talk me through that.

Yeah. So I have, what I call minimal AGI. And that's when you have an artificial agent that it can least do all sorts of cognitive things that we would typically expect people to be able to do. And, we're not there yet, but it could be one year. It could be five years, I'm guessing probably about two or so.

That's the lowest level. And that's the minimum age I call minimum wage job. That's the point at which I would say, okay, this AI is no longer failing in ways that we would find surprising if we gave a person that cognitive task. And I think that's the that's the minimum bar. Now, that doesn't mean we understand fully how to reach the capabilities of human intelligence, because you can have extraordinary people who who go and do amazing, you know, cognitive feats, inventing new theories in physics or maths or developing, you know, incredible symphonies or doing or writing amazing literature and so on.

And just because I can do what's typical of human cognition doesn't necessarily mean we know all the recipes and algorithms, everything required to achieve, very extraordinary feats of human cognition. Once we can, without AI, achieve the full spectrum of what's possible with human cognition, then we really know that we've nailed, you know, at least fully to human level. And so we call that full AGI. And then is there a level beyond that? Yeah.

So I think when you start going beyond what is possible with human cognition, you start hitting into something that's called, artificial superintelligence or ASI There aren't really good clear definitions of that. I've actually tried on a number of occasions to come up with a good definition. Then every definition I've ever come up with has some sort of significant problems, but at least in vague terms, it means something like it's it's an AGI. So it has the generality of an AGI. But as now so capable in general, it's somehow far beyond what, you know, what humans are capable of reaching, because I know that you were one of the people who helped to coined that phrase.

Yeah. Hi. Do you think that it's still useful as a phrase? I mean, there's so many competing definitions now. It's sort of like the buzzword that everyone's using.

Yeah. And you're right that it's sort of the way that it's described is almost like a yes no, like a kind of discrete line that gets crossed rather than this, this, this continuum almost of levels, as you're describing. Yeah. So when I proposed the term, I was thinking of it more as a field of study, because, I was talking to a guy, Ben Goertzel, who I worked for, a year or so before, and he wanted to write a book on sort of the old vision of AI, this thinking machines, these machines that can do lots and lots of different things, rather than it's just specialized. It just plays poker. It just does text to speech.

It just does, you know, very, very specific things, which is sort of typical at the time as I. What about the old dream of AI building a system that has a very general capability, and it can learn and reason and do language and write poetry or do maths or maybe paint a picture or, you know, all sorts of different things. What do we call that? And, I say to him, well, if it's really about the generality we want, why don't we just put the word general in and the name and call it artificial general intelligence? AGI kind of rolls off the tongue.

Maybe we do that. But then what happened is that, a number of people started using the term online, and then very quickly people start talking about, well, when will we have a job? And so then I move from being sort of a field of study or a subfield to, category of artifacts. Right. And then it needs a definition.

So perhaps it was a mistake, but I should have gone in and defined it. You know, the now turned out a few years later, we found there was a guy, Mike Gubrud who had actually written a paper in 97. We could use the term, but it was in a nanotech security conference, and none of us knew about this. But the way he defined it was actually in reference to the sorts of cognitive things people do in industry and other places like that. So it's quite similar flavor to even what I'm using.

Not now. Yeah. If it had been fixed more clearly early on that would that that would be helpful. Do you regret going after. No. No, because I think it

it gave a way for people to refer to this idea of building AIS that were actually general, or at least as general general to the extent that people's, you know, intelligence was general. There was a need for that, I think. And that's why I think the term caught on, because it was sort of, you know, how do you refer to that if you're not free to do this? If people use phrases like advanced AI? Well, AlphaFold is an advanced AI in some sense, right?

And it's very impactful, but it's very, very narrow. Right. Or AlphaGo again, it's very narrow and it's some sort of advanced AI system. So how do you refer to systems that are very general? But then what's happened is that different people saw the term and took on.

They, they, they adapted it in different ways. So they looked at it through different lenses. So for some people, back even in the early days when they thought of AGI, I thought of something in the future, decades away, and that this would be very transformative. And so they started thinking about AGI in terms of the transformation it would create in society. And so then they sort of if they try to define it, they tend to think about, oh, is because it can lead to either economic growth or it's going to do all these sorts of things.

Right. So, I tend to think of it as, more of an historical point in time. It's the point in time at which we sort of have to say, well, these AIS in some sense belong in a similar category to our intelligence, and that they can do cognitive things that we typically can do. And now that doesn't necessarily revolutionize the world. The typical person walking around isn't going to be a Mozart or an Einstein and be the successor to quantum theory or whatever, right.

But it's a very interesting point in time because ten years ago, 28, you know, whatever, we did not have eyes that were anywhere close to being able to do the cognitive things that people can typically do. So I think this is an important sort of historical moment, and that AIS are somehow in a similar category to us. And I also think, and I think it's useful to try to define it a bit, because one of the issues that come up that people have these different timelines. Right? Some people say, oh, I think it's going to be here in three years.

Oh, I think it's going to be 15 years away or 20 years or whatever. And often when I go and talk to them about that, I find that they're using a different definition. And so that just leads to a lot of confusion because people use the term to mean different things. And in some cases, I actually agree with what they think is going to happen. They just using the word in a different way, and they just creates quite a lot of confusion.

I just want to compare some of the other definitions that people are using to AGI. So, some people have suggested that it's like there's a checklist of tasks or maybe there's, humanity's last exam, which is this, this sort of language model benchmark of 2500 questions across different subjects. So humanities and natural sciences, there's other people that have said, oh, you, you it needs to be able to perform in a kitchen. It's trained as a chef to be able to be dropped into a different kitchen and perform, or there's even one which is, could it be able to make $1 million from $100,000? Yes. Well, what do you what's your take on those definitions?

Well, each one I have a take on it. So we actually go through, I mean, make was $1 million from $1,000 or something like that.

Yeah. I mean, that's obviously a very economic kind of perspective on it. I think a lot of people would struggle to do that. It's a very, I think in some ways quite narrow perspective on, on this. I mean, maybe you could have, I don't know, a trading algorithm that trades, trades on the markets that could do that.

But that's all we can do is that's not what I'm talking about. So I think it's the G that's the G and AGI. It's the generality that I find interesting that's I think that's one of the, incredible things of the human mind is our flexibility and generality to do many, many different things. If you have a particular set of tasks. Well, okay, maybe you can build a system that can do those tasks, but maybe it's still failing to do basic cognitive things that we'd expect almost anybody available to do.

I think that's unsatisfying. Like, oh, I just failed again, because it doesn't understand that really simple thing that I would expect pretty much anybody to understand. So the way I would operationalize my definition is I would have a suite of tasks where I know what typical performance is from humans, from humans. And I would see whether the AI can do all those tasks. Now, if it fails at any of those tasks, it fails to meet my definition because it's not general enough.

Yeah, it's failing to do some cognitive thing that would expect people wouldn't be able to do. If it passes that, then I would propose we then go into a second phase, which is more adversarial, and we say, okay, it passed the battery of tests. So it's not failing at anything in our standard collection of however many thousands of tests or what have we have now? Let's do an adversarial test, get a team of people, give them a month or two or whatever they are allowed to look inside the AI. They'll do whatever they like.

Their job is find something that we believe people can typically do, and it's cognitive where the AI fails it. If they can find it, it fails by definition. If they can't, after a few months of probing it and testing it and and scratching their heads and trying to find it, I think for intents and purposes of most practical purposes, we're there because this failure case is now so hard to find. Even teams of people I, after an extended period of time, can't even find these valid cases. Do you think they will ever agree on a definition of what other intelligences or or AGI is?

Indeed. In terms of AGI itself, my guess is that, some years from now, the AIS will become so generally capable in so many different ways. People will just talk about them as being AGI and age. I will just to be those things, and maybe people will be less worried about. They will have little arguments about whether there's an AGI or not.

People will say, oh, I've got the latest Gemini nine or whatever it is, and it is really good. You know, it can it can write poetry, you can teach it a card game and it can play with you. You just made up. It can do math, it can translate things. It can play on a holiday with you or whatever.

It is really, really generally capable. And it will just seem obvious to people that it has some sort of generality of intelligence. But then for now, I mean, in terms of having before we get there, having this kind of defined path on the route to AGI. I mean, you talk about the risks of not having one that it could like acquire a certain piece of knowledge before another, for instance, I don't know, like being good at chemical engineering before it gets really good at ethics. I mean, how important is it to have this work now in advance of, of getting there?

So work around understanding its capabilities in different dimensions. I think it's very important, because we have to think about how do how do we in society navigate, the arrival of powerful, capable machine intelligence and you can't just put it on a single dimension? It may be super humanly capable at some things. It may be very fragile and weak in some other areas. And if you don't understand what that distribution looks like, you're going to not understand the opportunities that exist.

You're also not going to understand the risks or the ways in which it could be misapplied because, you know, oh, it's super capable over here. But you need to understand it's very, very weak over here. And so certain things can go wrong. So I think it's just an important part of society navigating and understanding what the current situation is. So, you know, I think a lot of the dialog around I already tends to talk about as being so capable or sort of being not really that capable and it's overhyped or whatever.

I think the reality is much more complicated. It is incredibly capable in some ways, and it is quite fragile, and others you have to take the whole picture. You're going to take the whole picture. Yeah. And it's like, you know, human intelligence as well.

You know, some people are really, really good. They speak a whole bunch of languages. Some people are really good at math. Some people are really good at music, but maybe they're not so good at something else. So, okay, if we've got we've sort of got performance and generality, the other sort of arm of this that I want to talk to you about is, is ethics.

How does that fit into all of this? There are many aspects to ethics. And, and I one aspect is simply does the AI itself have a good understanding of what ethical behavior is and is it able to analyze, possible things it can do in terms of this ethical behavior and do that robustly in a way that we can trust. So the AI itself can reason about the ethics of what it's doing. Yes.

How does that work then? How do you embed that within it? I have a few thoughts on that, but it's not a sole problem. But it's I think it's a very, very important problem. I like something which some people call chain of thought monitoring.

I've talked about this, I've given some short talks on it and so on. I call it system two safety. And this is the Daniel Kahneman system one system to think. Exactly. And so the basic idea is something like this.

Say as a person, if you're faced with a difficult ethical situation, it's often not sufficient just to go with your gut instinct. Right. You actually need to sit down and think about, okay, this is the situation. These are the various complex, these nuances. These are the possible actions that can be taken.

These are the likely consequences of taking different actions. And then analyze all of that with respect to some system of ethics and norms and morals and what have you that you have. And maybe you have to reason about that quite a bit to really understand how all this fits together and then use that understanding to decide what what should be done. So let's say that the way that the human brain works in this situation, I mean, this is the Kahneman stuff, right? Is that, you know, someone annoys you, say you have a rush of anger, you want to react.

That's your system. One sort of quick thinking, instinctive, you know, you take a breath, you think it through, consider the consequences. That's your system. Two thinking. And then you might choose a different yeah, a different path. Yes.

So you might say, for example I know lying is bad right. So we're not going to lie. But you could be in a particular situation where I don't know you, you know, there's some bad people coming to get somebody. And if you tell a lie, you can save their life. And then the ethical thing to do is maybe to lie.

Right. And so the, the, the, the simple rule is not always adequate to really make the right decision. So sometimes you need a little bit of logic and reasoning to really think through. Well in this case it's a it is actually the ethical thing to do is to tell a lie and maybe save someone's life or what have you. Right.

But it gets very complicated. And you have, you know, you've probably heard of all these trolley problems and all these sorts of things, right, where our instincts and the analysis in some cases start diverging and causes a lot of confusion. Right. So these are this is not simple territory at all. And we have eyes now that can do this.

These thinking eyes right. And so you can actually see the chain of thought that the, the eyes use. And so when you give an eye some question has a moral aspect to it. Some ethical aspect, you can actually see it go away and reason about the situation. And if we can make that reasoning really, really tight and has a really strong understanding of, some ethics and morals that we want it to adhere to, I think it should in principle actually become more ethical than people, because it can more consistently apply and reason at, at maybe superhuman level.

The decision, you know, these choices that it's faced with and so on, because that switches ethics into a reasoning problem, as it were, rather than just a sort of a feeling thing. Yeah. But then at the same time, I do wonder when you're saying that I do wonder a bit about grounding. I mean, these things certainly for now, are like not living in the world as humans. Is it possible to sort of take what it feels like to experience the world from a human perspective and truly ground these machines in, in, in sort of human ethics?

Well, there's a few complexities. One complexity there is that there is not one human ethics degree. And there are different, ideas about this, that vary between people, but also between cultures and regions and so on. So it'll have to understand that in certain places the norms are and expectations are a bit different. And to some extent, the models do know quite a lot of this actually, because they absorb data from all around the world.

But yeah, it will need to be, really good at that in terms of grounding in reality. At the moment, we're building these agents by collecting lots of data from the world, training them on these big models, and then they become relatively static objects that we then interact with, and they don't really learn much new or anything like that. That's shifting. And we're bringing in, more learning algorithms to do that kind of thing. We're also making the systems more genetic.

So they're not just a, a system that you talk to, and then it processes and gives a response. But there may be a system that can go and do something. So you can say to it, okay, I want you to write some software that does such and such. Oh, I want you to go and, I don't know, come up with a plan for my trip to Mexico. And I want to see this in this, but I don't like this or whatever.

And then those agents will also start to become more embodied in robotics and things like that. Some of them will be software agents. They'll do those sorts of things. But though with time I think they'll become more they'll tap and robots and like AI. And as you keep going along this, this track, the AIS become more connected to reality through all sorts of different things that they actually have to learn through interaction and experience, rather than just sort of a large data set that sort of goes in at the beginning.

That's where the connection to reality tightens up a lot. That said, you know, a lot of this data that is poured into them at the beginning that came from somewhere. You know, a lot of it came from people. So there is a grounding to reality that that comes via that process as well. This idea of the AI being better at ethics than than humans themselves.

How do you until you get there, until like the reasoning is as good as ours, how do you make sure that that's implemented in a safe way? I mean, yes, so I don't know, like so, for example, you know, a utilitarian argument, right. That that works quite well for, for driverless cars on the roads is like you want to save as many lives as possible, but then in medicine, that same idea, right? It doesn't work anymore. You don't sacrifice one healthy patient to save the lives of five others.

How do you make sure that it ends up reasoning in the correct direction? You can't guarantee everything. The space of possibilities of action in the world is so huge that 100% reliability is not a thing. But it's not a thing. And a lot of the world as it exists, if you need surgery and you go and talk to the surgeon and you say, well, you know, I'm going to get something removed or whatever, and the surgeon says to you, it's 100% safe.

As a mathematician, you know that they're not telling you the truth. Right? Nothing is ever 100%. So what we have to do is we have to test these systems, and make them as safe and reliable as possible. And we have to trade off the benefits and the risks.

And we also have to, you know, have to do other things like monitor them. So when they're in deployment, we we monitor them, keep track of what's going on. So if we start seeing that, you know, there are failure cases that, beyond what we consider acceptable, we might have to roll back and stop them or do whatever. Right. So there's a whole range of different things we need to do.

We need to we need to do testing before it goes out. We need to monitor when it when they are out there doing things. We need to do things like interpretability. We're able to look inside the system. That's one nice thing about system two.

If it's safety, if it's implemented the right way, you can see it reasoning about things. But you got to check that this reasoning is actually an accurate reflection of what it's really trying to do. But, you know, if you have ways to look inside the system and really see why they're doing things, they can maybe give you another level of reassurance as to that. They are sort of, you know, trying to act in the right way because that's another important, you know, subtlety. It's not always just about the outcome, but maybe the intention.

Right? So there's a big difference between I know somebody hurting you intentionally and somebody on there accidentally bumping you and hits or something. Right. And we interpret that very differently. So if we can see inside our eyes we might accept that.

Well, you know, it was dealing with a tricky situation. It tried to do the best thing it could, according to his analysis, but there was some negative side effect. We might be sort of okay with that, because maybe even people in that situation would be very difficult for us to do the right thing. But if it did the wrong thing intentionally, that's a whole different thing. So these are all aspects of, AI, AGI, safety.

And we have people working on all of these, all these topics. So then do you sort of limit the the amount that these things can interact with the real world, how quickly you release them and so on and so on, until you feel confident that they're that they're at the safety threshold. Yeah. So we have all kinds of testing benchmarks and tests and we, we, we run them, you know, internally for a while. And we have particular things that we test for that, that risky areas, like what we try to say if the system will help develop on a like a bioweapon or something like that. Right.

And, obviously it should not. Yes. And so if we start seeing that it, it it we can somehow trick it or force it into being helpful in that area. That's a problem, right? Hacking is another one.

Will that help people, you know, hack things and so on. So so yeah, we have, at the moment a collection of these tests. And these collection keeps growing over time. And then we assess how powerful it is in some of these areas. And then we have mitigations appropriate to each level of capability that we see.

It could mean that we don't release the model. It could mean that various different things spreading on what we find. Yeah. Well, let's talk about the impact on society of some of this stuff. Like once we get to really capable AGI.

And I know that this is something that you've thought an awful lot about, about let's say. Yeah, my main focus now is trying to understand.

What if we get AGI and it's reasonably safe for its level of capability? What about everything else? And the list of everything else is is enormous. There are questions like, so okay, we've got powerful AGI and it's reasonably safe. Is it conscious?

Do we is that even a meaningful question? Do you have a stance even, well, we've got a group looking at that, and we've talked to a lot of, leading experts in the world to study this. And I think the short answer is nobody really knows. To be absolutely clear, we're talking about full AGI here. But the stuff we have at the moment, yes.

Are you comfortable at the stuff at the moment is not I don't think it is. As we go into some future, AGI is in the 19 years in the future or something, which is very, very capable. Will that system be conscious when I talk to him? Some of the most famous experts in the world that study this. There are various people who have arguments for their various people or arguments against, but when I actually put a concrete scenario to them and I say, look, we've got Jim and I team here and it's embodied in a, you know, humanoid robot and it it learns and it integrates information across sensors, and it can remember its own history as an agent in the world and do all these sorts of things, and also talks about its own consciousness, because you can actually get AI models to talk about the consciousness.

And now if you, you know, you prompt them in the right kind of way, is it conscious? And when I put that to, people in the field, the like, well, I think probably not or I think probably yes, but actually I'm not absolutely sure. And who knows, maybe we will have an answer to that. I think it's a long standing question. It's a very difficult question to even make into a strict scientific question, because we don't know how to frame this as a measurable thing.

What I am sure is going to happen is that some people will think they are conscious, and some people will think they are not. That is certainly going to happen, particularly in the absence of a really well-accepted scientific definition and way of measuring it. And then how are we going to navigate that? That's a very interesting question as well. But this is just one question of how many.

We have. Things like, are we going to go from AGI, say full AGI? Are we going to go towards superintelligence? That's far, far beyond human intelligence. Is it going to happen quickly?

Slowly, never. And if it does go to superintelligence, what is that? Superintelligence. What's the what's the cognitive profile of that superintelligence? Are there certain things where it's going to be far, far beyond human?

We already see it can speak 200 languages, something that that's clear. And are there other things where maybe because of the computational complexity of whatever is not actually going to be much better than humans, right. Do we have any idea of that? That seems like a really important question for, you know, humanity be thinking about, are we going to go into superintelligence in a decade or two decades or something like that? Do you have a stance on that?

Do you think it will go to superintelligence? I mean, I'm sort of thinking here about like, you know, Einstein, for example, came up with general relativity. Will we be in a position where you have AGI? They can theorize about the world, come up with genuine scientific understanding that goes beyond what humans have managed? I think it will, based on computation.

And the human brain is a mobile processor. It weighs a few pounds. It consumes, I think, around 20W. Signals are sent within the brain, through dendrites. The frequency on the channel is about order of 100Hz, or maybe 200Hz and cortex.

And the signals themselves are electrochemical way propagations. They move at about 30m/s. Okay. So if you compare that to what we see in a data center, instead of 20W, you could have 200MW instead of a few pounds, you could have several million pounds instead of, 100Hz on the channel. You can have 10,000,000,000Hz on the channel. Right.

And instead of, electrochemical wave propagation at 30m/s, you can be at the speed of light, 300,000km per second, right? So in terms of energy consumption, space bandwidth on the channel, speed of signal propagation, you've got six, seven, maybe eight orders of magnitude in all four dimensions simultaneously. Right. So is human intelligence going to be the upper limit of what's possible? I think absolutely not.

And so I think we as our understanding of how to build intelligence systems develops, we're going to see these eyes go far beyond human intelligence. In the same way that, you know, humans, you know, we can't outrun, Top Fuel dragster over 100m, right? We can't lift more than a crane, right? We can't see further than the Hubble telescope. I mean, it's we already see machines in particular areas that can, you know, fly fast and the fastest bird and all these sorts of things.

Right. I think we'll see that in cognition as well. We've already seen in some aspects, you know, you don't know more than Google, right? And so on on like information storage and stuff like that. We're really going beyond what the human brain is capable of.

I think we're going to start seeing that and reasoning in all kinds of other domains. So yes, I think we are going to go towards superintelligence. So that's why I'm very interested in things like system two safety. Because if we can't stop the development with superintelligence, because of competitive dynamics globally in the list sorts of things, then we need to think really hard about how do we make a superintelligence super ethical. And if you have a system that can apply the capabilities of US intelligence not just to achieving goals and doing things, but actually apply it to to making ethical decisions as well, then it might scale with its capabilities in some way.

I do wonder what all of this means for people. I mean, if we are getting to a point where essentially, I mean, human intelligence is dwarfed by superintelligence, what does that mean for society? Does that mean just massive inequality that you have the people who no longer have value essentially in what they they can they can offer the economy, being completely left behind, it means a massive transformation. I think the current system where people contribute their, their mental and physical labor in return to access to resources that generate the economy, that may not work the same anymore, and we may need different ways of doing things. Now, the pie should get much bigger.

So it's not a problem of a lack of goods and services that are produced of anything that's getting much, much better. But we need to think carefully about what is the what's the system for people, what is how do we distribute, the wealth that exists in society? I think there needs to be a lot more thought going into this of how a post economy works and how the structure of a post AGI society works as well. I, I gave a talk to the Russell group vice chancellors. So in the UK, the Russell Group is the top universities in the UK.

And I say to them, look, this age I think is coming and it's not that far away, you know, in ten years we're going to have it and it's going to stop being able to do a significant fraction of all kinds of cognitive labor and work and things that people do. Right. We actually need people in all these different aspects of society and how society works to think about what that means in the area. So we really need every faculty in every department that you have in your university to take this seriously and think, what does it mean for education? Right.

What does it mean for law? What does it mean for engineering, mathematics, city planning, literature, politics, economics, finance, medicine? Doctors. Right. So basically every faculty, every department study something.

We're human intelligence is a really important thing. And so if you have the presence of cheap, abundant, capable machine intelligence, tuning up, that thing needs to be thought about again, what is the implications of this? Should it be done in a different way? What are the opportunities, what are the risks, and so on. So I think there's an enormous opportunity here.

But just like, you know, any revolution like the Industrial revolution or anything, it's complicated. It has all kinds of effects on society in all kinds of ways. And to get the benefits of that and, and minimize the risks and the costs of that, we need to navigate this carefully. And at the moment, I think nowhere near enough people are thinking about what AGI means for this particular thing. And we need a lot more people doing that.

Do you remember in March 2020 when the experts were saying, this is pandemic coming? It's really it's we're really standing on the on the edge of an exponential curve. And then everyone was still sort of in pubs and, you know, going to football games and things and the experts were increasingly shouting about what was coming. Oh, it's also feeling like that. I remember those days.

Well, it does feel a bit like that. People find it very hard to believe that a really big change is coming, because most of the time, the story that something really huge is about to happen. It's not that it fizzles out of nothing. Right. And so as a kind of a heuristic, if somebody tells you some crazy, crazy, big, big, the things are going to happen as a heuristic, probably you can ignore most of those, but you do have to pay attention.

Sometimes there are fundamentals that are driving these things. And if you understand the fundamentals, you need to take seriously the idea that a big change does come. And, you know, sometimes big changes do come. What does this mean, though? Because I mean, okay, you describe a sort of a long term vision where you have full AGI.

I mean, there's like prosperity that can, you know, potentially be shared and so on. But but getting there, I mean, we're talking about some really big I mean that's an understatement. Massive economic disruption, structural risks here. Just talk us through what you expect the next few years to look like. I mean, tell us what we didn't know in March 2020.

I think what we'll see in the next few years is not those big disruptions you're talking about. I think we'll sort of see in the next few years is AI systems going from being very useful tools to actually taking on more of a, load in terms of doing really economically valuable, work. And I think it'll be quite uneven. It'll happen in certain domains faster than others. So, for example, in software engineering, I think in the next few years, the fraction of software being written by Isaac is going to go up.

And so in a few years where prior you needed 100 software engineers, maybe you need 20, and those 20 use advanced AI tools. Over a few years, we'll see AI going from kind of just a sort of a useful tool to being to doing really meaningful, productive work and increasing the productivity of people that work in those areas. It will also create some disruption in, in the labor market, in certain areas. And then as that happens, I think a lot of discussion around AI is going to, shift and become a lot more serious. And so it's going to shift from being just sort of like, oh, this is really cool.

You can ask it to plan your holiday and help you with your, you know, children's stuck on something and they don't understand their homework or whatever things like this, through to something. It's like, okay, this is not some nice new tool. This is actually something which is going to structurally change the economy and society and all kinds of things. And we need to think about how do we structure this new world, because I do believe that if we can harness this capability, this could be a real golden age, because we now have machines that can dramatically increase production of many types of things. Right?

And advance science and, and, relieve us of all kinds of labor that maybe we don't need to be doing if the machines can do it. Right. So there's an opportunity here, but that is only good if we can somehow translate this incredible capability of machines into a vision of society where there is some flourishing of people as individuals and as groups of people in society that benefit from all this capability. Because in the meantime, you have those 80 software engineers who are no longer needed, and all of the other people that the entry level employees at the moment, you know, graduates who are sort of noticing that they're the first ones to to be affected by this, if there are any industries that are not going to be impacted by this, in the short to medium term, I think they'll actually be quite a lot of things. So plumbers often get it right.

Is it I think in the next, in the coming years, we're not going. Even if the AI does develop quite quickly, then it's purely cognitive science. I don't think robotics will be the point, which could be a plumber. And then even when that is possible, I think it's going to take quite a while before it's price competitive with, human plumber. Right.

And so I think there are all kinds of, work which is not purely cognitive, that will be relatively protected from some of this stuff. The interesting thing is that a lot of, work which currently commands, very high compensation, is sort of elite cognitive work. Right? So it's people doing, I don't know, so high powered lawyers that are doing complex merger and acquisition deals across the globe and, people doing advanced stuff and finance. So now people doing, you know, advanced machine learning, software engineering, all these types of things.

Now some mathematicians, one rule of thumb that I quite like is if you can do the job remotely over the internet just using a laptop so you're not some full haptic body suit with some robot, you know, controlling whatever. Just mobile interface, keyboard screen, camera, speaker, microphone. You know, mouse. If you can do your work completely that way, then it's probably very much cognitive work. So if you're in that category, I think that, advanced AI, will be able to operate in that base, to, to do so.

It's in the the other thing that, is, I think protective is even if it is called sort of cognitive work, there can be a human aspect to some types of, work and things that people do. So, for example, let's say you are, I don't know, an influencer. Right. And you work, you know, you can do that work maybe remotely, but the fact that you're a particular person with a particular personality and people know there is a person behind, you know, what's going on there that may be valuable in many cases. Right?

That leaves a lot of people that it doesn't it? I think what we what we need is, is sort of along the lines of what I suggested to the, the Russell Group is we need we need people who study all these different aspects of society to take AGI seriously. And my impression is that a lot of these people are not. And when I go and talk to people who are interested in of these particular things, like, oh, yeah, it's kind of like, you know, it's it's an interesting tool. It's kind of amusing, whatever.

But they haven't internalized the idea that what they're seeing now and any current limitations that they currently know of, which, by the way, are often out of date. Often these people say, oh, I tried to do something with it a year ago. It's like a year ago is now ancient history compared to what the current models are doing. And one year from now it's going to be a lot better, than not seeing that trend. In some ways, I actually think many people in the general public, are ahead of the experts because I think there's a human tendency.

You know, if I talk to non-tech people about, current AI systems, some of the people say to me, oh, well, doesn't it already have, like, human intelligence? It speaks more languages than me. It can do math and physics problems better than I could even do at high school. It knows more recipes than me. It can help me with all kinds of things.

I was confused about my tax return and explain something to me or whatever. Like so what? Why is it not intelligent? You know, this is the sort of thing that I get when I talk to a number of non-tech people, but often people who are experts in a particular domain, they really like to feel that their thing is very deep and spatial, and this AI is not really going to touch them. I think I want to end with your now quite famous prediction about AGI, and you have stayed incredibly consistent on this, for over a decade.

In fact, you have said that there is a 5050 chance of AGI by 2028. Is is that that minimal AGI? Yes. Wow. And, are you still 5055 2028? Is

2028. And you can see that on my blog from 2009. And what do you think about full AGI? What's your timeline for that?

There's some years later it'll be three, 4 or 5, six years later. Yeah. But within a decade, yeah, I think it would be within a decade.

Do you ever just feel a bit nihilistic with all of this knowledge? I think there's an enormous opportunity here. A lot of people do a lot, put a lot of effort into doing a lot of work, and not all of it is that much fun. And I think there's an incredible opportunity here to just like the Industrial Revolution. And I sort of took the harnessing of energy to do all sorts of mechanical work, which create a lot more wealth in society.

Now we can harness data and algorithms and computation to do all kinds of more cognitive work as well. And so that can enable a huge amount of wealth to exist for people and wealth, not just news of production of goods. And services on, but, you know, new technologies, new medicines and all kinds of things like this. So this is technology that has an incredible potential for benefit. Now, the challenge is how do we get those benefits while dealing with the risks and potential costs and so on?

Can we imagine a future world where we're really benefiting from having intelligence, really helping us to flourish? And what does that look like? And that's, you know, I can't just answer that. I'm very interested in that. I'm going to try and understand this.

I can, but this is a really profound question. It touches on philosophy and economics and psychology and ethics and all kinds of questions. Right. And we need you need a lot more people thinking about this and trying to imagine what that positive future looks like, saying, thank you. So much.

That was mind expanding, to say the least. Humans are not very good at exponentials. And right now, at this moment, we are standing right on the bend of the curve. AGI is not a distant thought experiment anymore. What I found so interesting about our conversation with Shane is that he thinks the general public understand this better than the experts, and if his timelines are anything like correct and he's had a habit of being right in the past, we might not have the luxury of time for slow reflection and realization.

Here. We have got difficult, urgent, and potentially genuinely exciting questions that need some serious attention. Now, you have been listening to Google DeepMind, the podcast with me, your host Hannah Fry. If you enjoyed that conversation, please do subscribe to our podcast or leave us a review. Next episode we are going to be sitting down with DeepMind co-founder Demis Hassabis, so trust us when we tell you you don't want to miss that one.