---
video_title: "Google DeepMind robotics lab tour with Hannah Fry"
video_id: UALxgn1MnZo
channel_name: "Google DeepMind"
channel_id: UCP7jMXSY2xbc3KCAE0MHQ-A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UALxgn1MnZo
video_date: 2025-12-10T16:20:20+00:00
video_description: |
  In this episode, we open the archives on host Hannah Fry’s visit to our California robotics lab. Filmed earlier this year, Hannah interacts with a new set of robots—those that don't just see, but think, plan, and do. Watch as the team goes behind the scenes to test the limits of generalization, challenging robots to handle unseen objects autonomously.
  
  Learn more about our most recent models: https://deepmind.google/models/gemini-robotics/
  
  ____
  
  Presenter: Professor Hannah Fry
  Video editor: Anthony Le
  Audio engineer: Perry Rogantin
  Visual identity: Rob Ashley
  Commissioned by Google DeepMind
  Series Producer: Dan Hardoon
  Editor: Rami Tzabar
  Commissioner & Producer: Emma Yousif
  Music composition: Eleni Shaw
---
Welcome to Google DeepMind, the podcast with me, your host, Hannah Fry. Now, you might remember that earlier this year, I got to sit down with Carolina Parada, who is the Head of Robotics at Google DeepMind, and she was talking all about taking Gemini's multi-modal reasoning and putting it, embedding it into a physical body. And since we were coming to California for this trip to see what Google DeepMind is doing on this side of the Atlantic, obviously the robotics lab was top of the list. Now you have to remember that these robots aren't these fancy preprogramed robots that are doing backflips, right? This is something completely different.

These robots are open-ended. They are understanding the instructions that you give them, and then able to flexibly respond and adapt to an unlimited number of tasks. Now our tour guide for the day is Kanishka Rao who is the Director of Robotics at Google DeepMind.

I haven't been into a DeepMind robotics lab since I think 2021. Oh, okay. I mean, already it looks quite different. You have got the privacy screens. Yeah.

They've gone, they've gone. Yeah. Don't need them anymore. No, I mean, we're had the whole lab here in the open. Is it that they're more capable of focusing?

Yeah. The models are now trained with, like, much more robust, like, visual backbones. So we don't care too much about the lighting or the backgrounds as much. So, like the visual generalization, part of the problem is much more solved than like, four years ago. Big improvements. Big improvements. Yeah. Okay.

They've been a few big breakthroughs in robotics in the last couple of years, and we're excited to show those today. Yeah, I mean, it might only be four years, but it's basically an ocean of time. Robotics looks very different than it did four years ago. What are the big changes then? I mean, that is language.

One is multimodal models. Yeah. So basically we want robots to be general and to be general for human usage. These robots must be able to understand, you know, general purpose, the human concepts and the big breakthroughs the last few years have been we're kind of building robotics on top of these other bigger models, these these large vision language models. And turns out they have great understanding of general, you know, world things.

So the latest robot models that are built on top of that. So we're seeing like incredible improvements in like how they generalized like new scenes and new visuals and new instructions. So yeah, so robotics is way more general than it was a few years ago. So so it's Carolina earlier this year. Yeah.

And she was saying that it's not even just vision language models to perceive the scene around, but also to plan the actions that it's doing. Yeah. So basically we develop these things called VLAs which are vision language and action models. So what we did with those is we put actions which are physical actions that the robot is doing in the world and put them on the same footing as the vision of the language tokens. So then now that these models can, you know, model these sequences and try to figure out if they're given a new situation, what are the new sequence of actions to do there?

So we call this action generalization. And even in this we've seen, you know, massive improvements in the last few years. So in the previous release, you know, you saw robots doing kind of more short term horizon things like pick up things and place them somewhere else or like unzip a bag. But really, to be useful to humans, you want like longer-horizon things. And there we have an agent now that can orchestrate some of these smaller moves to make it a much longer horizon thing.

Like you want to pack your luggage, for like London, you want to first look up the weather in London so this agent can check the weather, decide what you want, and then even, like, pack your bag for you. So it's like you've got this kind of fundamental layer and that sort of foundational model, and then you're like, building on top and on top and on top and on top until you can chain sequences of actions all together to, to, I mean, do a long complex task. Yeah. And it makes it way more useful because you don't want that short horizon thing. What you really want for robot is do the, you know the full thing for you.

So this agent really brings that other layer of, you know, intelligence to like the whole thing. And this is 1.5. Yep. We have so there's two capabilities in 1.5.

Yeah. The, the agenda component. And then we have the thinking component. And thinking is like a word that's been used a lot. So for robotics purposes here, what we're trying to do is we we're making the robot think about the action that it's about to take before it takes it.

So it, well, it'll output these thoughts and then it will take the action. And just this act of uploading its thoughts makes it more general and more performant, because it's we're kind of forcing it to think about what it's going to do before it does it. Because you see this in language models, right? Like take a breath, take a deep breath over answering or the chain of thought, you know, ideas doesn't actually improve the performance. But it's the same in robotics.

It's the same principle that we're applying to robotics in physical actions. Isn't that weird? Like just some of these emergent properties are just so weird. Yeah. I mean, for robotics to do like these, you know, basic manipulation tasks is really difficult.

So we we do these tasks very naturally, intuitively without thinking about it. But for robots it's hard. So getting it to think about these actions before does it. It helps. It actually helps the robots. Amazing. Okay.

Well obviously I want to say, can we go see one of these ones? Let's go. So let's take a look at, the little robots here and here. It's going to pick us a lunch with some very dexterous moves. And it will do like a long horizon task.

Amazing. And what's going. On? Okay. Thank you.

So this is going to pack a lunch box, and this is one of our most difficult tasks because, you know, it is a lot like the millimeter level precision of, like, grabbing the zip lock in the correct way. Yeah. And then like, will try to get the bread in the tiny spot. Oh, was this all visual serving. Oh my gosh I'm so impressed.

I mean this is this had the word impressive start at. This stage right. Yeah. And does it correct it. So it'll keep. Trying.

Hey. Hello. You got less cameras, you understand? Yeah. They like. The stress.

The first time I went into a DeepMind robotics lab was maybe 2017 or so. Okay. And at that point, they had you know, the big, like, Lego. So like toddlers, all they were trying to do was like sack one on top of the other stack blocks. And honestly, the pile of discarded broken like around the corner was like illustrative of just how difficult.

Yeah. But this I mean, this idea of like, millimeter precision for the bag. All right. Wow. Wow.

That is okay. No. No way. That is something I have to try to get another go. Yeah.

We want to see the the bread in the Ziploc. To to munch. I'll try to do the. Okay. Okay.

Oh, that is so almost almost almost. Wow. All right. Oh yeah. That's amazing.

That's amazing because it crushed too hard on that and you wouldn't be able to close it. Yeah. And it's not gonna be able to. It's more stuff. I mean that was. Easy that.

Yeah the chocolate bar and now the grapes. Is it going to hit I don't want a grape. Oops. Oh my. Certainly that's in grape juice going on that this is really impressive.

So this is the dexterity in action. Like just like how precise it can get okay. So I'm just going to try to close it I think. Yeah. So this is just learned from the data how to do this.

This is just end to end. So exactly end to end as you say right. Like that. This is just vision. And.

Vision and actions. And what kind of data is it learning from. I mean do you have is not going to do this, is it? Let's find out. What kind of data do you give it.

So is this based on just allowing the robot to try lots of things or are you simulating. So this is actually done via Teleoperation. So we kind of embody the robot and do the task with the robot, and it learns to that perspective. And it is going to.

So you can pack you some lunches. So you demonstrate to it. This is what it means to do it correctly. Yeah I see all right. Hey, that was so cool.

I so want to give you a high five. Your hands are quite pointy. Yeah. Not these ones. Okay, so we saw a dexterity here.

Let's take a look at another demo where it will showcase the generalization capabilities of these robots. We talked about how VR limbs are general worker understands. So we'll see that on robotics now because. That one was a task that it does over and over and over again. It's more about the dexterity here.

It's more about the generalization okay. So Colin here is going to show us what the robots can do in a more general setting. So here we have our robot, running a general policy. So it can kind of interact with the objects and you can just speak to it because we have a Gemini layer on top. So for example, hey, can you put the blue block into the blue tray?

I am putting a g block into the blue tray. I just chatting while it does it. Yeah. So if you want to just ask to do something it's a first of all like yeah. Can you put the, green block in the orange tray, but do it as Batman would?

Nice. I cannot perform actions as a specific character. However, I can't put the green block in the orange tray for you. Fine. Okay, now moving in a block into the orange tray.

Okay. That's cool. So if this is completely generalizable. Okay, so I have a stress ball. Okay.

That I travel with, and, it's never seen this before. Yeah. Okay. So if I put that in the scene. Okay.

And that's a pop, right? Right. This is a little container and it lifts open. Okay, let's try this. Open the lid of the green pair.

I'm getting started on opening the lid of the green pair. Who's going to be tricky? Oh, that is difficult. Right. It's small.

All right. Amazing place. The pink blob inside the green pair. I'm working on placing the pink block inside the green pair.

So difficult. Oh, nice. Go on. What? I want it to succeed so much.

Oh, squishy. Yeah. Okay. Put the green pair lid back on the pot. Yes, yes.

Oh. So impressed. You know, you look like a proud parent now. It really feels like. Something raising this. Amazing.

Never done that before. Yeah, that thing just was never seen before. Yeah. The open ended ness of this is really extraordinary. Yeah.

So now we can chain together some of these short ties into a long horizon task, and it could be way more useful because as you saw before revising tasks, you can only do parts of it. But once you can string them along to something more impressive and long term, then we get like, more useful tasks. So instead of, like, instruction, instruction, instruction, you can just tell it. To do so you can ask us some high level thing, and then a orchestrator will break that down into smaller instructions for the VLA. And it will do the whole thing for you end to end.

And we can see that now here. Okay, I'm in San Francisco and I don't know the rules about sorting trash. Can you look it up for me and then tidy up. In San Francisco? You're required to separate your waste into three categories recyclables compostables and trash, each with its own color coded.

That. Nice. Nice. Oh, no. Oh, yes.

Yes, yes. Wow.

Now I will put the rubbish into the black. Nice. So it's chaining that. Yeah. Tell see how the agent can orchestrate a few more tasks and it can be more useful.

So in terms of the architecture of that then how does it work. I mean do you have like sort of a separate system sitting on top that's giving instructions. Yeah, we have two systems, one kind of ER model, which is better at reasoning and that orchestrates the other model, which is our VLA which does the physical actions. So both of these come together to do these long horizon tasks okay. So the VLA being the vision language action. Correct.

And then the ER model being. The VLA, I've just a visual language model that's designed to, you know, be better at these kinds of. Tasks. It's doing the reasoning. Exactly.

I think if we're going for full science fiction for you today, you don't want just arms. You want the full humanoid. You want the full human. Let's go check out the humanoid lab. Okay. Yes. All right.

So here we have, a robot that will sort laundry for us. It'll put the dark clothes in the dark bin. Yeah, and the white clothes in the white bin. This is Stephanie. And Michael has been running the demo. Hi.

And the cool thing is, you will just read the thoughts of the robot as it's doing it, and you'll see you know what is thinking. And this is our, you know, thinking and acting model where it'll first think and then take the action. You get an insight into his brain. Yes, he can look at what it's thinking now. So this is every time step is it. Yep, I got you.

You want to throw in a few more clothes? Absolutely. Fine. Let's do it. Let's get a red one and let's get a red one.

And do not put that in the white one. Thank you. So do you have a system sitting on top of it? That's kind of making these decisions? I mean how does it work. Is it not hierarchical.

This one is pure end to end, right? It's thinking and acting in the same model. There's no hierarchy. So it's like very closed loop. So okay okay.

Right. Bottom close from the table. Reds are all. In the black box. Beautiful. Nice beautiful.

I mean, I would probably wash that separately. Okay. You do, you hand me a purple top of the night on that. Okay. So then if this isn't.

And how did you how do you extract this information out. Is it just outputting actions. So the beauty of this is it's outputting both its thinking and its actions. So think about how Gemini outputs it's thinking before outputs the response to the user. This is doing kind of.

Something similar. Thought. You know it's. Actually truly exciting. It's a different way of doing robotics that I feel like it's.

Very. Exciting to us. Yeah. All right. So we have the robot. I'm going to showcase is generalization capabilities.

And this is Houston. I'm one of the researchers working there. So let's just see what it can pick up. And maybe you can pick something and put it in one of these things. I'd like to see plant in the basket.

Also. All these objects are not seen by the robot during training. Yeah. So they are completely new. Many of them be sharp like yesterday okay.

Yeah that's true. We're going to target a lot of things yesterday. So this is about how the robot can handle completely new objects. Things it's never seen before okay I do it. Oh that is quite tricky to pick up isn't it?

It's the kind of sliding away. Oh, just. Not a. High score. By the scruff of its neck, I needed. It.

What would next? Okay, I'd like, I don't like the Doritos in the hexagon. And you can move it as it's trying to do it, I can see. Trick it. Yeah, trick it.

Okay. It's. Oh.

I hope you weren't planning to eat those. This amazing thing is okay. It's still a bit slow. It doesn't get it right 100% of the time, but you can see that it's like it's on the right path, right? I think. Yeah, that's what feels very different.

The last time I came to one of these labs Yeah. You can see the intention behind the actions and is generally trying to do the things that you're asking for. Do you feel as though the stuff that you're doing now isn't going to be thrown away and scrapped for a whole new technique? Or you do you feel like you're building some foundational blocks? So yeah, I think these are the foundational blocks that will lead to the final picture of general purpose robotics.

So we just have to build on top of this. In that building on top. Do you think it needs another revolution. Right. Do we need another architecture or do you think that we've got enough already?

No, I think we need at least one more big breakthrough. Yeah. Like even now, these robots that take a lot of data to learn these tasks. So we have read through where they can learn more efficiently with data. So do you think that's the only limiting factor then do you think if you had a similar order of magnitude I you know, many, many more orders magnitude of data like you do with with language models or visual language models.

Do you think that this would be sorted? There's one hypothesis that that's all you need. If you can collect that much robot data, then we're done. We can pack it up, but there's still a long tail of problems to solve like that. To be safe, you know, they have to, like, really master the task.

So there are still like, challenges. But the core of the problem is still like the robot data. It's physical interaction data. You know, like what it feels like to do all of this stuff. You know, it's it's this limited.

Like it's not as big as the internet. So right now we still have to collect all this experience on robots. But there is a lot of manipulation data that is collected by humans posting videos about how to do anything. We should be able to learn from that at some point and really increase how capable robots are. This is very unstructured, like solving robotics.

General manipulation is a very unstructured time. Yeah, and completely open ended in terms of the type of things you could have potentially asked to do. Amazing. I'm so impressed, girl. Done.

Sometimes these robots are a little bit on the slow side right. Sometimes they're a bit clunky. But you have to remember that this idea of having a robot that can understand semantics, that can get a contextual view of the scene in front of it, that can reason through complex tasks is completely inconceivable. Just a few years ago. And okay.

And there may still be some way to go, but the progress here is really limited by the amount of data that we have on physical interactions in the real world. But solve that. Go through that barrier. And I don't think you're just going to be watching robot sort laundry. I think we could be on the cusp of a genuine robot revolution.

You have been watching and listening to Google DeepMind, the podcast. If you enjoyed this little taste of the future, then please do subscribe on YouTube so you won't miss an episode next time.