---
video_title: "WeatherNext 3: More accurate, timely, and local weather forecasts"
video_id: _6jZlnRsXXQ
channel_name: "Google DeepMind"
channel_id: UCP7jMXSY2xbc3KCAE0MHQ-A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_6jZlnRsXXQ
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  WeatherNext 3: More accurate, timely, and local weather forecasts 
  
  Predicting the weather is one of the oldest, most complex challenges we face. Traditional numerical weather prediction models are powerful, but they can be slow to run and costly at a global scale. WeatherNext 3 takes a different approach. Built on a fundamentally different architecture, WeatherNext 3 learns directly from real-world observations, including live satellite feeds and ground-level weather station data.
  
  
  What makes WeatherNext 3 different?
  Hourly refresh: While traditional models typically refresh every six hours, WN3 produces a fresh forecast every single hour.
  Hyper-Local resolution: Native 5km resolution for temperature and humidity, enabling better detail for coastal regions, mountains, and urban areas.
  Actionable data: Includes variables like 100m wind speeds for wind energy management and detailed cloud/radiation metrics for solar energy planning.
  Global reach: Delivering high-resolution insights everywhere.
  You can now use WeatherNext 3 through Google Search, Gemini, Google Maps and more. 
  
  Learn more: https://blog.google/innovation-and-ai/models-and-research/google-deepmind/introducing-weathernext-3/
  Read the full paper: https://storage.googleapis.com/deepmind-media/papers/weathernext_3.pdf
  Disclaimer: For official weather forecasts, severe weather warnings, and public safety advisories, please refer to your local meteorological agency or national weather service.
  
  ___
  
  Subscribe to our channel https://www.youtube.com/@googledeepmind 
  Find us on X https://x.com/GoogleDeepMind
  Follow us on Instagram https://instagram.com/googledeepmind 
  Add us on Linkedin https://www.linkedin.com/company/deepmind/
---
Predicting weather is one of the oldest, most complicated challenges. When we can tell how the weather may change, we can plan ahead. And with extreme weather the stakes are getting higher.

Traditional weather forecasts use mathematical equations based on physics. So basically, they’re taking all the different variables of the atmosphere and trying to simulate it step by step. Now, if you’re trying to do it at a high resolution, at a global scale it takes a long period of time to do that. And it’s also super expensive. You kind of have to trade off between having a regional high resolution model, or a global but lower resolution model.

AI takes a different approach. It learns from historical observations of the atmosphere and figures out how to best predict the weather. Now we can close this gap and we can deliver high resolution all over the globe.

Our previous WeatherNext models demonstrated that AI can produce global forecasts faster and more accurately than traditional weather forecasting models. So WeatherNext 3 is the first global operational weather model that produces a new forecast every hour of the day, with up to five kilometres resolution, with hourly time steps and state of the art skill across most variables. When we talk about variables in weather, what we mean is things like temperature, wind, pressure, rain - the things that describe what’s going on in the atmosphere. This ability to bring reach, speed and details together, all at once, make it better at delivering actionable data where people and the industry are operating. WeatherNext 3 directly incorporates real world observations, such as those coming from satellites or weather stations on the ground.

This is different from what AI models have done previously, where they were purely based on an analysis. This means that they can only be refreshed so often, typically every six hours. The atmosphere does not move in six hour leaps, right? Whether it’s precipitation or shifts in the wind, changes can happen in minutes. With WeatherNext 3, we just use raw sattelite data and that allows us to produce a new forecast every hour.

[Director]: So you’ve also improved the spatial resolution of the model. What does that mean? I need a whiteboard for that. [Director]: A whiteboard? Spatial resolution is the amount of details we want to provide in a specific area.

So all of us know from our phones, right, if you have a picture with high resolution, that means that it has many more pixels on the picture itself. Now imagine that you are taking the globe and you divided it into different squares. If you are trying to predict weather in a square of 25 kilometres on 25 kilometres, that means that you’re basically doing some kind of averaging to the weather at that scale. When you want to predict the weather that people are actually feeling on the ground, this is where you need a higher resolution of the weather forecast. This really matters if you, for example, live near the coast or near mountains, where where you know from experience that the weather can change very quickly on short distances.

WeatherNext 3 actually provides three native resolutions in a single pass. We have the 25 kilometre resolution for the broader atmosphere changes. It can now predict all surface variables so, wind or pressure at a nine kilometre resolution. And then we have up to five kilometres for temperature and humidity. One areas that we decided to focus on is renewable energy.

We added wind speed and direction at 100 metres, which is useful for managing wind farms because it’s at the typical height of a wind turbine. We also added cloud cover and radiation to predict how much sunlight will hit solar panels. Weather is one of those rare domains where cutting edge AI can directly improve decisions affecting billions of people every single day. So imagine a world where we can give people the forecasts that they need. So, think of a farmer making a decision of when to harvest, think of flood forecasting making sure that we evacuate people in time if there is a big flood coming, or just personal use, if you want to know whether you can do an event on the weekend or not.

WeatherNext 3 will be available across all Google surfaces. So that’s on Search that’s in Gemini, on Maps. That allows us to reach billions of people with our forecasts. I think improving weather forecasts can have big impacts across society. It’s a really important challenge.

Because so many decisions depend on getting it right.