---
video_title: "Gemini 3 Deep Think: Identifying logical errors in complex mathematics research"
video_id: 8s4W5o76yZQ
channel_name: "Google DeepMind"
channel_id: UCP7jMXSY2xbc3KCAE0MHQ-A
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8s4W5o76yZQ
video_date: 2026-02-12T16:12:14+00:00
video_description: |
  Gemini 3 Deep Think's improved reasoning makes it a robust tool for poking holes in even the most complex instances of mathematical reasoning. Lisa Carbone, a mathematician at Rutgers University, recently used Deep Think to review a specialized paper in the field of high-energy physics and infinite-dimensional algebra.
  
  Deep Think successfully identified a subtle logical flaw in the publication that had previously passed through human peer review unnoticed.  
  
  Learn more at https://blog.google/innovation-and-ai/models-and-research/gemini-models/gemini-3-deep-think
---
I've been using AI in my research. It really has the potential to accelerate discoveries. My research work in infinite dimensional algebra and symmetry is really a tool for the high energy theoretical physics community, looking to combine Einstein's theory of gravity with quantum mechanics. I was working on a paper with a colleague which took several years to prepare. Before sending it out to the journal, I decided to put it through Gemini fact checking and verification.

It came straight back with, no, that's not correct. Proposition 4.2 is mathematically incorrect as stated.

It gave three separate irrefutable reasons why our mathematical arguments around one particular statement were incompatible. This was pretty destabilizing because the paper had already been peer reviewed. I debated and the model didn't try to appease me as most AI models do by trying to guess what you want to hear. It took me a while to understand because it was really outside of my thought process and the model's reasoning was completely correct. The paper's at the forefront of research in the subject, and so there's very little context or training data that the model could have been trained on.

So it seemed as if it did the work of a highly trained mathematician. It helped us realize that we didn't need the full claim of that result and that a simpler result was actually true. Once we have a unified theory of all the forces of nature, it'll completely change our understanding of ourselves and of the universe.