---
video_title: "Gemini 3 Gives You Superpowers: Here’s How to Unlock Them"
video_id: dzFUOQUSiEI
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dzFUOQUSiEI
video_date: 2025-11-22T21:53:37+00:00
video_description: |
  In this video, I cover how Google has finally caught up with OpenAI by launching two groundbreaking AI models, Gemini 3 and Nano Banana.  These models excel in creating advanced viual outputs, multi-modal understand, both things that make them an invaluable tool for content creators, entrepreneurs, and marketers.
  
  If you enjoyed this video, the best way to support the continuation of more videos is by liking, sharing and subscribing to my channel.  
  
  I really appreciate the support and I'll see you for the next one!
  
  Have an app idea but don't know where to begin or have limited time? 
  
  I highly recommend trying out Vibecode App.  Me and my cofounders have been working hard on this tool for most of 2025 and we want to enable 1M people to build software without writing a single line of code.
  
  Try building your first mobile app completely for free here: https://vibecode.go.link/fNyxn
   ➡️use promo code GOOGLE to get your first app build for free!
  
  My Socials:
  https://x.com/rileybrown
  https://www.linkedin.com/in/riley-brown-7441b1101/
  https://www.instagram.com/realrileybrown/
  https://x.com/learn2vibe
  https://x.com/vibecode_edu
  
  TIME STAMPS
  00:00 Introduction
  01:05 Deep Dive into Gemini 3
  01:50 Real World Examples of Gemini 3
  04:33 Step by Step For Creating with Gemini 3
  06:33 Building a Landing Page with Gemini 3
  09:17 Using Gemini 3 in Cursor
  10:47 Interactive Water Cycle Simulation
  12:30 Exploring Google Gemini's Capabilities
  13:53 Introduction to Nano Banana
  15:37 Creating Infographics with Nano Banana
  19:08 Everything You Need to Know About Krea Nodes
  23:41 Future of AI Models
---
For the past three years, it felt like Google was behind OpenAI in AI. It felt like ChachiBT was just taking over the world, whereas Google's Gemini, previously called Bard, was falling far behind. However, after three years of catching up to OpenAI, Google might have just gained the lead. And this is because of their two AI models that they released this week. And these two AI models are the most visual AI models in the world. The first one announced this week, Gemini 3, is great with coding, visualizations, and design. The second one announced was Nano Banana, which can create high quality infographics on complex topics in one shot and a lot more. And if you're an aspiring content creator, or entrepreneur, or marketer, these two models are critical to understand. And in this video, I'm going to show you the easiest way to use both of these new Google models, so that you can create high quality infographics, landing pages, full-on web apps, and even 3D simulations. If you like videos like these, please subscribe and hit that like button. It helps me out a ton. Anyway, let's dive into the video. Okay, so Gemini 3 was just announced, and so the CEO of Google said it is the best model in the world for multimodal understanding, I agree, and our most powerful, agentic, vibe-coding model yet. That is true. So, you can get what you need with less prompting, and we're going to talk about how to use this in a little bit, but I first want to cover what it is, so what is this new model? What are people saying? What are people building? And then we're going to get to how to use it. We're actually going to talk about three places where you can use Gemini 3 in this video, but first, what is it? So, Gemini 3 is the most intelligent model that Google's ever created, and it helps you bring any idea to life. For example, Pietro Schirano, forgive me if I pronounced his last name incorrectly, he one-shot it, apparently. He one-shot it, a Lego set. Like basically this virtual builder where you can change all of the angles, you can select from multiple types of Lego pieces, you could place them on top of each other, as you can see here, fully rotate around this board, and apparently Google Gemini one-shot it. And we're going to create something just like this in just a second. This dude, Sahil, one-shot it, this globe simulator. You can see here, this looks like a globe, he's manipulating it, moving it around, it's updating the time, and this new Gemini model is very good at design. And it's really good at creating things like this, with 3D models kind of embedded into it. And I thought it was a great model, he said congrats to Google on Gemini 3 looks like a great model. And look at this, some good old sportsmanship in the comment section here. That's always fun to see. This right here, this video really shook me, because it made me realize that we're headed into a new era of education in terms of AI, where AI is going to be able to use coding, specifically little game engines like 3JS to create these 3D renders that actually help us learn how to use AI. And so this is a really cool explanation of a nuclear power plant. And it shows you in stages, and it zooms in on the relevant part in this 3D model as you click next stage. And this just got my mind flowing with all kinds of ideas. Here, someone said in 3JS, which we'll talk about and use in just a second, create a Minecraft style snowy winter nighttime Christmas house pure procedural. And here they're using Google AI Studio or Gemini AI Studio and we'll get to that in a second. But here it is snowing, it looks like Minecraft and it is this world that you can kind of immerse yourself in. And I think we're going to enter this era of like really immersive landing pages. These are so easy to create, why not make a really fun and immersive landing page, as well as other educational uses of this. So in summary, Gemini 3 is a really good AI model like ChatGBT or Clawed, except people are saying that this one is more visual. It has a deep multimodal understanding and it's really good at creating code that makes visual outputs. And people are building cool visual stuff. They're creating video games, simulations, and 3D learning and a lot more. And so the question then becomes how to use it. And so the first way to use it and the easiest way to use it probably is AI Studio. It's not my favorite way to use it, but it is the easiest I believe. You just type in AI Studio in your browser. It's the first link that pops up. You're going to sign in. And as you can see here, you can just, you're using Gemini 3 Pro preview in Google AI Studio. You have to go to start and then you have to put it here. We're going to build this. Okay. It kind of opens up a lovable style IDE here in the web. And now it's going to begin building our app. And here we go. It is done. As you can see here, we can place Legos. I didn't really put a detailed prompt, but this is what you can do. Just on Google AI Studio. Here we're, look, it can go up. As you can see here, go down, up, up, boom. Can we get it in that little spot right there? Oh, we can't. See, that's pretty fun. Then we can ask for changes. Please allow me to change the type of brick. Please make it such that I can make 4x4, 4x1, etc. And more. And we can send that off to Gemini 3 Pro preview. There you go. It literally just created this 2x1 shape that I can use right here. You can stack them on top of each other 3x1. We can change the color to blue. We can stack them on top of each other. This is actually wild. I can't yet rotate. Oh, I can rotate. Oh my God. Here we have green shape. We can go 4x4. How does this work? Color is green. Oh, does 4x4 not work? What about 2x2? Okay. It's going on here. Oh, it was updating. There we go. Color is green. Does green just not work? Okay. No, it works. This is one example of something you can do. You could just get a screenshot, a massive screenshot. And we can save this to clipboard. Now again, you go to Google AI Studio. Click on the first link. Now we're here. I'm going to paste that screenshot. Make this landing page exactly as is in this screenshot and generate an asset to put in the background with nano banana, which we'll get to later. Please make it look like the photo and exactly like it. And so normally in a previous world of vibe coding, you would actually have to go to a new site, a different site, generate the right image and then place it in the project files and then tell the AI to put it in the right place. But here we're just telling AI to look at this image that we gave it. This image right here and it's going to ideally generate a background image for us. And there we go. It is done. And as you can see here, am I able to full screen this? Yes. Full screen. So here's super power. My version. Superpower.com. Here it is. And there's somewhat close, somewhat close. And it even chose a font. You know, it's somewhat similar font. It has the exact same copy. And look at that. So it used nano banana to generate an image. Obviously it wasn't perfect, but it generated an image of the background and placed it in the background. And you can change styles. It's really good at a bunch of different styles. One thing that I created with Gemini over the past, I think I created this two days ago, is copyfeme.com. I made this in one prompt where I just asked AI to generate a bunch of mobile app devices with a bunch of different themes so that I could just quickly like copy themes. So this is glass morphism. I can now hit copy. And now we can go back to Gemini, get it out of full screen and say, please change it to this style now. And I can just paste in that style. It's called glass morphism. The modern frosted glass aesthetic uses light translucent layers with background blur and subtle white borders to create depth and airness. Very cool. So we are hitting rate limits right now, I believe, on Gemini. And so you just have to try again. I think that there's so many people trying to use Gemini that not all requests are going through. So we are hitting rate limits. If you try this soon after watching this video, you may hit some rate limits. I know what's happening on cursor as well. So be wary of that. And there you go. It just changed it. It got rid of the background and changed it to the style that we selected. And this is pretty cool. And this is not bad. I mean, we can full screen this. You know, you can't scroll, but I didn't tell it to add anything beneath it. So this is a landing page created on AI Studio with Gemini 3. The next place where you can use Gemini 3 and my favorite place to use Gemini 3 is in cursor. Cursor allows you to use Gemini 3. And I will make a very long video on this. But I will go over this really quick. I can show you that if we were to right click on cursor and we hit new window and we can actually open up a project and we can call this new folder Gemini testing now. Use create a folder anywhere. And what we can do is we can now open up this side panel. And here we go. We have Gemini 3 pro over here on the side. What I can do is I can say create a 3JS simulation of the water cycle. Make it detailed and awesome. And really educational. And I want to be able to press an arrow button to be taken to the next stage. Really focus on making this educational and taking me through the full process. Think deeply and really make this an interactive experience. So now we just type this into cursor and now we let Gemini 3 pro within cursor go to work. And I will wait for it to be finished. Nothing just opened up automatically. I don't believe it's done. Yes, it's still working. But this just popped up on my screen. I can press this arrow. This is looking pretty interesting so far. Okay, so it's done. And here we can go to local host 8080. Oh, what is this? Water cycle. Let's see. Bang. Oh, evaporation. The sun heats up and water in oceans and lakes. The water turns into water vapor and rises into the air. This process is called evaporation. Notice the steam rising from the water service and the sun glows brighter. Wow, okay, let's go to the next one condensation. Water vapor rises into the atmosphere. It cools down. The vapor turns back into tiny liquid droplets. Oh, okay, precipitation. That's pretty solid. Collection. Water falls from the clouds. Collects and rivers and oceans. Some of it soaks into the groundwater. Eventually, it flows back into the ocean and the cycle starts over again. That is really cool. And that is just one example. Can you make it more realistic and just better? Really focus and make it detailed and better. Go your hardest. This should be the best thing ever or your fired. Let's see how it does. So it is done. Oh! What? Look at the light reflections here. This is kind of a weird body of water, but you can see the evaporation. Here we have condensation, precipitation, rain flows over the land. Wow. I don't know what's going on with the ground here, but look at how realistic the water is. That's pretty insane. Okay, so that is just a very brief little overview of cursor, just a couple of prompts to show you how easy it is to use Gemini3. The final one that I wanted to talk about in terms of how to use Gemini3 is within Gemini. So instead of typing in GeminiStudio, type in Gemini.google.com. And here, we're going to turn off that right now. We can actually say, please explain to me how to use Gemini3 in Google AI Studio. And what I want to show you here is this model is also really smart in a lot of different ways. And you can use it directly within Google Gemini, which is their version of chat GPT. And it will respond to me in paragraphs. And one thing that you can do is you can actually turn on Canvas. And you can say, please write a more condensed version of this. And it will take a moment and it will write this out. And as you can see here, when you turn on Canvas, it actually writes it in this like side view right here. We can ask for things. And then it will write it in the side view right here. And then when you hit share, you can hit export to docs. And this will actually export whatever is in the Canvas directly to Google docs. And then you can immediately share it with your team, which I find to be incredibly useful because I use Google docs for almost everything. And as I talked about in a previous video, you can also use Gemini in slides, right? You can use Gemini in slides. And now you can also use nano banana, which brings me to the next section of the video, which is nano banana. Nano banana was just released. And this one I actually haven't been able to use for that long because it just came out this morning. And it is so good at infographics. Let me show you. What I could do is I can actually take a screenshot of this really low level graphic right here. I'm just going to copy it to my clipboard. Now I'm going to go to Google AI Studio once again. And when we go to Google AI Studio, we are going to go to our home page playground. We're going to go to Google AI Studio then playground. And then we're going to make sure that we are using nano banana, nano banana pro. And I'm going to paste that in there. I acknowledge. Now what I'm going to do. Please make this into a high quality graphic that shows the new nano banana capabilities. AI image model. Please add visuals beneath the text. You see the Google logo should be the Google logo and the banana image should be actually an image of a banana. This should be on graph paper and in blue ink. And we can run it. Now we can run that here and now we're using nano banana. And you can even think it even literally thinks. So this is like a thinking model that will generate an image, which is so cool. The fact that AI images have come this far, it's absolutely insane. Look at this. This is what it created. So it is Google logo and it put it on graph paper. It put this little line around it and it creates info graphics. This was just something I wanted to try real quick. I'm actually going to try a new one except I'm going to do this within Korea. So Korea AI and this is not sponsored by Korea at all. I just really like to use their app because it's super easy to just use nano banana pro. And I can just go like this. I can change the dimension really easily. I can say really high quality graphic explaining the creator relationship between a brand and sponsorship and the benefits to both sides, the creator and the brand sponsoring the creator. I want this to be a very elegant info graphic in thick, no, in blue ink that has a very light graph paper in the background, almost like an architectural sketch, but it should accurately depict the topic at hand. Let's just try it. And what's fun about Korea is you don't actually have to like wait for it to like do all of its thinking. You just generate a ton of these at a time. I believe you can generate like 10 images at a time. And in just a second, I'm going to show you how to put these in a workflow beginning to come in here and look at this. Look at these images, right? The creator brand sponsorship architecture, create content, authentic voice, mutual exchange, synergy partnership, building lasting connections and shared prosperity and brand benefits. And you can see brand sponsor, creator benefits, monetization, sustainable income, audience, audience expansion with new reach, professional resources and tool support. This is actually a genuinely useful image. And all of these are very interesting. And I really think that like tools like gamma, which is an AI slide that creator, they're going to be implementing these images directly inside their tools. And I believe Google slides is going to integrate it as well. Of course, you can generate funny images here. Elon Musk jumping over a river will do Steve Jobs. Apparently it does people like you can do like let's see if we can do sponge Bob jumping over a river. They usually allow you to do this on the first day to get as many people as you can to use the tool. And then they'll stop allowing you to do it because of copyright issues. But here we can see Elon jumping over the river. I actually don't think for these hyper realistic images. I think maybe mid journey's a little bit better, but the fact that you can create them with famous characters is kind of fun for now. But my favorite way to use Google or nano banana at least in the past is to use the edit feature within Korea. So I can just drag this image in here. And now I can just make changes like make his shoes black and put a bear in the background. And we can change it to four. And here we have nano banana pro edit to generate. And there you go. We see this bear in the background and we have four different variations. This one is the closest. I like this one. And then if you just click on this one, you can continue editing this one. You can say make the man wearing orange pants. And you can just go for as long as you want here using the new nano banana model. And you can see them coming in. Look at that. Now we have some orange pants here. Very, very cool. Look at that. But before we move on to the next section, I do want to show you nodes. So this is also in Korea. You can also do this in tools like flora, super studio by kyber. There's a lot of different tools that have this node based tool. I just like to use Korea because I already have a subscription. So the next thing I want to talk about is Korea nodes. And this allows you to create workflows using nano banana. And so what I can do is I can hit N and this will allow me to create like a text input field. And so here, what I want to do for this is I just want to say take the following concept and turn it into a high quality graphic. And we can use that same style that we were using earlier. Make the background a very slightly off white graph paper and make all of the ink in blue, just like an architectural design, explaining the topic in full. And what I want you to do is make sure that there's way more images than text and make sure that there's a good amount of spacing in between topics and always show the relations between topics. So if that's the style that I want to use, I'm just going to change this to style. And now what we're going to do is I'm going to create, I'm going to press N. We're going to create a text box right here. And I'm going to call this one. This one's going to be called topic. So let's say I am writing a post or I want to create a graphic for a newsletter. Right? I just can put the topic, whatever I'm talking about in here. And so for example, so I recently just wrote this really short newsletter. And I really want to just copy this whole thing. Actually, I want a good graphic for the first half. And so I can just copy this and we can just paste it into the Korea nodes. This is about when the AI bubble bursts, my argument is that more people are going to be using AI. And what I want to be able to do is just paste whatever my topic is and then have an infographic in this exact style. And what I can do here is I can actually create a workflow. And so here we're actually going to create a new node. And this is going to be called, we're going to use concat. And concat text, all that does is it literally allows you to like put this text above this text. So this will just be combined. So these two texts will just be combined. And I'm just going to say, take the above concept. And I'm going to separate them. So the AI knows they're separated. And we're going to drag this right in here. So the final output of this will be text one plus text two. So all I need to do is paste in my topic. And then I'll take the output here and we will paste this into nano banana pro. And this should generate an image. And we can actually choose the aspect ratio 16 by 9. And then what we can do is we can just copy and paste them copy paste. So now it's going to generate three four and it can get kind of crowded. And so yeah, I think they definitely need to work on like making these less crowded. But let's say I want to have six options because why not? And so this full workflow will run. And now we're generating these images and you could even use an AI intermediate step if I wanted to to actually to come up with a better prompt because you can actually use LLM. You can use an LLM call. But I actually don't know if we'll need it because this model uses an LLM or it uses it's a reasoning model within the image model. And so we can actually see these. And so you can actually just download all of these. But I believe you can see all of the generated images here. And so now we have this. Look at this. This is so good. This one, this one, this one, this one, and this one. And what's crazy is you could even if you wanted to drag these out and you could actually go to VO 3.1. And you could actually turn this animated info graphic video. And so we could actually have this run in the workflow. So this is actually going to animate this image right here. So this image right here will be animated using VO 3.1, which is the best video model in the world. So now I can just download this video. The AI bubble burst due to overvaluation, causing market crashes and my ops. This forces a street. That is actually crazy. I forgot it generates sound. I thought it would just be a nice little animation. I haven't optimized this yet. Today was the first day that I've used this. But I will definitely be using this for my content, especially with graphics that pop up on the screen, especially in short form, because visuals are so good for short form content. And so anyway, this is kind of what we've covered, right? AI Studio for Gemini 3. You can use cursor. You can use Gemini. You can also use AI Studio for nano-banana. You can also use Crea. And we talked about creating workflows with nano-banana with Crea nodes. And the final thing I want to talk about is creating AI wrappers, right? A lot of people have made money creating applications, AI wrappers, that use this technology. And the best place to create mobile wrappers using this technology is with the vibe code app. So all I have to do is when creating my mobile app on my phone, I can go to the APIs tab. And you'll notice in the text generation, you have Gemini 3 Pro that you can immediately add to the prompt. By the way, this prompt is literally cloud code. And so I just can add it to the prompt. And then I can also go to API and press image generation. And I can click nano-banana and click that. And you can very easily just say, these are the models that I want to use to do X, Y, or Z. And then you can just send them to cloud code. And it will do that. And you can just send it to the AI and it will create it. And then you can also use image generation. You can generate assets and put them directly in your app. And this is how you can create AI wrappers that use this technology. And I'll be talking about this a lot. You know how much I love vibe coding if you've been following my videos. And I believe there's going to be a lot of people who make a ton of money creating wrappers. And you can also use cursor to create a web application or a desktop application. Or you can use the vibe code app to create mobile apps. And so that is kind of an overview. It was a massive day for Gemini 3. I'm really excited to see what open AI and then Thropic launch as a response to these models. But we'll wait and see. Anyway, thank you guys for watching. And I'll see you here for the next video.