---
video_title: "I built a Mac App called Riley's World using Warp and Claude 4.5 Sonnet!"
video_id: 1t5lR-xwYMU
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1t5lR-xwYMU
video_date: 2025-11-12T23:06:43+00:00
video_description: |
  Try WARP for free here: https://go.warp.dev/rileyytcow
---
I'm going to build a Mac app by vibe coding. I'm going to take my idea, turn it into a Mac app using the best coding agent in the world and Xcode. So, all I have to do is open up Warp and I'm going to use Claude 4.5 Sonnet. And then I'm going to open up Xcode. What we're going

to do is we're going to create a new project. We're going to create a Mac and we're going to create an app and we're going to hit next. And I'm going to name this Riley app one. We're going to hit next. Now, I'm going to save this into my downloads. We're going to create

this. Now, what we're going to do is we're going to open up Finder. I'm going to go to downloads. I'm going to rightclick on Riley's app. We're going to go services, and we're going to hit new warp tab here. I want to create a

Mac app here called Riley's World. I want it to be an app that lets me chat with AI. Here is my open AI API key. Make this in this directory. We're going to change this to 4.5 sonnet. I just

think it's the best right now. We're going to paste in my API key. Don't worry, I'll delete it after this video. Keep this secret. Now, we're going to run this. Now, warp is going to work.

Okay, so it's done. Now, we can go to this play button and we can run the app. Okay, we have an app called Riley's World. Hello there. My name is Riley.

Yes, now we're chatting with AI. Tell me about Halloween. How did it start? There we go. Now, please make the font way larger. Store the chats in a little

drawer menu, please. Can you make it so I can visit previous chat? Now, warp is going to work. Okay, now it's done. Now, if we just go hit play, our app should open up and the font should be much bigger. There we go. Hello there. The

text is much bigger and we have this menu. We can create a new chat. Hi, new chat. There we go. And we have this side window. And so that's how easy it is to

create a chat GBT wrapper Mac app using the most powerful coding model in the world using Warp AI. If you want to test out Warp, the link is in my bio.