---
video_title: "Senior Full Stack Vibe Coder Goes Ham From the Couch"
video_id: NB_1PDZxpQ8
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NB_1PDZxpQ8
video_date: 2025-12-09T21:46:52+00:00
video_description: |
  A "Full Stack Vibe Coder" Builds a mobile app from his phone 
  
  (Frontend, Backend, Payments, ➡️ App Store). 
  
  All you need is a couch and the vibecodeapp.com
---
Oh, hey. I'm Riley and I'm a full stack vibe coder. Today, we're going to build a mobile app directly from my phone. It's going to have a front end, a back end, a database, and payments integrated. We're going to build it on my phone in about 5 minutes. So, earlier

today, I had a really cool app idea, and it's basically an analyzer for short form content. I can just copy this prompt, go to the Vibe Code app, and we can just paste this in. And the first prompt automatically uses Claude 4.5 Opus. It is the best in the world. Now,

what I want to do is create a mascot 3D cartoon render of a cute cartoon panda with a Tik Tok logo on its stomach. And so now we're going to generate a bunch of these logos. I'm going to go ahead and select this one. We're going to place it into the prompt. Please use this logo whenever you can. And now we

can ceue up this prompt. And now we wait. Okay. So I believe it's done. Boom. Hook score. So we can either

upload a video, record a video, or see our analytics history. Before we do anything, we need to integrate the Gemini API. So we're going to come here. We're going to click on Gemini 3 Pro, which will initialize the Gemini API. We don't need any API key. It's built into

the Vibe Code app. Now we can say please use this API. Okay, it is done. Let's take a look here. Okay, so let's try and upload this video. All right, so now

it's analyzing the entire video. Oh, wow. There we go. Category breakdown. Curiosity gap. The premise is building

publishing an app solely from a mobile phone. What's working? The couch coding visual brilliantly signals accessibility and ease of use. And now we can see that it is integrated with the cloud. A full backend. Now what we need to do is we

need to add payments. We can just go to the payments tab and we're going to hit finish setup. This is automatically going to create a revenue cat project so we can charge users for using our app. Now I'm going to charge $29.99 per month. We will run this prompt and

we will wait for it to add payments. So it's done. We now get this onboarding flow. We can hit next, next, next. Get started. Unlock premium. Now we can test

the payw wall. Subscribe now. And we're going to test valid purchase. I'm going to show you what this means in a second. Okay, it looks like that was successful.

Now if we go to RevenueCat, we turn on sandbox data. We can see that one person just paid and that person was me and it did work. We can charge users. Now all we need to do is pinch, hit these three dots and hit publish to the app store. Connect it to my Apple developer account. Start a build by pressing this

button and giving it our Expo token and boom, your app is on the way to the app store. And that is how I, a full stack vibe coder, builds apps directly on my phone using the vibe code