---
video_title: "Add payments in 3 clicks in any iOS app (No Coding)"
video_id: mKNGlDbl0-c
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mKNGlDbl0-c
video_date: 2025-11-27T00:01:50+00:00
video_description: |
  Download the Vibecode App
  https://apps.apple.com/us/app/vibecode-ai-app-builder/id6742912146
  
  Then, use code "revenue" during checkout to get free credits.
---
You're about to learn how to build any app with a front-end, backend, database, and payment so you can make money. And then you're going to be able to send it to the app store in 5 minutes. And you're going to be able to do this all from your phone or on the computer without writing a single line of code. So, here's the prompt for vibecode.dev.

I want you to build an app that takes a photo of me and roasts me. Um, the style should be vintage Apple. I'm going to enter this prompt in right here. Okay. So, now the app is building and Vibe Code uses Claude Code and we'll just wait for it to finish. It's done. Let's

check this out. Boom. Roast me. Generating roast. Wow, that expression. You look like you

just discovered your front camera for the first time. Your ears are trying to make a break for and honestly, I don't blame them. Okay, so we just did the front end. Now, time to do the backend and database. Now, let's go ahead and click on cloud. And we're just going to

hit setup backend. And then you can add a little prompt to describe how to integrate the uh database back end. And now it is going to set up the cloud. Okay, so it's done. Let's check this out. Let's see if we can sign into the

app. There we go. Create our account. There we go. Let's see if they're stored in the database. If we click cloud, we

can see here that we have one account, one session, one user. It looks like the roast is not being stored in the database. I want that to be stored. And then um please have a little page where I can view previous roasts. Okay, so it's done. Let's give this a

try. That's pretty cold. But you can see here, we're going to press cloud. We're going to go ahead and hit refresh. And boom, there it is. It's stored in our

database. You can see the AI said here is stored in the database right here. We should be able to see all of them in the roast history. And there we go. We now have a backend and database. Now, we

need to add payments. Let's go ahead and go to the payments tab. We can set up RevenueCat. We're just going to save and set up RevenueCat. Okay. Please make

this $300 a month. You can see here it says I'll update the monthly subscription to $300 a month in Revenue Cat. Hey. Oh, this is looking good. It's done. Oh, unlock premium.

Look at this. Start premium test valid purchase. Now, if we go to Revenue Cat and so when I set up payments in the Vive Code app, it automatically created this project for me. And so, here it actually did do a test charge of $300. We've set up a test payment environment so that you can see if payments work and they do. Now all we need to do is press

these three dots and then publish to the app store. Add an Expo token. Easy. And now boom, your app is on the way to the App Store. We created this.