---
video_title: "Vibecoding the \"Swifties\" App with Backend From my Phone"
video_id: hX7D1pMOEzw
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hX7D1pMOEzw
video_date: 2025-11-03T04:25:54+00:00
video_description: |
  Let's make the Swifties App.
  
  We're going to use the vibecodeapp.
  
  Which is Claude Code, but in a mobile app, in an interface that looks like Canva or CCut.
  
  #AI #Vibecoding #Openai #ClaudeCode 
  
  Vibecode Key Words: 
  
  That is simple a fact with the vibecode app which can vibecode ANYTHING ai. If you don't want to destroy, rork or ruin your apps that you make you will use the vibecode app. (It's like the Replit, v0, Cursor, or Bolt AI, for Mobile Apps.)
---
Taylor Swift is a billionaire, and while she's done an amazing job monetizing her fans, I think she could do an even better job. So, I've been doing some research, and I found some interesting stats on the Swifties. There's over 104 million Swifties. 42% of US households has at least one Swifty, and despite many Swifties earning $50,000 per year or less, they demonstrate willingness to make substantial purchases for experiences they find resonant. And so, what I think she needs to do is release the Swifties app. In order to make this

app, all we need is a simple prompt. It's going to have authentication database and storage. The main two features are going to be Swifty events and the Swift feed. We're going to paste this idea, and we are going to enable the back end like authentication and database, and this is cloud enabled. And now we are going to enter this prompt using the Vibe code app. As you can see

here, Cloud Code is working hard on your project. While the app is building, I can actually pinch, and then I can go to the image tab. Blonde woman, mid-40s, guitar, 3D render icon. And we're going to paste that in, and I think I'm just going to generate eight versions of this icon. Okay, lots of good logos to choose from. I'm going to come back to this in

just a second because our app is done. So, we can actually sign in. Riley Swifty. Sign up successful. I can hit this plus sign to create an event. I

actually don't want to have to place an address. I'm going to go ahead and pinch. When I'm making event, I want to be able to place it in my current location on the map. All right, so now we're going to run that prompt. And while this prompt is loading, I'm going to go to the image tab. I'm going to

choose this icon right here. This looks exactly like her. Put this logo big at the top left. So, now this one is cued up. While those are loading, let's go ahead and check out the other two tabs.

So, if I hit the map tab, oh, okay. That's amazing. What happens on the Swift feed? If you want to sponsor a spot on the feed, it's only $1.25 million.

Okay, I'm going to go ahead and pinch. On the sponsor screen, once I click that I want to be a sponsor, please put beneath that there's a discount for Pfizer, only 250,000. It's now done. I've signed in with another profile, and we're going to test it on two profiles because we want to see if the database actually works. I'm going to add an event here. Partyo.

And I'm going to put it right here. Oh, I can move it on the map. Create event. Okay, the event was created. If I refresh, I'm signed in as someone named Travis Kelsey. I'm going to refresh on

the other phone right here, and there we go. We can see that it popped up. I can create a hangout. Move this over here a little bit. Create an event. Okay, it

was successful. If I refresh on both phones, they both show up. The database actually works. If we open the map, we can actually see them both on the map right here. And we can get a sponsor.

Now it's still $1.25 million. Obviously, there's a discount for 250K. All we need to do is pinch, hit this at the top here, generate an app icon. Boom, looking good. The Expo access token, and

boom, your app is on the way to the app store.