---
video_title: "Building a Mobile App with Frontend and Backend with AI"
video_id: LUcAPIVEnGc
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LUcAPIVEnGc
video_date: 2025-11-02T17:00:28+00:00
video_description: |
  Building a mobile app with a frontend and backend in less than 15 minutes. 
  
  If you want to use the vibecode app for free you can comment "PINCH" and we'll send you a code.  
  
  For this Im using Vibecode...
  
  Vibecode is  the Replit, v0, Cursor, or Bolt AI, for Mobile Apps. 
  
  You want apps that work! not apps that don't rork or are completely broken. That's why I'm making these videos so that you can learn to build production ready apps with the vibecode app (vibecode dot dev) which is the only app that actually allows you to ship to the app store from your phone. 
  
  If you have any questions please leave them below the video happy to help.
---
People are just now realizing that you can use AI to build a mobile app and send it to the App Store and make money. See, for the past 6 months, AI could only make mobile apps that had a front end. But as you're going to see in this video, AI can now build an app with a front end and a back end, which means authentication, database, and storage. So, I'm going to go through this entire process right now. So, here's my plan.

I'm going to use this prompt with Claude Code 4.5 Sonnet directly on my phone. So, I'm going to create an app storage and authentication, and it's going to be like a Twitter feed where users can upload images and then friends can prompt AI to edit those images, and I added some information about styling. I'm just going to copy this prompt, and then I'm simply going to paste that prompt directly into vibe.code.dev,

and I'm going to enable the vibe code cloud, and that will allow us to create authentication, database, and storage. Now, we're going to press go. Claude Code is working hard on your project. Okay, it's now done and downloading. Let's see how it did. Okay, if I go to

profile, I now can sign in. I can sign up. We've signed in. Save password. I'm going to choose from library. I'll

upload a photo of myself. Post. Okay, there we go. Now we have a feed. So, I'm signing in with a second phone. Create

an account. Go to the feed. There we go. So, we'll upload a photo of Jake. Hi, I'm Jake. Post. Boom, there we go. Now

what we need to do is add the AI features. Now, we're going to pinch. Now we are going to go to the APIs, and we're going to go to image generation. We're going to go to nanobanana. We're going to add prompt. I want to be able

to do below any image, I want to be able to hit edit image. This will allow me to type a prompt to edit the image, and it will post it as a comment beneath the image. Now we can send this to Claude Code within the vibe code app directly on our phone. All right, so let's see if the AI features work. Let's post it.

Yes. Post. Okay. So, now I'm pulling up the other phone, signing as Jake. I'm going to refresh the feed. Boom, there

it is. Now what we're going to do is we're going to click edits. Now we can edit the image. All right, make him have a mustache and make him have a mustache and muscle bigger. Let's see if nanobanana works. Okay, oh, wait, some

weird loading's going on. That's insane. Wait, I don't think it made the muscle bigger. It just made me look weird. All right, make his shirt a red turtleneck and edit with AI. Let's go. Okay, it's

done. Oh my god, let's go. That is actually insane. And look at this, if we go to the other account here, if I refresh, you see it says zero edits here. I'm going to refresh. Boom, two

edits, and there they are, right here. Let's go. Now I can publish this as a mini app, or what I can do is I can click up here and hit publish this to the App Store. Start build. Your app is on the way to the App Store. We created

an AI-powered social app in 10 minutes. I'm going to dive deeper and add payments in the next video, so follow for more.