---
video_title: "Vibe coding an iOS app for my dogs with vibecode.dev"
video_id: j6R1xayPK0g
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6R1xayPK0g
video_date: 2025-11-18T04:40:35+00:00
video_description: |
  Vibe coding an iOS app for my dogs.
  
  iPhone and iPad - and sending it to the app store.
  
  From my phone..
  
  Style hack - Use this prompt:
  
  Please use the style "Mocha Mousse" A warm, earthy theme utilizing various shades of brown, beige, and tan and use a font that matches.
---
Hi chickens. I'm about to turn this drawing into an iPhone app and an iPad app. Step one, take a photo. So now I'm going to go to the Vibe Code app. We're going to go to the image tab. We're

going to upload that image. Add this image to the prompt. Please make this app. This is a drawing that I made of my app. Please make it in full. Optimize it

for both iPhone and iPad. It's called Doggy Doggy Dog. Okay. Okay, now I'm going to send this prompt to Claude Code in the Vibe Code app and I can open it up on my iPad as well. And we're going to wait and then we're going to make some changes. Hi chickens. This one's

been acting a little strange. So this app, what this will do is it'll allow me to find what's wrong with him and I'll be able to take a photo of Kylo and then AI will tell me what's wrong with these little goons. Who's pup? All right, let's check this out. Okay, we have doggy. Doggy dog.

AI is analyzing your pup. My chat. Okay, we can add the chat feature. Next, I'm going to go to the APIs tab. I'm going to use GPT5. We're going to add it to

the prompt. I want to be able to chat with AI about my dog. Please use this API. All right. So, I'll send that off to Claude Code. Okay, it's almost done.

Let's see. We can click on this. We can go chat. Dog keeps licking himself. What's wrong?

[Music] Pretty detailed response. Now, I want to change the theme. So, I'm going to use, please make this in the style of Mocha Moose, the secret styling hack that I love. Please use a font that matches this style. Now, we can send that to Claude Code.

While it's loading, we're going to go to the image tab. We're going to generate an icon. Cute 3D render of a brown dog. German Shepherd pointy ears for this guy. Yes. Let's go. Oh, these are fire. Oh, I

like this one. Please use this as the logo and then also use this in the onboarding. Make it massive in the onboarding, please. Oh, look at that. Looks fire.

Oh, look at this new style. Mocha moose is the name of this style. >> And we can go to the chat. Ooh, it looks good. >> This is pretty solid. All right. Now,

all we do is pinch. We hit these three dots and now time to publish it to the Apple App