---
video_title: "Building app with Vibecode App from the couch"
video_id: yjAsdXmLz3o
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yjAsdXmLz3o
video_date: 2025-11-16T20:00:47+00:00
video_description: |
  Building a Mobile app from your phone...
  
  Should NOT be this easy. 
  
  This is getting out of hand.
---
Hi, I'm Riley and I'm going to build a mobile app directly on my phone and I'm going to send it to the App Store. Let's begin. So, the first thing that I'm going to do is I'm going to hit new app. I'm going to create a very simple app and it's called rate my kicks. It's going to be an app where I take a photo of my kicks. Please don't add the

analysis feature. We're going to add that in just a second. I just want to make them look cool. Onboarding ever. I want this to be a neo-brutalist style.

Make it epic. And so, we can enter this prompt. And by the way, this we're sending this directly to Cloud Code. This is Cloud Code running directly on my phone through the Vibe Code app. Cloud Code is working hard on your project. So, your

app kicks onboard has been created. Let's take a look and see what the AI generated. Ooh. Oh my. Look at this.

Boom. Boom. Start rating. Camera screen coming soon. Pinch. All right, for the

camera screen, I want a big camera icon. And then I want a bunch of shoes going up across like almost like tickers in like one of those news channels like going across. I'm going to give you a bunch of images of shoes. These icons are just going across the screen on a never-ending loop, you know, before I while I'm waiting to take a photo. And when I press the camera icon, I want a bottom sheet to fly up. And that's how I

take the photo of my kicks. So, now we can go to the image tab. And I'm just going to select a bunch of these. Throw some shoes in there. Add to prompt.

We're going to add eight images to the prompt. While that's loading, what I want to do is I want to go to the API tab. to use Gemini Flash. Okay, I want to actually rate the kicks using AI to analyze the image. So, please use this API and make it work flawlessly. And it

should tell me what shoes I'm wearing and I want it to rate them in a very loud and popping way. You know, I want the loading screen. While the AI's loading, I want it to be bright and vibrant and beautiful. Just like the onboard, my friend. Please. And look at

that. We're queued up. This prompt is queued, ready to go. Look at this. Look at this. Rate my kicks. Let's see

it. I think it's done, ladies and gentlemen. Boom. Rate my shoe. Bang.

Analyzing. Let's go. Come on, bro. This app is fire. Pinch. Three dots here at the top.

Publish to App Store. Get started. Now we need to create a bundle ID. Now, all we're going to do is we're going to start the build on Expo and your app is on the way to the App Store. Let's go.