---
video_title: "Claude Code on the phone, and it builds mobile apps"
video_id: Zdq5nrWB4uc
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zdq5nrWB4uc
video_date: 2025-10-28T01:40:45+00:00
video_description: |
  This is the vibecode app. 
  Elevenlabs, Nano banana, and OpenAI image-1 built in.
---
So in this app I created an AI powered voice notes app and all I did was add a simple API and you can select from all these different APIs in this menu. We have image generation, data, audio, etc. My name is Riley and I'm recording my voices. You notice there the sound effect played because I can actually generate sound effects within the Vibe Code app. I generated that noise as well. You see

that AI is going to summarize it and boom, right? I can just generate audio. Welcome to my voice notes app. and we can generate that. And what's cool is since this uses clawed code, I can just select the one that we generated and hit add to prompt.

During the onboarding, I want this voice to play and then we can send this message to claude code within the vibe code app. All right, it's done. It says the voiceover will now play automatically when user enters the onboarding flow. Let's go back to our app. >> Welcome to my voice notes app.

>> Boom. There it is. So, this is the onboarding. We generated all of these assets. You can see that right here. If

you go to the image tab, you can see that these are all the images that we generated, right? You can just generate as many of these as you want. And we're using the best AI image models. And so, as soon as they're done, you can select whatever ones you want to add to your app. And then you can click add to prompt. And you can send all of them

directly to Cloud Code within the Vibe Code app. And Claude Code will place them in your app anywhere you want. And if you want to select a specific part of the app to put it, you can go to this select tab and you can hit select and you can select the exact area that you want to place it.