---
video_title: "Vibecoding 15 million dollar app in 10 min (Vibecode.dev Builds Cluely)"
video_id: xQuD4coLtFE
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xQuD4coLtFE
video_date: 2025-12-12T20:15:05+00:00
video_description: |
  A World where a Vibe Coder can make an app...
  
  That raised 15 million dollars, in 10 mintues...
  
  Is the world we live in NOW...
---
Oh my god, Claude Code with Opus 4.5 can literally build any app without writing a single line of code. So the app that I want to build in five minutes is Cluey. So they're releasing their app. We're going to build it in 5 minutes using AI.

What I'm going to do is I just uploaded the screenshots for their app. We can add it to our prompt. And so right now we're using Claude 4.5 Opus within vibecode.dev.

Please analyze this image and look at all four of these screens and also search clearly on the internet. And I want you to build this app in its entirety. And now we're going to run it. Okay, it's done. Okay, there we go. And so

this is Clue's app. And this is what we created after a single prompt. First things first, let's see if the start record button works. Hello, I'm recording a note. This is me recording a note. I'm testing if this works or

anything. Okay, uploaded the Cluey logo and we're going to add this to the prompt. Okay, so I uploaded this as an image. We can hit select and we're just going to add this to the prompt here. I want you to clone this while I'm recording. So, while I'm recording, it

should look like this screen. We don't need to do any real-time voice for this. Okay, it's done. Let's check this out. I can record my voice. This is me

speaking. I have a voice notes app that I can use. All right, check this out. We have the full transcript. We have the summary.

This is my app. This is the actual Cluey app. You Okay, now let's set up the back end. I want all of this to be stored in a database. Please also have authentication so users can sign in and I want all this to be stored in the database. Everything. Please go through

it and set up this integration. Okay, now we are setting up loud. Okay, it's done. Let's check this out. Okay.

Okay, so I'm going to sign up. I'm going to create an account here. Hello, this is a test. My name is Riley. I'm testing on an account where the name is Chris.

Okay, let's see if this data is stored in the database. Okay, so we have two accounts and one meeting that we've created. Account testing session. Account testing session. Looking good.

Now it's time to add payments. All we need to do is hit finish setup and it will automatically create a revenue cat project so we can charge users. Allow each user to create four notes. And then if there are four notes in their database, please show a payw wall instead of allowing them to record. So when they press record on their fifth note, it should show this payw wall.

Okay. So, it's done. Let's check this out. Hello, my name is Riley. Yes, there we go. Subscribe now. Test

valid purchase. All we need to do is go to revenuecat.com. The vibe code app automatically creates a revenuecat project when you use the payments integration. Need to go to our project Clo. And here we see we have one

subscription for $5. What we're going to do is pinch. We're going to press these three dots right here. publish to the app store. Now we're going to just press next and boom, your app is on the way to the app store. It's connected to my

Apple developer account.