---
video_title: "vibecode app is insane"
video_id: wrLSsAjR19Q
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wrLSsAjR19Q
video_date: 2025-10-30T23:01:23+00:00
video_description: |
  Building an iOS app From my Phone. 
  
  This has never been easier. 
  
  https://apps.apple.com/us/app/vibecode-ai-app-builder/id6742912146
  
  Vibecode will win.
---
I saw this post on Twitter yesterday. Startup idea, Tinder but for guys to find other guys to do cool projects with. So, I'm going to build this with AI and get it on the App Store. So, what is my plan you might ask? Well, I'm going to give a simple prompt to Claude code. I want you to create an app,

Tinder but for guys to find other guys to do projects with. And so, these projects will be in these five different categories. So, when they swipe right, they will submit a concise video as an attachment on why they would be a right fit for that project. So, all I'm going to do is just copy this prompt. And so, I pasted the prompt right here on my phone using Vibe code, which uses Claude code, and we're going to run it. Now,

Claude code is going to work, and while the AI is working, we can actually generate a logo. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to go to icon 3D cartoon render of Abraham Lincoln holding an axe. So, I'm just going to generate about eight options here. Oh, looking good. Maybe this one's just the best.

He's kind of smiling. He's kind of got a good attitude going on. It's simple. All right, so I'm just going to select this and say, "Please find a place in this app to make the logo very prominent and make it big." So, as soon as the app is done building, it will add the icon in a follow-up prompt. Okay, it's loading.

This is looking good. All right, here it is. So, I can press discover. All right, build a treehouse with Mike Johnson. Let's see. Boom. Yo, Mike, I'm trying to

build a treehouse with you, bro. Just let me know. I've been building treehouses. Yo, Mike, I'm trying to build a treehouse with you, bro. Just let me know. I've been building treehouses.

Submit. There it is. Application submitted. After one prompt, we now have this app called Project Match. I can generate an app icon that will actually show up on the App Store once Apple accepts it. Boom. Use this as app icon.

Next. I understand. Boom. So, I can just copy this access token, go back to the Vibe code app, and paste it. This is free, and we're going to start the build. Just finished. Your app is on the

way to the App Store. This is going to be an early version. I need to add the back end first, and then I can start getting real users and they can sign in, but I'll do that in the next video.