---
video_title: "Vibe coding an iPhone App and iPad App #1"
video_id: VvcRzvZ809w
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VvcRzvZ809w
video_date: 2025-10-28T20:37:26+00:00
video_description: |
  Vibe coding an iPhone App and iPad App: 
  Episode 1
  
  - making changes to iPad without changing phone
  - one click insert screenshot into the prompt (to claude code)
  - component selection
---
Welcome to my TV show. We are vibe coding an iPhone app and an iPad app. This is part one. So in the Vibe Code app, if you're logged in on iPhone and iPad, they are perfectly in sync by default. So if we want to edit the app, all we do is pinch. And now we can just

speak whatever changes we want to make. Notice here that the iPhone looks pretty good. This view right here, right, this is a little character that I created. I think it's down here. There he is.

Notice how this just looks better on phone compared to iPad. We can actually change that. So, right now the iPhone view looks really good, but I'm looking at it on iPad and it's just way too wide, right? Like, it just doesn't look good wide. Can you please fix that?

Okay, so we're just going to enter this prompt right here. And notice and we open the chat, we should see them in perfect sync. So, Cloud Code is smart enough to know that it needs to create a max width wrapper component to constrain content width on iPad, which is really cool. Boom. We're going to see it update right here. Your

app is ready. Let's take a look. Boom. Look at that. So, it is much more centered on the iPad and now it looks good and it was completely unchanged on the iPhone. And what's cool is here is

we can actually just pinch on the iPad. Notice how it's getting cut off here. What we can do is we can just press this button right here. This will insert this screenshot. See that screenshot?

just make these changes on the iPad because the iPhone is good. But notice how the image is getting cut off. Make it taller and actually make this uh icon much bigger. And so the agent is very likely to understand exactly what you want here. But if you want to just make sure you can press select and you can actually directly select it and hit done. And you can uh reference it

exactly so you know for a fact the agent will know exactly what component you're talking about. So we'll just fire off this prompt here. And again, these stay completely synced automatically. All right, it says your app is ready. We can open this up. And you can see it's no

longer being cut off and it's much larger. If we go to the iPhone app, we can see that it's remained unchanged. And so there we go. And so that's vibe coding an iPhone app and iPad app part one. We'll dive deeper in the next