---
video_title: "vibecode.dev is insane"
video_id: NTtZBanY53c
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NTtZBanY53c
video_date: 2025-12-02T04:45:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Millions of Vibe Coders will submit their app to the Apple App Store next year. 
  
  https://www.vibecodeapp.com/workspace/new
  
  Full stack apps with auth, db, payments...
  
  No coding whatsoever. 
  
  Pinch to build on @vibecodeapp makes it easier than any other app by far.
---
So, I just built this mobile app in 5 minutes and it has database AI integrations and it accepts payments through revenue and I sent it to the app store in literally 5 minutes. What this app does, it allows me to take a photo of any homework assignment. I will take a photo and so now Nano Banana, the new Google image model is analyzing my homework and boom, look at this. It literally edits the image and writes the correct answer. And this was literally created by me typing into this little box right here.

And if I go to the cloud tab, you can see the full database. It shows all of the database tables. And we can see here are all of the images generated within this app that I just created. And if you go to the payments tab, which I just did to create this payw wall, you see here I get hit with a payw wall. And here I can start premium test valid purchase into revenue cap and we hit refresh. We now

have two active subscriptions. A few seconds ago, we did a test purchase of $5. These won't be test purchases once you ship it to the app store. And to get it on the app store, all you do is pinch and you hit these three dots here. And we're going to hit publish to the app store. We're going to hit get started.

I've already connected all of my Apple developer account, etc. And then now we're just going to press start build. And now it's on the way to the app store. And that's how you create an app in uh 5 or 10 minutes with the database, AI integrations, and payments. And then you send it to the app store. Boom.

Let's go.