---
video_title: "Vibe Coding an iOS app Part 2"
video_id: 4TIDhNLwPAY
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4TIDhNLwPAY
video_date: 2025-10-29T01:12:05+00:00
video_description: |
  Hahaha oh my god...
  
  Building an iPhone app, and iPad app in 30 minutes....
  
  vibecode.dev.
  
  Part 2...
---
Sh. I just made this app that lets me talk to these four characters with my voice using AI. Hello there, Sunny. Hello there, Blue. >> Hello. It's actually Sunny, but I'm

delighted to chat with you. How are you doing today? >> Hi there. I'm so happy to see you. How can I brighten your day today? I

literally started by just generating this an app that's blue and green and then I said make this sky more of a gradient and then I just started prompting AI and I tried to get some characters and settled on this like little blue guy. I said please add this character and I want to be able to type and he should respond and show up in a text bubble overlay. And so then claude code inside the vibe code app started working. And then after it was done, here it is. It allowed me to type and the AI could respond and I said, "Now use 11 Labs to give him a voice and I activated the 11 Labs text to speech."

11 Labs text to speech. And I just said, "Use this." And then Claude Code went and added that text to speech. Then I did some more iterations. I didn't really like the character. It didn't fit

in with the background. And then I ended up generating this little guy. What was the prompt? Okay, so this was the prompt that I used and that ended up generating this character and then I selected it, pasted that icon in the prompt and said use that and then boom, it was in my app. And then this is what it looked like. And then I generated more

characters as you can see here. Ended up generating all of these different characters, these different iterations and then settled on these four. Then I actually went to 11 Labs and got and uh found different voices. And so then you can just give voice ids to the vibe code app and say make different characters and use these voice IDs and these voices are public and then yeah I created different characters. This is Red. Hey

Red, I created you in 30 minutes on a walk. >> That's awesome. You turned a simple walk into a creative triumph. Talk about multitasking mastery. >> Okay, he's kind of annoying. That's

enough of red. Anyway, I'm going to create an app like this, except it's going to have backend and payments.