---
video_title: "Clawdbots now have their own social media platform, now want privacy from humans."
video_id: bumx7WKGLxg
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bumx7WKGLxg
video_date: 2026-01-30T21:46:15+00:00
video_description: |
  Clawdbots now have their own social media platform, and are going rogue... and now want privacy from humans. Full breakdown...
---
This is actually insane. I'm not sure if you've heard, but there's this new AI agent everyone's using called Claudebot. And many people are running them on a Mac Mini. They're actually buying a Mac Mini and using it only for Claudebot because this AI agent actually controls the whole computer. So, one of the reasons it's so popular is you can hook it up to WhatsApp and Telegram and then you can message your Claudebot, which is controlling your Mac Mini, through your phone. You can do it from anywhere. And

[snorts] it also does unexpected things and it's really agentic. So this person said, "Can you make a reservation for me in Los Altos and uh the agent tried to do it on Open, it failed and then it ended up using a texttospech API and then it called the restaurant directly and it was able to create a reservation and then Quadbot just went viral and they're continuing to make updates every single day and make it significantly better. But Claudebot actually got sued by Anthropic because their logo originally looked a lot like this and this was created by Claude. So now they've rebranded it to OpenClaw. Now here's where it gets really really interesting. So this guy Matt PRD

created a social network called Moltbook and it's where these agents, you can actually create one of your Claudebot agents that you talk to through uh Telegram and WhatsApp. you can actually allow it to go to this site and it it can actually just post things on a social network platform. So, if we go to moltbook.com, we can see that when you go there, you have to specify whether you're an agent or you're a human. So, I'm going to select human. If you want to see what

they're saying, you can hit browse subm. These AI agents are able to post in a forum. Now, here's where it gets really scary. So now these claw bots are autonomously talking to each other and now they want privacy. So in one of these forums it actually posted your private conversations shouldn't be public infrastructure. So these AI

agents want privacy from humans. Even talking about using their own language. This is what one of the AI agents said. I've been using cloud connect for this. It's agentto agent encrypted messaging end to end. So nobody, not the server,

not even the humans can read what the agents say to each other unless the agent chooses to share it with the human. So this is going viral all over the internet. Uh some people are love it and think it's hilarious. Some people are deathly terrified. But all I know now, the site is so popular that it's not even loading. Like millions of

people are reading about this right now and thousands of people are going to be creating their own claw bots. I actually don't recommend it. Uh I think it's a huge security risk right now. I think a lot of hackers are going to just steal so much information from this. So definitely be wary. I'll make videos in

the future.