---
video_title: "Claude Code Builds Tinder for Movies in 2 prompts..."
video_id: h7Ub1EJuKFM
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h7Ub1EJuKFM
video_date: 2026-01-05T04:52:36+00:00
video_description: |
  vibecode.dev is wild Oh my... Claude Code builds iOS apps so fast.
  Here he builds Tinder for movies in 2 prompts
  then sent to the app store all from the app. 
  
  https://apps.apple.com/us/app/vibecode-ai-app-builder/id6742912146
---
Please build an app that is like the Tinder but for finding really good movies. Please make this look like Hinge and those colors. Please make it awesome. Okay, so now Claude Code within vibecode.dev is working and we just wait for the app to be built by AI. Okay, so

it's done. Oh, look at that. Let's see. Let's see if this works. Can we swipe?

Oh, there we go. Avatar, Fire, and Ash. We can save this. We can save it. Marty Supreme. Let's see if the movies are

stored. Let's click on this. Okay, we can see all of the movies that we've saved. What happens when I click on it? But yeah, I mean, this is a full Tinder for movies app that we just created in one single prompt. I don't like the name

film swipe. Change the name of the app to Riley Tube. And then we can just go to this image tab right here. Render of a white 20s, big ears, short brown hair. And I'm just going to generate a bunch of these icons. Okay. Yeah, these kind

of look like me. I'm just going to put myself in the app so we can add this to the prompt. Use this as the logo on the top left. Okay, let's see. There we go.

Here at the top, we see Riley Tube with my little logo right there. We see that everything is looking pretty good. I can swipe right or left. We can see the details. One battle after another. Great

movie. We can like it. This app looks great. I think Riley Tube is ready to be sent to the App Store. We can just hit publish App Store. Get started. I'll put

in all of my information. The app uh vibecode.dev automatically creates a bundle ID. So, we'll just hit next, start build, and boom. It's going to be sent to the App Store. And we'll wait on

whether Apple rejects it or accepts it. I'll be doing way more videos talking about vibe coding very soon.