---
video_title: "Genspark SecondBrain Note"
video_id: 6Zwns0Pppv8
channel_name: "Riley Brown"
channel_id: UCMcoud_ZW7cfxeIugBflSBw
channel_category: "Howto & Style"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Zwns0Pppv8
video_date: 2026-08-18
video_description: |
  My best ideas happen when I'm nowhere near my computer, and normally they disappear.
  
  Genspark SecondBrain Note captures them, and Super Agent actually does the work.  
  
  sends the email, makes the event, writes the script into Notion.
  
  10% off the first release: shop.genspark.ai/s/rileybrown #ad #SecondBrain #SecondBrainNote #gensparkai
---
This device powers my agentic AI second brain. Let me explain. I'm a creator, which means I spend most of my day talking. I'm recording podcasts, taking calls, sitting in meetings, or having a random conversation. And some of my best ideas happen when I'm nowhere near my computer. And normally, most of that

just disappears. But this right here is the GenSpark second brain note. I attach it to the back of my phone, press record, and it just captures the conversations I choose to record. There's a physical light, so you always know it's on. It's SOC 2 and ISO 27001 certified, and it works in over 100 languages. And while I'm recording, if

someone says something important, I just tap the button and it highlights that moment. Afterwards, it gives me the transcript, summary, highlights, and the next steps. But this is where it becomes an agentic AI second brain. Every day at 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., I have an

automation where an AI will review what I recorded and suggest things that it can create from those conversations. Maybe I told someone I would send them an email. Maybe we agreed to put something on the calendar. Or maybe I said something that could become a video, so it just turned that idea into a script inside Notion. Instead of asking me to remember and organize that, it just brings me the email, the calendar event, and the content idea ready for approval and shows me exactly where it's pulling from. Gmail,

calendar, and Notion, all of it is connected. All I have to do is approve. So this is not just a voice recorder that stores what I said. It turns the things I say into real, actual work. So and that's what makes this my agentic AI second brain. Check out the limited

first release of GenSpark second brain note and get 10% off in the link in my bio.