---
video_title: "Customizable select #CSSWrapped 2025"
video_id: 6yFm0BLI2hk
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6yFm0BLI2hk
video_date: 2025-12-26T17:00:18+00:00
video_description: |
  You can finally style drop downs in CSS! Learn about the new customizable select, one of Una's top features from CSS Wrapped 2025.
  
  See all of the UI features that Chrome shipped this year → https://goo.gle/css-wrapped-2025 
  
  Speaker:  Una Kravets
  Products Mentioned: Chrome,  CSS
---
It's time for CSSRAPT 2025, and one of my top feature picks this year is customizable select. This feature is an absolute game changer, and I don't say that word lightly. You can finally style dropdowns in CSS. Yes, you heard that right. With the new appearance-based select opt-in on the select element and a new functional pseudo element called the picker, you have full control over customizing the look and feel of your selects. Now you can add non-intractive content like icons, images, descriptors, all within your options. And you have access to a new element called selected content which reflects the HTML of your option that you checked into your selects button. So you can do things like just show the icon or some abbreviated text like we're doing here, just showing the image and the name. The picker which contains the list of options is a popover that is anchored to your select button. So you also get all of the nice built-in capabilities like top layer support and automatic repositioning in the viewport. When done right, this can be a great progressive enhancement like with this emoji picker. In supported browsers, you get all of the nice customization of the upgraded select. You see a styled picker, the emojis can be chosen from a line horizontally, and in unsupported browsers, since this API builds on top of the existing select element, users will still be able to interact with a functional select. Check out CSS wrapped on Chrome.dev slash CSS wrapped 2025 to learn more and to see all of the awesome UI features that shipped in Chrome this year.