---
video_title: "Bridge the AI knowledge gap with Modern Web Guidance (I/O Connect ‘26)"
video_id: 3IZNhRHcY-g
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3IZNhRHcY-g
video_date: 2026-07-02T17:11:18+00:00
video_description: |
  Take a guided tour of Chrome's modern web guidance toolkit for coding agents with Tara Agyemang - stepping through the installation process, all the way to using it in new and established codebases. See the difference for yourself as you give a coding agent web development tasks, with and without this guidance, across various agents, models, and web frameworks.
  
  Chapters:
  0:00 - Introduction
  1:09 - Prerequisites
  2:35 - What is Modern Web Guidance?
  5:57 - How it works
  8:40 - Demo: Modernizing existing code
  11:00 - Executing the Lighthouse audit
  15:00 - Applying performance improvements
  18:38 - Committing the updates
  21:07 - Adding a swipe-to-remove feature
  24:00 - Building a new project
  26:31 - Keeping Modern Web Guidance up-to-date
  27:12 - Bridging the AI knowledge gap
  
  Resources:
  Build with Modern Web Guidance → https://goo.gle/4y1OhoR
  Modern Web Guidance 101 - codelab → https://goo.gle/4xY9rUQ
  
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs
  
  
  #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome #GoogleIOConnect #ModernWebGuidance #WebDevelopment #Developers #BuildwithGemini
  
  
  Event: Google I/O Connect Berlin 2026
  
  Speaker: Tara Agyemang
  Products Mentioned: Chrome
---
Hi, everyone. Good afternoon. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, I love this.

I love the hype I appreciate it. So my name is Tara. I'm a developer relations engineer in the Chrome team. And we have a jam packed session for you today. So in our about 40 or so minutes together, we are going to be going through how to give your AI assisted web development workflow an upgrade with modern web guidance.

So if you've been using an AI agent to build for the web, and you're seeing that the generated code is either outdated, it's not really working well across major browsers, or sometimes it's just wrong, then this is the workshop for you. Even if you haven't used AI much in your web development workflow, by the end of this session, you'll know what modern web guidance is. You'll know how it works, and you'll have first hand experience of using it in your workflow to elevate user experiences, to optimize for performance, and to build for your baseline target. So modern web guidance will work with any AI agent that you use. So I'll be using anti-gravity, the CLI and the Ide, but you can easily work whatever works for you then.

The first step is to clone this repo that we've created for you. So it's a little bookshop application full of legacy code. And so we're going to use it in this workshop and find ways to use modern web guidance to improve it. So if you go to this link, it will take you to the GitHub repo. And if you change your directory to legacy demos bookshop, install the dependencies and run NPM start.

And if you're concerned about size, I think it's about 36 Meg. Once you've got node modules installed and you've got all the Git files too, once you have the demo project, then you want to install modern web guidance in that project, or you can install it globally across your Workspace. So this command here will install it, but you can also install it as a plugin if you're using anti-gravity. If you're using another popular agent 2. And then the final step is to install DevTools for agents.

So you go to this step, this link, it will take you to the page with all of the installation instructions for installing Chrome DevTools for agents within your agent. And if you're using anti-gravity, you can also there's a one click setup that you can do within anti-gravity to install that too. So let's talk about what modern web guidance is. So before we get into the code, if you've built anything on the front end with your AI agent, you'll know that it only knows so much. And there are lots of reasons for this, but one is that today's models are trained on data of how to do web development in the past.

And so much has changed, not only in recent years. But in recent months and in Chrome, we're making improvements to the web. Literally every single month we're releasing new features. And even myself, I've attempted to do lots of really cool new features, and the AI agents are just not getting the implementation details quite right. So for things like view transitions or scroll driven animations, or maybe it has to use up lots of tokens to try and do Deep Research into some of these new features.

So if you take this small example that I came across recently, in the past, if you wanted to change the style of a form, group or section, when one of the inputs in that section was invalid, you needed JavaScript to toggle the specific CSS classes. But now you can do that with just one CSS selector, and that's the has( selector. And this is actually baseline newly available, which means that it's supported in all of the major browsers. But because it's fairly new, not all coding models will use it consistently. And that brings me to some of the main pain points that we've noticed when developers have been using AI agents to build for the web.

And so the first is that these coding tools have been recommending legacy patterns, even though there are better and more modern alternatives. The second is that these models seem to have blind spots in, either aren't aware of or have incorrect information about some of the latest web platform features. And that's because the web is advancing so quickly. And then finally, we're seeing that AI models tend to make these outdated, one size fits all browser recommendations. Rather than tailoring the guidance to the baseline requirements of the project that you are working on.

And so in Chrome, we have been hard at work on a solution to some of these problems. And we've shared an early preview of this at I/O last month. And you'll know what it is because I've said it 100 times already, but it's called modern web guidance. And so this is a growing set of expert vetted skills, helping you to discover modern web practices as they're released to browsers. So it's an upgrade to your workflow that turns every prompt that you write into an opportunity for better web development.

And so these skills are made up two levels of guidance. So we first have high level guides that codify best practices for broad web disciplines. So these are things like performance and security and user experience and lots more. But then in addition to those high level guides, we have these more specific low level guides covering web features that have recently been added to the platform. And so these are areas where we've seen the AI models don't yet have a good understanding of how to use them properly.

But in total, this gives us over 100 guides that are ready for your AI agent to discover only when needed. So when you enable modern web guidance and send your prompt, your agent performs a semantic search locally within the modern web guidance bundle, and it's going to see if any of our guides or best practices match the use case that you've mentioned in your prompt. And then if there are matches, those guides will get added to the context window. And then your AI agent will produce an output using the information from the guides. And then if there are no matches, then your AI will just respond as normal.

And that's actually a little bit different to how most skills work at the moment, where each skill is a distinct markdown file that your agent chooses. With modern web guidance, we expose one skill that has access to a CLI, and that's what they use to do the search. And that's because I mentioned, we have over 100 guides. We don't want to risk overloading your context window with all of these guides at once. So we've gone down the approach of using the CLI.

So a core aspect of these guides is baseline information. So we really want to focus on grid browser compatibility. So for every guide, we include a section that documents the specific recommendations and fallback strategies to ensure that the implementation of each use case works across browsers. So for each guide, we start by documenting the ideal implementation using the most modern solution available. But if any of the features in the ideal implementation isn't baseline widely available, which means it hasn't been supported across major browsers for the last 2 and 1/2 years, then we make sure we include a fallback recommendation, and that does work across browsers.

And this way, when an AI coding agent is following the guide, it can choose to implement the use case in the most modern way, or it can choose to implement the fallback. And that depends on what kind of browser support requirements that you have for your project. And you can define that in your agents agent's file, which you'll see an example of shortly. But I have to call out that this has been a huge team effort to bring these guides to you. So these skills have been built and written not only by members of the Chrome team, but a large number of external subject matter experts too.

So famous people in the community across web development. That's amazing. We've got people from the CSS working group, the people that write the specs. We have got a huge amount of expertise that have gone into these guides, bringing together decades of web development expertise. So let's try it.

We're going to start by using modern web guidance to modernize and refactor some existing code. And that's probably the most common use case that you have. So let me share my screen. OK great. So let's go straight to the bookshop application.

So if you were able to clone the repo, this is what you should see. After you run NPM start, it's a cozy bookshop. It's very cozy. It's very cute. And as you scroll down, you'll see that it's got the standard, like bookshop features.

We've got some staff picks, some digital enhancements, and we've got all the books in the store, and then we've got some other info pages, the contact page, and then a basket for when you add items to your basket. And then if we go to the code for this, we can give you a little overview. In fact, before I give you an overview, I want to start by running a Performance audit of this page. So I am just going to ask that in the antigravity CLI here. So run a performance audit for mobile and generate a score report.

So obviously every agent is different. But if you're also running this, it should come up with a few intentional issues that we've added to the site. But we'll leave that to run the. And I'll give you a quick overview over here of what the code is looking like. So we have down here the legacy demos directory.

And then the cozy nook bookshop is in there. Most of the source code is in this public folder here, where we have all of our HTML files, and the main one being the index.html here. Then we have our main stylesheet that imports the different styles from the CSS folder up here. And then we have our main app.js that

imports a bunch of JavaScript modules from the modules directory here. So that's the overview of the project. But if we have a little look at what anti-gravity is doing over here. So what it should do is use the Chrome DevTools for agents, MCP server tools to open an instance of Chrome and run a performance trace across the site. And so what it should find is that on our page, when it loads this main hero image, you probably didn't see it then, but it flashes in and that's because it's loaded by JavaScript.

So that is a pretty big performance bottleneck that should pop up as it's doing the checks. And you'll see through the code, there are little comments of areas where you can use modern web guidance to improve the quality to improve the performance, or add new user like New user experience features. And you'll see here to do more with a bright pink heart to make sure that you can see it quickly, clearly. And then we have a few more down here. So it's taken a moment to run our performance audit.

Maybe that's because it's so slow the website, but it's likely that it's going through each step. So it's got the DevTools. MCP is called list pages. It's navigated to the page. It's running the lighthouse audit as well.

So it's checking for things like accessibility and some of the new checks that we've added to lighthouse recently that you'll hear more about later today. And so it's running the full lighthouse audit and generating the comprehensive report. And so what we usually see is like a good list of all the different improvements that you can make from the output of running this audit.

So one of the few things though, other than the main image being loaded by JavaScript, we also see issues with the font that gets loaded and your agent if you're also running. Working alongside should make some improvements to how the font is loaded too. And if you. When we start looking at modern web guidance, you'll be able to pull in even more specific use cases on what you can do to improve the performance. OK, let's see what's going on here.

So it's getting audit findings from lighthouse. So it's looking at the LCP and it's looking at render blocking resources to see where the performance of the web page is lacking.

Hopefully, that doesn't take too much more time. But one of the things that we want to do after this is completed is use modern web guidance to make the performance improvements to the site, and then run the check again just to see what the performance improvement is. So usually you see the issue with the LCP. And then you also see a few other issues with the performance. It looks like it's getting there.

We're generating the performance audit. The work is done. So it has given some.

Information in the artifact. Let's have a look at the artifact.

So as expected because it was intentional. We have accessibility best practice and SEO. All fine. But our performance category is where we need improvement. So the first Contentful Paint is a problem.

And the Largest Contentful Paint is also a problem. And the main bottlenecks, as expected, is the main hero image isn't loaded straight away. We can use fetch priority high to tell the browser to load it instantly. And we have some render blocking CSS and fonts. So I want to use the modern web guidance commands just to make the performance improvements.

So whenever you're making new features or prompting, the agent should automatically be able to pick up any modern web guidance guides depending on the feature that you're working on. But you can also use this modern web guidance command to make sure that it goes off and reads the latest guides to. So it looks like it's found guides for optimizing the image priority. So it's done a search. And that will return a list of the most relevant guides to that search.

It's also looking for scroll animations. And then it's gone off to get the exact guide for optimizing the image priority as well. So it should start making changes to our code to optimize the image. OK, these ones are just our lighthouse reporting. So it's making changes to our hero JavaScript file and looking into some of the other files that we have to.

So it's updating and adding the fetch priority to the images. And it is editing the main hero image in the HTML. So it should come down here. So if you see this is the image that it's looking at. Actually not that one.

This one down here. So previously this source wasn't there and instead it's just added it directly to the HTML file added the fetch priority to make sure the browser fetches it straight away, and likely will also add a size and width to avoid it from changing the layout of the rest of the page.

And now it's just doing another audit just to check that the new scores have made an improvement. While it's doing that, I am going to type the next prompt. And so what else that is in the project is we've used some code that is fairly new but now is baseline widely available. And so it can probably be tidied up. So can you remove any dead code across the app.

And so what this should do is your agent will look across the code that you have and then realize that specifically this email feature that we have at the bottom of the bookshop, I can show you an example. If you type anything, we get an invalid like client side error. Then if you make it look like an email address, you get the valid error. So the code for this is in our validation. JavaScript and because when the feature was introduced we wanted to make sure that there was a fallback available.

We have a lot of extra code to handle the fact that we need to map our states. We need to make sure that there's a fallback for every possible case. The agent has terminated. But let's move on. So it's made the changes I'm going to commit those.

Because we know that it's going to improve the performance. And then we'll move on to the next feature. So removing the dead code. But it does look like the performance update finished it potentially. Just didn't quite get to the point where it generated the artifact.

But let's see if it can get to the point where it can remove the dead code across the application. OK, let's make that a little bit bigger. So it's searching for dead code, but I know we don't have any specific guides for that.

But it has already found that we've got this user invalid code to see if it's so. It's checking if it is based on widely available.

And now it's also checking some of the rest of the JavaScript files.

And that is still going. So it's just running a little bit slowly but let's see.

It's like going one by 1 through each of the JavaScript files.

It has come back to the filtering JavaScript file. And seeing that because user invalid is baseline widely available. And that's what our project adheres to. It actually doesn't need a lot of that code. So it's going to go and remove all the obsolete fallback code.

And it's updating the CSS too. So we can have a little look at what it's done. Here it's removed so much JavaScript that we needed to ensure the fallback works. And we've had all of these extra CSS classes that we needed as well to ensure the fallback worked. And it's just gone through and cleaned everything up.

And so it's one of the great things that modern web guidance knows what your baseline target is and then can match its recommendations to your specific baseline target. So let's commit that one. So let's add one new feature to finish off with. Let's say, OK the basket. One thing I did forget to do is at the moment you can only clear the whole basket, but you should probably clear individual items.

So let's use modern web guidance to remove individual items from the basket when on mobile and swipe to remove. OK, so again, it should be able to go to the modern web guidance guides. Do a search, see what is relevant to this specific prompt, and pull out a guide on being able to swipe to remove and all the new features that is involved with that. Let me make that a little bit wider so you can see it's gone off to retrieve the swipe to remove guide. It will pull all of that information into your context window, and then should be able to use that to generate the best code with fallbacks for the browsers that don't support it.

So it looks like it's pulled the guide in. And so what I would expect is when that's updated, when we switch to Mobile, I should be able to just swipe it away.

But we can come back to this one in the interest of time because it has taken some time. But if we switch back to the slides then we can have a look at this one after we've looked at the next steps. So there are a whole bunch of new features in the web that you can use modern web guidance to build for and they make use of modern web features while considering cross-browser compatibility. So these are just a few examples in the time that we have to bring modern web guidance into your coding workflow, but you can do so many other things with it. If you come and visit us over at the demo booth, we can show you some of the different things that we're doing with modern web guidance, but we'd love to hear your feedback.

So if you've tried it out for the first time or you're finding it works really well or not so well, please file issues on the GitHub repo. All of these guides are open source, and we'd love to hear your feedback and ideas as we work towards the full release of modern web guidance. And if you want to continue learning, if you go to the code lab, this is the link to the code codelab. You'll be able to see more details on using the bookshop to build a more modern features. And so I'm going to quickly go through the process of building something new.

So in the interest of time, I'm going to walk through this quickly. But I wanted to build a desert photography portfolio site, do a bit of coding. And so when you click on an image, it loads the whole image in a new page. And so I used a few prompts and I did it both with modern web guidance and without modern web guidance. So I started with the core structure.

And when you click it, it opens a new link the navigation how the transition should work. And the third prompt was about how we can do interesting interactions, swiping to close and a responsive navigation bar. And then the final prompt was intended to bring in some scroll driven animations. So as you scroll, the pictures like come in a fun way. So if we go back to my laptop, I can also go back to the feature swipe to remove feature.

Let's see if that's let's see if that worked. So it's add a little bin. And you have this nice little swipe to remove feature to a little glitch there where it's removed all of them. But let's add one more item. Let's see it work.

So you should be able to swipe it away. And then it goes. And so that's using one of the guides in modern web guidance. And then for the other two browsers, the two websites that I created for the browser, we've got the one that didn't use Chrome modern web guidance. And so you can see it looks pretty nice.

It brings in the images. And then on mobile it still gives you the swipe to remove.

And then the one that did use modern web guidance also looks very nice. Added the new features and the main difference is what is happening under the hood. But you get some really nice user experience additions that you don't get without the guidance. So with this one, I didn't even ask for it, but it implemented a light dark mode, which is one of our UX vitals. And so a great addition.

And then again, as you scroll down, you get these scroll driven animations as the pictures come in and out of the grid. So that is just a small example of some of the things that you can do with modern web guidance if you go back to the slides. So hopefully this session has given you a bit of an idea of how you can use modern web guidance in your projects. Today as we close, we want to share that current is committed to keeping modern web guidance up to date. As the platform evolves, we're creating new features.

We want to make sure these new features are documented in the guidance for your agents to use, and for you to discover through your agents. And so the goal is that every new platform feature that ships in Chrome is covered in this tool by the time it lands in Chrome stable. So when you're using this tool with your agent, your code will always be at the forefront of modern web development rather than constantly lagging behind. And we've seen that using modern web guidance means that your AI tools can now recommend modern, efficient coding patterns that they're informed with accurate and up to date details on the latest web features, and it can provide better browser support guidance tailored to specific modern project requirements. So I think this is a really great step towards a better web ecosystem.

Thank you for listening.