---
video_title: "Chrome's new web dev tool: Modern Web Guidance #GoogleIO"
video_id: IEwfBBaLxGA
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IEwfBBaLxGA
video_date: 2026-06-02T15:00:14+00:00
video_description: |
  Ever wished your AI coding agent knew the latest web best practices? Meet Modern Web Guidance, an early preview tool from the Chrome team that embeds decades of web platform expertise directly into your AI agents. It offers high-level guides for broad disciplines like performance and accessibility, plus low-level guides for new platform features - and it works with any coding agent!
  
  
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs 
  
  
  #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome #GoogleIO
  
  
  Event: Google I/O 2026
  
  Speaker: Philip Walton
  Products Mentioned: Chrome
---
But the good news is that here in Chrome, we believe that these problems are all very solvable. And we've been hard at work on a solution that we're excited to share with you all today. An early preview. We call it modern web guidance. Modern web guidance is a comprehensive and expert vetted set of skills covering all of Chrome's best practices on building for the modern web.

This package embeds decades of Chrome's web platform experience expertise directly into your coding agents, and because it's based on skills, it works with any AI coding platform. So I want to stress here that modern web guidance is not your ordinary skills pack. This is something that we on the Chrome team have been investing in a ton over the past six months, and it's something that we're committed to investing in for the long term. So modern web guidance is comprised of two distinct levels of guidance. First, we have a set of high level guides codifying the best practices for broad web disciplines like performance, accessibility, security, user experience, and many more.

In addition to these high level guides, we also have a set of very specific low level guides covering web features that have been recently added to the platform. We include a section that documents our specific recommendations and fallback strategies to ensure that the implementation of the use case works across browsers, as this cross-browser fallback guidance is, in my opinion, the absolute best feature of this tool.