---
video_title: "How Chrome deprecates and removes features"
video_id: cdOJDYXPXQI
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cdOJDYXPXQI
video_date: 2026-04-27T16:00:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Chrome consistently adds new features, but sometimes existing ones need to be removed. This video explains Chrome's systematic process for deprecation and removal of features, designed to minimize disruption for developers and users. Discover why features are removed, how warnings are provided, and the resources available to help you adapt your sites. You'll learn practical ways to prepare your projects for web platform changes.
  
  Resources:
  Feature deprecation and removal in Chrome: https://goo.gle/fdrc 
  Chrome deprecation trials → https://goo.gle/cdt
  What is Chrome? → https://goo.gle/what-is-chrome
  Chrome release channels → https://goo.gle/crc
  Chrome Variations → https://goo.gle/cv 
  
  Watch more from the Chrome Concepts series → https://goo.gle/cc
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs
  
  #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome
  
  Speaker: Sam Dutton
  Products Mentioned: Chrome
---
SAM DUTTON: Chrome is continually adding new features and functionality, which is great. But what happens when a feature needs to be removed? Well, sometimes web platform features turn out not to work as well as expected. Or ecosystem changes make a feature obsolete. For example, problems with the design of AppCache were discovered once it was used on production sites in stable browsers.

And the feature was eventually removed. So feature removal can reduce the complexity of the browser codebase and help keep browsers safe and secure by reducing potential attack vectors. But if browsers remove features without warning, well, that would cause websites to break and make it difficult for developers to plan migration to alternatives. Instead, browser vendors take a systematic approach, providing warnings, supporting resources, and detailed timelines well in advance of feature removal. I'm Sam Dutton.

And in this video, I'll explain how Chrome uses the deprecation process to remove features that don't work well while minimizing disruption to end users and developers. I'll help you make sure that you and your team are ready when browser features are removed. And now I'll give you some tips on how to get support. [MUSIC PLAYING] So there are two phases to removing a feature from Chrome-- deprecation and removal. The deprecation phase is to warn developers that a feature is scheduled for removal in future and to provide resources to help sites migrate to alternative solutions.

Warnings are displayed in Chrome DevTools when deprecated features are used. Deprecation timelines and other supporting information are published on Chrome platform status in Chrome for Developers' articles and in blog posts. Now, once a feature has been deprecated and Chrome engineers are confident that usage has dropped to very low levels, Chrome can move towards removing the feature from the browser codebase. Now, initially, the feature is disabled by default. But developers can continue to use the feature temporarily by setting a Chrome flag or by participating in a deprecation trial.

And once sites are no longer relying on the disabled feature, the code can be removed. Now, one thing to repeat here-- deprecation is not removal. You'll sometimes hear developers describe a feature as deprecated as a shorthand for deprecated and removed. Deprecation is the announcement phase before feature removal when browser vendors warn developers that they plan to remove a feature. This feature is deprecated.

Well, that means that the feature is still available. But it's scheduled for removal. And typically, a feature is disabled and the code for it eventually removed several browser versions after deprecation is announced. So how does the process work for Chrome engineers? Well, as you probably know, Chromium-based web browsers such as Chrome use the Blink rendering engine to transform code and resources into web pages that you can view and interact with.

And when engineers want to make a change to Blink, they post on the Blink-dev mailing list to get approval to proceed. And these mailing list posts are called Blink Intent. And you can find out much more about that stuff from our video and Article, "What Are Blink Intents?" So when engineers intend to deprecate and then remove a feature from Blink, they post an Intent to deprecate on the Blink-dev mailing list, followed by an Intent to remove. And the two Intents are often combined as an Intent to deprecate and remove.

So the Intent to deprecate is posted by Blink engineers when they want to start warning developers that a browser feature is planned for removal. Now, at this point, the feature will continue to be available. But developers will be provided with support and information from Chrome DevTools, as well as in blog posts on Chromestatus.com and in feature documentation on MDN and elsewhere. An Intent to remove is posted when Blink engineers intend to deactivate a feature and remove code for it.

And just to repeat, an Intent to remove is often combined with an Intent to deprecate as an Intent to deprecate and remove. Now, of course, Chrome avoids removing features wherever possible. Chrome engineers always review feature usage rates and other data before proceeding with deprecations. And a feature will only be removed if, for example, it's only used by a very small proportion of users and better alternatives are available or maybe if ecosystem changes mean that the feature may now pose severe security vulnerabilities. A feature is not usually removed from Chrome if other browsers plan to continue supporting it.

And feature removal must be coordinated between browser engines. In addition to Intent posts on the Blink-dev mailing list, deprecations are announced on the Chrome Developer blog. Warnings and support information are also provided in Chrome DevTools and in feature documentation. Timelines are also published within the Chromestatus.com entry for a deprecated feature.

Now, earlier on, I mentioned deprecation trials. Well, these are a type of origin trial that allows a feature that has been changed or disabled by default prior to removal to be temporarily re-enabled. For example, mutation events were removed starting in Chrome 127. And sites that needed extra time before removing those events could register for the deprecation trial to re-enable the events temporarily on specified sites, giving them more time to migrate to alternative functionality. And for some deprecated features, a Chrome flag is also made available to provide temporary access to the feature for an individual user, such as, yeah, developers working on migration to alternatives.

And as a developer, you need to be ready for web-platform changes. And you can check release notes for every new version of every browser. But you should also use pre-stable browser channels to test and adapt your sites, so they're ready for upcoming changes, including removals. At a minimum, ensure your development team uses both Chrome Dev channel and Chrome Stable to access the sites you work on. As a developer, you can run multiple channels simultaneously.

And that lets you test with future versions of Chrome, as well as experiencing your site in Chrome Stable, which is, of course, likely to be the channel used by the vast majority of your users. And you should also use multiple Chrome channels for automated testing. Regularly check the Chrome DevTools Console for deprecation warnings because DevTools provides information and links to resources to help you migrate away from deprecated features. So that's how platform features in Chrome are deprecated and removed. The article that accompanies this video has more technical information and links to further resources.

So thanks for watching. And be sure to check out the other videos in the Chrome Concepts series. [MUSIC PLAYING]