---
video_title: "Take control of AI agents on your site with WebMCP #GoogleIO"
video_id: Ex8ZhnOAXcI
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ex8ZhnOAXcI
video_date: 2026-06-01T19:00:05+00:00
video_description: |
  Imagine a user asking their AI agent to buy size 10 shoes with a wide base. Instead of waiting for the agent to slowly click through endless UI filters, WebMCP is a proposed web specification that gives developers control over how agents use our sites. It lets us transform our HTML forms into tools and allows us to define custom tools the agents can call directly. WebMCP lets agents skip actuation to interact with your site. Look out for the Origin Trial in Chrome 149 on June 2!
  
  
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs 
  
  
  #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome #GoogleIO
  
  
  Event: Google I/O 2026
  
  Speaker: Paul Kinlan
  Products Mentioned: Chrome
---
LLMs can infer the intent of a page by scraping the images, scraping the Dom, getting the clicks. But behind the scenes, it's kind of a little bit hard and opaque. And as developers, we really do like a lot more control. We like to be able to guide our tools around our sites. Our UIs that we build often reflect many different human constraints.

Brand guidelines, UI mandates, regulation. In a lot of cases, our tools don't need to deal with the same kind of experiences that people who browse your site do. And I do think that this is where web MCP can help. And the goal is to transform HTML forms and JavaScript functions into tools that your agents can use, and then make it a lot easier for you to participate in this gigantic ecosystem. Our goal here is to integrate many of the learnings with the model context protocol.

But however, we're only focusing on the tools part of MCP. And instead of having to expose an MCP server or a CLI and then trying to work out how to get that to integrate with your website, you're just exposing your current browser tab, and then that is able to share a list of tools that the agent can then interact with on your site. Now we're expecting this will land in Chrome in Chrome 149, which if I get my dates correctly, it's about June the two. So it should be available around June the two for you to start experimenting with as well.