---
video_title: "Stop prompt injection with WebMCP for a safer web."
video_id: 0cxQlEhEkSY
channel_name: "Chrome for Developers"
channel_id: UCnUYZLuoy1rq1aVMwx4aTzw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0cxQlEhEkSY
video_date: 2026-06-16T19:32:24+00:00
video_description: |
  Sarah introduces WebMCP, a standard that provides websites with the ability to declaratively or imperatively surface tools to agents on the web, providing a bedrock for experiences for those agents. Discover how WebMCP can help protect users and improve the security of the web by helping to mitigate Agent Traps, a type of prompt injection attack, and how Sarah's thinking about improving the security for agents even further.
  
  Subscribe to Chrome for Developers → https://goo.gle/ChromeDevs
  Learn more → https://developer.chrome.com 
  
  #ChromeForDevelopers #Chrome
  
  Speakers: Sam Richard, Sarah Drasner 
  
  Products Mentioned: Chrome
---
Hey, Sarah. How you doing. Good how's your eye open. It's been great. We've heard a lot about wemp this week.

Can you tell me why it's so important. Oh, yeah. I mean, wemp is one of those things that I'm very excited about. It's enabling a lot of brand new experiences on the web. It's kind of a bedrock of experiences for agents, and it's better for users and security over the long haul.

Wemp is a standard that as the name suggests, it surfaces some tools for agents to work with. It offers both an imperative and a declarative syntax. So in the declarative syntax, you can annotate HTML, and with the imperative syntax you can add it to your JavaScript. Cool So we've talked a little bit about why it might be great for safety and security on the web. Can you talk a little bit about that.

Yeah so right now agents get information by scraping the Dom or the accessibility tree or taking screenshots. This is susceptible to things like agent traps, where prompt injection attacks can be hidden inside web ephemera. When we do tool calls via wemp, it puts agents on this well-lit path. So it's really going into exactly what the developer and user wants to see and read, and not into any other areas. So we've got origin trials right now, and people are playing around with it, and we're experimenting with it as we get to GA.

Can you give me an example of what an agent trap might look like. Sure If you think about a review site where you have user generated content, anyone can post an image with a prompt injection attack. So you're using wemp, you could expose a tool with a read only hint so that they won't take any action when they actually see the image. We're even thinking about creating a two set architecture, which would put agents on a completely different path and explicitly confine them to only reading with no impactful action. Thanks for your time, Sarah.

It's been great chatting with you. Wait, Sam, before we go. What did the function say in court to rest their case. No further arguments, Sarah. No