---
video_title: "Stacked Diffs Changed How I Reviewed Code with AI"
video_id: IRWjtlpNUCU
channel_name: "Cole Medin"
channel_id: UCMwVTLZIRRUyyVrkjDpn4pA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IRWjtlpNUCU
video_date: 2026-01-15T20:05:40+00:00
video_description: |
  Graphite makes code reviews way less painful. The core idea: instead of one massive PR that sits in review purgatory, you stack smaller PRs (stacked diffs) that build on each other and keep working while waiting for feedback.
  
  They also have an AI reviewer that actually catches real bugs instead of nitpicking formatting.
  
  Cursor just acquired them, so expect this to get baked into the editor soon. Thanks to Graphite for helping me bring this to you too!
  
  Check them out here: https://graphite.plug.dev/qXMx5mq
---
AI code reviews are incredibly powerful and I do consider them a must as a part of my validation. But there is a specific workflow that makes them even more useful and it's called stacked diffs. With traditional pull requests, we create some kind of change. We have to wait for approval and then we repeat the process. But what we do with stack diffs is we work in small incremental changes that build on top of each other for a full larger feature. And because

these are all small changes that build on top, we don't have to wait in between each one. And this is optimized for AI code reviews because we're able to get super focused feedback on each layer, each one of our diffs. And the platform that makes it super easy to work with stack diffs is graphite. They give you a command line tool that's kind of like the GitHub CLI, but specifically for working with stack diffs in your repositories and then a dashboard to help you manage everything with an AI coding assistant built in to help you review your poll requests as well. I also went through their demo that you'll see when you first sign up for their platform. It makes it so intuitive,

guiding me through creating my first stack diff. And so you create your first change and then you make a pull request. It's very similar to using Git or the GitHub CLI. And then after your first pull request, they show you what it looks like to make more pull requests that build on top of the first one. So you start to create the stack diff like you can see right here in the command line. And so you create three pull

requests in total, all building on top of each other. And they walk you through what it looks like to review things in the graphite dashboard, too. And here is what the final stack diff looks like in my graphite dashboard. I can manage each pull request here. I can use the graphite agent to help me review this PR. I can merge everything from the

dashboard as well. I don't even have to go into my GitHub repo. But of course, I will because I want to show you here that each one of these pull requests looks super standard. We're just using Git in a really intelligent way. Each one of our incremental changes is in a feature branch and we're merging them into each other and then taking everything and putting it into Maine when we're ready. And we're taking each

one of these super focused changes and having AI review each one individually. So, I'll link to a video in the description where I show you how to do this, but I have Claude code taking a look at each one of the three pull requests in our stack. And the results that you get from this compared to reviewing one massive pull request is just insane. And so, yeah, that's everything that I got for stack diffs. And thanks to Graphite as well for working with me on this to show you how this all works.