---
video_title: "BMAD's Founder on the Future of AI Coding (And the Slop Apocalypse)"
video_id: 6XgSpFdD3EU
channel_name: "Cole Medin"
channel_id: UCMwVTLZIRRUyyVrkjDpn4pA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6XgSpFdD3EU
video_date: 2026-08-25
video_description: |
  There's a slop apocalypse coming, and it's not broken AI generated code crashing everything in production. It's the quiet kind: comments drift out of sync with what the code actually does, nobody goes back and refactors what the agent wrote, and over time that's what makes the coding agent slower and more expensive to work with (the real failure mode).
  
  That's Brian Madison's read on where AI coding is headed, and a couple days ago I sat down with him to dig into it - why "human on the loop" beats full automation, what's coming in BMAD v7, and how his framework and my own landed on almost the same philosophy independently. You don't need to use BMAD for this one to be well worth your time!
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  Check out Manufact - deploy MCP apps and Claude connectors in one command, built on their open source mcp-use SDK:
  https://manufact.com/r/y6RXU
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  - Apply for a private team AI coding workshop:
  https://dynamous.ai/ai-native-engineering-org-apply
  
  - Join the Dynamous community for the full Agentic Coding Course:
  https://dynamous.ai
  
  - BMAD Method (GitHub):
  https://github.com/bmad-code-org/BMAD-METHOD
  
  BMAD Code (Brian's site):
  https://www.bmadcode.com
  
  Rasmus' PRP Framework:
  https://github.com/Wirasm/prp
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  0:00 Introduction to BMAD
  3:39 The Origins of BMAD
  11:29 Sponsor: Manufact
  13:04 Customizing AI Coding Frameworks
  20:03 BMAD v7 and Team Collaboration
  28:17 Shifting Focus to Planning
  35:20 Hiring Systems Thinkers
  43:05 Self-Improving AI Skills
  53:03 Essential Skills for AI Builders
  1:00:15 Avoiding the Impending Slop Apocalypse
  1:09:46 Multi-Model Strategies and Prompting
  1:17:35 Mentoring Teams for AI Adoption
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  Join me as I push the limits of what is possible with AI. I'll be uploading videos weekly - at least every Wednesday at 7:00 PM CDT!
---
I do see and I've been reminded of this more from Opus lately that there could be a slot apocalypse coming and I love that term and people are using it now. I think people are going to start running into a slot apocalypse and it might not manifest in broken code. might not manifest in the agent not being able to implement. But what it will in what it will manifest is is more token spend and just more cycles and things will slow down. But I don't even think that's the top of the mountain. I really do believe human on

the loop is is the pinnacle of what to try to get to. Moving from a human in the loop to human on the loop but still maintaining that control. I personally build BMED around the idea of you are on control. The agent is guiding you through it using it as a partner. It is my pleasure to bring to you this podcast style session with Brian the founder of BMAD, one of the most popular and powerful coding agent frameworks on the planet. Myself and Raasmus, who's been

on this channel before. We hosted Brian as a special guest in the Dynamis community. Now, I'm bringing this recording to you. And let me tell you, this session was incredible. Brian had so many practical things to share, not just on BMAD and his vision for it, but where the engineering industry is heading with AI, best practices for using coding agents, and how to avoid the slop apocalypse, which is definitely coming down on us as we speak. And so,

I'll have chapters below to help you navigate through different parts of the conversation. Of course, I would encourage you to go through the entire thing and let me know in the comments what you think of these sort of podcast style videos. Definitely thinking about doing more. Still trying to figure out the best format and everything. But yeah, this is a gold mine of content here. And so without further ado, over

to the session. So welcome everyone to a special guest workshop. Raasmus and I here have Brian, the founder of BMAD, one of the most popular AI coding frameworks to ever live and definitely one of them that I respect the most. There are a lot of frameworks out there for using AI coding assistance effectively that'll give you skills and strategy for going through every stage of the software development life cycle. Um, but the the thought and care that Brian puts into BMAD is unmatched. And

so we actually did a workshop with him a few weeks ago where he shared more of like the overall vision of BMAD, where it's heading, why he built it in the first place. And so many of you had awesome questions that we couldn't get to everything. And a lot of you wanted to have this dedicated session where we're just going to chat about BMAD. I got questions prepared. Raasmus has questions. I want you guys to share your

questions as well just as we go through things and we're just going to have a conversation. I know we could fill four or five hours easily. So, um, Brian Raasmus and I, we actually met beforehand to like really make sure we have good questions to guide the conversation in a way where it's interesting for everyone and we can really hit on all the important things. And so, I'm just going to start by asking Brian some, you know, high level questions about BMAD and his vision for it. Maybe a recap for some of you who are already familiar with BMAD. Um, and

then we'll get into like talking about how BMAD relates to some of the other ideas in the industry right now. how Brian is actually helping um larger companies adopt BMAD as well, which is super cool. I've gotten to hear all about it. But yeah, and then Raasmus has got some great questions prepped as well. So yeah, Brian, let's let's start things off. Uh just share a little bit

about BMAD, like what's what's the reason you built it in the first place and where is it heading because I know you got some really cool changes in the works right now. >> Yeah, awesome. Well, thanks guys. Um, first of all, I love the Dynamos community and it's an honor to be back here and I see a lot of familiar faces from last time also. So, I'll keep it short because I think a lot of people heard that last time. But, uh, you know,

BMAD, I started it, God, it's over a year now. It's still hard to even believe. And I managed multiple teams in a company. And I was trying to just figure out how to get my own engineers using the agentic loop in tools like cursor at the time. um and experienced engineers, they would try it. It was a

great, you know, what what they now call spicy autocomplete on some of the adoption curves, right? And it was great for that. But when trying the agent loop, my very good experienced engineers were like, "This is this is trash. It's getting stuff wrong. I can do it quicker myself." Um I try it. I said, "Come on,

guys. Just try it because I'm seeing other people do amazing things." And you know, at the end of the day, it just it wasn't there. But it was it was great and it was amazing for just doing the quick autocompletes, multi-edits, asking questions, but that agent loop just wasn't taking off. And surprisingly, I was seeing this pretty much across the board. I'm pretty sure I

mentioned this last time, but the dichotomy between what was online being said on YouTube at the time versus what I was seeing in reality was very different. >> Talk about the people who ever saying, you know, build your million-dollar SAS app overnight, no experience required. Meanwhile, experienced engineers, they're like, "This is a toy. I can't even use this." yada yada yada on and on. Won't repeat it all. But that's what

led me to this obsession of kind of doing my own agentic loop at night over and over again, just seeing how far I could push the agent to get. And I would start to learn these techniques, right? If I just have some context here, if I have a context file with some some rules in it, we actually all thought rules were the magic silver bullet a year and a half ago, right? is just this obsession with my first two cringey YouTube videos are still on there, right? And they were about like rules and you know, you just put these rules here and the agent is going to be magic.

But we found out pretty quick. You know, you stack up a bunch of rules that doesn't really do it. But having snippets of files and giving the agent small pieces of intent at the time, we didn't have a lot of words for a lot of these things back then, right? So it was like uh I don't even think the term vibe coding was out yet, let alone context engineering or you know intense or small like just all these things. But what I knew from my own background coming from enterprise and working with companies for 25 plus years is agile works because you're kind of breaking large ideas down into smaller pieces at the end of the day. And it just kind of hit

me like why not try to do the same thing. So, you know, came up with the idea of like a product manager and talking through the highlevel idea and breaking it down to what I called user stories. And I still call them stories, not really user stories, but really they're specs, right? Again, spec engineering and spec wasn't even a turn yet a term yet from the industry. Specs were, you know, something that we used for testing like Girkin, BDD, specs, but the same kind of term. I called them

stories, but they were just small pieces of intent. And I was seeing like even with the primitive models of a year and a half ago and you know the harnesses like cursor with it very small context window you could give it these small intents, you would have to put a lot of details in there but it would it would do it well. And I was able to start getting this agent to build at the time a pretty complex application from beginning to end. And I would just get to a point where if it failed, I would I would see, well, what context do I really need in place? Maybe rules, maybe some documents or guidance, and then I would start over at the beginning, and it would just get further and further. And just slowly over time,

I would see like what it took to really get to the end. You know, honestly, this is not a bad technique even now to use. Um, you know, be before using any framework, before using any skills, throw it all out and see what you can get the agent to do, you know, uh, just try it out for yourself, right? I say this all the time, you know, whatever skills, whatever frameworks you as an engineer, you can learn just by using your harness and model of choice. [laughter] Exactly. And then, um, CT um, use your

model of choice and learn what the model can do on its own, right? and see how far you can get it and then start picking up skills or creating your own skills or starting to use the frameworks. Uh but to answer your original question, that's where BMAD kind of evolved from. Originally, it was just to help individual developers learn how to use the agent loop effectively. Um took it back to my company, didn't give the engineers the same thing. I

wanted them to come to these conclusions on their own. And I strongly still suggest this when I consult with, you know, anybody in an enterprise trying to get their own organizations to move further on this adoption curve. I think I talked about the twoe sprint that I did last time. I'll say it again very briefly and then I'll wrap up this question. But give your engineers the time to try to do this or for you yourself, just take the time to do this.

It's going to be frustrating at first. Maybe you're going to have to slow down, but try to pick up some piece of work that you want to do in a green field or in a brown field and just try to get the agent to get through it without having to do anything. Now, it's it's much it's much easier now than it was a year and a half ago. So, you might just ask the agent and it might just one shot and do it or get it close. It might make a bunch of slop, but it's still worth doing this and just trying to get the quality and build the reps and learn learn how to really work with the model in the harness before, you know, taking on these kind of bigger topics that we'll talk about today. But

>> yeah, >> you know that I think that's a good recap of like a lot of what I talked about last time. Obviously, BMAT has evolved since then and it's become more modularized, more customizable. We have other ideas for like the creative innovation suite and just any kind of vertical or workflow where things can be worked sequentially where you want to use the AI as a thinking partner. I will say one last thing. The the big idea of BMAD for me was always not having the AI do the work for you.

Now it sounds like I was describing have the AI do the work for you, but that's at the coding piece. But the [clears throat] planning and the crafting of what we now call specs or the work that we're going to do or the thinking or the ideation. I personally build BMAD around the idea of you are on control. The agent is guiding you through it using it as a partner. If I get lazy, I feel lazy.

Sometimes I'll be like, "Oh, just give me the answer. You just come up with the idea." But it feels dirty to me. I like to stay in control. I think we are the creative force in all of this. we we

maintain our humanity and really treat the AI agent as an assistant or a facilitator. It's a it's an amazing teacher. It's an amazing facilitator. Um, and so that's really the idea also behind a lot of the the skills and workflows in BMAD is really pushing you to be better, but then leveraging if there's like a gap in your own skill set, right, where then you can leverage the model more. >> So, I'll pause there because I can probably just >> I don't want to fill an hour and a half just going on and on. All right, we each

could definitely. Yeah, but I I love that. Really really well said. Um, in fact, that's my philosophy as well. Like I always say, you want to delegate all the coding to the coding agent, but still keep yourself in the driver's seat. And really, there's two ways to do

that both together. It's you you really want to be involved in the planning up front and the validation at the end. And BMAD has a lot of incredible things built in to help you with especially the planning at the start. So, I love that. >> The sponsor of today's video is Manufact. and their open- source

framework MCP use. Most of us think that MCP servers just return back text or JSON, but that changed this year. MCP apps is the first official extension to the protocol and it allows MCP servers to return interfaces that can render directly in cloud or whatever client supports it. And MCP use makes it extremely easy to build these MCP servers. One command and you have your server and a view. And so I built one

myself. This is an MCP app that I have within manufact. If I go to tools, I created a simple tool for this MCP server to look up a GitHub repository. But not only does it return information as text or raw JSON, but we have this component that we can render directly in Claude like you're seeing here live in action. And just like it's one command to set everything up, it's also one command to deploy to manufact. So I have

this MCP server that I deployed in less than a minute. I now have this public URL that I can use to connect to this MCP server in an application like cloud desktop. So here's my connection to the MCP server. And once you deploy, you get crossclient testing, publishing checks for the chat GBT plug-in store and cloud connectors and MCP native analytics. So you can trust that one push isn't going to break everything else. And so with

this connection now in a conversation, I can, you know, for example, just say, "Give me the stats for this GitHub repo." calls the tool and then gives me back this beautifully rendered view. MCP use is MIT with 10 and a half thousand stars on GitHub and Manufact has a free tier. I'd highly recommend checking them out. I'll have a link to them in the description. Yeah, one other thing that

I want to jump right into um is the really like how people can use BMAD because I know one thing that people a lot of times have a misconception with for BMAD is that you're very like shoehorned into a very particular process >> because BMAD is opinionated, but I know Brian that that's really that was never really the intention for BMA and also you've been evolving it in ways recently to make it so that it's very plug-andplay, very adaptable and um you know just making it lightweight in general. So, if you could touch on that, like I'd love to hear your take on it all. >> Yeah, you know, when it first started, it really was just six skills and I said even from the beginning, right? Like take this, learn these ideas and come up with your own way of doing it. Now, it's evolved though into a much larger thing.

Every skill is customizable. So, you can use BMAD customize. First of all, you can say BMAD customize the PRD. We use TOML files that live alongside the skills and you can have it if you want to connect to Jira or linear or have it know about certain company governance that you need to include in certain reports or if you wanted to use a certain framework you can it will basically save these customization files for you. You can do it for an organizational level or for an individual level. The nice thing with

that is you're not modifying the actual skills and workflows. So you do that you can continue to get updates. we keep the customization points uh consistent so they don't change version to version so you're able to customize it that way but beyond that I think it's important to say you can use other skills with BMED I want you to come up with your own skills also and your own workflows to customize it originally it was just five or six skills it was start with the PRD um build the architecture and the reason we had an architecture is because early on we found if you have a document that says like this is the coding tree or we use these six tools by having those things in place. It was there for a reason. it was there so the model wouldn't drift and randomly hit a unit test failure and then decide to put a whole new database in while you're not paying attention or like I've seen these things happen right so all of these evolved out of the problems I went through going with that loop so it was PR architecture um I'm trying to remember back to the early versions there might have been a scrum master in there at one point uh breaking down the tickets into stories again these small intents and and then developing one by one but what it's evolved And what I saw is people don't like some people don't want to do a PRD or as the models have gotten more verbose, people get kind of grossed out by just the verbosity of some of these documents, which is a whole other topic we could talk about and how we're combating that.

>> Um, but not everybody thinks in a PRD or wants to. Uh, so one thing we introduced was uh what is now called BMAD build, but it was quick dev. It's gone through a few different names, but sometimes you're working in a large application. Um, first of all, just talk to Claude. If you need if you just need a quick thing done, there's this idea that you need to go through this whole flow. I

use Claude directly. I use Copilot directly. I just talk to it and tell it what I need to do. Um, if I have something a little bit more ambitious, but I don't want to go through this whole planning thing, I will just use what we were calling quick dev. Um, but it is just a small loop that basically talks to you, comes up with your idea, makes a spec in the moment, and then goes into our build loop all within one self-contained skill. Um, now it's

called BMAD build. Uh, so BMAD build is very interesting how it's evolved because it is a front door to the building process of the BMED method. I think we have a very good build loop that's also customizable, but you can just talk to it. You can talk to it about your idea or you can give it an intent in any format. You could have a a story that you've written or a spec that you've written with any other skill set and kind of just feed it to be build. It'll take it and build it. Um

but I talked also about the PRD is not the only entry point. We have uh PRFAC which comes from Amazon. Amazon process of PR fact is basically you write the press release for your idea and you create a fact and you're defending it against the agent to actually prove this thing is even worth building. It's a very fun exercise. Um they've used this at Amazon forever. Bezos came up with

this idea and I think somebody else there and they've used it for a lot of their big hit products. Um, now that's not for everybody, but the point is if you want to figure out, is this thing even worth building, use the agent to really go through some of these different processes. Uh, sometimes you don't need a uh PRD. A lot of people I talk to, they just use a product brief. A product brief is a leaner document.

It's still kind of describing the point and starting with that and then going to that through all of the process. Um, you might just want to do some brainstorming or again you can use all of these other techniques or just talk to Claude about your idea. Um, you can even take skills from other frameworks, right? Like uh, you know, the grill me skill is very popular. Um, there's other stuff out there. You can use those harden your

idea, whatever it is, and then feed it into BMT. So BMET is customizable. It's wide open. You can kind of mix and match, but the idea is the process. I'll stop there and maybe we'll get some more of what's coming in B7 because I saw some questions around that and I'll say a little bit what's kind of hardening with it, but we can talk about um >> how that also continues to make it uh customizable.

>> That sounds great. Yeah, I'd love to get into that and then I know Raasmus has some questions after that that'll be a good flow here. But yeah, I just I love how customizable BMAD is because most AI coding frameworks aren't that way. And I think that's why there's definitely like a very large camp that's growing larger and larger where it's, you know, screw the frameworks like here's a collection of skills that you should take for yourself or you should just totally start from the ground up. And I think there's value to that. In fact, I teach

that in a lot of ways because I I agree to an extent with that camp where like most of these frameworks are too bloated. Um, and like to be honest, I I thought that of BMAD at one point as well, but um, you know, hearing your philosophy >> and then the work that you've done on it over the last few months is just huge. Like it's so cool. >> Um, how powerful BMAD is, but then like adaptable at the same time. That's really the important balance is making something where you can sort of like teach as you give the framework to people, but then also you're able to mold it to your own workflows um, as you need. And then I definitely know like

you were sharing with me earlier, Brian, a lot of larger companies where they actually just want the standard given to them and so they're going to BMAD for that, which is a whole another thing that we could talk about. Um, but yeah, I definitely want to now get into what you were sharing with how BMAD is evolving with with V7 and beyond. So yeah, please go ahead and take the floor again. Just talk about like what you're doing with the the evolution here. >> Yeah, well thanks for saying that, Cole.

First I want to say like uh sincerely thank you you know for giving BMAD a chance again and really checking it out because you know it's an easy target right BMAD I don't know if it was the first but when we started it there were no skills there were no like really good ways to think about some of these things so we've evolved through a lot where other people have been able to come in you know right at the right time and build something at that point in time I will say even a lot of the skill collections they are very opinionated and do lock you into their so they might say that they're not a framework But but some of them feel very frameworkish to me also and kind of push you through things. And you know what? There's nothing wrong with that. Like let's be honest, having a system and thinking in systems I think is a good thing. I think there's two different philosophies around skills.

When skills were released, they had one idea about skills is that they are this small atomic unit that can kind of augment the model and do one thing. But the way they built skills and the genius of the way they built skills, intentionally or unintentionally, I don't think they put a lot of thought into this, but there's the whole idea of progressive expo uh progressive disclosure. I want to say progressive exposure. That's a whole other topic that we shouldn't get into today. Um but and then um they also made skills have a maximum body size of of something ridiculous like 25 maggers. Like you can put a lot

into skills. Now obviously your skill.mmd file you want it to be small and lean because that's always you know loaded but you can have different philosophies with how you create your skills. I used to split up skills into a create skill and an edit edit skill and a validate skill. And there was just a lot of repetition and bloat. That's an

embarrassing older version of BMAD that we've moved away from. But now, like by putting all of those ideas into the same skill and trusting the model to do things more, you can have less skills but have different flows through them where it can do just a lot more stuff. And again, still making them customizable. Um, but but again, you know, like I think everybody every skill package has some kind of flow that it's going to ask you to do and and that's a good thing. Skills don't have to be these atomic tiny things. by having them

as part of an ecosystem, they have some commonalities, they start to work well together. So I still believe that it's a good idea, but what I don't want to do is lock you into one way of doing things. And the reason is is because even for me, one way of doing things doesn't work. Um I work on many different types of projects and what I do at work, even within work, right? Sometimes I'm working on a UI front end.

Sometimes I'm working on enterprise architecture or in my hobby projects, right? Like working on BMAD and working on skill collections is is very different than working on some of the side projects that I work on. So I wouldn't want to be locked into one way of working and that's why I've worked so hard to make it adaptable. Sometimes it's slow, you know, because it's just it's evolving and we got to make it continue to work with the way people are still working at it. But yeah, it's it's meant to be evolvable. So

Cole, I think you had another question in there and I I went a little bit off topic. Um, you were asking about V7, I think. >> Yeah, V7. Yep. >> Yeah. So, I haven't released anything

official about this yet, but we're about two or three weeks away. One of the biggest >> Okay. >> things that we've really wanted to do and we've really been focused on the last few months is also we want to support enterprise and teams. And almost all of the questions we get now are about how do I use this on our team effectively. Right now with BMAD still when you define the breakdown of your project it splits it up into epics and stories or just stories if you like.

Um but it's basically in one file right now and you do it against the project. What we're working on now is making it so it will split up epics basically into multiple folders and all the stories are separate files. You'll also be able to connect it to Azure or linear if you want to or some other system of record. We want to make it very open. But the idea is by actually precreating separate files, you can now have different teams or different people work on different things. And that's the way

real enterprise works. I've been uh piloting this in companies with real world teams and this is working really well. Well, this is one of the biggest unlocks to really get it to yeah to make it more of a collaboration platform. Um, speaking of collaboration platform, we really want to support the idea also of keeping track of all the artifacts that you're doing with planning. But in an enterprise environment, which I assume many, you know, many of the people here also watching are, you know, from team environments or working in teams, um, >> you want to be able to collaborate with different people at different levels. So

real world product managers still have a place in all of this, right? Developers, designers. By having everything in a centralized location, some people are good at Git, some people are not going to understand Git. So we're looking at ways to tie these things together, allow them to be collaborative, so people, you know, one person can work on the PRD, one person can work on an architecture. Um, we want to support solution designs when there's small pieces that really need to be fleshed out and figured out.

And then by taking all of these things together, having them in a somewhat common place where they're discoverable, um it just makes it easier then as we do the the ticketing and the creation of the specs where it can find the right things. Um so that's a lot of what's coming with V7. Also, one other big thing is we've been kind of missing the boat up to this point on the skill marketplaces. Again, we started with a heavy installer because there were no skills. there was no common place to put your files.

>> Uh very soon um actually maybe even before the V7 release. Uh we're doing some testing this week. We will be putting skill collections into uh Verscell's NPX Skills um Claude marketplace, Codeex Marketplace. We're starting with those. Um but it will continue to be open to all of those and we're also going to split it up into smaller pieces. So maybe you want more

creative stuff or you're a product manager and you just want to work on like ideation, right? You'll be able to download those skills. Or maybe you just want our developer tools or the BMAD loop or uh whatever, right? Whatever that is, you'll be able to pick and choose what you want. Maybe you don't need the whole thing.

>> Um >> yeah, very cool. Actually, Sean Sean had a question on this. I think that's what you're looking at, Brian. >> I just saw that. Yeah, let me read his question. Um

>> I can read it to you as well. I think I'd love to do questions that way. He he asked if I have my own ticketing tracking system could or would BMAD allow me to leverage it like as an MCP or CLI. >> No, 100%. That's what we want to do. So

getting a lot of the specifics out of it in BMAD code or excuse me in the BMAD method or any of them and creating connectors. We're going to be releasing connectors. Um but even those we want to make it so they are also very customizable for your needs because there's no one way to use Jira or linear or these types of things too. Yeah, 100%. >> Yeah, that's awesome. I love how much

you're thinking about team use because I feel like just people and people creating AI coding frameworks in general aren't thinking about it enough. And so even if you don't use BMAD, which I think it's worth using, even if you don't use BMAD, just looking at it as an example, you know, as B7 comes out and and beyond, like as a way to integrate coding agents at a team level is a really powerful thing. Um and so and and to Brian's point like it's not like you have to you could get totally ingrained in this opinionated approach like BMAD is there to be a reference a teaching tool you take parts of it you take the whole thing whatever you want a lot of companies are taking the whole thing and that's super cool uh because you guys are thinking about things that they need the companies need and a lot of you might be on companies that need it and maybe you're already integrating BMAD within your organization so >> there's um there's an inflection point I think or maybe that's not the right word of it, but I saw this in my own company. I've seen this in others and Cole, I think we even talked about this a little bit and you've talked about this in some of your training. It's very easy to focus on the engineers first and and I think that's the right thing to do, right? Because they're the

early adopters. They're going to understand the technology. They understand Git. >> You can speed them up only so much. I took my team, like I said, I went through this process and very quickly, 100% using agent mode, speeding up, and you're going to hit another wall very quickly, two walls. One to the right of

that inflection point and one to the left. Um the right is you're going to start running into my developers are going so quick. Um now the bottleneck is code reviews. Um and then another thing that AI highlights in organizations and also with people is it is an amplifier but it's not always an amplifier of good. If you have bad CI/CD or bad processes right or you're maybe not a I mean obviously nobody here right but maybe you're not a good engineer or something it actually will amplify those. It's it's a very interesting

phenomenon. I've seen this right. So it will start to highlight, oh, we need to improve our CACD. We want to go faster. We need to get our pipelines able to go all the way to production and start putting gates in there.

>> Mhm. >> Oh, our code reviews are a bottleneck. Do we introduce new tools like code rabbit or other things? Do we change our position around, you know, do we need two person review on everything? Maybe we only need one person review. Maybe

some things we let go through the pipeline. And maybe we build tools or analysis that can look at the code or what was done and say this is a trivial change. We're changing some CSS, let it go all the way to production and maybe we carve out, you know, 20 to 30% going to the engineer and then using our best people to actually be reviewing the things that really need thought or or care >> um or team collaboration. That is to the right of the inflection point. to the left is the whole other place where I think just people do not focus in a team or an enterprise environment which is where I think BMAD is unique maybe not 100% unique but I really believe the interesting part of BMED is everything to the left of having it build the code I love our BMED build I love our BMED um loop the dark factory taking the specs but my personal interest with BMAD is helping people come up with the best specs that they can can as we elevate engineers and our team and product managers. At the end of

the day, the job is understanding the business, understanding the product or what you want to build, making sure it's the right thing, finding interesting opportunities, and then crafting that spec because it is that spec that goes into into the machine and eventually the machine is going to be automated. It's going to get more and more automated. It's going to homogenize across a company and things are going to be going in there. And so back to the idea of um you know whether or not you want to be in a framework, if you're in a company, you're going to be in a framework. You know, you can have 50 100 thousand engineers all coming up with their dark factories, all coming up with their own ways of, you know, breaking down to an implementation plan, but at some point you're going to say why? If we have a

good quality consistent spec and the engineers are all basically doing the same thing anyways, it very soon is going to be to the point where you're doing something in Jira, you're going to drag that Jura ticket to some process agents going to pick it up, start doing it, and you're going to be reviewing a code review. So, if you're an engineer, I really believe this. You are so valuable, but your mindset of what your value is has to change and it's really going to uplevel you. Like I saw this with my own team. A lot of people were, you know, concerned about it 6 months ago. Like what is when they started

seeing the agent doing all their stuff and they started thinking, well, what is my worth now? Because, you know, I I was a ticket jockey before. I would pull it down and I was good at completing that ticket and getting it done. But the shift that's happened even with my own teams has has been amazing. Like they're loving it now because they're realizing now they can start to focus on the higher level. And it's not only the

architect's job or it's not only the product manager's job, but they are able to focus on the bigger picture and understand the product and really understand what we're building and why it makes sense. So focusing on the left of that inflection point is this sweet spot of BMAD, right? Like how to help teams work together and collaborate and move things using AI. So start with the engineers, but you're going to hit a bottleneck. So then you start looking at product management and how can we actually start getting good ideas to the team quicker. How can we move faster in

that regard? Because that becomes the big bottleneck where then all of a sudden devs are going through stuff so quick. Now all of a sudden you're waiting on the business to catch up. So really focusing on the whole left of getting the stuff to the engineer. And if you're a solo dev, it's the same thing, right? or if you're a hobbyist

even or you know a solarreneur or whatever you now have the ability to use AI so much more than just a coding agent use it to ideulate use it to do market research test prototype AB test just so much man so so much power to the left of so that's where I'm really passionate and and love that AI can do so much of that and that's why I'm really big into the whole facilitation thing right go in with your strong ideas be the expert give it your opinions let it harden your ideas or research more and put into it. So, let me let me pause there because I see a lot of questions popping up and >> yeah, >> I I think there's also a lot more to be said around that and and I think you are on on the right track there with everything like everything you're describing there on the left as well is actually now the engineer's job as well like they need to engineer that product if you will that needs to exist for the business to be able to get there. So the work of an engineer isn't only to ship the code. It becomes to build that system that allows the company to ship the code as well and and to engineer their company's build loop if you will that you have in BMAT for example. They can build they can build their own companies build loop their own companies.

>> Exactly. Yes. >> Generator whatever you want to call it because I also see a big risk and and I I want your take on that too. uh when when you also give over these tasks to a non-engineer like writing PRDS or writing specs uh especially if that is being written by someone who doesn't really understand the code or understand the system it's a big risk also that those things have too much opinionated uh like say engineering decisions in them before they hit the engineer. So then it's really the engineer's job to make sure that before it hits the coding agent, it needs to be uh up to par because otherw like garbage in garbage out right in that system too.

>> So you as the engineer have to decide like where where does your product manager's work need to stop for you to be able to pick that up and to put it into the rest of the of the build loop, if you will. >> Yeah, exactly. 100%. I think in the future, and we're starting to do this now, as we hire for engineering and product, the roles really are evolving and we are now trying to hire what we're now commonly calling like systems thinkers. Whether you're a product manager or an engineer, we're hiring systems thinkers.

And for the engineers that we already have, like it's it's painful for some and some are natural to it, but it's an evolution that everybody's going to. But I 100% agree with you that there is a need for product people and and designers and engineers just because the AI allows us to do all these things and working on our own things. It's it's great to help us with those things, but I see it I still see value in all those different roles. It's just the roles are changing and evolving. Um Lenny's podcast recently, shout out to Lenny.

[laughter] Love to be on your show sometime. But he uh he had uh the uh CPO of whatnot I think recently on chief product officer talking about kind of a clickbay title that he's not going to hire product managers anymore. But what he really meant is less product managers doing what product managers really should be doing which is thinking at a higher level >> about direction. One thing we could talk about is the the shift in how teams should probably be formed in the future. You know, generally an agile team in a lot of companies could be anywhere from like five to eight people. Um and then you

have a scrum master and and a lot of times you have a product manager even assigned to that team. And then you would have an epic and an epic might be worked on for a month and multiple people are working on different pieces of that. with AI now everything is so compressed we can plan more ahead of time but also I think I said this last time but I consider the epic is the new unit of work for engineers um not every company uses the term epic and stories but basically what I'm saying is a larger block of work is now the unit of work for an individual engineer we've thrown out the idea of twoe sprints I don't recommend doing that anymore I treat the epic now as its own mini agile initiative somebody owns it, maybe two people are working together on it, and they work it from beginning to end. So, what we're starting to see is this idea of breaking down larger scrum teams into smaller pods of two to four engineers. And so, as you back to the Lenny point, the the idea of removing product managers is you don't have necessarily product managers tied to each of those teams. Instead, you're

building small pods and somebody at least one person on the team, maybe an engineer, maybe somebody from a product background. They're all technical, uh, but that person can really think about and understand and know what they own, what they're responsible for it. And they are the best ones to actually think of new ideas to do with it and keep it moving forward. And then you have like a good kind of lead on there. And there's still a place for junior engineers in this pod model. And shout out to the

companies that are doing good here still supporting engineers coming out of school because it's a rough time to be getting a degree right now and trying to get into this industry. >> Yeah, >> I won't say the companies that are doing it or not doing it, but the ones that I see doing it that are going to this pod model and they are supporting junior engineers, it is working. You can find good engineers that have this system mindset right out of school and build them up and they can become effective very quickly. It's just it's just training engineers in a different way than we did before. Um, but these smaller pods, they're working good.

They're owning an Epic. They're driving it beginning to end. And so, yes, you still have the product managers and they're they're still so valuable, but I think again the roles are just shifting. They're they're more a little they're a little bit more hands-on if they're going to be in the pod or if they're going to be higher level. The engineers are really kind of pick some of the engineers or somebody is picking up the slack in that pod to really be that systems thinker and that that product thinker. So, it's very

interesting shift that we're seeing. Yeah, I agree. And I think that the key to to those pods and that model as well is that you you assign ownership to a pod of a problem. And that that little pod can own that problem, whether you call that problem an epic or a story or whatever shape you want to put it in. What they really do is they own the problem and the solution to that problem end.

>> Exactly. Yes. Yes. >> Yes. is the shift in ownership and really the shift in responsibility to the engineers to like really care and understand what they're building on instead of just being ticket jockeyies.

Right. >> Yeah. Right. >> Yeah. >> Yeah.

>> Cool. We have a lot of questions in the chat right now. Uh Rasmus, maybe you could pick one to ask and then I'll address something more higher level from Sander right now because Sander asked a really good question. Um because yeah, Brian, I'm not sure if you're aware, but there's a course in the community, the Agenta coding course, where I teach a lot of like the philosophy that you share with BMAD, really like the full AI software development life cycle, if you want to call it that. And so, you know, Sandra asked, what's the connection between RPIV and BMA? RPIV is just like

one of the core acronyms for the process in the course. And um really Sandra, they're they're both an approach to the same thing. Like RPIV is short for research, plan, implement, validate. It's the core development loop and then of course there's a lot of teaching the course on either end like a lot on the left side like we're talking about here around with epics and specs and tickets and everything. Bman is just a another approach for really doing the same thing and it's a very similar approach like it's why Brian's here. One of the big

reasons Brian is here in the first place is we share a lot of the same ideas and philosophy around how we bring AI into the SDLC. >> Yeah. I love that acronym. That's that's great. But 100% Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So,

yeah, Sandra, it's not like they are uh necessarily like used together. You would definitely like take ideas from both as you're building out your own system and really molding it to your how you like to work, I think, is the ideal scenario there. Um, so >> yeah. >> Yeah, it's uh [clears throat] very much very much the same. Um, >> yeah, I'm just looking at your so research plan implement. Yeah, 100% the

same. So I think we call it an analyst analysis and um analysis includes research. It also includes like that PRFAC idea or just any kind of like should we be building this and are we building the right thing? Um I worked at NASA for a while. I worked for the independent validation and verification right and IVNV. Uh VNV is about you know

are we building the right thing and did we build it right? And I think all of these plans, especially being accelerated now, that's important to have in your flow. So, >> you know, the research and the planning up front, >> it needs to include like should we even be building this thing? Now, you might have done that before the RP IV, right? But, but you're doing that one way or the other. You come up with an idea.

It's a very good idea to not just research how to do it, but should we do this? Do is there market fit? you know like yes it's fast to prototype and build things but still it's it's costing time and money when you could be doing something else so >> you know we have a lot of that in BMAD the analysis is optional though again all of these phases are optional but but the key you know um the plan the implementation and the validation like that's really the key right there and 100% in BMET also so different names and I've seen other frameworks with you know different acronyms but they all kind of come down to the same thing like understand what you want to plan it, implement it and validation and validation is like a whole other topic that you know >> everything to the right. Very cool. Yeah, >> that's its own engineering problem in of itself. And I think you described it a

little bit like build your CI, build your testing infrastructure and so on. So you can catch things on that side. But I I also think here uh we have a question from from Sean here. Uh how does BMAD manage self-improvement? uh my go-to workflow the RPI has a system review mechanism that will update things like skills cloud MD agent MD etc. Uh so

so how do you think about self-improvement or system improvement or outer loop improvement if you will or >> Yeah, you know that's that's something that we're really starting to get into now and evolving our own skills. So we don't have skills that are self-updating skills themselves. Um but that is definitely a topic that we're looking into. Our our BMED build is interesting in that it has some loops in it. So in the BMAD build, we talked about that before. It will talk to you, it will

take your plan or it will just take it in. it does the build. Um, and oh, this is a whole other interesting topic, but how you actually write your specs is very important and can lead to big savings. What documentation you have in your repo makes a difference and it's probably not what you think is good because even what we preached in the past is 100% wrong just based on the way the models and the harnesses have evolved. But when you have good acceptance criteria in your spec, um, in BMED build, it will actually loop. it

will try to build it. We have different lenses that fire against it and it will, you know, autocomplete or auto loop and then give you a much better result. So having different review lenses kind of like will will help your build. Um the self-improvement loops though, uh Sean, I think you know it's a great idea, right? As far as how to build and improve skills or or memory systems, there's so many techniques. These are

all techniques in your toolbox that you want to be aware of and use. Um Rasminister or Cole, what do what are you guys doing, you know, with your skills? Where do you see kind of that taking? >> So I I have some opinions here. We we have some opinions in our course, of course, as well. And and that's where

our piv is coming from as well. And and we don't have any >> Sorry, can you hear me? >> Mhm. >> Yep. You're good.

>> Okay. I'm I I got a phone call so I can't hear you at the moment, but I saw you shake or not in your head, so I I will start hearing you in a second. But yeah uh so uh so yeah our pivot our course we have this like we have two ways of of doing system improvement. Uh one is like opportunistic of the your entire system and we'll kind of scan your entire system for for uh flaws and how you use your harness. It will you know scan your logs and whatnot. So it

basically suggest improvements that you could look into. And then we have the inner loop improvement that will will check an individual build loop or an individual pivot loop if you will >> and that will check you know your plan your your skills your implement and build uh skills against that sessions logs >> and again neither of these are auto updating both of them are suggesting updates that you could look into so I still I I do not believe in in auto updating skills because uh I mean we could talk about opus here for a few hours I think as well because if you run that loop in >> opus 100% yeah >> you will have a very skill after after a couple of rounds >> so so it's not a good idea to have >> you tried Hermes or have you used Hermes you know Hermes I haven't used it a lot but I've been hearing about how it has self- evolving skills um I'd be curious >> I I have used Hermes some to some extent I do not use any of the self-improvements things I don't believe in it uh I mean I it works uh kind of okay for the first couple of rounds, right? But then it kind of gets rotted, you know, after a while because it just keeps it's adds, you know, these deterministic blocks to things that you don't want to be deterministic and >> yeah and and it could do all of these things that you you you are kind of opinionated about and and then it adds something completely different than than what you actually wanted there. >> So so I'm very particular about my skills. I have my own uh you know uh let's say BMAD version like called PRP where I have my own >> uh framework.

>> I think everybody should >> um skills. Wow, you brought up a lot of a lot of things there. Opus, right? Opus has done a number on a lot of things. We could talk about that. Um

>> skill building in general, even Fable, I will say like Fable and I bet Mythos also, they don't have good training data on what a good skill is. 100% full slop. And full full slop full stop. But you know what? Full slop is actually probably a better word for it. The

training data that the new models are getting trained on, they know what skills are now, and they still produce slop skills. Now, this doesn't mean that you can't have it make a wonderful skill for you. You can have it go through your session logs and build a skill for you, and it's going to work, but it is not an optimal skill. it is not a well-written skill and it's going to be bloated and overdone. Um, I built the BMAD builder and it has a lot of validations to help you write skills and it also has um I think I took it out but in there I also had a self-improvement loop where it was using eval to start with a very lean skill and then the eval would run and if one of the eval fails, this is eval driven development for skills. I still

believe in the technique. I just still think it's not fully there yet to be 100% effective. But it would slowly layer in new things into your skill until it's meeting the needs. It doesn't work that great. The best thing I have found for for creating skills is two approaches. One is to start with the

model, talk to it, use something like the BMED builder, something that really questions you, gets it out of you, understands what your definition of a quality skill is, right? Like what do you want? You know, x number of lines. Don't be verbose. use progressive disclosure. Um, there's so many

opinions, right? We talked about like what even is a skill is so different to people, but have it do that. Take your time to go through it and manually edit it. The other approach is just handcraft your skills. And I know that sounds archaic and barbaric, but actually I would I would take this approach. First of all, just talk to the

model. Does the model do it? Do you even need the skill? If you don't, it's great. If you find that you have to keep telling it some of those things, just start with a markdown file and just write down those few things because I say all this to say exactly what you said with Opus and also with Fable is I thought they were going to be these amazing models and finally be able to write my skills for me well and I just I hate the way they write skills.

Um, but again, the skills might work. I'm obsessed over the quality of the skills and the leanness, especially because I know a lot of people are going to be using the skills and so I think about like token waste and it, you know, >> etc. Right. People care people care more about token efficiency more and more. Um >> yeah, but there's some very very popular skills out there. Um

and I I love them. I use them like like the 30 deal the 30-day skill. I've been loving that one. Probably shouldn't endorse it because I think it's doing some, you know, terms of service violations against Reddit and some other places, but uh but it's a great skill if you want to do research of what's been going on in the last 30 days. It uh somehow will scrape from Twitter and Reddit. So, shout out to that guy. But

if you look at the skill, >> it's a bloated mess of crap in the skill. Like, it's like there's stuff in there that is just wasting the model's attention and it's it's amazing that it works as well as it does. So, sometimes I wonder, am I even overthinking the quality of skills because it can still get the job done. But >> yeah, >> if you're going to use skills for agents that are running them in production or, you know, company in your enterprise relies on these skills, then take the time to craft them well and and and do that. But, um, >> I I agree. I mean, I I write skills on a

daily basis and I edit my skills on a daily basis as well. And I I have done it for over two years. You know, they haven't been called skills all the time, but I've been editing my markdown files for two years. >> Yeah. >> They're kind of just prompts, right?

Yeah. Like or I don't know. Like I got into an argument the other day saying they are prompts or aren't prompts. What do you guys think? Are they prompts?

>> They are. Yeah. [laughter] >> I I have always said like you know skills uh commands uh rule files uh system prompt everything is just another markdown file. Like it's just another way of loading. >> It's all prompts into the machine.

Right. >> Yeah. Exactly. >> Which is why I laugh when people say like prompt engineering is dead or or or not. It's like what this is like the core primitive of everything whether it's loops or harnesses or graphs at the end of the day the primitive is the prompt. What else do we have to put into

the machine? So >> yeah I mean if you want to get around >> what's that call? Yeah, I was just gonna end by saying if you want to get really really picky, the one primitive that isn't just a prompt is a hook because that's like the one thing that's like adding determinism into your AI coding, but literally everything else like sub agents and rules and skills, it's all just prompts. It's all just markdown. >> Yeah.

>> Yeah. It's marked down that you can accompany with something else because I mean you can easily embed this little CLI or script or something inside of a skill and you can just teach your agent how to use that script for example. But I mean it's just an instruction for how to do something. >> Yeah. But yeah uh so so one thing I would want to say just to close out the self-improvement thing uh and the way I do it because I will run my loops you know I have my two projects open where I have all my skills and I have the project that I'm working on and as I realize okay it made a mistake here now or it did this here now I will log that as issues and evidence into my skills repo and you know then I will figure out why did it do this and I will just improve on my skills repo and I very rarely go in and edit the code manually on my real project. I will just throw it

away and run it run the loop again on the new on the same issue with the new skill >> and see if it works. >> That's a great technique. Yeah, everybody should probably learn to use that technique and follow something similar to that. >> Yeah, it's good stuff. Cool. Well, yeah,

we've got another good question from Sander here that I'd love your take on, Brian. If you would recommend to learn one skill to builders with AI, what would it be? Is it system thinking or uh being able to abstract ideas? Just what's your take in general? >> O, that is an interesting question.

>> Systems thinking versus what was the other one, Cole? >> Being able to abstract ideas, which he might be connect actually connecting them like is he's asking like is that the most important thing? >> Yeah, they're really they're really related. I I do think I don't know. I think systems thinking can be developed, right? I think people

can get better at it. It's an abstract concept, but it's I don't want to say it's something people either have or they don't have. But I will say that that is a differentiator I see among working engineers. Um both god this is this is painting with such a broad brush right but but some people you can tell I just systems thinkers and they can kind of abstract and think >> how to work in systems at the end of the day I I do think it's a very important skill to develop um because if you're doing this for a career thinking in systems you know goes so much more beyond just like how to get the agent to do what you want or how to develop skills or how to develop the software but looking how the business entities, you know, work and piece together and connections and like just systems thinking in general, I think is just such a great skill and and it really does involve abstraction. So, I'm not totally getting the dichconomy, but I but I do think it's something that can be developed.

>> Um, and and worked on. >> That's good. I think Sanders actually connecting it together. I don't think he's saying there's a dichotomy. Pretty sure. Yeah. But yeah, just to add on to

that, um, one thing I've seen is the developers that are struggling the most with adopting AI and just them being at most risk of losing their job, for example, they're the ones that um are very prone to getting like lost in the we excuse me, getting lost in the weeds. Like they're so obsessed with learning syntax and programming languages and and um the things that like AI is handling a lot now. They're people that used to be important and they still are to an extent, but they used to be really important because they're the ones that the team would go to when it's like, "Hey, I need you to help me like write up this script really quick." Or like they're the ones that are kind of like the ticket or ticket jockeyies like you were saying, Brian, where they're able to just like take a ticket and just like blow through it because they can write all the code and they're not going over to Stack Overflow or anything. >> U they're able to just get things done.

They follow instructions really well and know how to execute. Uh, but they're actually the ones that are struggling the most right now because more of the freeth thinkers, people that can think higher level, which is systems thinking, they're the ones that are able to drive agents more and they're just less prone to wanting to uh fight the agent and do more themselves than they should. And so I I think for those people like if that's you and this used to be me, I'm going to be honest, like I used to be that person that like was very proud of like how much I had, you know, TypeScript and Python syntax. >> That was our identity, right? We both came from this career. Yeah.

>> Right. Yeah. So, I like I had to ditch that and be like, I don't care about how much I know different programming languages or how easy it is for me to implement like object-oriented programming or singleton patterns like any of these things that like agents can just knock out of the park. Maybe it's important for you to identify when you'd want to use that type of design pattern, but then you don't implement it anymore. And so, I've had to like make myself focus more and more on the higher level thinking. And obviously, that's that's

paid dividends. I think um I mostly agree with you. I I do feel, you know, I don't know, this is this is tough, right? It somebody just coming into the industry right now. Um I don't know what's being taught in universities. Um I'm actually scared

because I heard somebody told me they were teaching BMAD in a course and I'm like, "Okay, that's that's bizarre." [laughter] >> But I but I hope I hope they're teaching more than Well, then they made me sad because they told me it was like vibe coding oneonone or oneonone. I'm like, "No, no, this is not vibe coding." So they >> universities not getting what's going on. What a surprise, right? But I hope

universities are still teaching design patterns. >> Um I mean that really kind of gets into system thinking right there. I think >> yeah, >> the common term right now that I really like is taste, right? And and that does still relate to spotting good or bad code or code smells or or patterns. Um I grew up listening to or grew up through my career listening to like like Bob Martin. um you know, Uncle Bob, uh

many people probably know him and you know, he always used the term software craftsmanship and I think that's still relevant in a way, but it's not the same as what it was before. Um, >> I think it's still important to understand clean code and dry principles and caring about that stuff, but not necessarily, like you're saying, obsessing over all the details. But I do see, and I've been reminded of this more from Opus lately, that there could be a slot apocalypse coming. And I love that term, and people are using it now. >> Uh, so I'll give I'll give one key example. Um, I have always been very

opposed to code comments. I I love self-documenting code. Yeah, meaning very good variable names. Maybe put a function header on it. But I've worked at places where the standard was, this is an older thing, but a lot of Java shops back in the day, they would have engineers write a function comment with almost every line of code. And it

drove me crazy, right? And I'm glad like the whole clean code and everything else starting getting really popularized recently with Opus 5 and its propensity to talk nonsense um >> has been shoving code comments into all the code. >> Yeah. >> And a lot of people just didn't notice it because the code rabbits in the code review things were not picking it up. And so just knowing about these things is important and knowing like why code comments can be a bad thing is actually important when you start documenting the code and the code changes and the comments aren't updated which the LLM will also do trust me it then starts causing tension attention deficiencies in the model where it's now fighting >> documentation or code comments and which is the source of truth. And

this is where I say it's still important to sometimes just look at the code. One of the things I want to introduce into BMAT actually is when you get to the end of the epic, I want to have a good refactoring skill that kind of refactors after all of it's done. It could be done after you got all the stuff in production and it's working well, >> but I'm seeing this across the industry. people are not going back and doing three factor um of the work that's going in and this is where I think people are going to start running into a slot apocalypse and it might not manifest in broken code. It might not manifest in the agent not being able to implement but what it will in >> what it will manifest is is more token spend and just more cycles and things will slow down. Um

>> that's good. Yeah. So all all to say Cole I 100% agree with you and like again systems thinking but also having and developing taste and if you're if you're a product manager if you haven't you know been a developer you can learn these taste skills and I see people doing it. So I would say like try to understand like don't just tell the agent follow clean code. First of all you don't need to tell the agents that anymore. It doesn't really do anything

like we believed it would a year ago. But I think it's worth having have a discussion with Claude and say, "Claude, what are clean code concepts? What are things that I should be interested in?" Start to learn some of these things and look out for them yourself or start to tune your code review agents to really look for these types of things because it's scary the type of things they weren't they aren't focusing on. A year ago, I had the wrong opinion that it doesn't matter because at some point it's all going to be code that the agent is maintaining. But just what you were

saying Rasmus at least right now even the foundation the best models that are getting 90% on coding benches they are producing slop that will compound compound over time. >> Mhm. >> And so it's up to us as engineers to really have that taste. And I don't think that's going away anytime soon. I I could be wrong but I've really changed my mind in that direction significantly.

And this is why I also see people pulling back from the idea that the dark factory is the top of the mountain. I don't say that anymore. I don't even say dark factory because I think if you actually look in sci-fi what a dark factory is, I don't think anybody wants that because the dark factory really means the whole factory is also thinking of what to do next and what makes sense and you know so I think software factory is probably a better term to use, but I don't even think that's the top of the mountain. I really do believe human on the loop is is the pinnacle of what to try to get to. Moving from a human in the loop to human on the loop, but still maintaining that control. It's it's all

related. >> I've been Yeah, I've been doing a lot of experimentation with dark factories. I I actually agree the software factory might be a better term. [snorts] And I'm still trying to figure out if it's the peak or not. >> I think it's the peak for the individual, right? Like

>> I mean, sure. Yeah. Well, well, let me ask you a question for you. For dark factory, does dark factory also mean >> writing the spec, deciding what to build and feeding it in? >> No, dark factory is spec in, shipped code out.

>> Exactly. And that is coming. And that's why I say like that's why I'm not like calling it dark factory as much. [laughter] >> What's that? Yeah, it really is.

>> It's already Yeah. So maybe there's nothing wrong with factory. Yeah. No, I don't I don't think that's the pinnacle. Yeah.

>> But I think that's kind of what we've been talking on all along. like as long as your as long as your build loop is good like that's already here like you're still sitting at the left and the right of that of that loop and you still have to you know decide what actually gets merged and to some extent I mean I think at some point maybe you know as you said a big percentage of that can probably also be automated >> definitely automated it's all to the left I think our value is in the left and which is which is deciding what to build and why >> but but here's >> the real problems yeah >> oh go ahead >> yeah I think the real problems with like a full dark factory where All of the left side is also automated. It's like who is going to talk to the customers? Who is going to >> Exactly. Right. Or you're relying on

signals or something. I mean, >> yeah. Yeah. Like >> can we build systems like that? Of course. But but

>> I don't think we want to in every case. And I think >> anyways, that's kind of me being a purist of what the term came from, right? From sci-fi and everything. But but um >> I agree with you. Like I just don't think it's the pinnacle. I think like

Rasmin said, we're there now. And I think everybody can build and should everybody should experiment with building their own software factory where it can take a spec and get it all the way to production, you know, and what do you need to do to actually guarantee that it has the right gates, that you trust it like like do this in an actual production enterprise system, not on a hobby project. What things do you want to think about to know that you can sleep at night and not be worried that that spec you told it to do at 5:00 in an afternoon on a Tuesday? Because Claude loves to talk Tuesdays. So, you know, when you put that work in there on a Tuesday, are you going to sleep Tuesday night and not be afraid that everything's on fire Wednesday? Figure

out what else you got to put in the process to get there. Um, that's good. >> But yeah, it's it's a cool >> I want to touch on one more thing or a couple of things actually that you said here as well. And I you know, I come from the opposite side of the spectrum that four years ago I was a product manager, right? So uh I also about taste uh like for me as well like taste has always been about product taste and yeah that's also something that has to go like it's not only about how code is written or how code is supposed to be looking like that's obviously important but product taste is also very important like what should your product feel like what should your product look like and that is things that AI is really bad at at the moment >> uh like it's really bad at building uh UI that feels good without you being extremely specific about what you want.

>> So you still need to have that product taste all the way down to code taste as well. So I mean the main things I have had to learn over the last four years is exactly what you described. I've had to learn like systems engineering, architectural design, uh what does good code looks like? I I also already have that simplification step that you described in my loop like I have this auto refactoring kind of don't change any um functionality just make it look cleaner basically >> uh in our build it's all like coding or sorry commenting uh I have a comment um review scope at the end as well that will you know if if the comment is not uh if the comment is describing the code the comment doesn't need to be there the code should describe the essentially. >> So, so, so you know, >> it's it's nefarious what starts slipping in as the models and harness changes.

Not to not to beat this comment dead horse, but I'm just I'm so mad over it because it was working well. But this also, you know, um who was it? Not maybe Boris or Carpathia or one of them said like every time a new model comes out, you really do need to look at throw out your agents MD. >> Yeah, that was Boris. >> Throw out what's driving your skills.

You don't have to throw out all the skills, but throw out what's driving them and redo them and see what you need and what new things you need. Like not everything is getting better at the end of the day. Like like that's that's the learning I took from this Opus 5 fiasco where now it's putting these slop comments in the code that I know will be detrimental given more time. So >> this I think we can talk about a little bit too because I mean Entropic obviously they deleted 80% of their system prompt. >> Yeah. uh a little bit later they

released Opus uh 5 and then they kind of like without adding things back into their system prompt they kind of backtracked a little bit and they wrote this huge blog post about how do you what do you need to tell Opus to not give you this slop and you know they have a bunch of uh uh ideas or you know instructions of how what you should essentially add back into your system prompt to not have Opus give you all of this slop and uh for me at least like it my reduction of prompt has worked really well across Soul and and Fable, but as long anytime I use Opus, I'm basically prompting more now than I what I did before, >> right? >> It's it's you know, it's debatable, right? It's it's an interesting thing. Um I think it's partially the model. I think it is also the system prompt. I

like there's definitely something that feels different in the model and I don't think it's only that they removed a lot of the system prompt. Uh people that have uh they post there's um there's GitHub repos that actually post what they claim is the actual system prompt now and it does seem like they did remove 80% and a lot of what remains at least in the anthropic system prompt it seems like most of it is related to workflows. So, not only did they drastically reduce it, but they put in all this machinery in there to work with these amazing workflows. And I love I love Cloud's new workflow feature, right? Like, it's it's it's great. It's it's magic. It's it's

it's very cool. Um, but yeah. So, so what did they take out, right? Um, they just yesterday or the day before um released a new output style that actually works called concise. It's just the name of it is concise. Now, the

their default one always had the word concise in it, but we all know it was not concise with Opus 5. The new one, I will say, has been working great for the day I've been using it. So, you don't have to try to come up with your own. If you haven't tried it yet and you're using Claude, try out the new concise output style. It's It's wonderful. Um,

>> does it actually remember it across turns as well? >> That's what I need to explore more with today. I just started mostly using it. It might have just been yesterday. We have to see how long it sticks because I've had lots of problems with output styles where I think that's exactly what you're getting at is two or three turns in it's back to chatty Kathy again, right? No offense Kathy, but it's it's

super chatty. >> Um >> yeah. >> So yeah, the system problem thing is I will say one thing about BMAD is um >> never built it to be clawed only. Um you know that has that has drawbacks but it also has benefits. Um especially for the enterprise. I know a lot of

enterprises they have a deal with OpenAI or they have a deal with Enthropic. Um right that I mean that's what you're going to do, right? Like and and that's good because you get volume discounts and you know you get this ecosystem but you're also stuck when they change things. And so I see this now a lot is a lot of enterprises are realizing they actually need a backup. They need to be multimodel. You know, it's funny. Most

most companies have been single cloud for the last 20 years and have not have a problem. But a year into the volatility of these models and harnesses, they're realizing it's a crapshoot to actually go in on one or the other because first of all, they're all working at gross subsidies and, you know, keeping the cost down and changing the levers constantly. And when have we ever had a software product that we pay for that randomly changes daily drastically like this much, right? So, >> um, god dang, it's an interesting uh it's an interesting space to be in right now. But, but, uh, yeah, it's, um, it's just something that, uh, we got to keep living with.

So, so BMED is not meant to be like claw specific, even though that's the one I use the most. you know, we try to make it work with the Chinese models and with with open models and um uh French models, right, Quen and Codeex. Um, and I strongly believe in that. I don't want to go all in. And so what that means is through customization yourself, if you're all in on code, put some hooks in there that work well with BMAD or or your own skills, right? So you can still

custom and tailor it to work with things. We do use some techniques >> um where it will work with commonalities across all of them. So we we push it to use sub aents in the right place in our skills, right? So it will use that but we don't use clawad or codec specific language, >> right? >> That might evolve in the future, but but the system prompts it didn't affect us too bad actually >> other than the verbosity of the documents and we're working on that.

We'll probably run out of time so I'm not going to go too much into that. But we try to write our skills to where they're not too volatile because we make them so they do pretty much work across all the models. So we're not too impacted when one harness or one skill uh shits the bed like uh like they kind of did with this opus roll out, >> right? >> Yeah. Something I have had a problem with uh over the last few weeks as well in in my framework is that uh like codeex and cloud uh also depending on cloud model but they behave very differently in terms of when [snorts] they invoke skills and how >> good your skill trigger has to be for it to actually use the skill when you want it to use it. And also agents. So with

sub agents like >> codeex essentially uses sub aents for everything even when you don't want it to. And Claude almost never uses it on the exist. [laughter] Well, well, Claude even just recently put into their system prompt be before this last one and it has been annoying the hell out of me where even in my skills um it says use sub agents to do XYZ but Claude put into its system prompt only use sub agents when the user tells you to use sub a >> and at first when it told me this I thought it was hallucinating but I've seen it multiple times Paul showed me this exact wording and so I had to put into my agent that MD file. I wrote all these GD skills if you like I probably worded it better right but but it's like I am telling you use sub agents use them whenever you think you should use them and if a skill tells you assume that I did that >> it actually helped um I haven't seen that message pop up anymore but that that's where I mean we're just we're building these tools and these things and we're at the mercy of these changing whims >> that it's it's it's it's a challenge to keep up with just in all honesty right so Um, that's an interesting thing. The difference between Codex and Claude is is they are very opinionated and do have different philosophies. If you use both,

you really do see they just they have different takes on things. Claude, I can get it to take on different personas and and role play, which I am enjoy. I know some people don't like that. Whereas Codeex is like your skill named, you know, so and so is doing this, but it just it doesn't want to take on the persona. So, >> there's things like that that, you know, >> that's good though, right? Maybe you

want more one style versus the other style. So it's it's an interesting challenge. >> I mean I I have found it extremely annoying and difficult. I have had to address this as at multiple levels like with with Claude as well especially because you know I have skills that I always wanted to use my PR skill for example every time a PR I wanted to use this skill. So I had to put it at multiple levels. I had append the system

prompt. I had to put it in my cloud.md both in the project and in my global cloud.mmd and on my skill trigger >> and it still doesn't do it every time. >> One [laughter] one thing um I've never really relied on a lot of the skills autofiring although I haven't had as much problem but but I really treat them more like commands >> of when I want to run the skill. uh to

the point that some of our skills we even change the description so they will almost never auto fire >> um because [clears throat] that's the way they're meant to be used. So in BMAD we do have these personas >> and you can talk to the persona and when I tell like the analyst that I want to do brainstorming internally it will just directly say invoke skill name and that works almost 100% of the time. Um, but if I want to work on a PRD, I'll just do SLP prd or or if I want to do whatever I like I just I find that I'm used to that, but I love voice input. >> And so that's where it starts to become pro problematic. But generally I found it to be reliable. If I know the skill

name or pretty much and I say like, hey, I want to >> create this or work on that, it's, you know, mostly going to get it. But but it's annoying if it doesn't. >> Yeah. I mean in normal usage if I sit with one session and I and I work my way through something then it's not a problem. Uh why it's a problem for me is because like my skills are built in two layers. So I have like my primitive

skills and then I have my composition skills. So primitive skill is my build and you know create PRD create spec u uh build uh implement validate whatever you whatever their names are >> and then I have composition skills that will you know invoke those skills in an order essentially an orchestrator type skill >> and it's when I run the orchestrator that's when or you know when I write run the composition skill that's when I have this problem because that's when I look away like that's when I just wanted to follow the instruction that I have given it until the PR is ready >> cycled through x amount of review loops and ready for me to take a look at. So, so that's in that >> cycle that's when I have this problems when I sit with the agent then I have don't have this problem because I of course also know the names of my skills and I will just when I need it I will invoke it >> but if I if I run this like a an autonomous mode if you will then I have this problem all the time >> we should man this could be a whole other topic I would love to talk to you guys just about this topic but I know we're going to run out in like nine minutes um >> right >> but uh so I'm not going to even comment on that because I want to but >> yeah well we're going to have to have another workshop definitely. There's so many more things we can talk about. I think it'd be good just um to end here with another question from the chat. Um

so we'll we'll do that and then we'll bit of wrap up as well. But Eric had a good question. This is going back to I think like our previous conversation right before we were talking about um opus and issues with coding agents recently. U but he asked how do you mentor senior engineers that are not system thinkers into adapting frameworks like BMAT or R PIV? So basically for the people that do get very in the weeds or like they're super proud of like understanding um syntax and they're like, "Oh, I I can do every command in Linux and I know how to do all the really complicated GP commands that your coding agent asks and you're like, "Oh, sure. Go ahead and do

it." Like those people that are so obsessed with that, how do you get them out of that rut or just help them change their mindset? >> I'm going to re repeat what I said at the beginning because I promise you I've seen this have transformative effects. So when I talk to companies and even in my own company um >> I say give me your detractors upfront your and it's usually senior engineers or or people >> that again hang their value on you know their ail ability to know the node internals or you know like just this obscure you know Python or Java or whatever um and just force everybody to go through this uh process of um the sprint pressure is off for the next two weeks everybody's is going to only have one task for the next two weeks. It would normally be a story that probably took you 3 to 4 days in the past, but for the next two weeks, that's all you're going to do. And you're going to do what I

described at the beginning is just don't give them a framework. Don't don't give them everything and have them go through that. When I did this with a team, a few more details on it. We did standups every morning, which is a 15-minute meeting at the start of the day when everybody's online, but instead of giving a status update every day, which is what most stand-ups have become, but I digress. Um, instead, >> everybody would share techniques and stuff that they learned. And by the

third or fourth day of doing this, it just created such a level of excitement of people discovering things on their own. By the end of the week or two, most people basically reinvented what Cole and I preach on their own. People will come to these decisions. And when you let them do this, so this is the whole idea of an article I wrote before that Rasmus actually reminded me I wrote that I forgot I wrote called, you know, it's a permission problem. It's not an agent problem, right? A lot of engineers, they

just don't have the time to like really try this over and over again and build up the muscle menu, right? They're they're not joining Kohl's community or watching our YouTube videos or in our Discord communities and and like absorbing this, right? We here all of us on this call are in a bubble where we care about the stuff and we love about this stuff. But a lot of people, they have a job, they're working nineto-ive, they have sprint commitments, they got to get SIFT done. So, so give them the opportunity to do this, but sometimes you got to be a little bit firm and say like, "This is all you're going to do for the next two weeks. You have to try

this." And by the end of the two weeks, you have to show me that you can have the agent build and complete the story on its own, validated. And then if people do that and they get there quicker, have them do it over and make it more efficient and figure out other things. It leads to an explosion of so much other creativity. people will start thinking about well damn do I got to do all this error triage myself every morning and look through the logs or can we create agents to do that or oh we do this process like the transformation is not just beyond their ability to use the agent it will unleash a creativity where people will start creating their own skills people will start thinking about reinventing tools for their own needs and using Slack in interesting ways to connect to different things it it's it's so transformative I love it um So >> yeah, >> hopefully that helps answer your question. I mean some people I will say

that there are detractors of AI and look AI has its problems, right? It's not the magic that you know I probably even thought it was a year ago. The beneer is off. There are problems. There's things that we talked about even here today that have to be solved. And some people

they want their craft to be software engineers. I don't fault them for that. You know, that's like somebody that wants to be a woodworker, right? and they love, you know, they could use CNC machine or whatever, but they want to use those hand tools. There's nothing wrong with being that craftsman if that's what you love. And there might

even still be needs for that. >> Or don't let your job, you know, be the thing that you love, right? Like like sure >> because a job will suck the love out of everything. So if you want to be a codec crafter and not use AI, >> do it. But realize the job has moved on and you kind of gota I mean it's going to come to a point where it's going to be hard to avoid it I believe. So

hopefully that helps. I mean everybody's different but hopefully that kind of helps answer that question. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> And I think as well like if you are if you are a leader in the company too and and listening to this as well like you're going to get so much more value about allowing those two weeks as well because imagine when those two weeks are over everything that you didn't ship those two weeks are going to be able to be shipped so much faster.

you're going to catch up and speed ahead. >> Yeah. The return on investment is Yeah. >> Yeah. The return on investment is very good. Yeah. And and yeah, everything

that Brian is saying here, like I've I've seen the same with the companies I work with where people just get addicted to it, right? Like the initial training is kind of the gateway drug. Company forces developers to work with these tools and then they love it so fast. They're building skills. They're sharing with each other and they're building up that uh common like repo or or artifact or repository whatever of of their of their skills and sub agents things like that. And so I think this is like a

really good stopping point here. That was like Brian's fiveminute master class on how you get a your team or an organization to adopt coding agents. >> Five minutes millions of dollars of change in five minutes. There you go. >> That's right. Yeah. Super good. So yeah,

we're pretty much at time here. Um but yeah, there's probably a couple questions we didn't get to as well. So definitely if there are a couple, feel free to just post them in the community. I'll even follow up with Brian if I need to. Um, but yeah, we sounds like we're going to need to have even a third session at >> some so many good things to cover here. So

>> Cole and Rasmus, I I hope you guys will come on my podcast one day and we can continue the conversation and I would love to learn more about what you guys are doing and all the great stuff and these topics are so much fun to discuss. So thank you so much guys. This was this was so awesome. >> Yeah. Yeah, you as well. Thank you,

Brian. Thank you, Raasmus. And thank you everyone for your questions as well. Uh yeah, this is fantastic. I'm I'm learning just as much as all of you, too, as we go through this. So, yeah.

And then, yeah, recording will be posted uh a little bit later than usual because there's some other settings I tweaked that'll make the processing time longer. So, if you guys weren't here for the whole thing, you just have to wait a little bit longer for that. But anyway, yeah, this was fantastic. So, thank you again, everyone. Um I hope you guys have a fantastic weekend and I will see you all in the community. See you guys.

>> Bye everybody.