---
video_title: "Amazon Nova Act - The Fastest Way to Browser Automation"
video_id: pIiGzCRNM9U
channel_name: "Cole Medin"
channel_id: UCMwVTLZIRRUyyVrkjDpn4pA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pIiGzCRNM9U
video_date: 2026-01-27T18:22:24+00:00
video_description: |
  Amazon Nova Act is one of if not the most reliable browser automation tools I have come across. It's so incredibly easy to simply describe in plain English what you want to automate, and then Nova Act will build the automation which you can even download as a Python script to build into larger automations!
  
  Check out Amazon Nova Act for free here:
  https://fandf.co/49sSZjW
  
  Thanks to Amazon for their partnership!
---
browser automation that actually works. I didn't think it was possible either. I've been through this myself. Most of these tools, they work for simple applications, but definitely not anything real. Now, as far as browser automation tools, I've tried pretty much every one of them under the sun. But

Amazon Nova Act is a newer player, and the reliability is out the roof compared to everything I've tried before. And what makes it different is that it's trained through reinforcement learning on thousands of simulated web environments. So, it knows how to handle all the tricky stuff like pop-ups, date pickers, and drop downs. All the things that break everything else. And getting started with Amazon Nova Act is free and super easy. So, let me show you that

right now. And I'm actually collabing with Amazon as well to bring this quick guide to you. So, thanks to them for that. So, you just have to go to nova.amazon.com/act.

I'll have a link in the description. Sign up with your Amazon account for free. And then you can go right here into the create UI agent. This is where you can put in the URL that you want the agent to browse through the browser automation. And then in natural language, we can describe step by step what we want the agent to do for us. And

so for this demonstration, I'll have it go to Product Hunt. I'll have it click on each of the top five products that are launching today. For each of the products, I'll have it search for similar ones on Product Hunt and analyze them. And then lastly, to end things off, I'm going to have it give me a summary of the tools, the ones that are similar, and how all of the top ones are related to each other. It's very free form, the instructions I give my agent here. And it's incredible how closely it

follows it to a T. And so I'll click on the play button here to run the agent. And I'll scroll over so you can see the environment. Take a look at that. We can watch it go through Product Hunt here.

So it kicked off the first task. It's going to click into the top tool here. And then it's going to do that for each of the top five and give me exactly what I asked for in the last step. And so it'll take a bit to do this. So I'll let it do its thing. I'll come back once we

have our final summary. And there we go. Our agent run has succeeded. So we can see the output from the agent, all the decisions that it made as it fulfilled our request and the summary that we have at the end. An overview of all the top tools, the ones that are similar and how they are related. And this completed in

just about 20 to 30 seconds. Super fast, exactly what I wanted. And here comes the best part. We are not stuck to just working in this UI. Once we're happy with our automation, we can download it as a Python script. So, we can include

our Amazon Nova Act automation within larger production workflows within our CI/CD pipeline. Really, the sky is the limit here. So, if you want browser automation that is easy to build, reliable, and goes all the way to production, definitely check out Amazon Nova Act. I'll have a link to them in the description.