---
video_title: "Build a Robust AI Driven Data Pipeline in Minutes (No Code)"
video_id: PZgfePsI_eM
channel_name: "Cole Medin"
channel_id: UCMwVTLZIRRUyyVrkjDpn4pA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZgfePsI_eM
video_date: 2026-01-29T23:45:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Your AI is only as good as your data pipeline...
  
  Garbage in = garbage out. That's why getting your data integration right is EVERYTHING for AI success.
  
  IBM watsonx.data integration lets you build robust pipelines in minutes — no code needed. Check it out here:
  
  https://ibm.biz/Bdpdks
  
  Just drag, drop, and let the AI assistant do the heavy lifting.
  
  Most AI projects fail due to bad data foundations... don't be that guy. Thanks to IBM for working with me on this short!
---
I built a real-time AI pipeline that takes unstructured company information and turns it into structured data with an LLM. And I was able to build this in just a couple of minutes. And these kinds of always-running pipelines are super important for a lot of different use cases, especially rag pipelines, which I focus on a lot on my channel. And I was able to build this pipeline with IBM's Watson X data integration. No Python, no servers. IBM manages the

infrastructure for me to reliably run my pipeline at 24/7. And IBM's Watson X data integration is a lot more than just a data streaming tool. You have their unstructured data flow integration. With DataStage, we can create batch flows. They have their data replication tool.

And then of course, with StreamSets, we have the real-time data streaming that I'm focusing on right now. And so when we are in our flow editor here, we can select our source, where are we going to be streaming data from, like Jira or a REST service. We have our processor, so how we transform our data, basically creating our own ELT pipeline with no code. And then finally, we have the targets, where are we sending this data to after we have done the transformation. So now going to the logs for our LLM in the OpenAI dashboard, we can see all of these requests as they are streamed in in real time from our data source. And so I can click into one

of these, and we can see the request that's happening live in our pipeline. So we give the raw text, and then through structured output, this is the key information that we get. And we can then send downstream to our database in a rag pipeline, an API endpoint like I'm showing, whatever we want as our target destination. And then for demo purposes, I'm using webhook.site as my way to receive the post requests for the final destination of my pipeline. So we have

all of these different requests being streamed in, and for each one of them we have all the information that the LLM extracted, like the company name and the company industry. And this is a very basic example of a pipeline that we can create with IBM's Watsonx Data Integration, but the sky really is the limit for the kinds of pipelines that you can build and the ways that you can transform your data. And back within the editor, I just want to show you that every single step of the way there are a ton of different parameters and customizations to make sure that our pipeline is working exactly as we need it to. That's what production pipelines actually look like, not a Jupyter notebook, but a streaming data flow that can handle thousands of records automatically, even every second. That's the kind of scale that we're talking about here. The Watsonx Data Integration

is a unified layer that connects, transforms, and governs data so your AI systems can scale. I'll have a link to them in the description and thank you to IBM for working with me on this video.