---
video_title: "Rime Finally Made Voice Agents Good Enough"
video_id: hKR1JZ2uvuQ
channel_name: "Cole Medin"
channel_id: UCMwVTLZIRRUyyVrkjDpn4pA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hKR1JZ2uvuQ
video_date: 2026-08-28
video_description: |
  Rime Labs was founded by linguists, and it shows. A Stanford computational linguistics PhD and a linguist who worked on Alexa.
  
  Almost 600 voices across 10 languages, and the dialects are specific. Spanish isn't just Spanish. It's Mexican, Colombian, Dominican, Puerto Rican.
  
  Mayo Clinic and Dialpad run on it.
  
  Free tier here: https://rime.plug.dev/Fv5nBVe
  
  Thanks to Rime Labs for working with me on this!
---
It is crazy how powerful and realistic voice agents are becoming and rime labs is leading the charge. You got to check this out because their voice models are powering the calls for a bunch of massive companies like Mayo Clinic and Dialpad. And what I really found cool is that rime labs is founded by linguists, people who understand how language actually works. So they can encode their expertise in the voices they create which by the way, they have hundreds of different voices with different languages and dialects. Now you might be asking Paul, why are you just showing me another option for my voice models? But

here's the thing, they are legitimately better than anything I've tested before. So if you need an upgrade to your voice agents, this is it. I mean just being quite frank as I've been testing the different voice models here in rime labs, I've noticed that it just doesn't screw up on the things that voice models usually do like handling numbers, dollar amounts, IDs, the kinds of things that like when you have it in the audio, you just really can tell that it's an agent that's saying it. So take a look at this example here. >> Hey, it's Arcon. The run on PR 37 just

finished. Opus 5 rewrote the off middleware. Tests went from 9 of 12 passing to 12 of 12 and it cost 42 cents. Commit is 7AF8C22. Want me to merge it?

>> Now of course that's just a small example of all the testing that I've been doing but like man, that was good. I can see why there are so many large companies trusting rime labs models to power millions of calls a month. And their dashboard makes it incredibly easy to try all the different models and generate sample audio. And of course rime labs has both an API and MCP server so it's very easy to generate audio and incorporate it in your applications. And by the way, the voice model you just heard is called Coppola. If you want to

use the same one, it is fantastic. But yeah, they have hundreds of models for you to explore here and you can filter by native language, country, gender, age, style. It's fantastic. Rime labs also has fantastic documentation. It's extremely easy to get started within your automations or directly in their dashboard and you get 800 minutes free to start, and it's only 5 cents per minute of audio after that. I'll have a

link in the description to Rime Labs. Definitely worth checking out. Their voice models are incredible. In fact, their models are incredible enough where I tested them first, and then I reached out. Like, "Hey guys, your models are incredible. I want to show them on my

channel." So, of course, thanks to them for working with me on this video.