---
video_title: "AI Software Factories Are the Next Big Thing (And I'm Building You One)"
video_id: DcLj_SO8JNk
channel_name: "Cole Medin"
channel_id: UCMwVTLZIRRUyyVrkjDpn4pA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DcLj_SO8JNk
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  An AI software factory is the ultimate evolution of AI coding. A PRD goes in, gets split into tasks, and shipped code comes out the other end, with nobody looking at the code in between.
  
  I ran that as an experiment all year and it built Dynachat, my AI tutor, which I have never read a line of. Now I am building an open source version anyone can download and point at their own project! You paste the prompt at the top of the README into your coding agent and it installs the whole thing.
  
  It's in early alpha and it is my number one priority going forward - building it out and sharing it with you on this channel as I do so.
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  Check out DataImpulse - residential proxies for scraping and agent workflows:
  https://dataimpulse.com/?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=video&utm_campaign=ColeMedin
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  - Join Dynamous for the new Agentic Coding Course 2.0 - the core of the course is now COMPLETE:
  https://dynamous.ai
  
  - The AI Software Factory. The prompt that installs it is at the top of the README:
  https://github.com/coleam00/ai-software-factory
  
  - Dynachat, the app my dark factory built and still maintains:
  https://chat.dynamous.ai
  
  - Dan Shapiro, "The Five Levels: from Spicy Autocomplete to the Dark Factory":
  https://www.danshapiro.com/blog/2026/01/the-five-levels-from-spicy-autocomplete-to-the-software-factory/
  
  - Archon, the workflow engine the factory runs on:
  https://github.com/coleam00/archon
  
  - The skill that builds you a dark factory from scratch:
  https://github.com/coleam00/skills
  
  - My original dark factory experiment:
  https://github.com/coleam00/dark-factory-experiment
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  0:00 A PRD Goes In, Shipped Code Comes Out
  2:37 Dan Shapiro's Five Levels of AI Coding
  3:52 The Experiment: My Dark Factory and Dynachat
  5:26 Sponsor: DataImpulse
  7:13 Why I'm Changing How I Teach
  8:45 Inside the AI Software Factory
  9:46 It's an Alpha, Come Build It With Me
  11:37 The Projects I Need to Build With It
  12:17 Why Video Games
  12:54 What's Next
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  Join me as I push the limits of what is possible with AI. I'll be uploading videos weekly - at least every Wednesday at 7:00 PM CDT!
---
The AI software factory, or what I've been calling the dark factory on my channel this year, is the ultimate evolution of AI coding. A PRD goes into the system and you get shipped code out. Right, you create your higher level planning document, you give that to the system to split into individual tasks, it goes through building all of them, reviewing the pull requests, merging things, and getting everything deployed straight to production without a human looking at the code. Now, you might be thinking there is no way that could ever be reliable enough, especially if you're more of a skeptic agents in general. And I get that, but I've been hearing about companies left and right now that are legitimately implementing this kind of system for at least part of the development in their organization. I've

even helped a few businesses build out an AI factory system. Cuz here's the thing, coding agents as our harness, large language models, and our larger workflows are all getting better in parallel. And so, having this kind of system, it it is becoming realistic. I know that might seem like a hot take for some of you, but I think it is legitimately productive now for any business to incorporate some kind of AI software factory, at least for prototyping things quickly and spiking product ideas. And let me tell you, I am betting big on this. The next big thing

that I'm going to be pouring a ton of time into and focusing on with my YouTube channel is building out an open source AI software factory. Something that you can download and use immediately to start building anything. And I know this is a big goal. I'm just getting started on this here, but I truly believe that the future of building software in general is getting to this level of autonomy. And so, that's what I want to cover in this video. I want to talk about what a

software factory really is, how I've gotten here, my own experimentation I've done this year, and I want to talk about what's next for this project. And hey, if you've never really followed my channel before, you just checked out a couple of videos, this might be the time to jump in. It is going to be a fun journey I'm going to go on here with the software factory. And don't worry, I'm not some delusional freak that thinks that AI is going to replace all engineering in a year. I just think that the software factory is legitimately going to become a big tool in the tool belt of most companies within the next few years. And we get to lead the charge

together. And just one more piece of food for thought here. Another reason I really want to get invested into building a software factory is this forces me to make AI coding assistants as reliable as possible. If I take myself out of the loop, I can't catch the small mistakes my agent is making. And so I'm just making myself a better agentic engineer when I push things to the limits like this. So if you follow

along with me, you're going to be taking all the lessons I get from doing this as well. So an AI software factory can also be called a dark factory. They're pretty much the same thing. In fact, I used to call it more of the dark factory just because that's what Dan Shapiro calls it in the blog post he put out at the start of the year. This is what really got me interested in the idea. He covers the

five levels of AI coding. Basically the different levels of autonomy we give our coding agent. I've covered this on my channel a couple times before. I'll probably keep referencing it a lot as well. You could turn this into a drinking game. Like take a shot every

time Cole shows Dan Shapiro's blog post. But I love this cuz it uses the analogy of driving a vehicle to help us understand the different levels of AI coding autonomy. So starting with you pretty much still all right all the code yourself. You're using AI for a little bit of assistance down to level three, which is mostly what I teach where you want the most reliability possible. You have the coding agent writing all the code, but you're very involved in the planning and validation for every individual issue or ticket. But then

[snorts] we get down to level five. So we have a console here. We still get to drive the vehicle with the higher level directions, but there's no steering wheel anymore. All of the smaller decisions are made completely by the agent at this point. We send in our planning document and we get shipped code out. And that is the dream for

anybody as long as it's reliable enough. Now, this big question, is the Dark Factory reliable enough, is something I started an experiment on earlier this year to figure out. So, I built a full Dark Factory that I documented building on my YouTube channel through live streams like this one and a lot of YouTube videos, and I created a full application with it. I call this DynaChat, my AI tutor. It's an agentic chat application that has full access to my YouTube channel, and then if you're in the Dynamis community, it can also search through my course and workshop content as well. So, you ask it any

question, and then it's grounded in everything that I teach on the internet. It's pretty cool. So, it's not the most complicated application, but the important thing is I built this end-to-end with my Dark Factory. I never wrote or even looked at a single line of code for this application. I'll have a link to this in the description. You can

literally try this out right now. It's a live production application that I didn't build a single piece of myself. So, I would say overall that this experiment was a success. But, the thing is this isn't a very critical application. It's not extremely complicated. I would say I didn't really

truly test the reliability of Dark Factories, and that is what I'm going to be doing next. And this initial experiment that I did, I even gave you a skill to help you build your own version of it. So, I'll link to a video right here where I covered that. Within my main skills GitHub repository, I have build Dark Factory. So, it'll walk you through creating from scratch the exact system that I used myself. And so,

that's a cool starting point. But, this is where I have to kind of just be transparent with you and share a little bit of a change in my philosophy for how I teach and bring tools to you. The sponsor of today's video is Data Impulse, a platform for pay-as-you-go proxies for all your scraping needs, for your agents and beyond. I'm building agents that involve scraping all the time. In fact, I have one mid-flight right now that's e-commerce related. I

have a very simplified example of that scraper right here. So, I'm pulling product information, but the problem is I'm using a single IP address. I'm not using a proxy. And so what happens is you start to get rate limited or outright blocked. This is the first wall you'll hit with any scraping you do beyond just a handful of requests. And

Data Impulse is the solution to that problem. They have their own residential network with 90 million plus IPs for you to use for your proxy, and it's across 195 countries. Plus there's no reselling. So all the IP addresses that you use here are going to be fast and reliable. So going back to my simplified demo here, I'm running the same scraper, but this time routing all my traffic through Data Impulse. And so instead of

it just going through the same IP address every single time, you can see that now we are using different IPs, and I'm not getting rate limited at all. And all the traffic that I'm generating with my scraper, I have the dashboard here where I can see the individual requests and all the metrics over time. And I promise I won't get too in the weeds, but just to show you the code really quickly, all I have to do is use the same scraper with their proxy URL. There are no other changes to the code, and now all the requests come back from a different residential IP. So it just seems like a bunch of different people are interacting with the site from their homes. The whole thing runs on $1 for

every 1 GB, pay as you go, and nothing expires. And I can even hold a sticky session if I have to use the same IP address across a couple different requests. Data Impulse is the proxy solution for any kind of scraping solution that you're building, like rag agents, price tracking apps, whatever it is. I'll have a link to them in the description. So I hope you don't mind.

I'm just going to get vulnerable for a little bit here. So for the lifetime of my YouTube channel, I've always had the philosophy I want to teach you how to build something yourself instead of just giving it to you. Right? Like teaching someone how to fish instead of just giving them the fish. And I know a lot of you appreciate that with my content.

So I'm not going to ditch that. But now I'm rethinking things. I want at least some of my content to be I'm actually going to just give you the tool to run right out of the box. Like before it's always like, here, I'll give you the skill to help you build your dark factory, or I'll teach you how to build your own second brain from scratch. But, I got to be honest, I've always wanted to have an open source project like Open Claw with almost 400,000 stars, or Hermes Agent with 240,000 stars, Deep Seek Harness that's already at 209,000 stars. Like I've never had something go

viral like this. I mean, the closest I've gotten is with Archon, which fantastic tool, I'm still pouring a lot into this, and it's it's great, but it's not a 200,000 star, 300,000 star project. And I think the reason why none of my stuff has gone sort of viral like these other tools is because it's not something incredible out of the box. It requires you to build out your own process, or to really create something from scratch, because it's always been my philosophy, like I said, but now [snorts] I I think it's my turn to build something that you can just use right away super easily and get a ton of value with it. So, trust me, Archon is not going anywhere. My philosophy still

stands most of the time, but I also get it. Like, sometimes you just want something that you can just download and start using right away with barely any setup. And so, that is what I'm doing now with the new AI software factory. I'm taking everything I've learned from helping companies implement systems like this from my public experiment I've been covering on my channel, all the lessons that I've learned the hard way, and I'm building that now into a solution that you can just download and use right away. So, obviously, it's quite opinionated how I like to build software, what I've ingrained into this, and I actually even have this running Archon workflows under the hood. So,

when you install it, it installs Archon to drive all the processes that take your plans, turn it into written code that's deployed. And of course, there'll be dials you can tweak to really customize things and make it your own if you want. If you subscribe to my usual philosophy, but the point is there's now the option where you can take this prompt at the top of the readme, send it into your coding agent, it'll ask you a few questions, and then it'll install everything and be immediately ready to accept any PRD and just build things end-to-end for you. Just working right out of the box. That's not my usual thing, but that's what I've got here.

And like I said earlier, I just started building this. And so the point of this video is not to give you a tutorial to set this up and run it. It's not necessarily ready for that. I mean, if you want to start the alpha of the software factory, you can go ahead and try it right now. Send this prompt into your coding agent, but more I wanted to make this video is to show you what I'm working on and invite you on a journey to build a software factory. So come

along with me as I build this out as a better and better resource for you and we'll see together how reliable we can make this kind of system. I'm decently skeptical that we can use a factory to build anything. In fact, you might even be a little bit more skeptical or less, I don't really know. The point is we're going to try to find that bar. I think we really can. Like if you need a

certain level of reliability, you still want to be in the loop a lot more, but for certain kinds of tasks or things you're working on, you can just give it over to a software factory as long as we put enough effort building out the harness, which is exactly what I'm going to be doing. And like I said at the start of the video, there's certain things that I already know you can use this for. Like proof of concepts and spiking product ideas. Like literally using your coding agent to just build out entire things to test ideas is realistic now, especially because of how cheap certain large language models are. So you can be very cost-effective in building out a ton of code just to try things out. And trust me, I've been

spending an insane amount of time testing the software factory as I'm building it out. So I create a ton of different software factories from scratch, like the one you're looking at right here, and I do that over and over again as I iterate and just continue to refine the main open source project that I'm sharing with you cuz it's been a lot of work to take all the lessons from the initial experiment I did and the companies I've worked with and turn that into the single open source project. And so, I've been spending a lot of tokens building this out, and we're just getting started. Now, at this point, I don't have one of these test repositories to share with you yet, but that's one of the next big things I'm going to be working on. Obviously, as I build out the software factory as the main repo for you, I also need real applications I build alongside it to prove the factory is working well. So,

I'm going to be putting a lot of effort into that. I've been thinking a lot about the kinds of applications I want to build, too. So, the AI Tutor application that you're looking at right here, what I built for the last experiment, this is great. It's practical, it's deployed right now, it's a great resource for you to use. But, when I really push the limit of software factories coming up here, I need something a lot more complicated. And

so, honestly, this might sound kind of silly, but what I want to build is video games. Video games are fantastic for testing complicated build-outs because applications like this, there's only so much you can do before it just becomes a feature-bloated mess. But, with video games, it feels like there's always an opportunity to build in more features, do something more elaborate and more fun. I think it's going to be fantastic. So, I'm not going to do anything web-based like this. I know that these

might be a bit more practical for, you know, resources for my channel, but video games are fun for me. Like, I grew up playing video games, I still play them, and I think it's just going to be a great way to push the limits of software factories. And so, all that to say, I've got a lot of cool things coming up on my YouTube channel where I'll be building out the software factory, making it better and better for you, showing you the different projects that I've been building with it, and of course, teaching you all the lessons and best practices I learn as I'm building out the harness underneath. Talking about how I use Arkon and those workflows to drive everything, best practices to make things more reliable. I do also already have content on my channel for how to build a dark factory.

So, I'll link to a video right here where I cover all of the concepts in this diagram. So, a lot of golden nuggets that I've covered already, but I just want to keep hitting on this as I work harder and harder on the project here. And honestly, the most important thing to mention here is that everything that goes into building the software factory is also going to teach me and you how to just use coding agents better in general. Because if we are taking the autonomy to this level, we better make things reliable, but that's also going to help even if you're more in the loop. And so, there is just a lot to get out of this journey and following along with me. And so, if you appreciated this

video and you're looking forward to following along as I build the software factory and all the AI coding lessons from that, I would really appreciate a like and a subscribe. And with that, I will see you in the next video.