---
video_title: "AI Exploded in 2025 - Here’s Everything That Happened"
video_id: -FVl-hbBTOY
channel_name: "Cole Medin"
channel_id: UCMwVTLZIRRUyyVrkjDpn4pA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-FVl-hbBTOY
video_date: 2026-01-01T01:00:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Check out Zapier to build automations with thousands of apps and include them as capabilities in your agents with MCP: https://bit.ly/4pXv82R
  
  From DeepSeek's Sputnik moment to $500B megaprojects, here are the 50 biggest AI developments that made 2025 the year AI became inevitable.
  
  We've got a lot of incredible new tools and LLMs being released, AI coding assistants taking over the world, companies raising billions of dollars, massive acquisitions, 90% of fortune 500 companies adopting a single tool?!, and one Chinese startup that wiped $600 billion off Nvidia's market cap in a single day.
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  - In partnership with AWS and Kiro, I'm hosting an AI Coding Hackathon in January with a $17,000 prize pool! See details and register for free here: 
  https://dynamous.ai/kiro-hackathon
  
  - The Dynamous Agentic Coding Course is now FULLY released - learn how to build reliable and repeatable systems for AI coding: 
  https://dynamous.ai/agentic-coding-course
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  Here is a link to the Google Doc with all sources from this video!
  
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y9wFaKAJx7plYT0r1q4c3vT70jO6ESHULuS7m7eHmfc
  
  All of the headlines together was too much text to put in the video description.
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  00:00 Intro
  01:10 1. Enterprise AI Investment Surge ($37B)
  01:24 2. Mass Developer Adoption of AI Tools (84%)
  01:35 3. AI Startups Capturing 50% of Global Funding
  01:46 4. Mega Funding Rounds ($100M+) for AI Startups
  01:53 5. Release of DeepSeek-R1 (January)
  02:15 6. Announcement of the Stargate Project ($500B)
  02:26 7. Launch of OpenAI Operator Agent
  02:42 8. Coining of "Vibe Coding" by Karpathy
  02:53 9. Implementation of the EU AI Act
  03:11 10. Harvey Raises $300M Series D
  03:27 11. Launch of Manus General AI Agent (March)
  03:54 12. Google Releases Gemma 3 Open Source Models
  04:04 13. Release of Google Gemini 2.5
  04:23 14. OpenAI Raises $40B at $300B Valuation
  04:39 15. Meta Releases Llama 4 "Herd" (April)
  04:58 16. OpenAI Releases o3 and o4-mini Reasoning Models
  05:08 17. Alibaba Releases Qwen3 Open Source Models
  05:22 18. OpenAI Introduces Codex Agent (May)
  05:40 19. Google Releases Veo 3 Video Generation
  05:48 20. OpenAI Agreement to Buy Windsurf
  06:08 21. Anthropic Releases Claude 4 Family
  06:21 22. Cursor Reaches $500M ARR (June)
  06:33 23. Mark Zuckerberg Announces Meta Superintelligence Labs
  06:47 24. Amazon Releases Kiro Coding Agent (July)
  07:01 25. Moonshot Releases Kimi K2 Open Source Model
  07:18 Zapier MCP Server
  09:10 26. Introduction of OpenAI GPT-5 (August)
  09:19 27. Anthropic Raises $13B at $183B Valuation (September)
  09:31 28. Anthropic Settles $1.5B Copyright Infringement Lawsuit
  10:00 29. Perplexity Valuation Reaches $20B
  10:19 30. Mistral Raises 1.7B Euros
  10:31 31. OpenAI Releases Sora 2 Video and Audio Generation
  10:44 32. ChatGPT Hits 800M Weekly Active Users (October)
  10:57 33. IBM and Anthropic Enterprise Partnership
  11:15 34. Microsoft Announces MAI Superintelligence Team (November)
  11:36 35. Anthropic Releases Claude Code for the Web
  11:58 36. Google Releases Nano Banana Pro Image Generation
  12:13 37. Microsoft, NVIDIA, and Anthropic Strategic Partnerships
  12:34 38. Launch of Google Gemini 3
  12:51 39. MS 365 Copilot Adopted by 90% of Fortune 500
  13:12 40. Anthropic Acquires Bun JavaScript Runtime (December)
  13:28 41. Anthropic Releases Claude Opus 4.5
  13:42 42. Release of DeepSeek Version 3.2
  14:07 43. Release of GLM-4.7 for AI Coding
  14:33 44. Anthropic Donates MCP to Agentic AI Foundation
  14:59 45. Anthropic Releases Claude Agent Skills
  15:34 46. OpenAI Releases GPT-5.2
  15:52 47. Disney Invests $1B in OpenAI (Sora Focus)
  16:04 48. Databricks Raises $4B Series L at $134B Valuation
  16:22 49. NVIDIA Buys Groq Assets for $20B
  16:39 50: Meta Announces Acquisition of Manus
  17:10 Outro
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  Join me as I push the limits of what is possible with AI. I'll be uploading videos weekly - at least every Wednesday at 7:00 PM CDT!
---
2025 has been an absolutely crazy year for AI. So, right now, I'm taking on the challenge to quickly cover for you everything that has happened with AI this year. And so, I'll be hitting on the news that points to the trends going into 2026 and who the big players will be. And I can guarantee that I have missed nothing on this list. Just kidding, of course. I probably missed

something. So, definitely let me know in the comments as I go through everything what you think should be added to this list. We have incredible new tools and LLMs that have been released. AI coding assistants are taking over the world. Companies are raising billions of dollars left and right with massive acquisitions. A single tool is being

used by 90% of Fortune 500 companies now. And of course, we have the Chinese startup that wiped $600 billion off the Nvidia market cap in a single day. So, just a teaser for what we have here, but I've got 50 items in the list. Let's go ahead and dive right into it. So, I'm going to start with the things that apply to the entire year 2025. Then I'll

get into the specific events in chronological order as they happened in 2025. And of course, I will link to all these sources in the description. The first baffling number out of many that we have here is that companies have invested $37 billion into enterprise AI this year. That figure was only $1.7 billion in 2023. Also, 84% of developers

are using or planning on using AI tools in their development process. And out of all developers, about half are already using AI coding assistants daily. In 2025, AI startups have captured almost 50% of all global funding. Just take a look at how this has evolved from 2021. It's absolutely insane. And speaking of

funding, this year 49 US AI startups have raised at least $100 million. And of course, we have the Chinese startup that I alluded to earlier, the release of Deep Seek R1. At the time, a very revolutionary open-source large language model. And this is highly debated, but there are a lot of claims that this is the reason the Nvidia market cap went down $600 billion, the largest one-day loss for a single company in the US stock market history. In January, we also had the announcement of the Stargate project, a company formed to invest $500 billion over the next four years in building out new AI infrastructure for OpenAI. And speaking

of OpenAI, soon after the Stargate announcement, they also released Operator, the agent that uses its own browser to perform millions of different tasks for you. Now, whether or not this lived up to the hype, I'll leave that up to you to decide, but it was a big deal at the start of this year. Going into February now, the AI engineer Andrej Karpathy coined the term vibe coding, and it has gained so much popularity that it literally has its own Wikipedia page now. It's official. Now, AI regulation in general is a bit too in the weeds for me to cover here, but there is one instance that deserves a spot on the list, is the EU AI Act, the first-ever comprehensive legal framework on AI worldwide. And we're definitely

going to see a lot more regulation like this going into 2026. And now for the first of many funding rounds and valuations that I'll cover in this video, we have Harvey, the legal AI startup raising $300 million in their Series D. A lot of people don't realize this, but the legal industry is a goldmine of opportunity for generative AI. Now, March was a very big month for generative AI, especially because that's when Anthropic's model context protocol really took off. But that doesn't belong in this list because it was originally created at the very end of 2024. So, for

the first March item, we have Manis, the first of its kind general AI agent that really was the pioneer for a lot of strategies around context engineering that we have now and strategies for building agents that can handle more long-running tasks. Google also released Gemma 3, their next open-source large language models built on the same technology and research that powered their Gemini 2.0 models. And speaking of Gemini, Google released Gemini 2.5 later this month as well. And this model was

revolutionary because of how well it handled a large amount of context. And it stood the test of time for quite a while, generally considered to be the best general-purpose large language model for many months. And as 2025 progressed, there were so many insane valuations and acquisitions and funding rounds. Starting now with the very end of March, OpenAI raised $40 billion, which put them at a $300 billion post-money valuation. Now, going into the month of April, Meta released their Llama 4 models. They have their herd

here, three different options that we have, Behemoth, Maverick, and Scout. Now, we haven't actually seen much from Meta since then. And so, I really hope that going into 2026, we'll get maybe Llama 5. I really hope that Meta picks up the slack here. Then we have OpenAI releasing their O3 and O4 mini models, continuing to push the limits for what is possible with the reasoning capabilities built into these LLMs that is so common now. And then going back to

open-source, Alibaba released their Qwen 3 models at the very end of April. And these are still some of my favorite open-source large language models to use. They really have stood the test of time. Now, going into May, OpenAI introduced Codex, their cloud-based software engineering agent that integrates directly with GitHub, so you can work on your repos remotely. even have to be in your local development environment. They also released the

Codex CLI later. This still is one of my favorite platforms for AI-assisted coding. We also had the release of VEO3 from Google. This is when AI video generation started to finally actually feel good. OpenAI agrees to buy Windsurf for $3 billion, only for the deal to fall apart a couple months later in July with Windsurf CEO going to Google. It

pretty much seems like Google acquired Windsurf, especially with all the features that come out in antigravity, Google's new agentic IDE that was released along with Gemini 3 that we'll talk about later. Anthropic released their family of Claude 4 models. This is when Claude really became the coding king for me, and I got obsessed with using Claude code. It still, in my mind, is the best agentic coding assistant. Now, going into June, Cursor reached $500 million in annually recurring revenue. At this point, it was very

clear that Cursor was the fastest-growing platform and still is in SaaS history. Also this month, Mark Zuckerberg announced the creation of the Meta Superintelligence Labs. This is when we had all the drama of Mark Zuckerberg apparently paying all of these nine-figure salaries to poach top researchers from other companies. Now, going into July, Amazon has released their own coding agent Hero, which is an AI coding assistant that I'm starting to respect more and more. And I heard that after their re:Invent conference in December, they are starting to get a lot of enterprise interest. And at the end

of July, open-source large language models continue to fight back. Moonshot released to Kimmy K2, which apparently, according to the benchmarks, beat ChatGPT and Claude in coding. This is very much up for debate, but I still do like seeing open-source LLMs pushing the boundaries. All right, so we have been blitzing through a lot already. So, let's take a quick break for our sponsor, and then we'll get back to finishing off our list. So, the sponsor

of this video is Zapier, which is actually my original no-code automation tool. They've built a lot in the AI space this year, including the Zapier MCP server, which allows you to connect your agent to over 8,000 different applications. So, literally, no matter the capabilities that you want to build into your agent, you can do it with the Zapier MCP. Take a look at how easy this is. First, all you have to do is set up the app connections in Zapier. So, you

go through the OAuth flow or whatever to get your credentials, like for Google Drive, connected. And then you go into the MCP server tab, which I'll link to in the description, to set up your server. You pick your client, and then you pick your tools. search through all of the services that are available, like I can do Google Drive, for example. You pick the individual tools that you want in the MCP, and you configure all of the parameters. Once you have that set up,

then you go to the connect tab. And right here, there's a button to just add it directly into Claude desktop. Or for other MCP clients, you can just copy this URL and set it up just like you would a typical streamable HTTP MCP server. And so, for example, in Claude desktop, I'll go to the settings in the top right, and then I will go to the connectors, I can add a custom connector, and I just have to paste in the URL that I copied here, and I can call it Zapier, and then boom, you are good to go. It'll take you through an OAuth flow with Zapier so that it's nice and secure, but then you will immediately have it available as capabilities to Claude desktop. And so,

for a very quick demonstration, I used the Zapier MCP server in Claude desktop to find my Google Drive folder and create a file here. So, you can see both tool calls, everything's working perfectly, and we even have the file at the bottom here, so I can click right into it in my Google Drive. And it was so easy to set this all up. And so, I will have a link in the description to the Zapier MCP server. Definitely check it out. Now, surprisingly, August was a

pretty quiet month for generative AI. The biggest thing that we had was the introduction of GPT-5 from OpenAI. Getting into September now, we have more funding. The funding train that never stops. Anthropic raises $13 billion, putting it now at a $183 billion valuation. Now, there have been a lot of

lawsuits in the AI space this year, but one of the interesting ones that happened more recently is a group of authors sued Anthropic for using their books and other materials in their training data. And Anthropic ended up paying a whopping $1.5 billion settlement. Now, I don't mean to just pick on Anthropic here. There are a lot of different lawsuits for all of the LLM providers, but it is crazy. They're

paying around $3,000 for each of the estimated 500,000 books covered by the settlement. Also in September, Perplexity, the AI search startup, raises $200 million at a $20 billion valuation. Very impressive to me that Perplexity has stayed on the cutting edge and remained competitive even though people think time and time again that all of the common agents and LLMs are going to replace Perplexity with their built-in search. And continuing the funding train, Mistral, the French AI startup, raised 1.7 billion euros.

continue to put out some of my favorite open-source LLMs and a lot of their closed-source stuff is really powerful as well. And finally, to end things off in September, OpenAI released Sora 2. And this, my friend, took the world by storm. The capabilities here for both the video and audio generation is just insanely cool. And continuing with OpenAI going into October, Sam Altman said that in October, ChatGPT hit 800 million weekly active users. I wish my

applications had that many weekly active users. Also, IBM and Anthropic announced a partnership to accelerate the development of enterprise-ready AI. I was actually there at the IBM Tech Exchange conference when they announced this. Very, very cool. Anthropic is definitely continuing to push themselves as the enterprise LLM provider, especially for coding. Now getting into

November, Microsoft announced the formation of the MAI superintelligence team. What they're working towards here is humanist superintelligence. Incredibly advanced AI capabilities that always work for and service of people and humanity more generally. Now this is kind of vague to me right now, but I think we're going to find out a lot more about this going into 2026. Anthropic releases Claude code for the web.

Certainly a competitor to OpenAI's Codex that I talked about earlier. Being able to work on your repositories with agents running remotely, so you're not even in your local development environment. I definitely think this is the future of agentic coding. Something I'm even working on myself, building custom systems for remote agentic coding. Then Google takes AI image generation to the next level with Nano Banana, especially Nano Banana Pro, which was released at the end of November. It is insane the

quality of images that we can generate with AI and especially how realistic they look now. Microsoft, Nvidia, and Anthropic all announced partnerships. So Anthropic to scale Claude on Azure, Anthropic to adopt Nvidia architecture, and Nvidia and Microsoft to invest in Anthropic. So definitely a bit of a circular investment here, which speaks a little bit to the possibility of an AI bubble, but it makes sense for all these big companies to be working together. And we right now are only halfway through November. There's so much that

happened last month. Next, we have the release of Gemini 3 from Google, which is often considered to be the most powerful LLM from a general standpoint right now. It absolutely crushes it on the benchmarks and handles long context tasks very well. Now at the start of this video, I alluded to the fact that there is a single application that is already adopted by over 90% of Fortune 500 companies. And that application is Microsoft 365 Copilot. And I believe

they reached that 90% mark in November of last year. It's just absolutely crazy the enterprise adoption for a single product. Anthropic continues to crush it with Claude code. Claude code reaches $1 billion in revenue. And Anthropic acquires Bun, the JavaScript runtime, to continue to make Claude code more and more scalable. Because let me tell you,

the demand for it is incredible. On top of that, Anthropic releases Claude Opus 4.5, which most people will tell you that it's not even a competition. It is the AI coding king. Sonnet 4.5 was

already amazing, but now Opus is just crushing it for AI coding. Now there hasn't been that much news around DeepSeek since the start of the year. But now going into December, they released DeepSeek version 3.2, an open-source large language model that competes with all of the big guys, Gemini, Claude, and GPT. Now this is open-source, but it's such a large model that most people can't actually run it on their own hardware, which is a bit of a bummer. But unfortunately, that is

what it takes right now to compete with all of the top dogs. And continuing with open-source LLMs, we also have the release of GLM 4.7, an LLM that is designed specifically to be very powerful for AI-assisted coding. And in the benchmarks, it compares extremely well to the DeepSeek version 3.2 we just covered, Claude Sonnet 4.5, GPT 5.1. The

point of these open-source models is that they're almost as powerful as the big guys, but they are a lot faster and cheaper. So Anthropic's model context protocol really took off earlier this year. And now in December, they announced that they're donating MCP as a part of establishing the agentic AI foundation. This is a directed fund under the Linux Foundation, co-founded by Anthropic, Block, and OpenAI with support from a lot of other absolutely massive companies. And so hopefully what this means is that all these companies are starting to work together to build out AI for the greater good. Now as much

as MCP is incredible, Anthropic also recently released Claude skills. They did this back in October. It's really started to gain traction this month in December though. And it's becoming a replacement in a lot of ways for MCP cuz it's a lot more context optimized. And so it's this idea of progressive disclosure where we only give capabilities to our agents when it actually needs them. So we save a lot of

context up front. This kind of paradigm is going to be very popular going into 2026 for building any kind of agentic system. Definitely not limited to the Claude ecosystem either. OpenAI releases GPT 5.2. Definitely a lot of

improvements over GPT 5.1. Now Anthropic with Claude seems to be quite focused on AI coding as the specialization of the LLMs. But GPT is more general-purpose like Gemini, so seems to be kind of competing more with Gemini 3. OpenAI also gets a $1 billion investment from Disney, especially thanks to Sora.

Definitely showing that there is a lot of use case and demand for AI-generated videos with audio. So we haven't talked about data companies that much in this video, but they're certainly doing well, too. Databricks is doing their over $4 billion series L and is valued now at $134 billion. They also acquired Neon recently, one of my favorite database platforms. They're definitely rocking it. And then at the very end of this

year, Nvidia announced that they are buying Groq's assets for about $20 billion. Now the title is kind of strange cuz it doesn't say it's an acquisition, but it definitely feels like an acquisition when you really dive into it. So definitely a lot of interesting things that will unfold here going into January as well. All right, to end things off for us here, I literally have an article dated December 30th of this year. Meta is going to acquire Manifold. And it's

cool cuz I talked about both of these companies already. Manifold was very revolutionary when it was released at the start of this year. And Meta hasn't made a splash in the generative AI space in a while now. And so it definitely seems like they're doing some things behind the scenes that we might find out about more, maybe quarter one or quarter two of next year. And so they're going to be integrating Manifold into its products, including Meta AI. All right,

so that, my friend, is all the big things that happened in the AI space in 2025. So definitely let me know in the comments if you think there's anything that I missed. And also what you're looking forward to going into 2026. And in January, I'll definitely be making some content on my predictions and what I'm focusing on going into the new year. So if you're looking forward to that or just building AI agents and using coding agents in general, I would really appreciate a like and a subscribe. And

with that, I will see you in the next video.