---
video_title: "EBITDA vs Net Income Vs Free Cash Flow Explained Simply"
video_id: trmvdvl72fc
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=trmvdvl72fc
video_date: 2024-09-28T13:01:08+00:00
video_description: |
  ▼FREE ACCOUNTING INFOGRAPHIC EBOOK:▼
  🧑‍🎓 Financial Statements School: https://longtermmindset.co/fssebook
  
  ▼ABOUT US:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author (https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0), investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  👨‍💼Brian Stoffel is a writer, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's a teacher at heart. Brian has been investing for over a decade and has written over 4,000 articles for The Motley Fool. Brian plans his life and his investments around “antifragile” principles.
  
  ❗️❗️DISCLAIMER:❗️❗️
  All content on this channel is for discussion, education, entertainment, and illustrative purposes only and SHOULD NOT be construed as professional financial advice, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell any securities, notwithstanding anything stated on this channel. There are risks associated with investing in securities. Loss of principal is possible. Past performance is not a predictor of future investment performance. Brian Feroldi and the guests on this channel are not responsible for investment actions taken by viewers. Should you need such advice, consult a licensed financial advisor, legal advisor, or tax advisor. You agree to verify all information yourself before investing. Any past performance discussed during this program is no guarantee of future results. Investing involves risk and possible loss of principal capital; please seek advice from a licensed professional.
  
  All views expressed are personal opinions as of the date of recording and are subject to change without the responsibility to update views.  No guarantee is given regarding the accuracy of the information on this channel. Releasees undertake no obligation to provide accurate or sound investment statements. You waive any and all duties that may exist flowing from you to any Releasee. You agree not to hold any Releasee liable for any possible claim for damages arising from any decision you make based on information or other content on the Channel.
  
  *Some of the links and other products in this video are from companies for which Brian Feroldi will earn an affiliate commission or referral bonus. Brian Feroldi is part of an affiliate network and receives compensation for sending traffic to partner sites. The content in this video is accurate as of the posting date.
---
In 2023, Google reported net income of $73.7 billion. In the same year, its free cash flow was $69.5 billion. And yet its EBITDA was $100.1 billion. Why are there so many different ways to measure a company's profits? And why can these numbers be sometimes so far apart? In this video, I'll explain what these three popular profit terms mean, how to find them, and how investors should think about each of them. Hi, my name is Brian, for all the Emma Financial Educator who's been analyzing and investing in businesses for more than 20 years. Let's get started. First, we're going to start with net income. Now, net income is designed to show a company's accounting profit. To find this number, you simply look at the income statement and the formula couldn't be simpler. Its revenue minus all the company's expenses equals net income. So here is Alphabet's income statement from 2021 to 2023. In 2023, by looking at this line here, we can clearly see that the company generated $73.7 billion in net income during that year. That's how I was able to show that Google generated this much net income for the year. Now, an important thing to understand about the income statement is that the accounting method used is called accrual accounting. This is a critical concept to understand if you're going to be analyzing financial statements. Now, with accrual accounting, revenue is recorded when it's earned regardless of cash is received or not. The same is true with expenses, where expenses are recorded when they are incurred regardless of whether or not cash change tans. That might sound confusing, so let's see a simple example. Let's say a corporation goes out and buys a car for one of its employees. The corporation spends $33,000 to acquire the car. They expect to own the car for 10 years, and after 10 years, they expect to sell that car for $3,000. So here is visually what the corporation experiences from a cash perspective. It costs the company $33,000 in year one to buy the car, and then the company sells the car in year 10 and makes $3,000. However, with accrual accounting, revenue and expenses are recorded when they occur, not when payment is received or made. So from an income statement perspective, we would have to take that car ownership cost and smooth it out over that 10 year period to show that the car is being used. Now to do so, we would simply take the cost of acquiring the car, $33,000, subtract what we expect to sell the car for $3,000, and divide it by the length of time that we expect to own the car, 10 years. When we do that math, we would say that this car costs us $3,000 per year to own. So according to accrual accounting, owning this car for 10 years would cost us $3,000 per year in each of the 10 years. Now to account for this expense on the income statement, we would create a charge called depreciation. A depreciation can be found in cost of goods sold or in the company's operating expenses. So if we were to relate this to Alphabet's income statement, we would see that its depreciation expense was located either in the cost of revenues or in the general administrative expense, depending on the nature of the depreciation cost. So why do so many people focus on a company's net income? Well, it's an extremely widely used accounting method for figuring out the profitability of a company and because we're using accrual accounting, that helps to smooth out a company's numbers so that we can get a better idea of the true profitability of a company. Now on the downside, net income certainly has its flaws. For one, because we're using accrual accounting, we can easily distort a company's profitability in either direction. In addition, one time events can be included in a company's income statement, which can make its profits, revenue, or expenses, temporarily look wildly off. Now that we have a better idea of net income, let's move on to our second profit metric, which is ReCashflow. Now freeCashflow shows a company's actual cash generation capabilities after reinvesting in the business. Now to find a company's level of free cash flow, we look at the cash flow statement. Now the formula for figuring out free cash flow is very simple. We take the cash flow from operations. We subtract out any capital expenditures. The remainder is a company's free cash flow. Now an important thing to understand about the cash flow statement is that the accounting method used is called cash accounting, which is very different than accrual accounting. So while the income statement used accrual accounting, cash flow statement uses cash accounting. And the only thing that cash accounting cares about is did cash change hands. So with cash accounting, revenue is only counted when the cash has been received and expenses are only counted when the cash has actually been paid. To go back to our car analogy from before, this is what we would record on the cash flow statement. There was a huge cash outflow in year one when the car was purchased, and then there was a small cash inflow in year 10 when the car was sold. So a critical thing to take away about cash accounting is that transactions are only recorded when money goes in or money goes out of an account. So to calculate Alphabet's free cash flow, let's take a look at its statement of cash flows. Now at the top of the statement of cash flows, we see the company's net income. This is pulled directly from the income statement. Notice in 2023, it reported $73.7 billion in net income. Now below that, we have to add back in any non-cash charges that were recorded on the income statement due to accrual accounting. Since those charges did not result in cash changing hands, they do not get recorded as a cash account. Below that is a record of any changes in the company's working capital. These are also inflows and outflow of cash recorded on the company's balance sheet. Once we make all of those adjustments, we get this number, net cash provided by operating activities, which is also known as cash flow from operations. This is how much cash Alphabet actually generated from running its business during 2023. Now while this number shows how much cash a business generated during this period, companies have to take some or all of that cash and reinvest it back into the business. That cash gets reinvested in a number of ways, but it could be used to buy buildings in real estate. It could be used to upgrade, maintain, or purchase new manufacturing equipment, or in Google's case, a lot of that money is probably used to buy computer equipment such as data centers. Now we can see how much Google is spending on those expenses by looking at this line item. Purchase of property and equipment. This is also known as a company's capital expenditures. And we see in 2023 that Google spent $32.2 billion on property and equipment. So now we have everything we need to calculate Google's free cash flow. We simply take the company's cash flow from operations and we subtract out its purchase of property and capital equipment, aka capital expenditures. When we do that quick math, we calculate that Google generated free cash flow of $69.5 billion in 2023. So why, according to accrual accounting, Google generated $73.7 billion in net income when using cash accounting, Google only generated $69.5 billion in free cash flow. Now that brings us to our third profit term, EBITDA, which is a reminder was $100.1 billion. Now EBITDA is a funny word, but it's just simply an acronym. EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Now EBITDA is designed to show a company's operating profit during a period. Now EBITDA is rarely listed on a company's financial state, but if it was, it would be listed on a company's income statement. However, you often have to also look at a company's cash flow statement to calculate its EBITDA, which we're going to do with alphabet. Now the formula for calculating EBITDA is fairly simple. We simply take the company's net income, AKA earnings, and then we add back in interest expense, tax expense, depreciation expense and amortization expense. Now like net income, EBITDA is accounted using accrual accounting. So to calculate alphabet's EBITDA, we're going to take a look at both its income statement and its cash flow statements for the year ending 2023. Starting with the income statement, we already know that alphabet generated $73.7 billion in net income in 2023. That is the earnings or the E in EBITDA. From there, we have to add back to that number, the amount that the company spent on interest. Now Google actually had interest income for the year 2023, because it makes more an interest than its spends. From there, we also have to add back in the company's tax bill, which was $11.9 billion. When we do that math, we end up with this number here, $84.2 billion. Now this is also called a company's EBIT, or earnings before interest in taxes. But remember, with EBITDA, we also have to account for the company's depreciation and amortization expense. Google doesn't break out those numbers on its income statement, so we have to look at its cash flow statement to get those numbers. To find the company's depreciation expense, we look right here. Google reported $11.9 billion in depreciation expense in 2023. So we also have to add back that number to calculate the company's EBITDA. The last piece of the puzzle is finding the company's amortization expense, which Google does not break out here. However, it's likely that the company's amortization expense is found in the other category under adjustments. So now we have all the parts we need to find the company's EBITDA. We take the company's earnings before interest in taxes, and then we add back in the company's depreciation expense and the company's amortization expense, and that gives us $100.1 billion in EBITDA. Now, why go through all that fancy math calculated companies EBITDA? Well, the biggest pro of using EBITDA is that allows you to compare companies with different capital structures to each other. And since it focuses just on the operating profit of the business, it ignores things like interest expense. Moreover, EBITDA is often used as a shorthand for calculating a company's cash generation capabilities. On the downside, EBITDA is a very easy number for management teams to distort, and in addition, it often ignores many real expenses, such as taxes, depreciation, and interest expense. So those are some big negatives against it. Now, thankfully, there's no need to do this math manually yourself as we can use software like Finchat to look up these numbers. So in Finchat, if I click on the financials tab, and then I scroll down, I can see the company's net income and the company's EBITDA right on the screen. If I want the company's free cash flow, I just click over to the free cash flow statement, scroll down, and I can see the company's free cash flow right here. Now, as you may have noticed, not all companies use the same names, terms, and categories when they're generating their financial statements. And that's true of the income statement, cash flow statement, and balance sheet. To make things easier to understand, I created a free ebook called Financial Statement School, which has overview of the three financial statements, as well as all of the synonyms that you may find on a company's balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement. If you want a free copy of this ebook, just visit longtermmindset.co, backslash, FSS ebook, or click the link in the video description below. Well, thank you for watching. If this video was helpful, give it the thumbs up. It really helps us out on YouTube. And if you want to keep learning from here, there's a 100% chance you'll enjoy this video next.