---
video_title: "4 TYPES OF CAPITAL"
video_id: uC3d1iSOOwg
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uC3d1iSOOwg
video_date: 2025-12-19T12:42:20+00:00
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Investing Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/investing
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼ABOUT US:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author (https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0), investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  👨‍💼Brian Stoffel is a writer, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's a teacher at heart. Brian has been investing for over a decade and has written over 4,000 articles for The Motley Fool. Brian plans his life and his investments around “antifragile” principles.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
The types of capital explained visually by Varian Foroughi. First type is fixed capital. These are long-term assets that are used in production and they're not consumed in the short-term such as machinery, buildings, or land. Then there's working capital, which is capital that's used for day-to-day operations, funding things like inventory, accounts receivable, and cash on hand. Then there's equity capital, which is capital that is raised by issuing shares to the owners or investors in the company. This includes

shareholders equity and then there's retained earnings, which is capital the business keeps for itself for reinvestment. Finally, there's debt capital, which is capital that is borrowed from external sources and that capital must be repaid. This can include loans or bonds. If visual summaries like this are useful, you know what to do.