---
video_title: "How To Read An Annual Report (10k)"
video_id: Q1Bx31hahA0
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q1Bx31hahA0
video_date: 20251221
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Investing Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/investing
  
  ▼ Free AI Prompt▼
  🤖 Business Model Analysis: http://longtermmindset.co/ai
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis & All AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼ABOUT US:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author (https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0), investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  👨‍💼Brian Stoffel is a writer, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's a teacher at heart. Brian has been investing for over a decade and has written over 4,000 articles for The Motley Fool. Brian plans his life and his investments around “antifragile” principles.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
How to read an annual report explained visually by Brian Feraldi. Publicly traded companies like Mastercard are required to file a form 10K or annual report with the SEC every year. This document provides an overview of the company and is useful information for both existing and prospective shareholders. The most important section to read is the business section which contains information like how they make money, who their suppliers on, and their opportunity for growth. Next, take a look at the risk factor section which covers long-term risks to your investment like concentration risk, execution risk, regulatory risk, and more. Then make sure you read

management's discussion analysis of financial conditions and results of operations. This is a long sounding word but contains some of the most important information from management and review on revenue trends, key metrics, the remote guidance and more. Make sure you look at the company's financial statements and take a look at the income statement, cash flow statement, and balance sheet. Take a look at the company's executive compensation so you can understand how these executives get paid. And then finally, take a look at security ownership to see how much insiders own of the company's stock. All

the document is worth reading. These sections are by far the most important for investors. If visual explanations like this are useful, you know what to