---
video_title: "Reverse DCF: How To Value Stocks Like the Pros."
video_id: fRac19fUKiE
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fRac19fUKiE
video_date: 2025-12-17T06:14:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Here’s the agenda:
  
  - DCF vs Reverse DCF: What's the difference?
  - How a reverse DCF calculator works
  - How to choose a discount rate & terminal growth rate
  - Live examples of how to value companies like Palantir & Duolingo
  - Questions & answers
---
matter of time. There we go.

Hey, the technology works. Hey everybody, thank you for joining us on Tuesday, December 16th, 2025. Brian, final 2 weeks of the year. Final 2 weeks. And I don't know about you, but but I don't know if everybody who's watching sees that countdown from 10 down to 1 when we start, but it makes me feel like we're we're mini movie stars, which is kind of fun. [laughter]

Yeah. And if you know us, we are definitely not. Yeah, yeah, definitely not. Don't get your Don't get your hopes up too high, but greetings everyone. Um this is a week where our Tuesdays at noon Eastern live, uh we're going to be focused on uh a a kind of a timeless lesson. Um

every other week we switch off between kind of a first pass at a stock using some of our AI tools, and then more of a timeless uh evergreen lesson. Uh and so Brian, uh do you want to Perhaps we should start by introducing ourselves. People don't know who who the heck we are. Hi everybody, I'm Brian Feroldi. I've been investing for 20 years uh in the stock market. I'm an author. I call myself a

financial educator. It's a job title I made up because I work for myself, so I absolutely uh get to joining here is my business partner, Brian Stoffel. That's right. And my name is as he said, Brian. Of course your name's got to be Brian if you want to work with us. Um and I am

also financial educator. Before that I was kind of an actual traditional educator, uh but for the last, boy what is it now? 15, 16 years, stocks and investing has been what I focus on, particularly trying to make the what we talk about digestible by people who maybe didn't get their MBA cuz I didn't, or maybe didn't spend all their time studying stocks and charts and things like that. So, uh today Brian, do you want to let folks know how we picked our topic for today? Yep. So, 2 weeks ago we did a poll on

our Tuesday live. So again, every Tuesday or almost every Tuesday, 12:00 Eastern Standard Time, we are going to be live. And 2 weeks ago, we asked you guys, what would you like us to talk about? We we brought up Do you want to talk about technical analysis for long-term investors, uh multiple analysis, but the number one choice was people wanted us to teach them about how to use a reverse discounted cash flow calculator. So, that's how we came up with uh the the options, and we definitely love hearing feedback. So,

that is the topic that we're going to be talking about today. Yep. And so, just to kind of show that well, maybe we might be worth listening to, you'll see in this chart right here why we're worth listening to and why we're doing this. Here's what I mean by that. I've been tracking my returns since the end of 2014, and my returns are in the green, the Nasdaq Composite's in the yellow, the S&P 500's in the red, but Brian, is there any one period in here that sticks out to you a little bit as an observer? Yeah, so 2022. Yeah. Yeah,

[laughter] it was pretty bad. If you see, I I went from 448% cumulative returns all the way down to 157. Why? I knew how to use valuation tools, but it just didn't pay to use them until interest rates started rising. And that is kind of the genesis of today's lesson. Now, That's an important point

there, Brian. I think that's worth highlighting. During the first call that 8 years of that chart, we were in a 0% interest rate environment world. And when you're in a 0% interest rate environment world, minimizing your focus on valuation makes complete sense. You should not even it you wouldn't even put it in the top five things that you look at because if your benchmark is 0%, stock prices can can make can make a lot of sense at at all kinds of silly valuations. So, deemphasizing valuation

makes sense in a world of 0% interest rates. 2022 was a big reset for interest rates, and what we the lesson that people learned the hard way is that valuations went from not mattering at all to being very important again. And that reset caused growth investors to get crushed, bond investors to get crushed. Anyone that was investing in really anything in 2022 had a really good time. So, we are refocusing on re-emphasizing the importance of valuation because in a world of interest rates are more normalized, emphasizing makes sense again. Totally agree.

Totally agree because yeah, if the choice is between investing in stocks and putting it in a money market that gets 0.1%, you're going to put it in stocks. That's not the case anymore. So, what we're going to do, excuse [clears throat] me, what we're going to do is we're going to go through a framework that I use in my investing community, Stock Investing Mentor, called the Adapt Framework. And today is specifically evaluation topic.

So in the comment section on whatever platform you're in, we just have a question for you. How familiar are you with a reverse discounted cash flow analysis? How familiar are you with that? So just go ahead and let us know. Is it something you've used a whole bunch of times before? Have you heard of it but

not really used it at all? Is this complete gobbledygook to you? >> about you Stouffer? When did you make a reverse DCF a part of your process? I I I think after 2022. Again, I knew what

it was, but the thing that I loved about a reverse DCF is that it forced me to ask myself, "Does this make sense?" So what do people have to say? Yeah, so a little bit. I've heard of it, I've never used it. Heard of it, know a little bit about it. We have some people

that are a little bit familiar. No idea, great. Perfect. Understand the concept, 7 out of 10. Yeah, maybe that would have been better to say on a scale of 1 to 10, how familiar are you with It would have been a little bit easier to say, but I think yeah, gobbledygook. There you go. Great.

>> [laughter] >> Great. Brian, one of the things because we've switched over, can you share the the link so that people can get a copy of what we're about to show them and I'm going to show them what this looks like so that they have an idea of what's going on. So Brian's going to put a link in the comment section to our reverse discounted cash flow analysis. Now, I just want to show you what will happen cuz what will happen is you'll get something that asks you if you want to make a copy and this is what's going to pop up right here. So if you see this right here, then you've opened the the document that we're sharing. And if you're watching a

recording of this, we will we'll put a link to that in the recording. We'll put a link to it in our show notes so that you get it. But if you make a copy of it and you get this, that's what we're looking for right here. So And depending on what platform you're looking at, I'm trying to put it all in the comment section kind of below, too. Awesome. All right, let's

let's talk a little bit about this. There's a reason I I kind of kicked things off the way that I did. I want to talk a little bit about Shopify cuz Brian, I bought my first tranche of shares of Shopify way back here for about $4.50 split adjusted per share. I've not Have you Have you been in Shopify for very long? Uh since 2017, I

think. Okay. All right, so about Mine was at the beginning of 2017. And man, I'll tell you what, the first 4 years that I owned this, it was an amazing stock to own. It was a What is that? A

39 bagger? It went up 39x in just 4 years. Here was the problem with that. In late 2021, Shopify was 20% of my portfolio. And as Brian said, up until that point, it didn't make much sense to pay too much attention to valuation.

However, if I would have done a reverse discounted cash flow analysis back in late 2021, here's what I would have seen. That Shopify had to grow its free cash flow by 54% over the next decade. But Brian, I'm not saying it needed to grow 54% total over the next 10 years. It needed to grow 54% per year over the next 10 years. >> Compounded. Not simple, compounded. And

when you do that on a calculator, the the numbers get quite nutty quite fast. Yes. How just to put in perspective, how high of a hurdle do you consider that to be? Enormous. It is. It's enormous. I mean,

for perspective, I think Mercado Libre grew has grown its revenue 30% for the last six or seven No, it's like 20 years, something like that. And they're the only 30% 30% per year on average for the last 20 years. I think it's something like that. And they are an N of 1. They're the only company that has done that.

So it it's it's that's an extraordinary achievement to be able to do that. Now, what would have been good for me to do is to recognize that I was setting myself up for this right here. That shares fell 83% after it hit that point. Now, I wouldn't have sold this outright because I think Shopify is a great company, but you better believe that if I would have done what we're going to do today, I would have lessened my exposure to Shopify. If I just needed Like I would have made sense to make it just 5% of my portfolio because I lost more money on not selling Shopify there than probably pretty much any other decision that I've made. And

we want you to avoid doing that. So, our goal today David asked a good question on that Shopify one. He said, "Per year to justify what rate of return?" >> a 10% return. 54% How much of a return return would you have gotten? 10% per

year. So, market matching. Yeah. So, our goal is that you will be able to use a reverse discounted cash flow analysis to see if a company is reasonably valued. But, this is what Brian we like to do all the time is really let's talk about this in the simplest terms possible cuz we got a whole bunch of people here who said it's just gobbledygook to them.

What the heck is a reverse discounted cash flow model? Well, it's an evaluation method that's used to estimate the implied growth rate of a company based on its market price. This is really important. Let's visualize this. What you do is you input the current market price and a couple of other assumptions >> [snorts] >> into our calculator. And what it spits

out is not a stock price because Brian, I don't know about you, but I don't like it spitting out a stock price because it doesn't make me think. And the goal is is to force you to think. And you ask yourself, "What do I think of this implied growth rate? Is that too high?" Shopify's was 54%.

To me, a company growing free cash flow by 54% every year for a decade, that's really really high. Okay? Let's dig in a little bit more. What actually gets into this? You're going to put in a company's free cash flow.

That's easy to find. It's stock price. That'll actually be done for you. And then you need to put in these two things that we're going to talk about. A discount rate and a terminal growth rate. And what

that spits out is how much does free cash flow need to grow. But, let's focus on these red things right here cuz that's where the confusion really starts to come in. It's actually much simpler than you might think. So, the first one is the discount rate. What does that mean?

All it means is what is the minimum return you want from your investment? And Brian, in our calculator we have said that 10% is normal. How did we pick that number? That is what the S&P 500 has done on average over the last 200 years. If you've ever heard the term the S this the market the stock market delivers a return of about 10% uh per year, that is true on a nominal basis for the S&P 500 in America over the last 200 years. Different markets

have compounded at different rates, but that is a reasonable number to put into a calculator. Right. So, we say, you know, if you want to get 10% returns per year, which is market matching, put in a 10% discount rate. And then basically, you might put in an 8% or a 6% discount rate if it's a very predictable business. Brian, can you give us an example of the type of company that might warrant putting in a 6% discount rate? A utility.

Um a waste management company. Uh Coca-Cola. Something that provides a good or service that is ex- that has extremely predictable cash flows with a very wide moat, with a government-guaranteed monopoly such as for um for trash companies or for utility companies. So, there's not many companies that you should use that low of a discount rate on, but there are a handful. And let me just ask you this, Brian. If the stock

market returns 10% per year, why would anyone be okay with putting their money into something where they're only expecting 6% per year? Well, this is the nominal return that you're getting. So, you have to add into that the dividend yield that you're getting on top of that. This is just the share price uh for for one, but not every investor when they're buying a specific stock that not not every investor is expecting a return of 10% per year. If you are investing in utilities, for example, you are probably willing to accept a lower than 10% return per year in exchange for a much higher likelihood of actually achieving uh that number or experiencing lower volatility along the way or income along the way. There's Yeah, I know. reasons

to buy individual stocks. Most people do so cuz they want to outperform the market, but that's not the only thing people want. Yeah, I I one of the I think one of the things that I've learned the most over the last couple of years is beating the market is really important to a small set of people. Making money is what matters to even more people. And if you can get 6% per year, there's a lot of people, especially if you're in retirement and you don't need that 10% return, that are willing to do that.

But, let's look at the other side of the coin. If you have a high risk or a ridiculously ultra-high risk stock, you might demand a 12 or a 15% discount rate. And the thinking here is that you're doing that because there's a high probability that you're going to lose money on it. So, if you're going to lose money on something, you're demanding an even higher return for that. Uh can you think of one or two stocks that might fit that today?

Uh how about the um the computing stocks, the IonQ stocks? How about Rivian or Nikola? Companies that have have no revenues. How about QuantumScape, is a lithium next generation lithium ion battery maker? There are plenty of companies out there that have little to no revenue. They are betting on an R&D

project working out like a biotechnology company. Perhaps they're losing money and the pace of the pace of them losing money is accelerating because the investors are betting on some extremely high growth rate in the top line. There's lots of companies that fit this description. Yep. And if you want to visualize what this discount rate means, think of it like this. If I tell you

that you can get $100 at the end of year five, and I say, well, like, would you rather get $100 at the end of the year five or would you get a certain amount of money today? If you use a 10% discount rate, what what we're saying is is that it that that is worth $90.90 one year beforehand and so on and so forth. So, that you should be willing to pay about $62 today for $100 five years from now. Why?

Because it's growing 10% every year. And so, if you have a lower discount rate, it doesn't need to grow as much, which means that you'll get more money today for $100 five years from now. If you have a higher discount rate and you have a riskier stock, well, look at this is a huge difference. If you have a 15% discount rate, you're saying I will take $50 today, but it needs to be $50 for it to reach 100 bet. So, this is the effect that the five years from if it's a really risky discount rate can have. So, I just want

to see, Brian, do we have any questions popping up about a discount rate in general? No, but I don't see anything about a discount rate. I It sounds like the the concept is is landing. I like what Bruce said here, using a higher this is discount rate will result in a more conservative margin of safety. Yes. The higher it is,

the more the margin of safety you have. Uh nice to see Brian. Brian says, 10% is what I use. It's the growth rate that is the challenge. Yeah, I agree with that.

All right. Well, then let's move on to the other piece. This one's much easier, the terminal growth rate. All that means is how fast is your free cash flow going to grow indefinitely? And Brian, let me ask you this. Why did

we generally choose 2% for our normal growth? Well, that's the rate that you can reasonably expect the gross domestic product, the GDP of of the US economy to to grow at over the long term. If you look at GDP, you know, historically it's been about 2 and 1/2 to 3 and 1/2% somewhere around there. But over the long term, you can expect after a company gets through its hyper growth phase, if it just matches the return matches the growth rate of the overall economy, a 2% terminal growth rate, meaning forever growth rate, makes logical sense. Yep. And so, 1% would be

a lower growth company or maybe in a very low growth economy. And 3 or 4% might be higher growth or very high growth. And this is actually pretty easy to visualize. Let's say we have a company and and if we give it a 3% terminal growth rate, if this is its free cash flow, we're just saying for the first 10 years, it'll it'll grow at some rate. That's what we're figuring out. But the

terminal growth rate just says, after those 10 years, we expect that it will grow roughly this much. Now, Brian, we get a really good question here from Tariq. And again, I'm I'm just kind of curious what you would say about this. Well, why would you buy stocks if you're only giving it a 10% discount rate? What what what do you think about that? Well,

so so he also made a comment about just investing in in ETFs. Again, for first off, ETFs are fantastic if if a stock individual stock picking is not for you. Most people, the vast majority of people that buy individual stocks do do so because they want a higher than average return from that stock than they think the the market will deliver. That is far and away the number one reason that people invest in individual stocks. They're going after a higher return. The

point I made before is that that's not the only thing that people can want when they buy an individual stock. Some people want lower volatility. There are individual stocks that have lower volatility than the market as a whole. Some people want higher income. There are stocks that pay higher dividend yield or higher income rate than the overall overall market. So, those would

be reasons to buy individual stocks that aren't related to wanting to outperform the market. There are plenty of investors out there, especially retirees, that don't care about outperforming the market. They just want a predictable income or they just want to be protected from down the downside. You know, the other thing I would say to Tariq, cuz it's a great question, is the goal here is to show you what the market is pricing in. Your job, the reason I like reverse DCF and not a regular DCF, is that then you have to think about it and you have to ask yourself what do I think of what the market is pricing into this? So, I think that

that's that's pretty important. Uh the other thing I just want to say is, let's see, there was a comment here. Uh now I can't find it. Uh we'll see if I can find it and come back to it a little bit later. Um but the the terminal growth rate Oh, I know what it was. Someone said the terminal

growth rate at two, might that not make it seem too cheap? That's why we're giving you the tool, so you can play with it and see what it would be like at, say, a 3% terminal growth rate and then you can figure out where it would be. But, let's let's get into like a practical example here because at the end of the day, it's going to spit out a number and you just have to say, how do I feel about this number? When I looked at Shopify has to grow its free cash flow 54% per year for the next 10 years, I would have been like a one. I would have said that's way too optimistic.

This is way overvalued. I'm absolutely going to cut my exposure. Or it could be said it that only needs to grow 2% per year and then I'm like, that's way too pessimistic. I think this stock is incredibly undervalued. Or we say, hey, I think it's it's reasonably valued.

Now, Brian, one question that I think is important to to point out is, where what type of company does this make them make the most sense to do this with? A reverse DCF? Yes. >> make the most sense to do this on companies that have free cash flow. Those that are actually producing free cash flow. If a company does not have

free cash flow, you can still use a reverse DCF, but it is way less useful. So, it makes the most sense to do a reverse DCF calculator on companies that are near or at full optimization for cash flow. Yep, exactly. Uh and for those of you asking, we are going to have a recording of this posted on YouTube, so you will get a chance to go back and watch this in its entirety whenever you might want to. Uh but, let's move on and let's practice this. And Brian, we're going to practice

this with a company that I think everybody knows, Zoom. If you could, Brian, can you just put a link to the calculator again in the in the chat, so that folks can get a copy of this calculator and then we will do this in real time. So, I'm going to show everybody how you would do this for a company like Zoom. It's actually much simpler than you might think. So, this is what your sheet looks like and these are slides, but I can also just pull this up right here. And Brian, can you

see that? Yep. All right, awesome. So, I'll zoom in a little bit. And so, you you have this right here and you just put in the ticker symbol, ZM.

And one thing you'll notice right down here is it auto-populates the price, $87 per share. That's great. All right, I'm going to go back to the slides to show you how we go through this. So, you put in Zoom and then the next thing you have to do is you need to put in their free cash flow, okay? To find a company's free cash flow, we're going to use a website called fiscal.ai.

You can use it for free in order to do this. I'm going to show you how you would find this number and then I'm actually going to do it. So, you just go to fiscal.ai, you type in Zoom and you pull up its uh page and what you do is you click financials, you click cash flow statement, you scroll down and you find free cash flow, which is right here, and you look at the LTM. Brian, what does LTM stand for?

Last 12 months. That's the number we want. And if you look over the last 12 months, Zoom has created 2.002 billion dollars in free cash flow. So, again, the way that I would find this, I've gone I've typed in Zoom here on fiscal.ai.

I went financials. We can't see your screen. Oh, sorry. Thank you. I would clicked on financials.

I clicked on cash flow statement and then I just scroll down. Look at there's this section here called free cash flow and it's this number all the way over here, 2001.9. And I plugged it in. So, look, I'm going to pull up my calculator and it's there's a two here cuz it's the second step and I'll just put 2002.

All right, first part is done. Let's head back to our slides and see what's next. Next, we want to figure out the terminal growth rate. Now, people watching can pick whatever terminal growth rate they want. For the purposes of this, I'm just going to put in a normal terminal growth rate. In order to change it, if you

wanted to change it, all you got to do is click on that arrow that goes down and you can choose any one of these, but I'm going to choose two. You may disagree, and that's the beauty of this. You can You can change it to whatever makes sense to you. Then we're going to put in a discount rate, where we say, "Okay, well, how fast does Or sorry, what kind of return do I want for Zoom?" And again, for the purposes of this, we're just going to put 10%, but you can go over and you can make it whatever you want.

By doing this, you're saying, "What What I want to get 10% per year returns." All right. So, those parts are done. Brian, this is where the fun starts. Because what you're going to do next is you're going to play with this number right here. And what it represents is

how much does free cash flow have to grow every year for the next 10 years to justify this stock price. And Brian, right here it says, "If Zoom doesn't grow its free cash flow at all over the next 10 years, it's still worth $75 today." Not bad. And you just play with it, and you play with it, and you keep playing with it until they get close. So, I'm going to pull up my copy, and I'll show you exactly how I do So, I start with zero. Oops.

I start with zero right here. And I say, "Oh, those two numbers aren't the same. I've got to raise it up. What about 10%?" Oh, that's way too high. What about 5%?

Oops. What about 5%? Still too high. What about 2%? Ah, it's about 2%.

So, I've got my answer now. Basically, that Zoom needs to grow their free cash flow by 2% per year over the next 10 years to justify today's stock price. What do we think of that? Well, in order to figure that out, we should take a look at what free cash flow has done recently. And you can do that on Fiscal AI. It's actually very

simple. You go back to financials, the cash flow statement. Just look at the net last three to five years, and then you scroll down and you pull up the free cash flow. Now, I'm going to do that on my screen right now. So, I did financials, cash flow statement.

I'll narrow my scope here for the last three plus years. And here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to click on free cash flow. And I see this chart right here, Brian. Now, most people can't see this, but right here it says CAGR 8.5. Can you just explain

what that means? Compound annual growth rate. It is the compound annual growth rate during that multi-year period. So, in this case, from 2022 to the last 12 months, the actual free cash flow has grown over that time at a What's that number say? >> Eight and a half. 8 and a half percent.

So, that is how fast Zoom's free cash flow has grown over this period on a compound rate. So, Brian, >> Including the period when it went down. Yeah, I go back to this, and Brian, so you're telling me Zoom has grown its free cash flow by 8 and a half percent per year over the last 10 years, and it only needs to grow Sorry, over the last couple of years, and it only needs to grow at 2% moving forward. If that was all the information you had, what would you think of Zoom's valuation today? Cheap.

>> [laughter] >> Yeah. I would say it is quite cheap. And And moreover than just the valuation today, what we're really doing is measuring expectations. Right? Because valuation and expectations, in many ways, are are are synonyms for each other, whether you realize it or not. A high A high

valuation implies high expectations. A low valuation implies low expectations. So, in this case, the the the market price today is assuming 2% growth to deliver a 10% return to investors, mind you. So, 2% growth equals 10% return, whereas they've actually done 8% over the last 5 years. To me, that seems like the expectations are easily achievable.

Here's the problem, Brian. The stock market cares somewhat about what's happened in the past, but what does it care more about? The future. The future. Now, this uh function is somewhat available on fiscal.ai. Sometimes you

have to pay for it to get full functionality. You can find this other this information at other uh outlets as well. But, what I want to show you is you can also figure out what's expected in the future. Now, here's what I do. It's very simple again.

First, you see this timeline at the top of my screen. I'm going to pull it forward. So, now these are the expectations for the next 3 years. And so, I go down. Oh, and I'm also going to hit this button here. Percent

change. And what this does is it's going to let me measure just how fast free cash flow is expected to grow. So, I go down and I can click on that right here. And then I can go up and I can take a look at this. So, Brian, can you see these numbers right here if I move >> Small on my screen, but uh So, it says 3.6% growth this year, 2.2%

next year, 4.3% the year after that. Does that change your opinion at all? Yeah. Yes, it does. [laughter]

Uh because while the last 5 years have seen 8% compound annual growth, Wall Street is now estimating future growth would be about what? 3%? >> About 3%? Yeah. >> About the next 3 years? There's a

8% growth and 2% growth is a pretty big difference. Three and two is kind of like splitting hairs. So, based on the forward projections that are built into the stock price today, I'll just say that I understand why Zoom is trading where it is. So, that's your opinion. Let's ask other folks. And let's also

say this, Brian. I I want to touch on this. These tools are giving you one data point. The more you know about a company, the more you've researched its history, the more you use its products or services in the real world, the more you understand about its competition, the better you will do at this final step. And this final step is the whole takeaway for the reason you're here, which is what do you think about the stock now? So, you've got to layer

in everything you know about Zoom, everything you might know about uh Microsoft, everything you might know about competing products. And then factor all those things in and you ask yourself, "Well, that two two and a half percent growth rate that we're saying it needs to achieve for free cash flow, how do we feel about that? Is it too optimistic?" You might give it a one, two, or three. "Is it too pessimistic?" You might give

it a five, six, or seven. "Or is it reasonable?" Maybe a three, four, or five. Let's give folks, I don't know, 15 seconds to go into the chat and just tell us what do you think. So, go ahead and do that right now. While that's

doing while we're waiting for that, we have some questions here for you. Um what's the difference between reverse DCF and a regular DCF? >> Great question. The difference to me is small in terms of the definition, huge in terms of how you look at it. A regular DCF will give you a stock price that it considers to be fairly valued.

The reason we hate that or I hate that is that that is false precision. It makes you feel like, "Oh, if the stock is below this price, I should buy it. If it's above, I should sell it." It doesn't make you think. A reverse DCF makes you think. And that is where the

value in it is. You have to ask yourself, "How reasonable are these assumptions?" David asks, "How many years should the higher discount rate be used?" We use it in this model for 10 years. Yep. So,

David, there are lots of different flavors of reverse DCF. What we're showing you on the screen is the simplest. We are massive fans of simplicity. There are DCFs where you can model different discount rates by year, and you can actually have the discount rate trail off over time. We we think that that's false precision. Uh I I I

love the phrase I would I would rather be roughly correct than precisely wrong. So, we go for roughly correct. And it's also there's some really great things uh rolling in here. Japeen says, "Well, you can't ignore stock-based compensation. It dilutes shareholders." Again, we say

if you want to go back and subtract that out, that's why we're giving you Our goal is not to say this is the only right way to use the tool. Our goal is to say, "Here's a tool we've built. Now, go out and make whatever adjustments you think are necessary." So, Japeen, by all means, uh you can make uh you can account for those differences in the free cash flow. Or uh you know, uh Jim says, "Well, sometimes you might want to use a higher terminal growth rate. Brian,

there are stocks you and I follow. I'll give you an example, Intuitive Surgical. Intuitive Surgical I've been following for since I don't know, 2011. And it pretty much, with the exception of like pandemic related stuff, grows 15% per year. You better believe I'm going to give that a higher growth rate than I would a normal company.

Well, lots of the the things are coming in and it seems like most people are right around the three to five range for for for that. So, while Zoom did appear to be very cheap looking historically, I think that most people agree it looks pretty fairly valued today. Now, here's a really great question. I want to answer this then we'll do one more and then we'll transition to our last part, which is how does the reverse DCF account for a change in the PE or price to free cash flow? This is both one of the strengths of a reverse DCF and one of the weaknesses.

Because a reverse DCF doesn't care about multiples and you might look at that and say, well, that doesn't make any sense at all. How could there not be multiples? You're literally adding together all the cash flow that the company's going to collect to infinity into the future and you're discounting it and you're just stacking it on top of each other and you're saying, how much is this worth? And the reason you can do that is once you reach 30 or 40 years out, if you're discounting 10% every year, your 30 and 40 don't even really factor into how much cash is coming in. Mul- mul- multiple analysis are are not needed. This is an entirely different

way to value companies than with multiple multiple analysis. That doesn't mean there won't be a multiple both here and all on the way and at the end, but that's a different type of valuation analysis than a reverse DCF. Reverse DCF is its own category. Yep. Uh exactly.

So, Brian, I would say if I was looking at this, I would say that I believe that uh that Zoom is a four. That's that's where it would land for me. It would be a four. >> I would be in the same spot. Um all right. So, what I want to do next is I

want to do this again, but I want to change it up because we can Now we can see I chose this example very much on purpose. Um we can see where this comes in. So, we're going to do Duolingo. And here's what I want you to do, if you can do this. Pull up your calculator.

You're going to want to get rid of this free cash flow number, get rid of this growth rate number for now. Put in Duolingo's ticker symbol d u o l. >> Can you put your screen it on the screen? Yep. And so, it'll look just like this. Can you see that? Yep. All

right, great. So, what's the first step we have to do? The first step we have to do is find out what is the company's trailing free cash flow. Now, if you can find this out real quick and you find it, please just put it in the chat and put down what its free cash flow is. I'm going to go ahead and show you how to find it. But Brian, if they start

rolling in, just put them up on the screen and we can do it. Sure. While I'm while while he's looking at that, I'm going back to Fiscal I. I want to make sure everyone knows how to do this. Put in that ticker symbol. Can't

see it. u o l right here. Thank you. I put it in. All right, we've got Duolingo.

I've got to find their free cash flow, so I go to the cash flow statement. I go all the way down. I can even click on it here and there's my answer. 355 million dollars. Just want to make sure we're all on the same page here.

Yep. Go back. I put in 355 million dollars. All right. So, I've got 355 million dollars.

You can choose to put in whatever terminal growth rate you want. Whatever discount rate you want. I'm going to leave them normal. And now you just have to ask yourself, well, how fast does it need to grow? So again, look at how simple this is.

It could grow 5% over the next 10 years. Ooh, there's a huge delta between the current price and 121. So, we got to up that, maybe 10%. Uh got to go up a little bit more, maybe 15. No, that was way too much.

Back to 12%. Okay, now we're getting closer. What about 11%? There we go. Is that close enough for you, Mr. Frohlich?

>> A buck seems close enough to me. Yeah, a buck seems close enough to me, too. So, 11% is what this stock needs to grow. Of course, we need to know the next question, which is, well, what do we think about that compared to where the stock has been? Well, this part's actually pretty easy.

Because all we got to do is we can head back here and we can say, huh. Share your screen, couple, please. Here's the last couple of years. Thank you. And here's their free cash flow.

Brian, what do you think of that right there? I'd say growing at 107% over the last 4 years. Um I understand why this the the stock went uh and did the things that it did over this time period. All right, 107% per year. We're saying it needs 11%.

107%. Now, if that was all the information you had, Mr. Feroldi, >> [snorts] >> where would you land on this? Uh you would of course How how could you not say it's extremely undervalued? The company is doubling its free cash flow every year and the market now needs 11% moving forward. Of course, your first

explanation would be, "Oh, it's it's it's way undervalued, right? This thing should be way way higher than it is." Okay. But again, we know that this is forward-looking, not backward-looking. No, that's backward-looking. We need to

look forward. The stock market is forward-looking, not backward-looking. Yes. So, we're going to pull this up and we're going to say, "All right, well, how fast is it expected to grow?" So, I'm going to pull up that free cash flow growth rate.

Here's what I see. Now, this is a little bit of a chart crime, right? Because I don't know if you can see this, but this is 761%. That That's That's crazy fast. So, let's just pull it forward a little bit.

>> [clears throat] >> It's expected to grow right here. This says 40% this year, 30% next year, 27% the year after that. Let me say that again. 40, 30, 27. Now, Brian, that's just 2 plus years, and we're talking about what it needs to do over 10 years.

But if you look at that and you know that 11% is what it needs, well, how do you feel How do you feel now? So, if the market needs is implying the market is pricing the company for 11% growth, and yet analysts believe that the growth rate over the next 2 to 3 years, which is likely to be the period when they have the most insights, right? Um that looks like a pretty big mismatch to me in in the in the buyer's favor. So, let's ask folks here. Where would you land Duolingo now? But Brian, there's

also this tricky part about you've got to layer in what's going on. Are you familiar with why Duolingo might be considered so cheap right now? Uh I know they have a potentially massive top-of-funnel issue. And they also I mean, it AI. Uh A lot of people are saying, "Look, I can use Gemini. I can use ChatGPT. Ling,

there's no moat. People can switch away. They're not going to you know, language it it doesn't teach a language that well in the first place." There are legitimate concerns. That being said, where do our our viewers right now land in terms of its valuation? Yep, mostly in the I would

say six on average. Um looks to be right around there. Mhm. Yeah. And we got a good question here from uh Luella. Says, "You don't care

that the estimates are declining over time?" So, that's that's an important That's an important caveat. And uh you have to have the paid version of Fiscal AI to do this, but let me just show you what you can do. You can go to analysis right here and go to estimates, and it will pull up This first one is revenue estimates. Now, Luella, I would say that is this is for 2023, the estimates kept going up. 2024, they kept going up. This

year, 2025, they kept going up. It is fair that in 2026, recently, there was a small step down. And let's see if they've got free cash flow in here. This one is a bit trickier, but in general, they've continued to go up there as well. There has been a slight step down recently, and Luella, that's why layering in what you know about a company is so important and why we say this this tool can bring you partway there, but you've got to layer in your own background knowledge of a company before you can say, "Oh, I'm certain that uh this is a seven, or I'm certain this is a four or a three or whatever it might be." But Brian, where where did

most of our our folks that are watching land if you had to guess? Um probably around uh seven. Um and uh Tariq seems to be having a problem with the calculator, saying that he got $7,000 as an intrinsic value. Um if you get a really wild answer like that, you probably have a decimal point um in the wrong spot. You're probably assuming 1,100% growth instead of 11% uh growth.

So, in the US, we use the period as the the separator. Um so, other countries use the comma as a separator. So, that that that might be the uh the issue. Yeah, I agree. Um all right, so let's see here. Can you can you hear me,

Brian? Yep. Okay, good. Um all right, so >> [clears throat] >> let's just review what a reverse DCF is. It's a valuation method and the goal is is that it spits out a growth rate for free cash flow and then it tells you and then it takes its market price and it tells you what its growth rate should be.

Uh this works best for companies that actually have positive free cash flow. We talked about the two big things that you have to input are a discount and a terminal rate and then you're left just deciding where do I think that this is. Now, Brian, do we have any other questions about how to use this tool before we go on to our next section? Yeah, we sure do. Uh so Craig says, uh why did I why don't we use US Treasury rates as the discount rate? Uh so you can do that and actually

we're about to talk about the program that I run, Stock Investing Mentor, and we have done sessions on exactly that. You you're the US Treasury discount rate is a part of picking out the discount rate, but that would be much more to get into than a 1-hour live webinar. Okay. Uh Luwell asked about the factors that could affect a company's free cash flow. Yeah, I mean that gets to Luwell again, knowing the more you know about a company, the more you can layer over on this. So the

bottom line is is that there's a ton of things, capital expenditures, whether or not the moat is there, and it has pricing power. All these things play a role in free cash flow. John asks about, do you look at earnings per share here at all? I think this was related to Zoom, but Zoom was expected for earnings per share to be at nine minus 8%. You can absolutely and should look at it.

Again, the goal of this webinar was to teach you how to use this tool, but all these things that people are bringing up are absolutely important to consider. Yep. And uh Burkhart says, DCF reverse or back is a huge simplification based on constant rates, correct? I think that if by constant rates he means a constant uh like a US Treasury rate, which it which will affect the discount rate. I would say that is correct over the medium term, but I think if you are a truly long-term investor and you're like, "Hey, I'm going to buy this and hold it as long as the thesis plays out." Uh it matters

less and less the longer-term investor you are, but it it it does still matter. I I I interpreted that one as uh the one the tool that we were providing was a very simple and did not uh provide for more detailed for year-by-year. Uh yeah, so we are fans of simple. When it comes to valuation, um there there's no valuation is correct, period, right? The the the best case scenario for valuation is to come up with a range of valuation uh models. The tool that we have is

imprecise, but it's that way on purpose because the fewer assumptions you can make, the fewer inputs that you can have, the the the more trustworthy we believe the outcome uh uh is when when when using it. There are some highly complex DCF models and reverse DCF models. We don't think the extra complexity gets you a better answer. Yeah. We just think it gives you false precision. A- and I love what Jen

said here, cuz I think this is totally right. If we Look, we could create something that spits out a price and that just says buy, don't buy. And to be honest with you, I think that would be a really popular tool for like a year. Now, why do I say that would only be a really popular tool for a year? Because after a year, people would realize, "Oh, this answers I- it's really great that it gives an answer, but also it's not right every time." The reason we use this is

because it forces you to think. So I like what Jen said about it forcing you to think. Yeah. Yeah, to the tools and analysis should aid you and make your thinking easier, but the onus is still on you, the investor, to do the final level of thinking. Never Never Never forget that when you buy a stock, you're putting your money on on the line and you need to make sure you have all the information you need and you've processed it internally, because I can guarantee you if you own that stock long enough, it's going to fall hard at one period of time, and you need the correct information so that you can make a decision about what to do next. Yep. And

so that's why we want to tell you we we've actually got a program that's designed not to give you the easy answers, but instead to teach you how to do just this, and it's called Stock Investing Mentor. So Brian, if we're ready, I think let's go through how this program works. Sure. So Stock Investing Mentor has a weekly 1-hour live training session with you and your assistant Ken every single week and we teach investing principles such as reverse discounted cash flow calculators, such as multiple analysis, such as financial analysis, and more. Uh second, you get full access to my real-life portfolio up-to-date to to the minute whenever I make a move in my portfolio. And third, you get access

to a private private private online investing community. This is a gated community which dramatically increases the quality of the conversation. Yep, so let's just talk a little bit about each one of these. First, the 1-hour sessions. They happen every Thursday at noon Eastern Time and we go through the adapt framework every 5 weeks where we talk about assessing the story, a data deep dive. But there

are several different topics, subcategories within each one of these. So we might cover business models and then margins and then yields, position sizing or how to keep up with the company's earnings during earning season each time. And we split it 30 minutes kind of real-life application using a calculator like this for the first time and then we have 30 minutes for Q&A as well. So second, in addition to learning how Brian Stoffel invests every single week, you also get full access to his portfolio as well as every single thing that he does with it. So you get he'll show you his portfolio in in in absolute real time. Whenever he makes a buy or a

sell decision, he sends that out to people that are in Stock Investing Mentor and with his full detailed thoughts. He actually makes a presentation on every single stock that he buys and sells. He does the valuation analysis on all the stocks that he owns. He does the valuation stocks on why he's buying or why why he's selling including reverse discounted cash flow calculators. Yep. And Brian, this is a

question we get a lot. Okay, it's nice that he's sharing this information, but how much does this matter? And the fact of the matter is it is the the portfolio that I share is 90% of my family's worth. The only other 10% right here is the house that I'm coming to you from right here and I don't know, maybe the 12-year-old car that my family drives is maybe 1% of that. But it is truly skin in the game. And I've been tracking this

portfolio and its returns since the end of December 2014. Yep. So again, if Brian does a bad job managing his portfolio, nobody feels the pain more than Brian. Yep. Now Brian, I I actually want you to talk about this because you more than anyone I know has had a lot of kind of experience with different types of online investing communities and you've had a lot of different experiences and I I think this is one that is really a benefit that's slept on. Yep. People

don't realize it's how important it is. We ask people that join Stock Investing Mentor, why did you join? Nobody joins because of the community. The reason people stay and really like Stock Investing Mentor is because of the the community. When you have a gated community that has a paywall in front of it, there are no trolls behind it.

Everybody there is designed to help you to ask you questions, to challenge your beliefs, to to come come up with stock ideas for you. Uh when when you have a when you have a community that is on Slack or on Discord or on Twitter, you can get some high-quality conversation in there, but it's also filled with with lots of noise, people that have different incentives than than you do. By having a gated community, by having it be a private, the quality of the conversation improves drastically. Yep. And we we really do believe that that's a huge reason that people stay with this program over the long term. You can meet

other members. It's open 24/7. You can ask questions and chat at any time and you have access to all the tools including, but definitely not limited to, the calculator that we shared with you today. Now I also wanted to let you know, this is the team that covers it. I take the lead on this, but I also have help from Mr. Feroldi as well as Brian

Withers and Ken Taylor does a phenomenal job in making sure that members get all of their questions answered. So this is Jan, one of our members. She just says that she loves being in Stock Investing Mentor and how personalized it feels to have Brian talking through his investing philosophy with her. Yep. So those are the three main parts that you get with this. The live training, the portfolio,

the investing community, but there are some bonuses as well. Bonus number one, every 6 weeks I come out with my valuation analysis where I rank from one to seven just like we did today all the stocks that I own and all the stocks that I follow. So you not only get what my watch list is, but the valuations every 6 weeks for those stocks as well. Second, we have a course that we include for free in part of Stock Investing Mentor called how to find unlimited stock ideas. We get questions all the time, where do you guys get your stock ideas? We decided to build a course that

goes through how we find stock ideas for free. Number three, you get access to all the tools that we have created for this community. We gave you a taste of one of those tools today with our reverse discounted cash flow calculator. Believe it or not, we have made three additional flavors of this calculator. We've got one that goes for 15 years. We've got

one that as someone asked adjusts the discount rate based on what the US Treasury yield is. We've got ones that are reverse DCFs with an exit multiple, which people talked about. So, all the tools you get access to as well. But Brian, there's one last thing we want to let people know about. Yep, if you join uh the Stock Investing Mentor, you get access to Stock Simplifier. So, this is

the tool that we use to analyze stocks quickly. It's kind of like a first pass. If you've never learned how to research a stock before, uh this is our entry-level product that allows you to do so. It comes with a complete checklist. It comes with a full course on what the terms mean and how to how to use them. And it also comes with AI

prompts that help to speed up the process and teach you how to do it. But Brian, there's a really important caveat. You will only get this for free if you join before this live webinar ends. I would say within the next 10 minutes. Can you design this? Can you

tell people a little bit more about what's in there? Yep, so there's a link to some AI prompts uh that that are in that you can just kind of copy and and paste into an LLM of your choice. If you've joined us on Tuesday sessions uh in the past, you've seen us research companies um like Apple, like Tesla uh Tesla, like The Trade Desk, um like Adobe, etc. So, we've kind of walked through the process with you. So, that is what's included if you join Stock Investing Mentor before the end of this webinar and using that I'm about to share in the chat right now. All right.

So, again, if you join Stock Investing Mentor, the three core parts of the training, the portfolio access, the community, we just went over the bonuses that you can get including the one that you can get if you register using the link that Mr. Feroldi is putting into our chats right now. And it's important to point out that this is risk-free. You can use it and if in the first 30 days you use this program and it is not for you, that's fine. Just send me a message and we will issue you a refund ASAP.

Now, we're going to show the price in just a second. But Brian, what are a couple things that it's worth remembering about this? So, if you make one great investment idea from following Stofel's portfolio, that'll pay for your membership. If he teaches you one thing that saves you from buying a bad stock or sell a stock in your portfolio you shouldn't own or teaching you something about risk management, that will pay your membership. Or if you make one connection to a fellow member that's in the community, um that could pay for itself many times over. Brian Stofel and

I met in an investment community. So, we know first hand just how powerful these can be to truly change your life. So, what is the price? It's $399 if you want to pay pay quarterly and $999 annually. However, because you are attendee to this webinar whether uh through whatever platform you're watching it, we are offering you limited time 20% off. So,

again, it's 20% off the price and if you join in about the next 10 minutes, it's 20% off plus Stock Simplifier for free. [snorts] Yep. Klaus, thank you for the nice words. Olivier, thank you for the uh the the the nice words about it. So, Amit here has been one of our mentors uh our in in in Stock Investing Mentor for uh over a year now and he said if you want to be an intelligent investor, you should join Stock Investing Mentor. Or

Paul, who said that this investment paid for itself many times over. Or Francesco, who called it the best investment he made uh when he he joined uh last year. All right. So, Brian, we get some some some FAQs, some frequently asked questions. What are some of the ones that people normally have? Yep, so what

if you work full-time? How the heck are you going to fit this into your life? You know Brian, we actually designed Stock Investing Mentor exactly for these people. We have about, I would say, 20% of people show up for the live sessions on Thursday and it rotates which 20% are able to make it. However, it's also worth pointing out everything is recorded. There's a transcript for

everything. You can send a a meeting at any point in time. And so, it is designed so that you can uh consume this whenever makes the most sense for you. Yep. This is a good one. Is this only

for US investors? It is true that all of my investments are in US listed companies, but the dynamics that that dictate how a stock market works in the United States are roughly the same no matter where you are in the world. Some of the details are different, but I would say 25% of our members are probably international and they're still with us after 1 year. How about if you join, kick the tires, and then say, "Man, this ain't for me." What what what what request you have? It

is not that's not a problem at all. In fact, we love that because then you gave it a try and you said, "Hey, this isn't for me." Let us know, we'll issue you that refund the next day. There you go. So, we will be following up if you registered for this by by by email. We will provide you with a link

to do so over the next two two two days if you choose to to join us then, but if you want access to stock simplifier included, that is going that deal is going to end actually me that bonus offer is going to end at the end of this session which is in about 5 minutes time. I will reshare the link in the chat for anybody that wants to to join us, but we are happy to take any and all questions that you guys have about stock investing mentor. Yep, and hey, look at this Brian. We we've got some people who are actually members of stock investing mentor that are just joining us today because they're awesome. So, Klaus hasn't regretted a single cent invested in stock investing mentor or stock simplifier so far. Yeah,

thank you very much and let's just go. Great questions about here. Okay. Vanessa, do you get any Do you get the bonuses if you join quarterly or only annually? The The bonuses are if you join quarterly as well. So, that's

you you can get that as well. There you go. Cool. Awesome. Thank you guys. Yes, learning never

stops. Absolutely. Thank you guys so much that have joined us here that have already already joined. We super appreciate you being here. While while we have people on the line, I would love to ask a question. Go for

it. We love doing these live sessions and we plan on doing them roughly every 2 weeks. Our plan roughly is 2 weeks we do a learning session like this and in between the other 2 weeks we do an individual stock analysis. We would love to know what topics you would like to us to cover in 2026 and and beyond. Some ideas that we have that we've done in the past or some ideas we have come up with.

When to sell? When's a good time to to sell your your stock? We've done We have an ideas about technical analysis. Can long-term investors use technical analysis to make investing decisions? That was a topic I was extremely skeptical of, let's just say 12 months ago, but now I've become a believer that there actually can be a marriage between long-term investing and technical analysis. And if you don't believe us,

watch a presentation that we're going to give on it. So, that's it that's an idea that we could do. Brian, can you think of any other Yvonne says, "When to sell would be great." She'd love that. Yeah.

Um Give me a sec. I had a list of stock topics kind of queued up. >> think when to sell is a big one. I think different You know, we we talked today about about reverse discount cash flow analysis, but we could also do one on just multiples. People asked about multiples, the PE ratio, price to free cash flow ratio. That's absolutely

something we We could totally do a whole diagram on the the the price to earnings ratio and the the pros and cons to using price to earnings ratios and the many ways that price to earnings ratios can be good or or bad. That actually might be a good one to do. So, topics include valuation, include portfolio management, include buying and selling. They can include some light or heavy accounting work. They could be thesis analysis.

We're kind of happy to do topics on on any of those. So, if you have if you like any of those suggestions, please put it in the chat. We would love to hear from you about what kind of topics interest you the most. I I like Lou L's right here. You know, we've been talking a bunch on YouTube about how much we have a large pile of cash on hand in our portfolios. Maybe something about how to

deploy it. Brian, I think you even made a video on YouTube about this using Morgan Housel's theory of cash deployment. Is that right? Yeah, cash management strategy. Yeah.

Yeah. Here's a really great question from John about stock investing mentor. Is there a video library of all past recordings and teaches? Yes, there is. And so, we have that and you have access to it immediately when you join.

So, we will reshare the link one more time and we do have some other random questions to get here. Thanks Thanks Olivier for for for joining us. Super appreciate you. Abel suggests just valuation in general. If valuation does interest you, we love talking about and teaching about valuation. There are multiple valuation

techniques, there's multiple analysis, there's DCF analysis, there's reverse DCF, there's total addressable a market analysis, um there's uh sum of the parts analysis, um and and and more. So, if people have questions about how companies are valued, that is something we absolutely love talking about. Yep. Yeah. Awesome. I I think we've got uh I think

we've got a nice stable of potential topics. It seems like when to sell is is one that people really like. Um but Brian, just to I'm I I'm kind of putting you on the spot here. I believe that next week we will be covering an individual stock that folks will vote on. And then I believe we're taking a week off uh the following Tuesday because it's between the Christmas holiday and New Year's. Is that correct?

That is correct. So, today is the 16th. Um the the this Friday the 19th, we're going to be sending out Excuse me, tomorrow uh tomorrow Wednesday, uh we're going to be sending out a poll in our newsletter longtermmindset.co. If you're not If you haven't signed up for that, where we ask people we're going to present four stocks and say which stock interests you uh the most. And then

we're going to take the one that has the highest um the highest number of votes. And then next Tuesday, uh the 23rd, we will research that company from scratch live using Stock uh Simplifier. The week after that, we're going to be taking off. We are on the holidays. And then January, let's call it sixth sixth sixth Yeah, I think it's the >> Sure. It's sixth. Uh January 6th, we

will be back for Tuesday live. And that's where we're going to do another educational series. It sounds like when to sell um is going to be is going to be the winner, but we will we will send out a poll to people um asking for questions on that. We love getting feedback from people about what kind of topics interest you uh the most. So, Tuesdays uh at 12:00, we hope that you join us on whatever platform you're watching us uh now. Or if you go to uh join our

newsletter at longtermmindset.co, you'll be able to vote. Um and we'll also make sure that you have reminders for for when we are live and get access to the replay, that kind of thing. All right. We're going to make sure we're monitoring. We know some people might

have started to make their purchase of Stock Investing Mentor right now to make sure they get the Stock Simplifier for free. So, we're going to keep our eyes on that. If you started the process, don't worry. We'll still include you in that. But we know that giving up an hour of your time is a huge ask. And Brian, I

see thousands of people are joining us across many platforms right now. And I can't tell you how much it means to us that people are willing to spend an hour with us. Yep. I hope that we this I hope this was uh worth your time. And we want to make this worth your time whenever you are are with us in the future. So,

if you have topic uh ideas you want us to discuss, stocks you want us to discuss, whenever we get suggestions, we keep them on a list and we do go through them regularly. So, Brian at longtermmindset.co um is our email address, and feel free to email us anytime. Yep. And there will be a recording of this. We're going to

post it to YouTube, so you'll be able to watch it into infinity. There you go. All right. Well, thank you everyone so much for joining us this week. And Brian, I feel like you've got to carry us out cuz you you're the one who came up with the pitch. Yep. We will give

people 10 more seconds if they want to join Stock Investing Mentor and still get Stock Simplifier uh as a bonus. Uh if you don't do it before the end of this stream, which is going to be in about 10 seconds, you still can get access to the to the discount in the next 48 hours or so, but you will not be getting Stock Investing Mentor as a bonus there. But thank you guys so much for joining us. We wish you a happy uh Tuesday and happy rest of the week. And and with that, Brian's out.