---
video_title: "Is PayPal Too Cheap To Ignore? (Full Deep Dive)"
video_id: ZJpshecGTpA
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZJpshecGTpA
video_date: 20251223
video_description: |
  During this deep dive workshop, we’ll walk through our full research process step by step.
  
  We’ll look at:
  
  ✅ How PayPal actually makes money
  ✅ Whether its moat is getting stronger or weaker​
  ✅ Key financial metrics
  ✅ Management’s track record and capital allocation
  ✅ The biggest opportunities & risks on the horizon
  ✅ Valuation: Buy, sell, or hold?
  ✅ Q&A
---
Hey everybody, happy Tuesday. Thank you for joining us. It is a pleasure to see you all. I see Jens I coming in. Look at this, Klaus is in Germany.

>> Cisco Rich Burkhard Michael, hello everybody. Thank you guys coming in. Yeah, let us know in the chat where you are coming There you go, Paris. coming from. I'm Brian Feroldi. I am

coming to you live from the mighty state of Rhode Island. And my name is Brian Stoffel. I'm coming to you right now from well, the unseasonably warm state of Wisconsin. I'm in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. And look at this, it's good to see that our YouTube stream is working. We've got lots of folks coming

in from San Diego, Ohio, New York City. >> Love it. That's awesome. Love it. >> Hey, and X two. Look at this, we got

people coming in through X. I do want to let people know I'm not a huge Christmas fan or Christmas guy, but last year I did buy this shirt which says merry it's not Christmas until Hans Gruber falls for the Nakatomi Plaza. And also says if you know, you know. >> [laughter] >> My trivia team has um We have trivia every Tuesday I go to with some of my friends and tonight is whoever comes with the most obnoxious Christmas decorum on Wednesday >> you you will be towards the top. I like to think so, but some people really take it to the next level. If you're not, I

wouldn't want to be there. Yeah, when they do that. >> [laughter] >> Yeah, yeah. So thank you guys for joining us. We are going to get things started. Brian, we are here to talk

about Oh, jeez. Uh it's live. Uh we are here on December uh 23rd, 2025. What stock are we researching today, Stock >> Well, it was it was a very close one, as you can see right there, but we are looking at PayPal. And uh we we had all of our followers on in our newsletter vote on this. Now, Brian, one thing I'm

just want to say about PayPal before we get it even get into it. Um I use Venmo. But other than Venmo, I can't think of a time when I've used PayPal in the last 15 years. Well, our business accepts PayPal payments, right? >> And I would say that um about 20 to 30% of all transactions that go through our company, Long Term Mindset, go through PayPal. So, I guess

I benefit from PayPal. >> Yeah, so when we started to offer it as an option, people did start to use it. And I will say that PayPal's fees are much higher than fees we've seen on other uh on a couple of other places, but that's what it is. All right, so getting into this business, so we are going to be researching it. And just know that some businesses are easy to research, some are hard. I would

classify PayPal kind of in the Yeah, it's a little It's not the hardest company out there, but it's not the easiest company out there. So, let's We would love to know from you, viewers watching, put in the chat on whatever platform you're on, do you own this stock? We would love to know if you guys are PayPal shareholders. Are you a PayPal shareholder? I am not. And I I

don't believe that I ever have been. I'm curious, what about you, Mr. Peroldy? I am not a PayPal shareholder. Although I do vividly remember when this company spun out of eBay. I think it was like

2015, the reason to buy eBay was because of PayPal. It was growing like gangbusters. It was a fantastic It was one of the only fintechs out there. We've seen a lot more competition in the fintech space since then, but this was the, you know, the OG company. This is This is the company that made Elon Musk his first couple hundred million. Yeah, what

do they call them? The PayPal Mafia? >> PayPal Mafia. So, I would say it's about an 80/20 split. Great great to see that we've got folks coming in from from YouTube as well, but um 80 don't and about 20% do.

Got it. So, while we're here, my name is Brian Feroldi. There are my portfolio returns over the last 10-plus years or so I have been outperforming my benchmark. And the reason that Stofel and I can beat the market, we are firm believers, is the fact that we do our research up front. That research builds conviction. That conviction enables

patience, and that patience allows you to hold great businesses for the long term. I mean, look at Look at what PayPal has done since it was spun out. So, if you invested 10K in 2015, this was worth 80K at one point, Stofel, and it's pretty much >> I mean, that's that's that's a trip right there. That's >> That's a And that's like a round trip over the last because I would say over I mean, if you start out with 10,000 in 2015 and it's only $16,000 today, that that is a losing investment. Very much so. It's It's really lost to

the market. So, whether or not this company's going to work out, we don't know, but you do need You do need to do the research so you can have the conviction to hold companies like this through the inevitable up and down. So, that's what we're going to show you today. We're going to show you how we would develop the conviction in a company by doing the research. We're going to be doing the research with Stock Simplified. If you've never heard

of Stock Simplified before, it is our tool that we use to research a company from scratch as simply as possible. We're going to go relatively quickly through Stock Simplified, but just know if you do purchase it, it has a full course that goes along with it. It has some tools that go along with it. You're going to see us use We have some AI prompts that kind of speed up the process and we can also we actually also recently added a sentiment uh pro prompt to kind of figure out where the sentiment is on the stock right now. So, I'm going to get some of those tools open. So, here's the spreadsheet tool.

I'm going to make a copy uh of that. Uh I'm going to open up um the uh fiscal.ai. That's going to be the tool that we're going to be using throughout. I'm going to open up our AI prompt uh database that we have to to use those and we'll be going from there. So, let's

start with the sentiment uh analysis and maybe we'll try Gemini again. That worked out pretty well uh last time. So, let's go ahead and oops, no thanks. Um let's go ahead and enter the sentiment prompt. We we do have some people that there's no love lost when it comes to the sentiment. We got a YouTube user who

says, "I hope it goes to zero and they go out of business." Okay. Bad experiences. In in interesting um interesting to hear that. IR for PayPal.

Okay, so overall takeaway. PayPal experienced a volatile round trip in 2025. Early optimism around new leadership and Venmo monetization drove it to the '90s. I don't know if you remember, but they got a new CEO who basically promised the moon right off the bat and I think that that was not wise. Oops. Oops, but persistent

concerns over competitive pressure from Apple and Stripe combined with weak revenue guidance led to a steady decline back to the $60 range. Next earnings are in February, so the outlook is neutral. So, analysts are neutral on it. Investors are bearish on it. They're very confident that investors are bearish on it. The media is kind of

mixed on it. Uh What does it say just up a little bit? It said something about uh there we go. Uh the sentiment shifted from turnaround hope to a show-me story. Okay, yep. That

>> I'd say that that's pretty accurate. >> Yeah, and I would say too, like this is uh just going through my X feed, this is the stock that gets called out the most as like crazy [snorts] undervalued right now by certain by certain accounts. Yeah, so it's PE is 12, way below its long-term average. Bulls say Venmo monetization is is is here and pay with Venmo volume is going up. Uh they also say buybacks are here, the first dividend and plans to return 70% of free cash flow via buybacks and it's undervalued.

Bears say competitive displacement, it's losing market share to Apple Pay, Stripe, and banks. Weak revenue guidance, low single-digit revenue guidance, suggests it's a mature business, and user engagement issues, active user accounts and engagement trends have been moving in the wrong direction. So, I would say that's a pretty good uh sentiment sentiment um overview. Yeah, that that matches the the the vibes that I see. Yeah, for sure. So, we want your opinion.

The way we start this is which of the six stages of the business growth cycle do you think PayPal is in? Is this >> to be interesting. three, four, five, six? Let us know in the comment section below which which segment uh which um uh phase of the business growth cycle you think uh PayPal is in. We do have an AI prompt that helps us to figure this out. I'm going to make a copy of that

and uh put that into Gemini. But I'd love to know what viewers think before we kind of see what what AI says. I mean I would say that um if if if I had to guess five is the average >> Okay. and then I would say it looks like there's equal numbers of folks saying six and four. Okay. And that's

interesting, you know, I was actually responding to someone in in in my community uh recently that was talking about a a stock, but they were like, "Ah, you know, when I put this in, it says six and four." And I was like, you know, that kind of makes sense because if you're in six, desperately trying to get out of it, you could appear as a four because if you do start turning that ship, then your profitability can go up faster than than than your revenue. Um I'm curious to see what they they have to say. All right, well, AI says it's in phase five, capital return, and it's very highly confident in that. What's the evidence? Operating income is

positive and growing. Okay. We'll check. Revenue is growing 6% per year. That might be a little bit too high, but and then it's buying it's buying back stock and has a dividend. It

just initiated a quarterly dividend. That means that the most useful valuation metrics are price to earnings, price to free cash flow, and reverse DCF. Company is mature with stable operations and capital returns. Current earnings and cash generation drive value and don't use growth multiples or forward uh multiples. Hey, that's a interesting thing that it's uh it's true.

>> it do that before. >> Not accurate. It's not accurate, but you know, um At least they're they're trying to draw some pictures. Okay. So, what they're doing, they're focused on efficiency and shareholder rewards.

They're transitioning the ship from high-growth fintech to a mature financial utility. I would say that that is accurate. This says focus on free cash flow and price to earnings like trailing P/E because the business is stable and watch the capital return program. >> to pull this up? I I would love to see what this looks like on on yeah, on Fiscal AI just because th- this is a really tough one, and I always like to look at the revenue and just see where where it's been over the last 10 years and operating income.

Those are the those are the two things that I like to look at the most. So, I mean, I look at that and I could see late stage four, maybe early stage five. >> Well, revenue is still growing. So >> Right, right, right. But I see But I see it's starting to ish plateau. Although,

last 12 months Uh okay. All right, I could see stage four there. Okay, so let's look at revenue growth rate. So this is revenue growth. So it was in the mid teens and mid teens and 20s and it's just been declining about 5% in the most recent uh period.

>> operating income? >> If we look at quarterly though, break it out quarterly. So the the the low was Q1 about 1% growth, but in the low most recent quarter 7% growth. So it's not terrible. It it that's This is not a stage six company uh for sure for sure. If we just look at

operating profit uh though, so there was kind of a peak Oh, that's quarterly. I want annual. Um annual. >> I mean, I look at that and I say stage four. Now, that that being said, Brian, we had to create the prompt to say that if there are significant uh dividends or buybacks, then it automatically says it's stage five.

Yeah. >> But I look at that and I say stage four because to me To me, I would definitely say stage I would definitely say stage five. Now, why would you say stage five? I'm curious. Because because even though there is the company is showing some operating leverage because operating profit is growing faster uh than revenue. To me, it's a matter of what

are you doing with your operating profit? Are you just plowing it back into to growth and is that leading to revenue growth? To me, then you're in stage four. If you're saying and management is saying, "We're taking that operating profit and we're just giving it back to shareholders." That to me is a is a stage >> Okay, I see what you mean. I see what

you mean. So and if we look at the um I would still go stage four, but your reasoning makes sense to me. So if we go to the shares outstanding, so this is are they buying back stock uh or not? That's pretty good, 2% per year. Yeah.

So the they used to have 1.2 billion shares. Now they have 100 987. >> If you pull that back to just the last three or four years, yeah, what is that? Wow, 6%.

>> That's crazy. So they are really ramping up buybacks. They're buying back about 6% of their stock on a in the last three years basis. So and they just initiated a dividend. They haven't paid it yet, but they just initiated it a 14 cents per share.

>> And for what it's worth, off of what Christian just said, like how do you account for them paying their employees in shares? If you look at the the shares outstanding, that does account for that. So Sure does. That that 6% reduction per year is swimming against the stock-based compensation. So they really are plowing a lot back into that. I'm definitely

saying capital appreciation. >> I you've you've convinced me. You've convinced me. But this just shows there is some nuance to it, right? And it's there is nuance between phase fours and phase fives.

I I I would say phase five. >> No, you've you've convinced me. I I I agree. I agree. Great. Great. Cool. Glad

we're on with that. Okay, next, what does PayPal do and is this a good business? I think we know what PayPal does. I think there's stuff behind the scenes that might be surprising. >> you might be surprised when you run this prompt what what you learn about a company and and how it how it makes money. I look I also look at some of the

key metrics on Fisikal cuz I like to take a look at that too. All right, PayPal is a global technology platform that enables digital and mobile payments on behalf of consumers and merchants worldwide. It operates a two-sided network at scale, connecting millions of active accounts across more than 200 markets. It's core mission is to democratize financial services by providing tools that move and manage money safely and effectively. Okay? How

does it make money? PayPal earns revenue through transaction fees based on total payment volume. Now, those are the fees that you were just talking about at the beginning of the show. Correct. It also generates revenue from other value-added services, which include interest and fees from credit products and referral fees. So, transaction

revenue is 90% of revenue, 28.9 billion. These are fees charged to merchants and consumers for processing transactions. So, let's say you buy something from us that costs like $100, PayPal typically takes about, I think, 2% or so. So, two $2 goes to PayPal, $98 goes to us. Mhm.

>> Essentially. So, they they take uh that's how they they take it, which is a pretty standard thing for fintech uh companies. >> Okay. Other value-added services are 2.7 billion, 9%, and this is revenue from credit products like Venmo and PayPal, interest on balances, and strategic partnerships. Okay.

Who are the customers? Dual-sided marketplace of 429 million active accounts. 393 million are PayPal, Venmo, and Zoom users, which are sending money to friends. Is that Zoom is that a buy now, pay later? No, that was a that was a remittance company. So,

country-to-country payments. >> Got it. Got it. Um and they got >> Union? They got bought out. Yes, like

Western Union. Um and then there's merchants, 36 million businesses of all sizes. Like us. Like us. Yep. So, we're

one of the 36 million uh merchants. Where does it operate? 57% of revenue is in the US, 43% of is in international with Germany and the UK as the strongest international markets. 200 markets, though. All right. How often do customers buy?

Engagement is high and increasing. As of late 2025, the average PayPal account has 61 transactions per years. That's like one a week. If That's and that's from 40. I'm guessing that includes Venmo.

Yeah. >> I mean, I use Venmo all the time. >> here. Uh this is a football betting pool every every week I spend >> Did a did a um Uh in any case, while the total number of users has plateaued, the remaining users are using the app more frequently. Can it raise prices? PayPal faces

significant difficulty >> to We're going to get to this. This is This is why I don't invest in this. >> Intense competition from Apple, Stripe, and Adyen. Evidence shows that its transaction take rate has faced downward pressure and decreased to 1.64%.

Management has pivoted to a profitable growth strategy focused on transaction margin dollars rather than raising fees. In other words, more volume less less take from you. >> What happens in a recession? It's highly recession sensitive because of its revenues directly tied to discretionary consumer spending. A typical downturn leads to slower transaction volumes. In

2025, the tariff chaos it's slumped Oh, so that's why the growth rate slowed. That's interesting. Uh the company generates significant cash flow and can continue to buy back stock. So, okay, now we know a little bit about about PayPal. So, how do the customers buy? This is a recurring

product. Can it raise prices? I would even say no. I would say you would lose customers. >> Yeah, I I would have to agree and we'll get to the moat question in a second because that's I mean, that's the $7 billion question is >> And what happens in a recession? I don't

think it was all that We saw the revenue pretty much grew every year. I don't think it's highly cyclical. I would call it kind of I'd say normal. Yeah. normal.

But, let's take a look at some of the key metrics um on fiscal. So, if we go to financials Let's turn that off. Let's go to uh segments and KPIs. So, US revenue versus you Oh, they break out UK or they used to be. >> stopped doing that a while ago.

>> Yeah. So, let's see. UK versus >> That's international versus US. US. And if we stack those, so let's see. International is growing

13% per year. That's still growing. >> The US is growing about Well, that's over a longer time frame. It's more recent that matters, right? International is growing 7%, US is growing 6%. So, they're still both in in

growth mode. It's not terrible. Okay. Let's look at active accounts. I mean, that's that's really important.

I mean, they have really stagnated and I mean, they have really stagnated. >> So, there don't forget that you know, there's some COVID pull forward, right? And then there's kind of so, but 430 this number hasn't grown in years, right? So, okay. So, new account growth is not a new customers are not really a source of growth. Uh total number of

payment transaction accounts number of payments per active account. It was 37, really going up. It did has dipped recently. So, engagement has gone down at least a little bit in 2025. That's something worth keeping an eye on. And then finally, the take rate. I

mean, that's everything. Yeah. So, it used to be 2.4%. >> back that up even more?

I'm just curious. I remember, Brian. Wow. I mean, look at that. I remember I went to a Motley Fool in-person meeting and I was discussing this company with our friend Simon Ericsson and he was like, "Why don't you invest in it? Why

don't you invest in it?" And I kept saying, "I just don't think that they can keep their take rate where like I I just I I don't see the moat." >> Yeah. So, is there is there a limit to this? Is this going to zero or will this kind of flatline and they'll kind of milk out there there there users that that if I was an analyst, this is the thing I'm going to paying attention to, right?

Well, it uh can you can you answer Robert's question cuz it's a great question. What what is take >> Great. Take rate means for every dollar in transactions, how many pennies become revenue for PayPal. So, it used to be 3.4 pennies for every dollar in sales became revenue for PayPal. So, if I

bought if if I bought Stock Simplified for $100, there would be $3.90 going to PayPal. Right. But now it's $1.70. So,

now they even if they doubled volume, their revenue is the same because they're now taking less and less. That's a good point. Do you think would you be willing to just pull up total payment volume real quick? Of course. And at the same time Oh, okay.

>> of those things because that's the trade-off, right? Yeah, that's it. There you go. So, the question is is total payment volume growing fast enough to account for that? And and you know, that's >> look at total payment volume went up uh 10x. This is in the trillions, right?

Mhm. So, Mhm. um the the the if they can get this number to stabilize, I think they'll be I think they'll be quite happy. But, this is where the competitive pressure comes in. Mhm.

Right? Um And anyway, that's interesting to see. All right, so what do people what do you what do you guys think? Do you guys think uh is this a is this an attractive business? So, red, no, it's not an attractive business at all. Yellow, it's

good, it's not great, but it's good. Or then green, this is an extremely attractive business. That's kind of how we red red yellow green in Stock Simplified. So, red, I'm I'm confused, I don't get it. It's not a good business.

Yellow, I understand. It's perfectly fine. Green, sounds like a great business. What do people think? Well, Robert says green. We've got

uh Santo and John saying no. We've got a bunch of yellows, Neil, Jacques, uh Tony. Got a red here on YouTube. Some more yellows and reds. Um Yeah.

>> Yellow? I I would say a reddish yellow. Yellow is probably the average. >> Well, we'll say yellow. It's It's It's a I would say it's a fine business. It's

not a spectacular one. You know, this this is fair. Look at Christian saying it's a To me, it's like a cigar butt. I get it's a reference to Warren Buffett and and uh uh How can I not remember Warren uh Charlie Munger? Not Charlie Munger.

>> Benjamin Graham? Yeah, Benjamin Graham. Um kind of like there's value there, but it's not growing anymore. All right. All right. So, we're going to go with

yellow. Uh by the way, the Stock Splitter Fire, uh if you scan the QR code, normally it costs 199 bucks, but if you want to get access to the course, all the tools we're using, all the AI prompts we're using, 99 bucks if you use the link that Brian Stoffel is going to share uh in in the chat. Yeah. >> Okay. Next, moat. Does PayPal have a

moat? So, red, yellow, green, does this company have a moat? So, there are five different sources of a moat. There's network effects, switching costs, low cost, intangibles, and counter-positioning. There's a current moat direction. What is the current

state of the moat? And then the most important one I would say is what is the direction of the moat? Is it shrinking? Is it stable? Or is it widening? So, I

would love people's opinions right now. What do you think is the current source of PayPal's moat? If you had to pick one, is it the network effect? Is it switching costs? Is it low-cost production? Is it intangibles, like the

company's brand name? Or is it counter is it counter positioning. Um I would love your opinion Stouffer first I would say it do you think what which of these sources do you think is the most important for PayPal? I think the most important is probably network effect. You know, the easiest way for an everyday person to understand this is just Venmo, right?

Like I am able to participate in my weekly football pool because I use Venmo and the person I'm sending my $5 to uses Venmo as well and everybody else needs to use Venmo. So it is valuable because everybody uses it. Um I think that there's probably some switching costs in there as well, but I think the network effect is probably the most important one. The the the problem is is that I'm not sure it's not an exclusive network effect. Like I I go to the I go when I go to the um when I go to the the store, I see like five different things that are offered right there for me to pay for something.

So it's kind of like sure network effect, but at the same time that doesn't keep the competition at bay. Yeah, so I'm going to I'm going to say I'm going to I'm going to disagree. Okay. I'm going to say it had a network effect. >> Sure. Sure. I don't think that that is a

source of moat anymore because there's a network effect from Apple to Apple users. >> Right, exactly. There's a network effect from Cash App to Cash App. So to me a moat is only a moat if it keeps competitors out or it keeps competitors from doing something. This used to be when they when it first came out, PayPal was the only way to send money electronically. Now you have lots of

options. So I'm actually going to say it's switching costs. Once you're Once you're kind of Once you're kind of set up on it, um you know, you're not going to really switch away or if you're going to check out, you're not necessarily going to switch away from that, but there's never a wrong answer, but that would just be my initial interpretation. Yeah, it's like what Scott says. You and I are over 40. 40-plus year-olds just don't

want to change or they just trust Venmo, so they're not going to. I agree with you. I think [clears throat] now it's more that. All right, so AI says the remote is narrow and stable. Network effects and switching costs. PayPal significant

advantage there's massive two-sided network effect. It does have a huge install base, right? Which remains the gold standard for online checkout. However, increasing competition from one click like Apple Pay and Stripe prevent this advantage from using a wide classification and as evidence by a stagnating active account base growing only 1 to 2%. So network effects it says are present and stable. It's a two-sided

network effect. However, the flywheel is slowing. Total payment volume is up slightly. Active accounts are down are modest. PayPal's network is the evolution of e-commerce, but now faces headwinds as competition comes in.

Switching costs are present and stable. But narrow. So narrow narrow. >> Narrow. Yeah. Uh there's technical

integration, the loss of PayPal only shoppers. Yeah, as I said when we introduced PayPal to our checkout options, our conversion rate went up. So there are some people that just want to check out with PayPal. >> I'm curious, Brian, can people pay with Apple for our product? >> Yes.

Okay. Yeah. And do they use that? Yes. Okay.

Yeah. Um transactions per active account, all that's out. Okay, intangibles, they're narrow and they're stable. PayPal has a very strong brand name. It's synonymous with safe online shopping. I totally

agree with this. It says it has a 45% market share. I don't know where that number came from, but it does not command significant premium pricing anymore and it's lowered its take rate to stay competitive with Stripe and Adyen. Uh 4.1. So it says the Yeah, this Take

Take Take Take Take >> You go down it'll tell you what it is at the bottom. >> a low-cost product producer. There's no counter-positioning. It used to be a counter-positioning, but it doesn't have that anymore. And Morningstar says narrow and stable.

And analysis is narrow uh moat. So I would say I would agree with the AI here and say number one is switching cost, number two is network effect. But if I was to be grading grading this, I would say it's narrow to stable, but you might you might you might convince me that it's weakening with the uh the the competition kind of coming in. Yeah. Um but I'll go with yellow uh for now.

Uh yellow for now. Okay, next. This next one's a big one, too. Absolutely it is. Does this company have low or negative growth potential, good growth potential, or great growth potential? So thinking through how do

customers grow How do companies grow? Well, they either get new customers or they get existing customers to spend more. Based on what we know about the company's growth numbers, we can pretty much say that new customers are not happening. They're They're They're it's very anemic, which means that PayPal as of right now is pretty much depending on getting existing customers to spend more with improved retention to kind of to kind of grow. Now, if we go to fiscal, we can see that revenue over the last 3 years has grown about 7% and that's down. Earnings per share over the last 3

years have grown about 36%, but moving forward, Wall Street expects 5% revenue growth and 19% earnings growth over the next 2 years. The long-term estimated growth rate is about 12%. So, that's >> there's some ringing out that can still happen. That's exactly what I was going to say. This It's very much going to be expense control, modest revenue growth, and then buybacks, buybacks, buybacks, basically, to get to that to get to that 12%. Plus, you get a 1% dividend yield.

Um that basically takes no takes up nothing of the company's income to pay. Um so, what do people think of Oh, I will I will I will run the link. I will run the link. >> Let's Let's Let's run it and see because when this comes up, uh So, Jack brings up something I'm curious if it's going to be there about stablecoin, their application to become a bank and collect interest because that There could be use cases for this that become big and the genius act that was just signed, I'm trying to educate myself on. I'm curious if that's going to come up here. Okay. So, new customer

acquisition, marketing and sales growth. This says moderate. It's shifted to from aggressive user acquisition to profitable growth, okay? New distribution channels. This says strong, okay? The launch of PayPal world and the

major expansion into Africa, which is planned for 2026, hm, represents new cross-border distribution. Partnerships with Apple and Google wallets are opening new physical retail channels. That's interesting. That is. I would not have known that.

>> Well, especially because the stablecoin is the use case that makes the most sense for it is cross-border payments like Western Union. That's That's the one that makes Like, a lot of the other stuff is just kind of like eh, but that one I I get. So, geographic market expansion >> Which plays a role in this one, too. Aggressively targeting India, China, and Brazil through PayPal world, partnering with local giants to enable 2 billion local wallets to transact internationally. That's Okay.

That seems like a logical thing to do. I I know that WeChat is a giant in China. Um so partnering with them does make a whole lot of sense to me. Acquisitions, since the 4 billion acquisition of Honey, they've largely paused. That's okay.

Uh existing customer expansion, pricing power, this is very weak. I agree with that. Yep. New products or services like one chick one click guest checkout and for Venmo stash and Venmo business profile, okay. Customer retention is Customer retention is strong. So they're

still They really just aren't getting anybody new in the doors. So new product monetization from Venmo and Fastlane, engagement velocity with keeping account engaged the their core exact core customers going high, new countries like Africa, India, and China, as well as banking services. >> And look at that's just within the last 3 weeks. That application. >> And then acquisitions are not a major opportunity here. Okay, that that's

better. The AI identified more than I was thinking off the top of my head. But what do you guys think? Red, yellow, or green? >> green. Does PayPal have

low {slash} negative growth potential? Yellow would be modest, you know, good growth potential or green being excellent. I can I just say when it comes to that um when it comes to that like cross-border payments Yep. with a stablecoin, they need a new name for it. It can't just be PayPal because people already have an idea of what PayPal is. Do you know what I mean? And

so you it needs some they need something that can go viral and show a a a a a a a a a a a a a functional advantage over a Remitly, over a Western Union. So I disagree. Because the name PayPal is synonymous with trust. But is it internationally? Like I just don't know.

Well, it said that half of their customers are international and half of their sales international. I just think like when when PayPal got into Bitcoin or crypto a couple years ago, that to me gave me a um okay, that's a trusted way to buy. Okay. We're good. >> versus going with Binance or FTX or any of the other or things that have since since gone like getting a major I think PayPal brings with it cachet and name brand so that people can trust that you're sending it to the right spot. Um

so, I disagree with with with that. But, what do people say? I would say that there was more greens than I expected, there were reds, and I would say mostly yellows. Yeah, I'd say yellow is pretty pretty fair. So, all right, this is a fair that's about what I would expect for for for scoring for scoring this business. A friendly reminder, if you're

watching this, you want access to Stock Simplifier at 99 bucks with the link that Stock Full is going to share in the chat. Next, key metrics. Now, one of my favorite things about Stock Simplifier is the metrics that we look at change depending on which phase of the business growth cycle the company is in. For a company that's in phase five, the metrics to look at are revenue growth, uh free cash flow conversion, EBIT to interest expense, return on invested capital, and the capital return program. Now, this is the prompt that AI struggles with the most. So, this is the

first time giving it to Gemini or maybe the second time we're giving it to Gemini. That yeah, that that's fair. Um but, we'll see how we'll see how it does and we'll back it up. Okay. Revenue growth, it says green.

Uh 6% I think we had 6.7. Yep. So, it's close. That was accurate. Okay. So,

revenue growth is is is fine. Uh it's it's fine for a phase five company. Free cash flow conversion. This says 113 uh percent. This is in financials.

And then it's in We just pull up the uh the cash flow statement, we can see it there, too. Yeah. Um and then I think it's in I never know which one is margins. Is it in margins? Uh Free cash flow to net income.

>> go. That's it. So, 113 percent. >> Hey! Never mind. Never mind. That means that

it's producing more free cash flow than net income, which is a very good thing. So, got that right. EBIT to interest expense. I have a feeling that this is going to be just fine. This says 13.

Like, this is a measure of the company's balance sheet uh health. Um is that in a financial health? EBIT to interest expense. We can also just look at the income statement, too. Uh yeah, that's going to be just fine.

We can just Yeah, I think >> I'm going to take their word for it. I'm not too Yeah, what's their interest Actually, this makes it a little bit tricky cuz what what is their interest expense? And it's That's a little bit tricky for um uh financial companies cuz they also have interest income. Yeah. Yeah. I'm guessing they don't they don't

have any interest expense. Let's see. Cash and equivalents, they have any debt? Long-term debt is 11 billion. Okay, so they have a couple of billion in uh long-term debt.

>> equal amounts of debt and cash, roughly. Not a problem. I didn't think that was going to be a a problem. Um so, let's just call that green. Return on invested capital. Current value of 17 percent.

Um Let's check that. >> number, it says is six percent. That's the five-year number, but if we go to financials and then ratios This one's capital efficiency. Capital efficiency, return on invested capital. Ooh, this says 20 percent.

Interesting. >> So, fiscal 20 20 percent. I'm guessing that's why the the long-term growth is low. But return on invested capital of 20% >> I would say that's right at a greenish yellow based on our >> That would be green, so let's call that one green. And then finally capital returns will be we know that they're buying back stock and they've been doing so for 5 years. So this might surprise

you, but we're going to go yellow, green, green, green, green. Yeah. Okay. I that that doesn't because we said stage phase five, it doesn't surprise me. If it was phase four, it would have been different.

Which is important [clears throat] cuz you got to know what you're getting into. For sure. Um okay, so pretty good on a key metric uh perspective. Um all right, next. Let's take a look at the risks and specifically the execution uh risk. So

we believe that all risk boils down to one risk and that risk is execution risk. What are the odds that PayPal cannot achieve the growth that management is now uh promising and promising into the stock? >> Have you ever seen it give a score like that before? I've never seen that. Uh it's it's saying 2.25. I'm guessing

that's one out of three. We did not program it to do that, so that's Gemini interpreting what we're saying, but it's saying medium level of risk. Okay. Severe competition from digital wallets and margin compression due to mixing shift. Yep. Offsetting that is the

company's huge account base, high trust brand that converts 74% for unknown merchants. Okay. Is concentration risk an issue? No. No concentration risk at all. Great to see.

Is disruption a risk? >> Yeah. >> Yes. Apple Pay and Google Google Pay are threatening to be at the operating system level, for sure. Personally, if something doesn't have Apple Pay, I don't buy it on my phone. Look at Look

at that stat that comes right after what you highlighted. Can that be right? I mean, it's it's it's double click face Face ID, you purchase it, right? Um, even with PayPal, which is really convenient, you have to go to like a different site. You have sometimes have to log in, depending on where it is. Like on When I'm on

flights, I still use PayPal to check out if I want to pay pay for what Wi-Fi, and it it is a little bit clunky. Like at Apple PayPal Apple Pay >> ballgame. so damn frictionless. That's the whole ballgame. Yeah. Well, that's

That's on, um, mobile. It's It doesn't do that on, um, desktop. Uh, Apple Pay processes an estimated 10 trillion in payments. Wow. Apple No way.

I I I don't know if these numbers are accurate. I'll look it up while you're doing that. >> I I I in fact highly doubt that they're that high. There's no way they're that high. Uh, PayPal's business would be zero if they were that high.

Okay, outside for Is Is it Is it a major thing to watch? Absolutely, but I I I would say I don't believe that. >> I I'll tell you this, the projection [clears throat] was that it's around 7.6 trillion. We don't know for sure.

>> Wow. For Apple Pay. Yeah, that would be bigger than PayPal. PayPal's like 2 trillion. Mhm. So, it's

four times bigger than PayPal. So, if you want to know why PayPal has been a losing investment, >> [laughter] >> look no further than Apple. Wow. But, it shows you why that international is so important, because Apple iPhones are very popular in in the US and Western countries. That cross-border payment, the stable coin, going to Africa, Brazil, what have you?

Yeah, India. That's the shift that that needs to We We're building a narrative here using stock simplifier of what the company needs to do in order to survive and thrive. It It's the whole It's the whole Apple turning your business into a feature of my business, right? Yeah. It's like, "Oh, you're a payment company? We also offer payments if you

buy my if you buy the the iPhone Oh, by the way, my device does everything else in the world. Uh competition, and then there's also Stripe, there's also Adyen, uh unbranded processing that have forces PayPal to accept lower margins. Um I personally use Wise, w i s e Wise, as a um when we pay our international contractors, and their fees are rock bottom. Like Give me a rough rate like take rate. Uh 0.25%.

Yeah, like what What is PayPal going to do about that? I don't know. I don't know. But when whenever I make or receive international payments, we we go to Wise for it, which is a business that we should potentially research. >> Maybe. Maybe Maybe we need to put it on

the Um um them and Remitly, I think, are pretty are taking it up. Um okay. So, taking all of that Now, they did we we did talk about the remote and and everything uh like that. So, what do you guys think? Red, yellow, green. What is the

execution risk here? Red, this is going to be extremely hard to execute. Yellow, it's going to be hard, but the normal level of hard. Green, the execution risk here is very low. >> Coca-Cola. Yeah. It It Exactly. It's

Coca-Cola. It's a utility. They're They're in such a strong position, and they have such a great execution history that it's not going to be a big deal. Uh I don't think you're going to be surprised with where a lot of these are. We even got a very red. Uh red, yellow,

yellow, red, yellow. Potential [snorts] disruption is driving me to red. I'm definitely red. Okay. And this again, this is why I didn't invest way back when because I was just like >> [snorts] >> I don't see where the moat is here. And

and and let's really dig dial into this. Just because the execution risk if you think it's red, that doesn't mean it's not going to happen. That just means that the environment and all factors consider require extreme talent on behalf of the management team and it's just a higher bar to to to hop over to achieve their goals. Doesn't mean they can't achieve their goals. It just means the risk of them achieving their goals is high. I like to think of

it like the 1980 Olympic hockey team. Could they win the gold before they went into it? And that would have been a red. Like you would not see me placing a huge bet on that. Does that mean that they can't do it? No, they can do it just

like this management team could do it. Yep. But it is a a it is a path laden with many obstacles. Can Can the Patriots win the Super Bowl this year? Sure they could. I

would put that in the red category. >> [laughter] >> I don't I think that's a it's it's a long shot and I'm a Patriots fan and I love Drake Maye. Uh okay. Uh so I would say that that is I would say that that is that is that is fair. Okay. Valuation time. Valuation time. So

this is a company that is in the phase five capital return. When a company's in phase five capital return, the the options for us to look at are typically trailing backwards looking. So price to earnings and price to free cash flow, the trailing numbers. Now, Brian, we got in a couple questions. Can you just remind folks what site are you using here and is the site we're using part of Stock Simplified? Great question. This

is fiscal.ai. This is not a um this is the entire Stock Simplified was built and taught through fiscal.ai. They are a partner um of ours, but it is a completely separate product.

What we're showing you um I I think is the paid one, um but we can we can actually turn off we we can actually go to the free. So, if you're not a paid user, um this is what it looks like. It's essentially the exact same thing. If you pay if you choose to become paid user like I am, you can um you unlock basically more data, but all of Stock Simplified was designed to be used even if you just use the free version of fiscal.ai. And it's

fiscal.ai/brian, um if you want to use our um our link to get a discount on um on the subscription. But uh all the metrics that you see are Look at this. You you get like 10 years worth of of data um I think for for free. Yes, it is it is for free. This is this

is free. This is This thing I'm showing you right here is is this is the free version of fiscal.ai. So, everything that we've done so far you can access for for free, which is why we love partnering uh with them. Okay, so PE time, uh I'm going to push this graphing line right here and go middle. I'm going

to go low. I'm going to go high. So, this is kind of the the midpoint. I would say that it's probably best to go between 2023 roughly to get a to get an accurate and if we go quarterly um to get a >> [snorts] >> more accurate look. Um jeez.

Yeah, when when do you want when do you think of the good I would go to September. Yeah, around I mean, man, that's tough. I was going to say October 23. All right. Yeah, that's probably fair.

Uh okay. So, this is the last call it 2 years when their stock has been kind of in the in the doldrums. So, it's traded at an average about 16 times earnings. It got as high as 20 eight times earnings. Currently, 11.8.

It's trading at 11.8 times earnings. Um okay, that's metric number one. Metric number two is price to free cash flow. >> This should look even more appealing based on what we saw before that free cash flow is higher. Yep, there it is.

So, if we go to price to free cash flow, um it was Hey, real quick, Brian, cuz this is a great question from Cass. We just eliminated, like we have 10 years worth of history and we just eliminated a bunch of it. How How do you make that decision? Base You have You have to go through a reasonable time frame. So, So, basically, you have to be like, when did the story change? So, this stock was in

back here was being valued like a high growth 15 to 20% grower. Using Luella's terminology, what's the what's the anomaly we're eliminating here? So, the the you COVID I don't think Yeah, exactly. The the COVID when when bubblelicious um prices were peaking, when the growth numbers looked like fantastic. If you If you use this as a comparison to kind of figure out is it a value or not, of course it's going to look dirt cheap because the these these this valuation was unsustainable. This This was

assuming valuation was a high growth. You have to go during a period that is actually useful in compa- in comparison. So, when did when did PayPal get re-rated to be at a lower growth company? I I would say that didn't happen until October of 2023. Um also, there's sometimes when you do this and you see a big spike or a big drop in um in in the numbers because earnings were artificially boosted or artificially pulled back by things like a tax rate or a one-time uh one-time balloon payment, acquisitions, that kind of thing. And

And that just does That just throws off the data. So, this is the tricky part. You have to find like It does take some nuance to kind of figure out well, when's an actual accurate period here for us to judge when when these metrics are are most useful. So, that's We're just trying to use our intuition to kind of figure that out because you don't want to say, "Oh my god, it's it's 10 today, but it was 70. Right.

>> undervalued." Right. The The narrative is completely different. Right. Yeah.

Um so, that's why it's a little bit squishy. So, currently 9.9 times free cash flow. Looks like it got to about eight times uh free cash flow. This This looks like when they revised their guidance as I picked up before. So, 9.9 times a free

cash flow. Brian, I I I hinted about this in an email, but I do want to show you this. If we go to shareholder yield. Uh I was I was actually going to ask you to pull that up. Can you pull up the component parts of that as well?

Just the uh Well, first off, let's talk about what this is. Yeah. So, shareholder yield is Everybody knows dividend yield. Dividend yield is dividend payment um divided by mark market value. So, if if you buy the stock price today, what's like your interest rate that you're earning in dividends? Shareholder yield

is the exact same concept, but it also accounts for buybacks and debt payments. Mhm. >> So, if a company is paying down its debt, that that's like a return to you the shareholder. If it's buying back stock, that's a return to you the shareholder. Meaning, if you buy this stock today, you're earning a 12.3%

yield on on the market cap. Said differently, if instead of returning capital via dividends uh by buybacks and and debt restructuring, if it devoted all of that money to dividends, your dividend yield on this company would be 12%. And and look, it's hard to find companies that have a shareholder yield that high. And we know why, right? Like because before, Brian, you pulled up their shares outstanding, and we saw that it's been going down by like 6% per year over the last couple of years. I mean, that's

bonkers. That's when it was here, right? That That's when it was trading here, and now essentially they can retire 12% of the stock, every year. All right, what do you guys think? Is this valuation attractive? Red, it's

overvalued. Yellow, it's fairly valued. Green, this company is is dirt cheap, very very undervalued. I'm curious, Brian, when you ask this question, do you just think of the valuation, or do you try and marry that with what you do We We just found out about the company itself? >> Oh, of course the two things have go together. Well, but the only reason I

ask is So, pull up stock simplifier page, it's like if we look at that, you know, like I would I would say green if I'm just looking at >> [snorts] >> you know, I guess what I'm saying is when you Do you just do valuation and then pull it all together in this bottom line, are you interested? >> Do you get what I'm saying? Yeah, so So, how So, how do you think about this? I I would say that the market is not stupid, right? The market is largely correct. The market, I

would guess, largely agrees with our assessment, which is it's a it's a good business, it's not a great business, it's not a horrible business, it's a good business. Its moat is in question. There are serious concerns, serious concerns about its execution uh risk. And because of that, the market is valuing this company for for for death. It's It's valuing the company as if growth is gone forever. Low single-digit

growth is like best-case scenario. It's valuing it as if it's move into China, into India, into Venmo checkout is going to fail miserably, as if the stablecoin thing is going to fail miserably, and the take rate is going to go down. That's what the market is like assuming with the stock price. So, the the the the bar from a valuation perspective that it has to clear is is is fairly low, but we just said that even clearing a low bar is going to be hard to do. Well, right. So, that's the thing,

right? It's almost like visually, I look at this and I'm like, well, there's just there's just one red, and there's a bunch of yellows and greens. The The thing is is that one red that we have, that's not a small thing. That's like maybe the most important one. Right. Uh

if if if a business is truly disrupted, and and and well, that first off, if the business was truly disrupted, that would mean it's in stage six. Right? Yep. The numbers, the trailing numbers, do not indicate it's in stage six yet. Yep. But if they if they if

they start to swing and go in the other direction, look out below. And we know >> Yeah, right. If the market says this thing this business is permanently impaired, um it won't be priced at 10 times earnings, it'll be priced at five times earnings. Right? >> here's Brian, here's what I love about Stock Simplified. I think of it as a way

to say, "What's the story with this stock?" And then, you know, I I'm not going to make a decision to buy or sell based just off of this. But but then, I go and I research and I say, "Do the numbers, digging even deeper, support the story?" So, if I had to come up with a story right now, and I'm in the elevator, and they're like, tell me about PayPal. What I would say is it's a stable business that is being rampantly disrupted by Apple Pay and they're trying to fix it by moving internationally. That would be my

elevator pitch. Yep. I would say that that is that is spot on. All right, so taking everything into account, everything that we just covered. Would love your opinion. Red, yellow,

green, are you interested in this company? Red? Nope. Uh the I I am not interested at any valuation. Uh yellow? Uh yeah, the risk is is is is

worth it. May- maybe I'd add it to this my stock, but valuation really has to be correct. Or green? Uh you think that the market is way over worried about the disruption risk and the growth risk and you think that the install base and the things that have their moat will protect the company and you think that the the returns that you'll get from here will actually be pretty darn good. Would love to know.

What are people saying? Um I would say red- reddish yellow. Reddish yellow? Yeah, this is like when you got a nosebleed and a cold at the same time. Where are you?

I'm red. You're red? Hey, but but but let me just say that that valuation, that that yield is very tempting to me. >> Sure. However, um I don't have industry-specific insights, so the stablecoin and the opportunity abroad if I knew something if you know something about that and you have faith in it, that's a difference between you and me, which matters.

But I would also say that I think that in the end um I like you got to have a strong moat if I'm even going to consider you. And I just I don't see it. Well, while we're here, let's take a look at Wise. This is This is Wise. This is the company that we like to use.

>> Mhm. You go annual. Um This This is Wise. This is the company that we use for payments. It does look like they're growing >> Now Now, let me just say something about that LTM. That's not That's not fair.

So, their calendar year ends in March. That only includes like 6 months of growth in that LTM number. Oh. >> So So So, Well, it did include 12 months, last 12 months LTM. >> No, I know, but there's only six new months that are included in there. So,

there's a lot of over If If it's a Venn diagram, the March 25 in the LTM, there's a lot of overlap there. So, like if So, it says 9.9, but pull up the trailing Pull Pull it up on a quarterly basis. Well, here's the growth rate, right? It was uh it was This is saying growth is 9%.

>> So So, now go to a quarterly basis, and I bet you over the last four quarters, it's Yeah, see? It's It's over Well, that's pretty close to 9%. Really flatline there. It's interesting how it takes a step down every two quarters. Yeah.

Um Yeah, I think that that was pretty accurate. I I thought this number was just going to be crazy This is growing, right? This is taking This is definitely taking market share um from it. So, >> how it's valued. What? I wonder how it's valued. Are they

>> quick, the same 17 times free cash flow. So, not quite as cheap as PayPal, but >> This is forward. This is forward. I I assume this is a um growth company. 24 times trailing.

Uh yeah, this says 1.2 times free cash flow. That's not correct. Um about uh about four times sales, and about 6 17 times um free cash flow. Yeah, how has this stock done?

If we go um 10K growth. So, it came public in 2021. An awful time to come public. But, yeah, been been been pretty much dead money uh so for a while. So, okay.

All right, let's [clears throat] I would say most people are not interested. Okay. [laughter] Well, that's why we do this. Whether or not you're interested or not, uh it's it's important to know how to research a company. And if you are going to take a bet on PayPal, I I don't think you're crazy. And I do think there are

legitimate reasons to believe that you could earn a decent return. You just have to go in eyes wide open and say and say, "What is it that the market is seeing that I am overlooking?" Um, and I do think there's reasons for optimism, there's reasons for for pessimisms. I'm going to put this in my too hard too hard bucket. I'm not much of a cigar butt investor. I'm not much

of a turnaround um investor. But, there are reasons to to invest in this stock, there are reasons not to. I I see more risk than than than upside personally. >> Yeah, and I I I think what Pablo said is so true. It's the most upvoted comment that we have too, which is The real question is, are there better places to put your money? I think the

answer is yes. >> Yep, for sure. >> Yeah. Cool. Well, thank you guys so much for joining us. We hope you enjoyed this

deep dive into uh PayPal. Are you banging? Uh you're muting now. >> There's some work in my basement, that's all. Oh, okay. Um, thank you guys so

much for for watching and uh and and joining us. Um, next week we are off, but we will be back in 2 weeks on Tuesday, January 6th um with another episode of Stock Simplifier. We're going to be putting out a poll on Wednesday, the 31st to figure out what stock you want us to research uh next. So, we would love it if you could vote in that and join us to figure out what kind of stocks we could be interested in heading into 2026. Thank you so much for spending some time with us. Um, happy

holidays, Merry Christmas, uh Happy Kwanzaa, whatever whatever you you celebrate. We We that you have a great uh end of your year and a prosperous 2026 and beyond. See you then. Brian's out.