---
video_title: "The Basics Of Reading a Stock"
video_id: mumfT7dfr94
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mumfT7dfr94
video_date: 20251230
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Investing Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/investing
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼ABOUT US:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author (https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0), investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  👨‍💼Brian Stoffel is a writer, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's a teacher at heart. Brian has been investing for over a decade and has written over 4,000 articles for The Motley Fool. Brian plans his life and his investments around “antifragile” principles.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
The basics of reading stock information explained visually by Brian Faldi. Let's use Microsoft stock as an example. Everybody knows the share price, which is the current price of one share of Microsoft stock. The NASDAQ is the stock exchange that that stock is listed at. MSFT is the ticker symbol that is used to represent the company. The market cap

is the total market value of all of Microsoft's stock outstanding, and it is just the current share price multiplied by the total number of shares that exist. Price to earnings ratio is how the market is valuing the company. divided by its earning. The 52- week range is the lowest and highest price that a stock has traded at over the past year. Dividend yield is the annual dividend payment per share divided by the current share price. Think of that

kind of like the interest rate that the stock pays. And the beta is how volatile the stock price is relative to the broader market. A number over one means that it's more volatile than average and a number less than one means that it's less volatile than before you make any investment. You should make sure you understand all of these basic. If visual explanations like this are useful, you know what to