---
video_title: "The 5 Rules For Successful Stock Investing (Book Summary)"
video_id: KhKq8SdN9-E
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KhKq8SdN9-E
video_date: 2025-12-22T15:50:00+00:00
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Top 10 Investing Books Summary: https://longtermmindset.co/10books
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼ABOUT US:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author (https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0), investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  👨‍💼Brian Stoffel is a writer, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's a teacher at heart. Brian has been investing for over a decade and has written over 4,000 articles for The Motley Fool. Brian plans his life and his investments around “antifragile” principles.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
Five rules for successful stock investing by Pat Dorsy, explained visually by Brian Ferald. Rule number one is to always do your homework. Make sure you understand what you own and why you own. Rule number two is to always maintain a long-term outlook. Time is the friend of the wonderful business, and you should ignore quarterly noise.

Number three, only invest when you can identify emote. Look for companies that have strong bands, cost advantage, network effects, or high switching costs. Rule four is to avoid paying too much. Valuation matters a lot, even when you're buying a great business. Rule five is to be disciplined. Remember that

emotions are the enemy of good returns. Make sure you stick to your process and avoid hype and fads. Other insights I glean from this book is that the accounting of a company matters. The income statement can lie, but the cashless statement doesn't. Make sure you always study your investment mistakes and that sometimes you can get a bad outcome even when you've made a good decision and vice versa. And then

finally, always keep an eye on the goal. Consistency is more important than flashing. You're not trying to win a lottery. You're trying to build long-term wealth. If visual summaries like this are useful, you know what to