---
video_title: "Warren Buffett: When To Sell"
video_id: wRbctulZmJk
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wRbctulZmJk
video_date: 20251227
video_description: |
  📚 Superinvestor Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/superinvestor
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼ABOUT US:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author (https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0), investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  👨‍💼Brian Stoffel is a writer, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's a teacher at heart. Brian has been investing for over a decade and has written over 4,000 articles for The Motley Fool. Brian plans his life and his investments around “antifragile” principles.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
Best thing to do is buy a stock that you don't ever want to sell. I mean, that and that's what we're trying to do. Uh, and that's true when we buy an entire business. I mean, we've bought all of Geico or we bought all of C's Candy or the Buffalo News. We're not buying those to resell. I mean, what we're trying to

do is buy a business that we will be happy with if we own it the rest of our lives and we expect to with those. It's the same principle applies to marketable securities. >> That's Warren Buffett explaining why the best stock to own is one you never have to sell. But that's not the full story. Buffett has a long history of selling stocks and only a tiny portion of his portfolio has actually been held forever. Now, I've been studying

Buffett's buys and sells for decades. And in this video, I'm going to break down the three reason that Warren Buffett sells a stock using real world examples from his own portfolio. Starting with reason number one, which is that the fundamentals of the business have changed. When Buffett sees a business changing at its core, he pays close attention. And in particular, he looks for three big warning signs that indicate it's time for him to exit.

First is when a company starts losing its competitive advantage. Maybe customers have changed their behavior or there are clear signs that the company's moat have been breached. Second, when a technology shift comes along and it causes the old model to stop working. Think of how Kodak got disrupted by digital cameras or when Blockbuster got disrupted by streaming. And third, when the economics of the business just don't make sense anymore. If the core engine

of the business stops producing profits at an acceptable rate, Buffett knows that it's time to consider selling and moving on. Now, Buffett's investment in IBM is a great example of how he changes his mind and sells when the fundamentals of the business change. Now, Buffett made a multi-billion dollar investment in IBM back in 2011, believing that its loyal customer base and the shift to the cloud would drive growth for the business. However, the fundamentals of the business showed a different story. As he held the company for years, the company didn't grow. It actually began

to shrink. Revenue ended up falling year after year as competition from the likes of Amazon and Microsoft continued to grow. And even though IBM was returning huge amounts of capital to investors through buybacks and dividends, it wasn't enough to offset the revenue declines. Eventually, Buffett admitted that the fundamentals of the business were harmed and that he misjudged the company's transformation, and he began to sell off his investment starting in 2017, and he was fully out by 2018. Now, this showcases Buffett's humility when it comes to selling. He's not afraid to

say, "I was wrong," even from a company he held publicly for years, and to sell that company and eventually move on. And that brings us to reason number two that Buffett sells, and that the company has management issues. One of the clearest reason Buffett sells is when management loses its integrity with him and the market. It doesn't matter how strong the brand is or how long Birkshire has owned the stock. If leadership becomes dishonest, careless, or starts to cuts corner, Buffett has no problem cutting ties with that stock. Now, Wells Fargo

is the clearest example of Buffett selling a huge position in a company because management lost its way. Buffett started buying Wells Fargo stock way back in 1990 and successfully held it for nearly 30 years. However, back in 2016, a massive fake account scandal surfaced and that caused Buffett to question everything. Now, as regulators kept uncovering new issues, the CEO at the time was let go, but the company never took real responsibility and a management team never came in that truly cleaned up the company's act. This caused Buffett to basically lose faith in the business's management team and he started to unwind his massive position in Wells Fargo by in 2018. Now, to be

clear, he didn't sell because banking was a bad business. He sold because he no longer trusted the people that were running the bank. And once that trust is gone, Buffett's actions show that he doesn't try to wait it out. He has no problem selling and moving on to the next idea. By the way, if you're a fan of studying super investors like I am, I created some infographics that break down the key investing principles of some of the best investors of all time, and I compiled them into a free ebook.

If you want a copy of that ebook, just visit long-termmindset.co/supinvestor and let me know where to send it. Now, that brings us to the third reason that Buffett sells, and that's because a better opportunity comes along. This reason has nothing to do with the company itself messing up, but rather Buffett just proving that he's a great capital allocator. If he finds an investment that offers higher long-term returns elsewhere, he'll happily move capital from a good business into a great one, even if he's held that initial stock for decades. Now,

Buffett's long-term investment in Walmart is a great example of him selling a good stock because a great stock came along. Buffett first bought Walmart stock back in the mid 1990s, and he successfully held it for more than 20 years. However, by the mid210s, it started to become obvious to Buffett that the rise of e-commerce was about to change the economics of retail forever. Not in a catastrophic way, but enough that the long-term returns of holding Walmart didn't look as certain as they did a few decades before. At the same time, Buffett decided that Apple stock had a much brighter future ahead than Walmart stock did. So, he did what

rational investors are supposed to do. He moved Kapple from a slow growing Walmart business into one with a far better future in the likes of Apple. And that decision ended up being one of the best decisions in Birkshar's entire history. Not only was Buffett right that Walmart's dominance was in question due to the changes in the retail landscape, but Apple stock ended up going up so much for Berkshire Hathaway that it became Berkshire's biggest financial winner of all time. So when you put it all together, Buffett really only sells for three reasons. the fundamentals

change, management losses its integrity, or a better opportunity comes along. If you understand these three principles, you'll understand how Buffett himself thinks about selling and portfolio management. It's not emotional, it's not market timing, it's simply being rational and a good capital allocator over long periods of time. As a friendly reminder, if you want a copy of those infographics that summarize the key things that I've learned from studying superinves investors over the years, just visit long-termmindset.co/supinvestor.

co/supinvestor or click the link in the video description and let me know where to send it. Well, thanks for watching. I hope this video helped to make you a better investor.