---
video_title: "10 BIGGEST EUROPEAN COMPANIES"
video_id: M9csoFYA35Q
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M9csoFYA35Q
video_date: 20251216
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Investing Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/investing
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼ABOUT US:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author (https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0), investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  👨‍💼Brian Stoffel is a writer, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's a teacher at heart. Brian has been investing for over a decade and has written over 4,000 articles for The Motley Fool. Brian plans his life and his investments around “antifragile” principles.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
Here are the 10 biggest European companies ranked by market cap. Summarize Juju O'Brien for alli. As of 2025, the biggest European company is ASML from the Netherlands. It's in the semiconductor industry and it has a market cap of about 350 billion euros. Then comes LVMH from France which makes luxury goods and has about a 300 billion euro market cap. Then there's SAP from

Germany which is in the software business and has almost a 300 billion euro market cap as well. Rounding out the list is companies like Hermes, Ro, Nestle, L'Oreal, Novais, Seammens and Airbus. Visual summaries like this are useful.