---
video_title: "Which NASDAQ ETF Tracker is Best? QQQ vs ONEQ vs QQQM vs QQQE"
video_id: 8_tJbvKHoME
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8_tJbvKHoME
video_date: 2025-12-23T12:49:31+00:00
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 ETF Investing Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/etf
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼ABOUT US:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author (https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0), investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  👨‍💼Brian Stoffel is a writer, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's a teacher at heart. Brian has been investing for over a decade and has written over 4,000 articles for The Motley Fool. Brian plans his life and his investments around “antifragile” principles.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
Which NASDAQ ETF tracker is best? Explained visually by Brian Faldi. With 400 billion in assets under management, Invesco QQQ is the most popular NASDAQ ETF tracker in the world. This was launched back in 1999 and has an expense ratio of 0.20% but it has fantastic long-term returns. This is a great

choice for traders or those that value liquidity. Then there's one Q, which is a Fidelity NASDAQ composite index. This was launched more than 20 years ago and has a slightly higher expense ratio. And this one holds more than a thousand companies, making it a great choice for those that want broad NASDAQ exposure. QQQM is also launched by Invesco in 2020. Holds the exact same companies as

QQQ, but with a slightly lower expense ratio, making this a great choice for long-term conservative cost investors. And then there's QQQE. This is an equal weight index launched in 2012. Has the highest expense ratio, but this is a good choice for investors that want an equal weight portfolio. All four of these are worth investigating, but for my money, QQQM is the best choice given its solid long-term returns and lowest to cost ratio. Visual summaries like

this are useful. You know what to do.