---
video_title: "My Data-Backed Investing Plan For 2026"
video_id: xLV92RpNpEk
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xLV92RpNpEk
video_date: 2025-12-20T16:01:36+00:00
video_description: |
  ▼ Free AI Prompts▼
  🤖 Business Model Analysis: http://longtermmindset.co/ai
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Simplifier: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼ABOUT US:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author (https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0), investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  👨‍💼Brian Stoffel is a writer, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's a teacher at heart. Brian has been investing for over a decade and has written over 4,000 articles for The Motley Fool. Brian plans his life and his investments around “antifragile” principles.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
In this video, I'm going to break down my full investing plan for 2026. I'm going to share my investing goals and strategy, the type of investments that I own, my asset allocation strategy based on recent market data, and the details of my top stock holdings. Let's kick things off with my overall investing goals and strategy. My number one investing goal is to achieve financial independence. This to me is the highest use of money. Now, while that's my

primary goal, my secondary goal is to continue to grow my wealth. I want to continue to accumulate wealth at a rate that beats inflation so that my purchasing power can continue to increase. Now, at this point in my investing career, since I've been doing this for 20 years, I also have a goal of preserving the capital that I have. Now, what about my time horizon? Well, my ultimate time horizon is still measured in decades. I don't plan on stopping

working anytime soon, so I can take a long-term mindset with my capital. From a risk capacity perspective, I've actually become more of a moderate investor. I am okay with trading upside potential if it means lower downside volatility and risk along the way. Now, as for the account types that I'm going to use to achieve my goals, I basically take advantage of all of the options that are available to me. I invest through a taxable account as well as through tax advantage accounts like a 401k, IRA, and Roth IRA. Now, from a

strategy perspective, with my tax advantage accounts, I go completely passive to keep things very simple and easy. And in my taxable account, I take more of an active role when I'm picking the individual stocks that I want to invest in. So, with that framing in mind, now let's talk about the types of investments that I own and why I own them. Broadly speaking, there are four categories of assets that I invest in. The first is individual stocks, and this is the largest component of my personal net worth. Now, if you're unfamiliar

with what stocks are, they simply represent direct ownership in a company. And the primary reason that you invest in stocks is because you want a higher return than other assets can deliver for you. Now, this great chart from Jeremy Seagull in the book Stocks for the Long Run shows that stocks are the best performing asset class over the very long term. And since my overall goal is to continue to grow my wealth, I want the vast majority of my net worth invested in the stock market over time. Now, stocks tend to be the best choice for people that are trying to grow their net worth, although they can provide some income in the form of dividends and they also provide investors with very high levels of liquidity since you can buy or sell them at will. Now, the next

major category for me is stock funds. Broadly speaking, there are three different types of funds that you can invest in. There's mutual funds, which is assets that are managed by a professional investor. And then there are passive funds like index funds and ETFs that typically just track a market index. Now, there are some important distinguishments between these three styles of investment funds that you need to know. But for my investment dollar, I

put the vast majority of my capital into index funds and or ETFs as I believe they're a superior investment choice than investing through a fund manager directly. The next category for me personally is real estate. Now, I'm not necessarily a real estate investor, but I do have equity in the home that I live in. This is my only exposure to the real estate market, primarily because stocks is the asset class that I like best. And the final category is just cash. And I

consider cash to be both the cash that I have set aside to just run my day-to-day family life in addition to the cash that I have set aside for investment purposes. Now, if you know anything about quote unquote investing in cash, you know that it has a very huge problem. And that problem is inflation. Over time, cash loses its purchasing power, which makes it a very poor store of value over the long term. In fact, this great chart from the St. Louis Fed

shows that over the last 100 plus years, the purchasing power of $1 back in the 1910s is currently the same as about three pennies today. This means that purchasing power has gone down by about 97% over the last 100 years. Now, more recently, the dollar has remained under pressure because inflation remains quite high. In the United States, the most recent inflation report as of the time of this recording was about 2.9%.

And if you dig into the individual components of inflation, you find that that number is down considerably from the mega inflation we saw in 2022 due to COVID. but it continues to be driven by things like shelter, insurance, dining, recreational, and food costs. So, while inflation has come down substantially in recent years, it remains slightly elevated when compared to the Fed's long-term target of about 2%. Now, let's move on to my asset allocation strategy. As a general statement when it comes to thinking about asset allocation, the shorter your time horizon, the more you should be investing in cash and bonds, and the longer your time horizon, the more you should be invested in stocks. I

think that this is great financial advice for most people, but since I'm a little bit more active with my investments, I use this as a starting point and then I modify it based on what I see happening in the market. So, here is my current overall net worth allocation. Now, let's dig through each of these one at a time. Starting with the simplest one to analyze, which is simply real estate. As I stated before, the real estate portion of my portfolio is simply the equity that I have in my primary residence. My next major

category is tax advantage accounts, and these include my 401k, IRA, and Roth IRA accounts. Now, all of these assets are invested through Vanguard and just stock market index funds. So, I take a very passive approach here. And my primary holdings include VTSAX, VTIAX, and VEMAX. I intentionally went with more of an international diversification because, as you'll see when it comes to my individual stock holdings, I've taken a more US- ccentric approach. So, I've

chosen to bail out the returns and my tax advantage accounts to be slightly more biased towards international markets to give me some additional diversification. Now, when thinking through my asset allocation decision for that portfolio, I like to think through what's actually happened and what the returns have been in various asset classes. Now, the chart that you see on your screen is quite busy, but let me tour your attention over here on the left hand side, which shows the annualized returns over the last 15 years or so of different type of asset classes. Notice that the best performing asset classes over the last 15 years have been large cap US stocks and small cap US stock. Now what's interesting on this chart is that both developed markets and emerging markets have delivered below average returns when compared to the United States over the last 15 years. So taking an

international approach with my tax advantaged accounts has actually dragged down their returns over this time frame. However, if history is any guide, we see that market returns are quite cyclical with some markets being in and out of fashion at various times of years. And so far in 2025, we've seen that emerging markets and developed markets are actually outperforming the US, which could indicate that this tide is turning and that having exposure to international markets can make sense moving forward. Now, there's no telling if that trend will last over the long term or if it's just a one-time blip, but I like investing in both developed markets and emerging markets to give me some additional broad-based allocation. Now, you may have noticed that I have a fairly large cash position given that I've said before that my time horizon is measured in decades. And given that

that's true and what I said about my time horizon, you might be curious as to why I have such a large allocation to cash right now. Well, one reason is when you look at the interest rates that you're getting on cash that's held in my brokerage account, the real return that I'm getting is positive here. So, while during 2022 the real return you were getting on just holding cash was negative, since the inflation rate has come down and interest rates have remained relatively stable, you are earning a positive real return on your cash. However, the real reason I have more cash than I would normally have has to do with market valuations. If you look at the forward price to earnings ratio of the S&P 500, as of the end of 2025, it was at a very elevated level.

As of September 30th, the S&P 500 was trading at about 23 times forward earnings estimates, which is very high in a historical sense. Now, JP Morgan has measured the historic returns when the market is trading at that high of a number. And their data show that over the next 5 years, the annualized return for the markets when trading at that valuation tend to be about towards zero. And that's because there's an inverse correlation between the valuation that the market is trading at and the future returns that investors should expect. So since markets have been so redot over the last 15 years, I'm comfortable with taking a higher than average level of cash position to be a little bit more defensive with my portfolio. Now if you

study Warren Buffett at all, you know that he is taking a very similar approach with Bergkshire Hathway's investments. As of the third quarter of 2025, Berkshire Hathway's cash reserve have reached more than $380 billion, making it the biggest cash reserve in the markets by far. Now, why is Bob holding so much cash on his books? Well, one reason could be that his favorite indicator of market valuations, which measures US stock market values to GDP, is currently at an all-time high. This number is called the Buffett indicator. And history shows

that this number has been fairly accurate at showing when the market is expensive or cheap. And when looking at this indicator at the end of 2025, there's no doubt that this number is showing that the market is currently quite expensive, which makes sense why Buffett is taking such a defensive position with his portfolio right now. Now that you know my full asset allocation, let's talk about the top investing holdings that I have. Now, all of my top individual holdings are held in my taxable brokerage account. Now, while I do hold about 30 stocks in total, as you can see from the concentration visual you see on the screen, the lion share of my net worth is in just a handful of large stocks.

Now, my biggest portfolio position for my taxable account is that cash position I showed before, which I've already talked about. But when it comes to analyzing the individual stocks themselves, my number one holding right now is a company called Marcato Libre. Now, if you're not familiar with the company Marcato Libre, I'm actually going to tell you a little bit about the company using a business analysis prompt that I built. This prompt is about 2,000 words long, and it answers some key questions that I think you need to know about any company before you make an investment in it. Now, by simply copying and pasting this prompt into an LLM like Chat GPT, we can quickly analyze what the company does and how it operates.

Now, Marcato Libre operates an e-commerce marketplace in Latin America and it's also a fintech company as well. Its main products and services are an online marketplace for selling goods and services called Marcato Libre which is similar to an eBay. It also offers financial services like Marcato Pago, Marcato Credit and a shipping and logistics service called Marcato Envio. Now its key customers are primarily individual consumers in Latin America who buy goods via the marketplace and merchants sellers who list their items on the marketplace and use the company's logistics and advertising products and services. Now the company gets substantially all of its revenue in Latin America and major countries include Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Colombia, Chile and Peru. Now if you

know anything about Marcato Lubé stock, you know this has been a fantastic long-term performer, delivering multibagar returns for investors. And when we dig into the details of the company's financial performance in recent years, we see that this company's revenue growth is at a nearly 40% compound annual growth rate. Its earnings are growing even faster at a 97% rate over the last three years. And looking forward, analysts believe that this company has continued to grow its revenue at about a 30% compound annual growth rate with earnings per share growing ever so slightly faster. Now, when analyzing this company using Stock Simplifier, which is a product that Brian Stol and I have built, I'm a firm believer that this company is in the operating leverage phase or phase four of the business growth cycle. When we

take it through the stock simplifier checklist, this is a company with a wide and expanding mode with great long-term growth potential. It's really executing well on all of its key metrics. I would say that it's execution risk is on the medium side. And from a valuation perspective right now, it looks moderately valued to me. So, it's not undervalued, it's not overvalued. It

looks fairly valued to me. Now, Marcato Libre is my largest investment simply because it's grown so much over the last 10 years. And I'm a firm believer that winners tend to keep on winning, which is why I'm comfortable with this being my number one holding. By the way, if you want a copy of that AI prompt that I use to analyze the company's business, just go to long-term mindset.co/ai or click the link in the video description to download a free copy of it. Now, let's move on to my number two

holding heading into 2026, which is Tesla. Now, you're probably familiar with Tesla given how popular of a company is. But when I run that same prompt into Chat GPT, it says that Tesla designs, manufactures, and leases electric vehicles. It produces energy generations and storage products. And it provides a slew of vehicle services such as used car sales, insurance, supercharging, and its software products such as full self-driving. Now, the

company makes money primarily from automotive sales, but its energy business is growing fairly rapidly, as is its services business. Now, who are customers of Tesla's products? Well, that would include individual consumers like me, who has owned a Tesla for a couple of years now, but it also includes commercial SH utility customers who are buying the company's energy grid storage products. And it does sell its products all around the world, including in the US, China, and Europe. When digging into the details of its revenue, the US currently makes up about half of its overall revenue. China is about 20%

and other international markets are include about 30%. Now, Tesla has been an absolutely fabulous long-term performer, which is why it's one of my top holdings. And while it has been an absolutely wild ride to hold this stock, the long-term performance has been up and to the right. Now, what's interesting about that stock performance is that if you dive into the growth numbers, they're actually not that impressive. Over the last three years, revenue has only grown at about a 9% annualized clip, which is well below its 10-year average. And when looking

forward, revenue is only expected to grow about 6% moving forward, although earnings are expected to grow a little faster. Now, classifying Tesla's growth stage right now is actually fairly tricky, but if forced to choose, I would say that it's in the operating leverage phase. And when thinking through the details of this company using Stock Simplifier, while the business is certainly very exciting, has a wide moat, and has lots of long-term potential, its key performance over the last couple years have been mixed. In addition, since so much of this company's future is betting on full self-driving, Optimus, and CyberCap, the execution risk here is very high. And as of the end of 2025, this company is trading at north of 14 times sales, which is an extremely high valuation, especially since that Tesla does not have strong margins behind it. That

tells me that investors are really betting on the future of this business. And while I'm also excited about the future of this business as well, this is definitely one of my highest risk holdings. Now, my third biggest holding is Google aka Alphabet. Now, when breaking down Alphabet's business model, the company operates google.com. So, it

dominates online search and online advertising, but it also has YouTube videos, cloud computing to business. It offers hardware and it has subscription services, not to mention its other bets segment that includes autonomous driving through the likes of Whimo and several other moonshot technologies. But it also does substantial revenue with businesses of all sizes and gets money from app development and advertisements. And the company operates all around the world, which makes it a very diversified company from a revenue perspective. Now, if you know anything about Google stock, this has been another company that has just done nothing but go up and to the right over the last couple of decades.

And as of the end of 2025, this company was trading at an all-time high. Now, from a revenue perspective, Google grows at a fairly modest double-digit rate, although its earnings have grown slightly faster. And Wall Street believes that that growth will accelerate over the next couple years and earnings will grow even faster. Now, when thinking through where Google is on the business growth cycle, I think that it's in the capital return phase. And while it does have some components to it that indicate it could be in the operating leverage phase, since the company is buying back stock, I think it's in the capital return phase. And

while this is a mature business, I think there are plenty of reasons to be excited about owning Google stock for the long term and that it can continue to grow its topline at a low double-digit rate. From a keymetrics perspective, this company does perform extremely well. And while AI is a massive threat to the company's business, I also think it's a big opportunity for the company. So, from an execution risk perspective, I think the level here is medium. And returning to valuation, I think the valuation is fair even though the company is trading at an all-time high. Now, that brings us to my

fourth biggest holding, which is Meta. Now, if you're unfamiliar, Meta is the parent company of Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, and Messenger, which are products that are used by billions of people around the world. The company's primary customers are advertisers, which is primarily brands, agency, and small businesses that pay for ads, impressions, and in targeting on the platform. Now, from a growth perspective, Meta has growing at a 17% rate over the last 3 years. And while that number is below its 10-year revenue growth rate, its earnings per share have been growing even faster at a 29% annualized clip. And moving forward,

analysts believe that revenue is going to grow at a nearly 20% annualized rate with earnings just ever so slightly behind that. The company also pays a small dividend yield that is growing and it's buying back stock. Now, given all of that, I think that the company is well into the capital return phase of the business growth cycle. Although yet again, it does have some attributes that you could argue makes it in the operating leverage phase. Now, when digging through the stock simplifier checklist for this business, this remains a business that I understand has a wide mode and still has great long-term potential. Its recent key

metrics have been absolutely fabulous. It has a moderate amount of execution risk, and its valuation today, I would say, looks pretty fair. So, all in all, this is a company that I've held for many, many years, and I plan on holding for many more. And that brings us to our fifth and final holding, which is Netflix. Now, you're probably already familiar with what Netflix does, but it's a global streaming entertainment giant that offers TV services, films, and games in various genres and languages all around the world. The

company makes the majority of its revenue from streaming, and that is when members pay a monthly subscription service to access the company's content library. But in addition, in recent years, it's actually introduced a lowerpriced adup supported tier that has makes money from advertising and that's been a major growth lever for the business to unlock new price sensitive customers around the world. Now, the company makes money in nearly every country in the world, but its major markets are the US and Canada, although it does operate in many other places. Now, if you look at Netflix stock price over the very long term, this has been another monster winner for me. And while it has had several periods when it stock has declined precipitously over the very long term, this company continues to go up and to the right. Now, from a growth

perspective, it's been growing at a low double-digit rate over the last couple years, although its earnings have grown considerably faster than that. Over the next couple years, Wall Street believes that revenue is going to accelerate to the mid- teens and earnings per share are going to grow even faster than that. Given that, I would also classify Netflix as a capital return company. Even though it yet again has attributes that indicate it could be in the operating leverage phase. But when thinking through the performance of the business, this is yet another company that is a wide mode. I understand it

completely and it has great long-term potential. Its key metrics have looked very good over the last couple years. It has a moderate amount of execution risk. Although the company's stock does look very richly valued to me as of the end of 2025. So, while I think this company is well positioned for the long term, given the valuation, I'm not going to be in a huge rush to add to my position anytime soon. So, that's a look at some

of the top holdings that I have. As you can see, my top five companies have all been huge winners for me. And the major reason why they're such a big portion of my portfolio today is simply because I've held each of these stocks for at least a decade. The market has shown me that the best way for me to continue to grow my wealth is simply to find great businesses and then hold them for a long period of time. So, I hope that I've been clear with why my asset allocation strategy is the way that it is heading into 2026. And if you've never done this

exercise before, I highly recommend you think through what your investing goals are, your time horizon are, your risk capacity, and your overall strategy. Simply putting this out on paper will really help you to think through what type of asset allocation strategy you should have so that you can achieve your financial goals. And as a friendly reminder, if you want access to that AI prompt that I use to analyze my top holdings, just visit long-termmindset.co. coai or click the link in the video description to get a free copy of it.

Well, thanks so much for watching. I hope that this video was useful. Wishing you investing success in 2026 and beyond.