---
video_title: "Signs of a Market Top"
video_id: 5-ofDWxpX_A
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5-ofDWxpX_A
video_date: 20251211
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Investing Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/investing
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼ABOUT US:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author (https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0), investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  👨‍💼Brian Stoffel is a writer, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's a teacher at heart. Brian has been investing for over a decade and has written over 4,000 articles for The Motley Fool. Brian plans his life and his investments around “antifragile” principles.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
Signs of a stock market top and bottom, explained visually by Brian Foli. Market tops are dangerous periods for investors to put new capital into the market as they signal that a downturn is ahead. Some signs of a market top include a large number of IPOs, rapidly rising asset prices, easy access to credit from consumers, high trading volume, booming art and luxury markets, and this time is different mentality declared by new investors. By contrast, market bottoms are fabulous time for people to put money into the market as they signal a turnaround is ahead. Some signs of a market bottom include no IPO or mergers and acquisition activity. Historically

low price to earnings multiples. Recession is officially declared in the media. There are very tight credit markets. Media coverage of the markets is negative. Negative and depressed consumer segment. When you see many of

these signals, it indicates that the market could be near bottom and it's time to put money into the market. Whereas, if you see a lot of these signals of a market top, it could indicate that it's time to be more cautious. Of course, while they are not perfectly accurate, they are still nonetheless a good thing to keep in mind when you're deploying money in the markets. If visual summaries like this are useful, you know what to