---
video_title: "Is It TOO LATE To Buy UBER? (Full Deep Dive)"
video_id: qrAXVCkaZjs
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qrAXVCkaZjs
video_date: 2025-12-09T23:24:55+00:00
video_description: |
  ✅ 50% OFF Stock Simplifier: 
  https://longtermmindset.spiffy.co/checkout/stock-simplifier-plus-ai?c=YTWORKSHOP100
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼ABOUT US:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author (https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0), investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  👨‍💼Brian Stoffel is a writer, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's a teacher at heart. Brian has been investing for over a decade and has written over 4,000 articles for The Motley Fool. Brian plans his life and his investments around “antifragile” principles.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
In this webinar replay, you're going to watch Brian Stoffel and I research Uber stock from scratch live. You're going to see us break down how the business makes money, whether it has a moat, what the growth potential are, how it performs on key investing metrics, the risks facing this company, and the valuation and more. Now, Uber came public in 2019, so just before COVID, kind of had a rough start to its life, has been up and down, but recently, in the last 18 months, this has been a sensational holding. And if you bought at the IPO, doubled you've doubled your investment just in a couple of years. So, and again, step one here is research. So, that is what we're

going to be doing. We're going to be doing research. Now, how do you do the research? How do you research a stock from scratch? We're going to be using our favorite way of doing this, a product that we built called Stock Simplifier, Stock Simplifier.

There are seven different steps to Stock Simplifier, the business growth cycle, the the business model, the moat, the growth levers, risks, key metrics, valuation, and more. If you're unfamiliar with it, we are going to go fairly fast through this process. If you are a paying member of Stock Simplifier and you have a question about one topic, we have the courses and everything in there. We have the tools and we have the prompts. Everything is included in the Stock Simplifier package so that you can do this on your own. But, Brian, we

recently rolled out a new a new AI prompt. >> Yeah, this is the I like this. So, you we made a new prompt that basically just says, "Hey, what is the sentiment around Uber?" Now, Brian, you and I are not sentiment driven investors. However, I do think that it's worth looking at. If

nothing else, I think it's interesting. And Brian, just real quick, I see that we're In the past, we've just done Chat GPT. This first one, we're going to do Grok. Do you want to explain why we use Grok for this? >> probably the best for sentiment analysis cuz Grok has the most real-time conversation Like, Grok is so focused on real-time conversation since it's built on top of X. So, we're going to run the

sentiment analysis in in Grok. And this is going to let us know Yeah, so let us know what investors are thinking about or talking about on on X about about about Uber. I think you I think you have I I typed I did Grok. Yep. Yep. Uh

Uh try again, but with Uber. I typed the wrong thing. Hey, but Grok knows what it's doing. It it immediately did Tesla. Yeah.

Based on Grok. >> Okay. So, this this prompt looks at the last 1 year. It looks at the the fundamentals. It looks at the the stock has done, and it gives you just like a What is the current sentiment that is surrounding holding Uber's stock? If I

had to guess, I would just say altogether as middle of the road as you could possibly be. Okay. That That's where That's what my guess would be. Grok can access way more information than I can, but that's that's what I would guess. Okay, here we go.

All right. All right, so the overall takeaway Uber stock has gained from consistently beating earnings, 20% trip growth, and AV partnerships with autonomous vehicle partnership with Cruise and Wayride, boosting bookings and free cash flow, but pulled back late year on Waymo expansion fears and Tesla robotaxi hype, resulting in a 39% net rise year-to-date. Okay, the next catalyst is in February of 2026. Autonomous vehicle deployment updates and partners. The 12-month outlook is bullish. Let's see. My analysts are

bullish, investors are bullish, the media is mixed. So, sentiment is built on profitability milestones. Analyst ratings, 32 analysts have a $109 price target. That's 20% higher than today. Institutionals are ownership with positive free cash flow supporting buybacks and inflows. Discussion This is

all about the autonomous vehicle. It's all about the money. X. What What's going to happen with autonomy? That's the biggest thing. 100%. So, the bulls

say 20% year-over-year trip percent growth in trips and adjusted EBITDA of 1.7 billion, a terrible profit metric, but at least shows it's a positive number. The autonomous vehicle integration with Cruise and Wayride. And a $7 billion Are they buying back stock? Oh, yeah.

Wow, okay. So, they're buying back stock. Well, that tells me >> company though. For it's Even though that $7 billion is great, we're talking about I'm checking right now what the what the market cap is. I believe it's at least 150 billion. All

right, so that's like 2%. >> almost 200 billion. So, it's like Still 3% isn't bad, but it's not quite as good as that number makes you believe. >> I would also think they have better uses of $7 billion to defend their their business. But, okay, so when Waymo's independent Miami launch raises fears of disintermediation.

Ooh, so Waymo is detaching from Uber? The stock drops 9%. Nobody knows what's going to happen. Like, in some cities, Waymo partners with someone else. In some cities, Waymo partners with Uber.

It Every city is different. If I was Waymo, I would want to partner with Uber to get myself off the door out of the flow, and then do exactly like they did with the phones, basically, is build their own platform, right? >> Sure. And then, yeah, you basically use Uber, and then as soon as they can cut themselves loose, cut themselves loose. All right, so that was at least a decent overview of where the company is today and what investors are thinking at. It

did It did identify that autonomous vehicles are on a lot of investors' minds, mine mine certainly included. All right, so moving on. Now, we need to figure out, before we can analyze it, which of the six stages of the business growth cycle is Uber currently in? So, why don't we ask the audience here, what phase do you think Uber is in? If you had to pick one of these six phases to analyze Uber's stock, which one is Uber currently in? So, if you could throw in

the in the chat in the comment section which you guys which which phase you think Uber is currently in. So, we've got Dave saying three into four, Nick saying three, Carsten saying [clears throat] four. Remember, it means that it's got to be profitable. And if you're in stage four, those profits have got to be growing faster than revenue. We've got couple threes, couple more fours.

Someone said two to three. A lot of fours. Yeah, a lot of fours. A lot of fours. Fours do seem to be the the consensus here.

>> I I actually believe we're at we're we're at mid to late four. That would be my guess as a shareholder myself. Okay. Well, let's have um Now, I believe are we going to use Gemini this time? Yeah, let's use Gemini.

I've heard so many great things about Gemini. I've switched over completely. Yeah, I I haven't used these prompts personally on on Gemini, but let's see how it how it does. Hey, we can troubleshoot real time. There you go.

There you go. Brian, we've got thousands of people joining us. This is great. Thank you. Thank you for joining us. I'm just glad

that the technology is is working. Knock on wood. You say that, and then Gemini's going to go out on us. All right, so we are running this prompt in in Gemini. And what does Gemini say? So,

Gemini says it's a value stock, and it's currently in phase five. Now, we're going to talk a little bit about how you made the prompt cuz I think that'll help people understand why it says that. For sure. Confidence level, it's very highly confident in this answer. Now, why?

Because operating income is positive figure. That's a good sign. Revenue is growing 20% per year, but this is the big thing, capital returns. Yes, it initiated a $1.5 billion accelerated share repurchase program in 2025.

So, that is a really good indication that the company is in phase five when it's been buying back stock or returning capital to shareholders. So, because Gemini says phase five, it says the most important valuation metrics to look at are price to earnings and price to free cash flow, perhaps a reverse DCF, and they they fit because the company is mature with stable oper- operations. details, and there's some some links. Great. Brian, a little bit inside baseball real quick.

When you and our friend Justin were working on these prompts, you guys have to make hard lines for the AI to make a decision. Is that right? >> Correct. Yes. Giving some type of capital return is like one of the hard lines that you do.

Well, I mean, imagine this. So, these these are obviously very squishy, right? So, how do you How do you distinguish between phase four and phase five? What we What we programmed the prompt to do is the line is, are they giving capital back by a dividends or buybacks or not? That's that's the delineating line. Just

like with one and two, the delineating line is, are losses increasing or decreasing? Right? That's That's the line that we chose. For what it's worth, revenue growing about 18% operating profit growing about 70% on a trailing 12-month basis. So, I would still say stage four, but I I don't think it makes that big of a difference either way. I

would We're in the general ballpark, correct. I would also probably stay stage four, but like you said, I would say late stage four, early stage five. It's kind of splitting hairs which ones it's in between, but technically, the AI did the right thing because it chose Yep. they're returning capital shareholders. But, for the sake of this argument, I'm going to I'm personally going to say it's it's phase four. Yep.

Yep. So, I'm going to open up a new cheat sheet. I actually haven't done that yet. Let get that I that going. All right, so we're going to say it's in it's in phase phase four for that. Okay,

next we got to figure out okay, how does Uber make money? What is its business? What are its key products and services? Where does it operate and how what are the qualitative metrics that matter? Like how often do customers buy and and and stuff like that? Oops, I clicked the

the wrong button there. Let me get the a new fresh copy of this a sheet going. So to figure that out, I'm going to go to the AI prompts. to go to the business analysis. I'm going to go to Gemini and I'm going to paste that and we're going to run this prompt and it should be able to fill Oh, that was nice and quick that it that it came back to. Now while that

prompt is is running, I'm going to close down that cheat sheet. I keep clicking the wrong thing. Uh >> Brian, real quick while you do that, I just want to show Mark asked if the sentiment prompt is in stock simplifier. It is. If you bought stock simplifier, it's at the bottom it's the last one.

>> Right here. Yep. >> It's it's right here. So here's here's the kind of prompt database that we have. It's the that that that new prompt we built there is is is right there for you. Here is the the spreadsheet tool.

We're going to go here. I'm just going to quickly fill this in. Uber, there's the there's a link to fiscal. We'll pull that up. It is we're going to chose phase four even though the AI prompt said phase five. We kind of said

that we're choosing phase four. >> Yep. And we're going to be using it on there. So this is what we're trying to figure out is the business description. Okay, so we did that. So Uber for the

year ending December 31st of last year. So what does the company do? Uber operates a global technology platform that connects consumers with independent services for various movement needs. I like that. >> three offerings. Mobility, connecting

consumers with drivers for rides and cars, taxis. Auto recharge. >> [laughter] >> Uh delivery. Consumers to order >> What? Uber Eats. Groceries, alcohol.

It's really Uber Eats and Instacart kind of. Yeah, it kind of is these days. It has been changing. I agree with you. And then there's freight which is connecting carriers with shippers. Which

is just you need a dying business for them. >> Well well well look at that in more detail. Okay, how does it make money? Uber generates by collecting a service fee from the gross bookings of trips and deliveries facilitated through its platform. Advertising revenue.

Advertising revenue also contributes to the mobility and delivery segment. Brian, we met up in Orlando last week and I noticed this. I had to take cuz I got in so late when I met up with you guys. I took an Uber from the Orlando airport to where we were staying. And there is a like a very teeny tiny iPad strapped to the seat in front of me. And

it has ads playing right there. And on the on the on the app itself there was ads. All right, so those are not broken out separately. They're currently in delivery and freight it says. And that's where it got that that that source from. And it says here's the

split. Mobility is about 57% of revenue. Delivery is 31 and freight is 11.6. Okay. Who are the customers? The

customers are three groups. There's consumers, those that book rides and order goods. 156 million monthly active platform consumers. Map cuz. And that's at the end of last year. So it's probably

bigger. Driver and carrier sides to the independent contractors use the platform and they earn the income by providing that services. And then merchants and shippers which are businesses including restaurants and grocery stores who partner with Uber to sell goods and move cargo. Great. Where does it operate?

Okay, technology is available in more than 70 countries and thousands of cities. Highly global but 62% of revenue is US. To me this is just it's US and Europe. I feel like Uber tried in a lot of other geographies and had trouble and instead bought stakes in the leading providers in those places like Grab in Southeast Asia. So let's talk about that for a second. This this business by its

very nature is very much winner take all. Yeah. Like you there should be one dominant provider of rides because of the network effect where you want the most availability of rides and riders the biggest platform attracts the ones with the most supply side. So if you're not number one or at very least number two, you you you're not going to exist pretty pretty much. So if they couldn't establish themselves as number one immediately, I think that they would grab they pulled out of the market and then got an equity stake in Grab if memory serves.

>> Yeah, and Tony points out Latin America is an area where they they have a an in >> Oh, great. Perfect. So fairly that would be rest of world but good to know. Yeah. Okay, how often do customers buy?

Customers engage in highly transactional are frequent. So the core business relies on repeat usage instead of long-term contracts. The platform recorded 11.3 billion trips in 2024 reflecting high volumes and the recurring nature of consumer use. Consumers generally purchase services multiple times per month as evidenced by the high number of overall trips relative to the total number of active monthly users. Yeah, 11 billion trips

and 100 million people, that's a lot. And I I don't know Did you ever see the video the movie that was put out on the founding of Uber, Brian? No. It's it has Travis Kalanick going around the founder of Uber and asking for people to invest in the company and the thing that he says over and over and over again. They ask him, how many trips until they become lifetime users? And do

you know what the number was? Three? Two. He said if we get someone to use Uber twice, they're with us for the long haul. >> It it makes sense. That first one is

very nerve-wracking. The second time you kind of build some confidence so that makes sense to me. I'm an Uber user and I I don't even have Lyft on my phone. There you go. >> Uh okay, can it raise prices? Pricing

power is generally constrained by intense competition for mobility, delivery and logistics which are characterized by low barriers to entries and the presence of well-capitalized alternatives. Company states it must continue to offer incentives, discounts and competitive freight to attract and retain users with its limited ability to raise prices to demonstrate and improve its revenue margins. Which is driven less by price hikes and more by generating cost leverage from higher volumes. So kind of can it raise prices? Kind of.

It's where that [clears throat] Lyft being there is important just for us as consumers to keep the prices down. It it that's hard. And we'll we'll get to a little bit later. It's going to become even more murky when we're thinking 5 10 years into the future. Potentially potentially, right?

>> Yeah. So what happens in a recession? The company's performance is sensitive to economic conditions but its biggest segments are affected differently. Mobility are tied to consumer discretionary spending which could decrease in a severe downturn. However, it provides flexibility for drivers to generate income which could increase supply potentially driving down costs.

Okay. Uh freight the segment is highly cyclical and directly exposed to the broader freight market. And then historic note, the company's 2020 revenue declined significantly due to due to COVID. Let's hope COVID was a once-in-a-lifetimes situation there but yeah, I would say that that would be accurate. So one thing I'm not loving about Uber is that you can't click the link uh Gemini is you can't click the links like you can in um chat GPT. So I I'd say that the results have

been really good but For what it's worth, we did have someone point out that Do you see that little arrow? I don't know if you want to do this but you can change it from fast to think. It's up to you. Takes a little bit longer. I prefer fast. Yeah, that's

fine. When you do this on your own, you can do the think if you've got more time on your own. You don't want to make people wait there and watch us. Yeah, so how often do consumers buy? I have no problem saying recurring. Can it

raise prices? I'd say it's somewhere between can increase and would lose customers right right now. And what happens in a recession? I would call it normal. I would call it normal personally. So what do our viewers

think? Red, yellow, green, is this an attractive if it business? So uh red would be I still don't get what this company does or how it makes money. Yellow would be it I understand and it's it's okay. Green, this is one hell of a good business and I fully understand it.

So we we we very much try to optimize for again simplicity, stock simplifier and red, yellow, green is the way to go. So what are people saying? We've got Martin, Elaine giving it green. We've got Robert giving it a yellow. Albert and Miguel give it green. We've got a

not sure. Um I would say green with a tint of yellow is is pretty much where we are right now. Um we do have some very interesting questions up here, Brian, which I know is the next thing we're going to do. Like Tariq says, extreme price competition contradicts the company having a moat, doesn't it? Please comment.

It's almost like we planted them in there to lead us to our next section. But what are you guys saying? We're going to talk about the moat next and I think that the pricing is going to depend uh assume that autonomy didn't exist. Assume that that was not even a thing. Assume that Uber existed in the 2010s, right? And autonomy was literally a 15

years out thing. I would say this company has great pricing power. I would say Why would you say that? >> Because because the only competitor that I can even think of is is Lyft in the in [clears throat] the US at least. And it's by far and away the number the number one. Given that Lyft

is a viable alternative, at least in the United States, and I'm sure there are competitors depending on regions area, and the looming threat of autonomous, I would say that a company can still have a moat, but that moat has questions in the air around it. But, we're going to get to that section in a section or two. It's not black or white, too. It's not Yes, there's a moat. No, there's It's like how strong is the moat? And what's the

direction of the moat? The direction of the moat, I would say, is even more important than the absolute state of of the moat. But, I think for for right now, it's it's it's it's fair to say that this is an exciting business from what we've learned thus far. By the way, if you want to use Stock Splitter, it's normally 199 bucks. If you use the link that Mr. Stoffel is going to share in

the comment section below, depending on what platform you're you're watching this on, 99 bucks if you want to get it if you want to get everything that we're using so far. Okay, next section is that moat section. So, is this a red moat? It's There's no moat or it's weakening. Is it a yellow moat? It's narrow or it's

stable. Or is it green moat? It's wide and it's standing. It's expanding. So, there are five different sources of moat: network effect, switching costs, low-cost production, intangibles, and counter-positioning. Then we want to

know, okay, what's the state of the overall moat of the business? None, narrow, or wide. And what is the direction of the current state of the moat? Is it shrinking, bad, stable, or widening, great. So, to figure that out, we're going to first ask people, what do you think? If you say If we say, what

was Uber's primary moat? What What What source do you think is is the primary moat? >> talking about that top row up there. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, which of the five do you think is Uber's number one source of moat?

I mean, I know it has >> it has multiple moats, which do you think is the strongest and most important? Mark says network effect, where each user that joins makes the platform more valuable. David says network plus intangible, and I'm guessing with intangible he's saying the brand value. Elaine, networking. Casey, networking.

Network, network. I think we've got a pretty clear answer here with the network effect. All right. So, that's what people say. Let's say if AI agrees with our analysis that it is the network effect.

>> think about it. Every person that joins as a rider attracts more drivers. Every driver that lists there attracts more riders. And so on and so on. Yeah, or the value of the network increases for all existing players based on new people joining. Okay. So,

Gemini says the current moat size is narrow. The current moat direction is widening. And it says the primary sources are the network effect and low-cost production. Okay, Uber possesses a narrow economic moat driven by the sheer scale of its global network effects, which are strengthening as the company successfully cross-sells services and achieves meaningful operating leverage. This is evidenced by a 33% year-over-year increase in adjusted EBITDA to 2.3 billion, confirming the

platform's ability to monetize its growing user base. Okay. Switching costs, present. It says yes, switching costs are there, but they are narrow and they're widening. Switching costs are present, but not insurmountable, primarily manifesting from the Uber One membership and the stickiness of its cross-platform users.

While consumers can easily switch apps, those who use mobility and delivery services are highly valuable, creating friction to leave the ecosystem. Yeah, I want to hit on this cuz someone on LinkedIn says, you can't be serious. Passengers and drivers will switch to an alternative option if it's 10 cents cheaper. Here's the thing about that, though. Brian, how many ride-hailing apps are on your phone?

One. So, how often are you checking to see if it's cheaper on Lyft? I use Uber a handful of times per year, so I'm not a regular recurring user. If I lived in a city center without a car, I can see myself being more price sensitive and more shopping around, especially if you can load them both quickly and do a quick price test, cuz I have heard in some situations there is a sizable price difference depending on which one you go towards. Sure. And You are

What about you? You're in a more of a city center than I am. I I have a car. I live in a walkable community. I I literally use it when I go to the airport and when I come back. Like,

that's it. And >> Okay, but do you Do you check two places or do you just go to one? I just These days, I just go to one. And it And it is Uber. There you go. And And the reason it's

Uber, to be clear, the reason it's Uber is because I use Uber Eats. And so, I've I've got That That's why. I mean, that's it. There you go. So, I would say I agree with the comment that there It's easy to switch apps, but that does require installing another app, setting up a profile on another app, and then flipping back and forth, and it's a it's a it's a it's a time investment. So,

it's not it's not huge, but it's not nothing. Sure. And And we've got plenty of examples here of people who say, I use both. But, I do think And And Casey brings up a good point. If you want a fast response, you're going to you're going to just use your preferred, whether that's Uber or Lyft. But, that's why Uber One is so

important. Yep. There you go. Uber One, and it says Uber One has 36 million members. I assume that that's a a subscription where you get more rides, discounts, and stuff for paying a monthly membership.

Yep. Yep. And they say cross-platform consumers like you that use two things are 35% better at retention, and we keep deepening our engagement by from single product users. Okay. Intangibles, the the brand name, narrow and stable. Uber's intangible assets are

derived from its proprietary database, its global network, which feeds sophisticated matching. Yep, although Uber brand is globally recognized, competition prevents significant pricing power. Right. >> So, you just talk for a second. You What do you always say about Delta?

Yep. So, there's brand is Actually, I learned this recently from Alex Hormozi, who said it kind of brilliantly. The brand No, brand does a couple of things for you. One is that you know what it means. If I said Delta Airlines, everyone here knows what Delta Airlines means. But, a brand is

only a powerful intangible asset if it causes you to change your behavior. Right? So, if you're if you're shopping and you see an HP computer, Acer computer, and an Apple computer, and you are specifically choosing the Apple because of the brand name or even willing to pay a premium for the Apple, that's a strong brand name. Whether you just recognize the name, if it doesn't cause you to change your behavior, it's not as valuable as just knowing the name of something. Another way that it's valuable is if I said to you, name a ride-hailing app.

Right. If you just said Uber off top of your head, that's consumer mind share. There is something to that, but it's most powerful >> It's It's most powerful when you use that mind share and you know the name and it causes you to change your behavior. Exactly. >> So, that that's how the pairing comes together. This one does have some nuance

to it. I will say that I I'm I would give it partial credit here. I know the name Uber. It would not cause me to I I use Uber on my on my phone. So, middle of the road here. I'm going to

say narrow and stable. That makes sense to me. Yeah. Network effects, wide and widening. Mobility and delivery operates a powerful two-sided network effect that serves the company's strongest moat source. More riders means

more couriers, which leads to lower wait times, and in turn is more riders. This vicious virtuous circle is strong in dense areas where Uber is the market share leader. The accelerating user and trip growth gives it a wide moat widening. And they have monthly average platform consumers grew 17% to 189 million. That's really impressive for a company that's been around.

Yep. Monthly active couriers reach 9.4 million. So, this is more This is people that are delivering. Our strong core user base reinforces Uber's network effects. Okay.

Low-cost production, narrow and widening. Uber's cost advantage is derived from its massive scale. Company can spread significant fixed costs like technology, customer acquisition, insurance, and regulatory compliance across 3.5 billion quarterly trips and 50 billion in gross bookings. This is a structural advantage in the lowest lowest per trip cost basis globally.

What do you think about that? I'd have to dive into that. I never really thought about like its scale allowed because they're price takers, which, you know, is great. Um I don't know. I'd have What do you think about that? I hadn't thought about given

the scale and their like advertising expense and their R&D expense over just a larger pool, I can see that giving them a couple of bucks of or maybe a couple of cents of low-cost production. So, I don't I wouldn't say it's Yeah. It's not nothing, but I wouldn't say it's it's huge. >> Yeah. Counter-positioning. So,

counter-positioning is I would say they absolutely had a moat over about against taxis, right? Completely different business and business model than taxis. With with the app and everything like that, but taxis are now like the entire taxi market is like teeny in comparison to just Uber the company. So, this is not counter positioning was the first moat that the company had and used it to grow into the behemoth that it is, but this moat kind of is self-defeating really over time. >> it's a low it has a a short half-life of a moat.

>> It's It's It's If If you're going to phase one, phase two, or phase three company though, sometimes it can be the most important moat to look at. >> cuz it gets you off the ground. So, what are some risks? Uber's ability to maintain its low cost structure is highly dependent on classifying drivers as independent contractors. Uh the company has had a ton of legislative battles. Autonomous vehicles remain a

long major long-term uncertainty. Uber faces domestic competition from Lyft and DoorDash. Yeah. Yep, as well as significant international competition from Grab and DD. The market remains highly competitive often forcing to use price and incentives to maintain supply and demand equilibrium. If that is the

case, then the company does not have pricing power at all. No. Although I would argue for them if we look up their free cash flow figures um they're not hurting right now based on that. But for what it's worth, Morningstar agrees with with everybody here. Narrow economic moat, narrow network effects, and intangible assets.

Now, we need let's talk about in network effects for a second because there are different stages of network effects, right? Um what I got busted in the past by investing in Grubhub. Mhm. >> I thought the company had amazing network effects Mhm. >> because it was the leader at the time.

DoorDash blew Grubhub out of the water. Mhm. So, what I've learned the hard way is that with a business like this, there are network effects, but they're hyper localized. >> Yep. You in Rhode Island joining Uber or if you start driving in Rhode Island, that doesn't do anything for me in Wisconsin.

Nothing for you in Wisconsin. Now, if I visit Wisconsin, I want the network company has network effects in Wisconsin or in Seattle or in San Francisco, but just because somebody joins in Rhode Island does not increase the network effect for you in California or you in Seattle or you somewhere else. So, there are network effects, but it's more a collection of hundreds of small network effects than it is one mega network effect. >> Agreed. That's a really important distinction to keep in mind. Agreed. So,

if they lose in one city Um if if they lose in in one city, everybody in that city loses out on them. So, I'm I'm going to give them credit for the network effect. I will say that yes, the company does have a moat. Um I'll go with narrow. I would say more narrow moat. Um

you could argue it's green, but I'll go narrow just for the sake of conservatism there, but that's it that's an important thing to keep in mind. Um Casey's got jokes here. Just showing Casey she's surprised that we've got Uber in Wisconsin. There you go. Okay.

Or he. Great. All right, up next, growth sources. So, how can the What is this company's long-term growth uh potential? Now, there are two ways that a company can grow. It can get

new customers and it can get existing customers to spend more and there kind of are subcategories uh to each. Now, one shortcut trick is to go to Fiscal uh type in the company's ticker symbol, go down to growth and this is a company that's growing revenue to call it 20% per year and over the long term, earnings are expected to grow 31% per year. That reaffirms the stage the phase four that we gave it to me. Yeah. Yeah, that that's really fast growth.

So, that that is what the market is estimating or analysts are estimating is this company's long-term growth rate. Now, why? Why should we believe that that is what the growth rate is going to be? Well, that's where this prompt comes in um to give it breaks down kind of each of the two growth sources to see which um which subcategories will drive that long-term growth. So, let's see what Gemini says here. Okay.

Uh getting new customers through marketing and sales. This is a big growth. Management is moderating margin margin expansion to invest in growth opportunities. Sales and marketing expenses were 3% of bookings and that was up. So, I believe if they're still growing at double digits, I believe surprisingly that there's still a lot of room for growth. Great. So, just just

just making people more aware of Uber. Mhm. Uh new distribution channels. So, mixing in uh integrating mobility and delivery and uh oh, Toast for restaurants. Key partnerships with Toast and Nvidia. Interesting. Okay.

Geographic expansion very strong. Focused on unlocking lower density market where growth is yielding 1.5 times the rate of denser markets. So, they're moving out to the suburbs. And to be clear, the main reason that they are I think experiencing a lot of uh positive momentum there is because no one else is focused on those areas usually.

There you go. Uh acquisitions uh weak. Yeah. Acquisitions are not a major growth source for the company. Okay. How about

existing customers? Pricing power weak. Management states pricing remained relatively flat and keeping prices as low as possible. Uh what about new products or new services? This company does have a history of rolling out new products and services. Witness Uber Eats. Yeah. What

a great innovation, a needle-moving innovation for the company. So, local commerce has a $12 billion gross booking runway, autonomous vehicles. So, that's an opportunity for for them. Uh retaining customers. This is a strong focus to get more I mean this is where Uber One comes in, too, where you retain more customers if you get more people signing up for Uber One.

>> Oh, for sure. Yep, that's a great one. So, the biggest growth are new products and services, retaining customers, and investing in sales and marketing. The second biggest growth are geographic expansion and new distribution and acquisitions are not a major source. What do people think? One thing I would

just throw in there, too, is a lot of it comes from volume growth, but not pricing growth. Okay. Uh is a trade-off, right? Um but yeah, tell us what you think about their growth prospects. Green, they look great. Yellow, so-so. Red,

I'm not sure how much growth that they have left. I'm curious what folks have to say. Yeah, me too. Yeah, let us know in the comment section. I'm also curious what you would think of their growth potential. And again, this is just on

what we know so far. If in the back of your mind you're like autonomy and stuff like that, that will come up in the risk section. I mean that that I'm going to wait for that section because to me, if there was if there was no autonomous risk, I would say green. Yeah. We've got a lot of yellows here.

They It's just one of those things that I have no way of imagining with any certainty what it might be like. But I would say in much the same way we've got some some yellowish green. I agree with Robert though. 17% growth in monthly active platform consumers, I mean that's not nothing. Now, mix in the operating leverage, too, that we're about to come come across, right?

>> Yeah. So, that is um that that that I'm going to go green. Uh witness the 31% estimated earnings per share growth rate that the company has has put has put up. 31% is very fast for a company that is already profitable and at this size and scale. So, I'm going to say great with the massive caveat [laughter] that autonomy could blow that up. Mhm.

But again, we haven't kind of gotten to that uh section um as of as as of yet. So, that's what people that's what people think. Uh quick reminder, if you're watching and you want to get access to Stock Simplified for 99 bucks, uh Stouffer will share the link uh in in in the chat. Uh okay. Next, key metrics. Now, the key metrics,

this is my favorite thing about Stock Simplified. The key metrics that you need to look at change depending on which phase of the business growth cycle the company is in. We chose phase four phase four for this. So, the metrics to look at are revenue growth on a three-year basis, the operating margin, the free cash flow margin, earnings versus estimates, and return on invested capital. Now, looking these up using Fiscal is fairly straightforward. We did

build an AI prompt to kind of to to do these for us and this is the prompt that the AI struggles with the most. But let's give Gemini a chance here. >> Yep, and and and see how see how it does. All right, Gemini, you only you only you don't get a second chance to make a first impression on us right here. >> [laughter] >> Yeah, uh ChatGPT has a very mixed track record with getting this correct and and that is despite us spending hours working on this prompt to really get it to get it in there. Okay, so let's see

what this says. So, revenue growth on a three-year basis is 36%. That one's really easy. I I don't think that. Well, it depends three year. I've got a Fiscal

AI showing 19.5. 19.5. So, uh over 20, so I would say that the color is pretty darn right, right? You can round that up to 20. Um

but that number is wrong. So, I don't know where it came up with this. Okay. Operating margin 8.26%.

That is positive and rising. So, this interpretation is also wrong. Let's take a look at that operating margin. We want this number to be positive and rising. So, operating margin is right here. That

looks like a positive figure and I don't know what's more rising than that. >> Yep, that's good. >> So, 9.2% in the last 12 months. So, it got um It got that one.

>> in fairness, we could be using thinking and have it take longer. We might see if it did did that. >> Fair enough. So, this is green, this is green. Free cash flow margin. We want

free cash flow to be positive and rising. So, ChatGPT says 16 uh 16%. So, free cash flow, to find that, we're in uh fiscal, we go to the um uh ratios. We go to margins. And we go to free cash flow margin, right there.

I think you're going to see something >> we see something similar. 17% free cash flow margin. Yep. For every $1 in sales, Uber is currently generating 17 cents of free cash flow. The average business in the S&P 500 is around 10, 11-ish.

So, Uber is already twice, not twice, 50% more free cash flow per dollar of sales than the average business in the S&P 500. And this number is rising very nicely. So, that is a green. So, green, green, green so far. Earnings versus estimates. How

does the company do versus earnings estimates? So, to go here, we go to estimates. We go to quarterly. And we're going to go to earnings per share. And let's see. So, the actual is 311.

That that was a tax benefit, so it's kind of weird. >> benefit. But, beat beat beat I'm I'm guessing that's also a tax benefit. Beat, beat, but no matter how you shake it, the company has a history of exceeding uh estimates. And then finally, return on invested capital. Um

we want this number to be I think we just want it to be positive and rising, right? Yeah. Positive and rising. Is this number uh positive and and rising? So, if we go to uh financials We can look at the absolute number, but I want to see the trend. Yeah, me too.

>> ratios. And then it should be under capital efficiency, return on invested capital. >> It's it's looking good. Looking good. >> Used to be negative, now it's po- 23% return on invested capital, and boy is that rising. So, if we go over to

StockScreener, I would go green, green, green, green, green. That's pretty good. Yep. [laughter] That is I would say would be pretty darn uh good. >> Bruce agrees. Lovely.

>> Yeah, so key met- the key metrics for this business look great. Yeah. Re- really, really great. Um all right, let's let's pause there. Do we have any questions that people have talking on so far? Uh no, I mean we've got we just

have a lot of discussions back and forth about what's going on. You know, like Anu brings up they're printing billions in profit off of subscription, like uh Uber One, buying stock back with it. I I like this. He said it's not a no-risk stock, but it's cheap with scale and leadership in a growing category. Uh and he brings up a good point. I really

appreciate this. The only reason you would shy away from Uber is because you think they won't be a player in autonomous. I think um as far as an elevator pitch goes for what's going on with Uber, that's a that's a it's a pretty good one. >> Yeah, another thing to think about is do you think autonomous is a threat to Just a Mobility, or do you think it's also a threat to Uber Eats and to Uber Freight? I mean, I think I Uber Uber Freight I don't care about as much. I read this

great piece in Stratechery. That's um uh what's his name? Ben Thompson. Ben Thompson. Also, just by the way, moved back to Wisconsin. Um

and he talked about how he's long been a supporter like a a a bull of Uber, especially back when everyone thought that they'd never be profitable. He was like, yes, they will be profitable. And he's admitted one of the things that he's not totally thinking about or considering is there could be with Tesla or Waymo um a an ancillary service where like you just have a car come and you put something in it and it takes it somewhere. So, there's not even a person anymore. It's just And and that could capture a whole bunch and Uber may or may not play a part in that. So, I

It's a really interesting thought to consider. I mean, that that's going to be a big part of the thesis. But, that would be a risk. And speaking of risks, that is the next section here that we're going to look at. So, I have my risk analysis prompt. We're going to go to

Gemini and we're going to say it to do a risk analysis for us. Now, as a reminder, there are um when it comes to risks, um we want red, yellow, green, right? Green, no risk or low risk, red, high risk. When it comes to analyzing risk, we think there's four categories of risks you really need to focus on. Concentration risk disruption risk outside forces risk and competition risk. So, that's what we've programmed

into the AI. And then all of those sub risks boil up into one major risk, which is execution risk. So, what are the things that could prevent Uber from achieving that 31% compound annual growth rate in earnings per share. If they can do that, the the the the stock will probably do well. If they can't, for these reasons who knows where the stock could go.

>> I have little doubt of what in my mind is the most important one. Yeah, okay. So, using the 10K and the 10Q from the most the overall risk here is high. Outside forces, regulatory and labor, and disruption are the key risks. Offsetting that are network effects and a substantial competitive advantage. So,

concentration risk, no worries. 189 million monthly active users, no customer is more than 1% of revenue. No concentration risk. Disruption risk, red. Identified threat of autonomous vehicles technology that could eliminate the need for current independent contractor model requiring massive capital investment. And success of

vertically integrated competitors in logistics could disrupt the asset-light model. Outside That's it. That's it. Outside forces risk. Um the trend is is flat and red. Regulatory and labor risk,

ongoing legal and legislative challenges regarding driver classifications. Oh, yeah, if they were classified as employees, that would be a big that would be a big hit. And then economic inflation exposure, mobility and freight are sensitive to discretionary consumer spending. Uh and then competition risk um the it says red for that, huh? Uh operates in the duopolistic market, mobility versus Lyft and delivery versus DoorDash, and intense fragmented global markets requiring continuous spending on incentives and driver supply bonuses.

And there's low barriers to entry. I disagree with this. >> yellow for that. I don't think that we can forget about it, and I almost think that like the competition and the disruption can blend together a little bit almost, too. So, I'll push back against this though.

It says low barriers to entry. No way. This is a very high barrier to entry company. Not cuz making the app is hard, there's barriers to scale. Enormous barriers to scale, right? So, I could

start a mobility company, nobody's going to use it. Right? So, >> you this though, cuz this is this is an idea I floated by you this past weekend. What if Elon's plan is, you know, he doesn't have a an app to get people like Uber. What if he just makes it so that if you're on X or Twitter that's the app you use to hail your your cab?

I I mean Yeah. If uh well, like we learned with Threads, right? How do you start a new social network? You start with a billion users on Instagram and then you port them over to Threads, right? So, how could Tesla really get mobility everywhere? They do have a couple

hundred million monthly active users on X, and if you built that into the ride-hailing app I mean, that would be integration that Tesla shareholders like me would definitely uh love uh to see. But, okay, now that we know now that we know all that, what do you guys think? Execution risk here, is this a green, low execution risk company, yellow, moderate execution risk company, or red, high, very high execution risk uh company here? I would love to see what what people think about about that. As that rolls in it it's kind of surprising now that I think about it that like Meta never came out with a like they have the billions of users. What's to stop them from

having something like this? Maybe they just got better places for their >> Well, they kind of needed a network first and and and and a car, a taxi network, and all that kind of stuff. Yeah. So, and and from Google, Google does have what? How many products that have a billion users? Especially Google

Maps. Yeah. >> they can integrate Waymo with Google Maps, which I'm sure that they can, um Look at Sean's asking the the million-dollar question here. Yeah. Uh if you ask Elon, the the the the the the the map is 6 months.

>> [laughter] >> Yeah. >> Um right? Uh if you go to really things, but the thing with disruption, the thing if this is a disruptive mar- if this truly is disruptive, it's going to be imperceptible. Very, very small at first. Uber could probably still grow, um and then it could get wider. But, here's the thing I

learned from Tony Seba. There's a big difference between um a market company being disrupted and its stock price being disrupted. Huge difference, right? Um you could have a if if if growth in Uber slowed and the markets whiffed that that is due to autonomy, even if growth just slowed, people the market is forward-looking. The stock could tank. Absolutely tank.

It The market could say, "This is a stage six company." And if that if that happens, it'll value it at like a few times earnings, right? So So there could be a massive massive pullback in the stock well before Uber the business was disrupted. If you want to see that in action, go look at RadioShack's uh stock or Bed Bath & Beyond's uh stock or any failed company recently. Their stocks cratered years before the business looked that bad.

>> Even though the business didn't look that bad. Correct. Correct. So if the market sniffs out if the market sniffs out, "No, this is a major major problem," the sentiment goes to to zero and the stock just gets hammered. And and the valuation won't won't matter. So

what what do you say, bro? What what what was your feeling for the risk here for the company? What what did people say? >> Other people I would say the average is yellow, but there was a lot of reds. Yep.

I would personally say red. Um I I would personally say red. I think that they have a lot to I think that they have a a lot of irons on the fire and they have major the major threat that they have to think about they have to think about comp- competition here is real for each of their individual segments and they have to worry about pricing, but managing a platform shift shift to autonomous, that is not going to be easy. That it's it's it's just not going to be easy. So I'm not saying they can't do it. I'm

just saying it takes a high level of execution to do it. Here's Here's my thing, too, that I don't We We haven't talked about cuz we're focused on Uber here. We're not focused on Tesla, but I do think it's worth addressing. So I've done a lot of research just kind of not a lot, but I've done some research on just Tesla can produce that cyber taxi at a lower cost than anyone else can produce an autonomous taxi. Like That we're aware of. That we're aware of. The There's

probably players in China that can do it. And actually, I forget who it is that I think Waymo recently partnered with a Chinese automaker to test in certain cities because of this very reason. But the bottom line is we're talking about Waymo partnering with the Chinese automaker. We're talking about Tesla being vertically integrated. And if you can put those cars on the road one, if you can put the cars on the road for less, then that can lead to cheaper prices and cheaper prices can lead to winner take most uh dynamics. But number two is that

let's just say that Elon uses X and X that X uh thing on your phone becomes your ride-hailing app. Mhm. And you can have people that own their own Tesla kind of be there to offer more supply during rush hour cuz they'll get paid for for letting their Tesla go off and transport people. That solves the size of the uh the the fleet problem that uh Uber doesn't have to worry about because they've got all these free cars. They don't pay for the cars, but Tesla does have to worry about There's a lot of variables that we're talking about here.

So what you're saying is the execution risk is high. >> Absolutely. And again, that doesn't mean that it's it's not going to happen. It just means what are the what is the the the it's a takes a very high level of execution to to pull off this transition. Very high level of execution. So the the risk the execution

risk, I think it's safe to say is very high. Um and Stock Simplifier uh if you're watching and are interested, it's uh 99 bucks using the link that Stouffer will share. Mass, lastly, valuation. Uh what is this company's val- valuation? So we know that it's in phase four.

And when it comes to phase four, the primary tool we're going to use is the forward price to earnings ratio and the forward price to free cash flow ratio. Now, uh if you look at my emails that I sent to out to this, we did note that right now Uber has a um very high negative tax bill that's boosting its earnings per share. One reason that I like using forward PE ratios better than trailing is forward PE ratios kind of eliminate that as a as a problem. So here is the forward price to earnings >> ratio. Yep. So can you tell when they

went profit became profitable? Um yeah. So the PE ratio will forward that to 2023. Okay? I'm guessing that there's another >> tax We saw the other tax benefit they got.

>> Yeah, that makes sense, right? So the tax bill got kind of whacked here. So eliminate this kind of from your mind. Like this is probably the real low. So currently trading at 27 times next year's earnings estimates. So

looking forward, 27 times forward earnings. And if I click this little graphing line here, we can kind of see the average high and the low. That average is probably skewed from >> Well, it's it's median, so it's not too bad. It's not the mean, it's the median. >> Yeah. That that is true.

So slightly below uh the median. All right. Now let's look at forward price to free cash flow. And 18 times uh price to free cash flow. Let's get some indicators on there. That makes it

easier to see. So the average has been about 19 times forward free cash flow. It's currently about 18.6 times. We might be able to scoot this one back a little bit. Yeah, we can. Yeah. Uh so

because we have Uber became free cash flow positive. Okay, so what's that about? May of 2022. So we'll go there. That Th- This I would say is a more meaningful chart than we saw. So kind of

the high >> 5 to 10% undervalued based on the the median. Yeah, so high 30 times price to free cash flow in 2023, low And again, this is actual cash. So low of about 11 times, currently about 18 times. Uh so what do people What do people think here? What Do you Do you think that this company's valuation is attractive? Red,

unattractive, overvalued? Yellow, fairly valued? Green, undervalued today? Would love to know what people think about some of the valuation here. Um so we did execution risk there. So

price forward price to earnings and forward price to free cash flow. What are people saying, Stouffer? >> All right, so we've got uh we've got a yellow from Cass and David, a red from Robert, yellows from Ronald and Carsten. Jack gives it a yellow, a red from Tariq, yellow. We got Robert, I like this. Green for maybe the next uh 6

months. Luella [laughter] went off off the charts and went mango. And then a couple more yellows, a yellow green from Scott, a yellow from Tony. Mahendra gives it a yellow. Um yeah.

Great. All right, final boss question. So let's review the takeaways. So this is a company that was an exciting business. It has a moderate moat a decent-sized moat. Great

long-term potential. It aced the key metrics test. It does have very high execution risk, especially with that autonomy, and it's moderately valued today. It's fairly valued today. So red, yellow, or green? Red, forget this

company forever. Yellow, I'm kind of interested, maybe put on my watchlist. Green, I want to buy stocks I want to buy the stock today. What do people think of Uber the investment on December 9th of 2025? Tariq says, "Given the risk, I want a larger margin of safety." So value

What's the valuation? >> That's a pretty darn good takeaway. Yep, David says green, buy today. Nick, green, excellent business but high valuation. Because of the key metrics, yes, green. Okay? I'd say the big thing

to remember is key metrics look backwards. Yep. >> are great. They do look great. Yep. Risk is too existential, not

interested but I love the analysis framework. Awesome, thank you. Thank you for for watching. Hope they hopefully this was uh a useful analysis to see the how we look at business. All right, so what would you say is the overall I think yellow is the overall. Yep. So there are

some people here saying, "Yes, I totally understand why." There are some people saying here red. Did you get any reds? Uh yeah, Luella had red. Okay. Yeah. For me, this is a uh for me

personally, this is on a my no list. If if this company successfully bridges the gap to autonomy, uh count me in. Mhm. >> Like count This is a just sensational business. And I know that the new CEO is really good um at as well. But that is a that is a mega risk

for that I think investors are taking taking on. And as I said previously, if the market sniffs out that it is in a position to lose autonomy, and that could be years before the data actually shows up and really impacts the company's numbers, um look out below. The sentiment on this company could could fall and this stock could get absolutely hammered. And I'll throw out there, it's going to look like a freaking steal Yep. >> if that happens because the business will not disappear overnight. Right. But

the valuation could. Yep. When when When companies are being disrupted and the market sniffs that out, it bids down the stock price so much that you look and the P/E ratio goes to like three, right? And you're like, "Oh my god, the company's buyback yield is 15%." Um but uh A very low valuation and debt is actually a very dangerous uh combination. But if your core business

is truly disrupted, your business is going to zero. And and you can't overcome that. Your business is going to zero and doesn't matter how low of a valuation you pay if the ultimate price you hold towards is zero, uh you're going to lose money. Yep. Um that's just like I appreciate this that uh Robert says, "This is a great company to evaluate the efficacy of these prompts." Cuz I think

the prompts did uh their job. pretty good job. There is that one that always gives us some trouble. But so I just want to reiterate that if folks want this, uh then you can head on over, use that link that we're putting in to get uh Stock Simplifier and all future updates to the prompts that we make you have access to as well. We have some exciting things going on with Stock Simplifier that we think are going to make it even better. Um so just just

keep an eye just keep an eye on that. But we are we are we we we love this tool and analysis framework and we want to make it as easy as possible for people to use. So we will continue to to upgrade that and let people know what's kind of happening there. So as a reminder with Stock Simplifier, if anything we said in this video, you're like, "What does that mean? Why are they looking at that?" It's in the entire

course that comes with Stock Simplifier. Um you also get the spreadsheet tool that kind of walks you through everything step-by-step. You get all of the prompts including that new AI sentiment analysis prompt. It's 99 bucks if you use the link that Stouffer uh did provide there. And with that, we would love to know your opinion. What stock do

you want us to research using Stock Simplifier next? There are so many great stocks out there. At this point, we've done the Magnificent Seven in the last three months. So we've done uh Tesla, we've done Apple, Amazon, we've done Nvidia and all that kind of stuff. Um I've seen some great suggestions in the past. So

please put them in the in the chat if you want us to look at the at companies there. Want to thank Luella who keeps he has continued to use this. We got a lot of Airbnb suggestions. We got PayPal. We've got Lululemon. We got Sprouts Farmers

Market. Um Do we have any other >> I've ever looked at Sprouts Farmers Market. So that would be an interesting one. I do know it's been a great business. Shopify. Um that's that's a

good one. Uh Copart and stuff. And as a reminder, um the next time we're going to do this webinar in this series is in two weeks, uh December 23rd. Um uh we will do that and the the on Wednesday the 17th. So eight days from today in our newsletter, we're going to put four companies to uh on the list for people to uh to vote on. But next week,

Stouffer, you and I will be live Tuesday 12:00 same time same social channels. And what are we going to talk about next Tuesday? We're going to be talking about doing a reverse discounted cash flow analysis cuz everybody sees us do this that's beyond just Stock Simplifier. This is like the next level up. We're going to be covering that and so you can see how we use this tool for free um next week.

>> And why? Why are we doing that as a topic? Because it was the number one request at our last webinar that we did. Yep. So the general cadence is every other week we're going to do a stock deep dive with Stock Simplifier and then we're going to do a broad-based investing lesson. We have ideas for

lessons on reverse on valuation, on on moat analysis, deep dive into moat analysis. Um but the number one request we got last time we did this was how do you use a reverse discounted cash flow calculator. So that's what we're going to talk about next Tuesday. The Tuesday after that, we're going to do another Stock Simplifier deep dive. So Tuesdays at 12:00, Stouffer and I are going to be here live and we would love it if you guys could could join us um every week on Tuesday. So thank you guys.

Uh what's what's this question? One quick question about Stock Simplifier. Do they get updates to the process like the prompts or new prompts? Yes. Yes. Absolutely. As we update Stock

Simplifier, people that already bought Stock Simplifier will get the the the updates. Yes. There we go. Yep. All right. Uh reverse discounted cash flow

calculator, yep. Uh hope I get an invite for next week. Abs- absolutely. So thank you guys so much for spending an hour with us. We super appreciate it and we hope you spend time with us in the future. If you have topic suggestions,

if you have stock suggestions, email us. Put it in the chat on below. We we are happy to take uh suggestions. But uh with that, that's Brian's out.