---
video_title: "Odds of Making Money In Stock By Holding Period"
video_id: btmAt79liLM
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=btmAt79liLM
video_date: 20251209
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Investing Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/investing
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼ABOUT US:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author (https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0), investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  👨‍💼Brian Stoffel is a writer, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's a teacher at heart. Brian has been investing for over a decade and has written over 4,000 articles for The Motley Fool. Brian plans his life and his investments around “antifragile” principles.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
The historic odds of making money in the stock market by holding period explained visually by Brian Frol. This chart shows the percentage of investors earned a positive return by a variety of different holding periods. Over short-term holding periods like 1 day, 2 months, or 3 months, the odds of making money in the stock market are slightly better than a coin flip. You would extend that out to holding periods of 1 year, 2 years, or 3 years, your odds start to improve all the way up to about 75% chance. Once you start to buy and hold for a multi-year period such as 5 years or 10 years, your odds improve greatly to nearly eight or nine chances out of 10. And if you increase your

holding period to all the way to 20 years, your odds of making a total positive real return in the stock market are 100%. Now, Wall Street traders are forced to focus their time and attention over here, which is why their returns do vary hugely. However, if you're an individual that can invest with a long-term mindset, your odds of making money in the market can improve substantially simply by holding on to stocks for a longer period of time. If visual summaries like this are useful, you know what to