---
video_title: "Which Dow Jones ETF Tracker is Best"
video_id: wi0-e0mGk-Y
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wi0-e0mGk-Y
video_date: 2026-01-02T14:25:17+00:00
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 ETF Investing Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/etf
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼My Book on Amazon:▼
  📖 https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0
  
  ▼ABOUT ME:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
Which Dow Jones ETF tracker is best? Explained visually by Brian Faldi. First is DIA. This holds the 30 Dow Jones industrial components, has an expense ratio of just 0.16%, 40 billion in assets under management, and has solid long-term returns. This is a great

choice for investors that want Dow exposure. Next is I Yy by Eyesshares, which tracks the Dow Jones US index. This has more than a thousand individual holdings, an expense ratio of 0.20%, about 3 billion assets under management, and really good long-term returns. This is a good choice for investors that want broad US equity exposure. Then there's

DJ, which is a Dow Jones Industrial Average Dividend ETF. This invests in the Dow components, but weighs them according to their dividend yield. This was launched in 2015 and has an expense ratio of just 0.07%. Has solid long-term returns. This is a great choice for

dividend and focused investors. I'm personally not a big fan of investing in the Dow, but if I was forced to choose one, I would probably go with DJD for its higher than average dividend yield and lower than average expense ratio. Visual summaries like this are useful.