---
video_title: "DOWN 30%: Is Sea Limited Stock A Buy? (SE Deep Dive)"
video_id: Y8J1dszWHPw
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y8J1dszWHPw
video_date: 2026-01-14T06:06:12+00:00
video_description: |
  ✅ 50% Off Stock Simplifier: https://longtermmindset.spiffy.co/checkout/stock-simplifier-plus-ai?c=YTWORKSHOP100
  
  Join us LIVE to find out
  - How Sea Limited makes money
  - If Sea Limited has a moat
  - Can the company keep growing?
  - What key metrics matter most?
  
  And so much more!
---
Hello everybody. Happy Tuesday to you. Thank you so much for joining us today for another stock deep dive. My name is Brian Feroldi. I've been investing for 20 years and today we have a special guest, Mr. Justin Lam. Say hi, Justin.

Hey everybody, nice to see y'all. Or >> Justin Justin joins us from the great state of Portland, Oregon. Portland, Oregon. Lovely Portland, Oregon. For those of you that don't know Justin, he's been investing for many years like we have and Justin I consider to be one of the most forward-thinking people when it comes to AI that I've ever come across. Justin

has helped us to build all of the AI prompts that you're going to see us using in Stock Simplified. So if you have questions about how the prompt works or AI in general, we're happy to take questions like that along the way. So feel free to to fire away as we go. I see Charles is here. Hi Charles, Jamal, Omar from Kuwait. We have Shawn from the

Arctic Arctic. Welcome, Shawn. Dean is here. Mark is here. Walt is here. Susan's here.

Frankfurt, Germany. Hamburg. Yeah, great. Susan, notice the um the change that we made. Hello everybody. Well, thank you guys for for

for joining us here. Hey, you got a fan from Bruce, Justin for for being here. Yeah, cool. >> And as Brandon pointed out, I'm not a Brian. Yeah, that's right. You are you

are not you are not a Brian. All right. Well, with that in mind, today we are going to be researching a stock from scratch. The stock that we have chosen today is C Limited. Or rather, we didn't choose it. Our

newsletter readers chose it. So we gave them four choices. The number one pick here was C Limited. Justin, is this a stock you've ever studied? I have. Way back when I was a former

owner, but not currently. So I'm looking forward to watching you do this. Excellent. So time to take a fresh look at it. So you know, when it comes to researching stocks, some are easy, some are difficult. I'll put this in kind of the

semi-difficult category if for no other reason than it is listed in a completely different country and it operates in a completely different part of the world, Southeast Asia. So let us know in the chat, does do do you own this stock? Are you a current shareholder of C Limited or is it on your watchlist? We'd love to know if the people that we that are watching this are current or just prospective shareholders like like we are. I do own a a small position myself. I have for a while, but

this has been a a stock with a a absolutely wild ride. So Marcus says no. Omar says no. Brian says no. Percy says no. Francine says

no. A lot of lot of no's so far. Yeah, it's a couple yeses are coming in. Andrew says yes. Let's see. Another Dan says small

position. All right, cool. Well, we're going to go through and see if this is a stock that should be on our radar. Now, for those of you unfamiliar with me or this is your first time joining us, these are my personal portfolio returns on the blue line on the top. I have outperformed my benchmarks over the last 14 years and counting. I've been investing for longer

of this, but the start of this timeline is when I changed brokers to Interactive Brokers, which is who I currently use. So this is just the easiest chart for me to make. So the goal for this session is to let you know how to research a stock from scratch or how we do research on a stock from scratch and we use Stock Simplified, which is the tool you're going to see us use throughout this and we do have a link if you're interested in purchasing Stock Simplified, but it's a seven-step process. You're going to see us research the business growth cycle, the business itself, the moat, the management, the growth, etc. and more. Now, we go pretty fast through

these research process. If you're curious about why we're covering or what we're talking about and want more in-depth included with Stock Simplified is a full course where you explain everything. You're going to get the tools that we use. You're going to get the AI prompts that we use and more. But the very first thing that we want to go through here is to figure out which of the six stages of the business growth cycle C Limited is currently in. So there's the startup

phase, there's the hypergrowth phase, self-funding, operating leverage, capital return and decline. So we would love to know from you which of the six stages do you think that Stock Simplified is currently in? Please put into the chat. We think this is a critical first step to do. While we're waiting for those answers to come in, I'm going to open up a fresh copy of Stock Simplified.

We'll get that rolling so you can see and follow along with how we do this. So we go right to the phase analysis. The ticker symbol here is SE. So we can see that this is I'll zoom in a little bit, Justin. This is a $76 billion company.

I'll open up a fresh copy of Fiscal, which is the the tool that we use to do all the research. I'll open up by clicking here a link to all of our AI prompts that we have. And Justin, what AI should we use to do the research today? I think Gemini I would be a great model right now considering where Gemini is in the benchmarks. Yeah, give us a quick overview. Why why Gemini? Why not

ChatGPT? Why not Grok? Right now, I think I just trust Gemini on especially on the searches more right now. I I think it just it balances the the factual with also the amount of information you get back. Grok, it can be a little verbose.

And ChatGPT, sometimes it it ebbs and flows. The thinking is much better, the fast is not as good. Okay. So we have numbers that are all over the map. Looks like people think that this is somewhere between stage two, hypergrowth, and stage four, operating leverage. Now, this is

important analysis to do because we need to know how to judge how the company is doing and the way that you judge a company changes depending on the stage that it's in. So we have built a prompt here, a business phase analysis prompt. We copy that and we put that into Gemini and I'm going to zoom in a little here so you can see. It's going to ask what ticker you want to analyze and I'm going to type in SE C Limited. And let's see what Gemini says.

And I will say Richard pointed out Gemini with the pro model and we noticed that you Feroldi are using the fast model and that's where that balance of speed and thinking comes in. Yep. Yeah, with all these prompts, it's about it's about balancing. What do you want? Do you want a quick answer or you know, a really deep thought answer? We've

optimized for speed, but you can always change this over to to deep think. So okay. Let's read the results here. So Gemini says it's in the capital return phase and it has high confidence in that. Now, why is that? It has positive

operating income and that operating income more than doubled year over year. Revenue is growing fast, 38%. But check this, capital return. It has a $1 billion share repurchase program that was announced a couple of months ago. So while they've announced the program, I don't know if they've actually repurchased anything yet, but that at least tells me I understand why it came up with phase five because it's going to be starting a um a buyback program. Now, this is

important because this lets us know what valuation modeling we should use, why this is a good fit. This is a mature company with stable operations and a capital return and some more kind of details about it. So let's go ahead and just say I I'll I'll agree with that. I'll say the capital return phase. It doesn't match up perfectly because this company is still growing revenue pretty quickly and it's operating profit is also growing pretty quickly. So if you said

phase four, I don't think you're wrong. Even if you said phase three, I don't think you're wrong. But we will just for for the sake of this, we'll go phase five. So we choose capital capital returns phase five. All right. Up next.

Next, we have to start the next phase here that we kind of figured that out. Let's learn what the heck this company does. Now, the key things we need to learn are how does it make money? What are its key products and services? Who are its customers? Where does it

operate? And then some qualitative factors about the business. So again, I'm going to go to our AI database prompt. I have a business analysis prompt right here. I'm going to copy this over into Gemini, run it.

And type in C Limited again. And let's start to learn more about this business. All right. That was a very fast response. So good on you, Gemini.

All right, what does this company do? C Limited is a Singapore-based global consumer internet company that operates three platforms. Shopee, which is e-commerce. Garena, which is digital entertainment/video games. And Money, formerly SeaMoney, digital financial services. It began as a gaming company

and leveraged its cash flow to build the dominant e-commerce and fintech ecosystem in Southeast Asia and Latin America. Okay. How does it make money? See, it generates revenue through transaction fees, advertising, digital good sales, and credit interest. Based on Q3 of 2025, that is the most recent quarter, so that's good that Gemini identified that. The revenue mix is highly

diversified. So, e-commerce revenue, Shopee, is 71% of revenue, 4.3 billion. And these are from marketplace commissions, transaction fees, and value-added services. So, I kind of think of that as like eBay.

Uh digital financial services, money. I know it as SeaMoney, so that is interesting that they changed their name. Money is 16% of revenue, $990 million. Interest and fees from consumer and small and medium enterprise loans and transaction fees from its digital wallet. And digital entertainment, Garena, this is its video game division, earns from the virtual sale of virtual items in its PC and mobile games, primarily its flagship title Free Fire.

Now, while we have um uh fiscal open, it's worth double-checking these uh sometimes. So, if you go to financial segment here, and then we go to segments and KPIs, I'm guessing that they have the seg Yeah, the segments right here. Okay. E-commerce, digital financial services, digital entertainment, and then they have something called other. But, I'll just keep that for for now.

So, if we stack these on top of each other, you can kind of see how the business has evolved over time. Justin, you see that okay? Yes, I can. This looks great. Okay. So,

the big one here is e-commerce. Yeah, I'd say 70% of revenue is about right, 15.2 billion in LTM, last 12 months. Uh digital financial services. Oh, and that business is growing Well, it says 170%, but that's off of a small base. So,

let's go like the last like, you know, 4 years to get a better number. So, this business is growing 33% quite fast. This is the money. Money is growing 69%, 3.3 billion.

And then the digital entertainment business, the gaming business, the revenue here is actually down 16% per year. So, gaming used to be everything or a huge driver, and it's really become almost like an afterthought. This is kind of like Nvidia, where um selling chips to gamers used to be everything, and now it's like an afterthought. Uh Justin. I would suspect that you're going to see that climb. I

would keep that as a KPI to pay attention to. For sure. Oh, absolutely. But okay, so these numbers are are pretty spot-on. Good job, Gemini.

Okay, who are the customers? Sea serves a massive young and mobile-first population across emerging markets. So, individuals, hundreds of millions of monthly active users who shop on Shopee, play Garena games, and use money for digital payments. And merchants and small and medium-sized businesses that use Shopee to sell goods and money for business loans and payments. Going back to the kind of key metrics here, I wonder if they track uh bookings, quarterly active users, quarterly paying users, the take rate.

Okay, so if we track orders, gross merchandising volume, and quarterly paying users. Let's do that. Okay, so what's this? This is um gross merchandising volume, so that business for the is growing 19%. The orders is growing 21%, and the quarterly paying users is declining 13%. So, that jives pretty

well, but those are some other metrics that are definitely worth tracking. All right, where does it operate? It's headquartered in Singapore, but its footprint is across Southeast Asia and Latin America. 70% of revenue comes from Indonesia, Thailand, Vietnam, Philippines, and Malaysia, so not China. Latin America is 20% of revenue with Brazil as its big focus, and then everywhere else is 10%. So, this is

primarily these markets. How often do customers buy? Engagement is high and recurring due to the nature of its ecosystem. Shopee saw 3.6 billion gross orders.

That can't be right. 3.6 billion orders? Uh Wow, okay, if that's correct, holy cow, is that a lot? Uh Garena games like Free Fire on a freemium model, where users play daily and make repeated in-app purchases. And

then money lending are into the checkout. Yeah, so all all three are recurring revenue businesses, which is great. All right, can it raise prices? Sea's pricing power is balancing act. In e-commerce, it has successfully increased its take rate, but intense competition from Alibaba, TikTok Shop, and Pinduoduo, which is Temu, limits its ability to price hike prices too aggressively. Okay, so

there's some competition, TikTok Shop and Pinduoduo and Alibaba. However, its expanding logistics network, SPX Express, which now handles over half of its orders, provides a cost advantage to helps maintain margins. Okay. And then finally, what happens in a recession? Sea's business is procyclical, but resilient. During downturns,

discretionary spending on gaming may soften, and credit risk increases. However, Shopee benefits from consumers trading down to its value-oriented marketplaces, and management demonstrated extreme agility in 2022 and 2023, pivoting the company from a loss to profitability in in just two quarters by slashing expenses. Well, let's take a look at that. Since we're here, let's go to the income statement. Let's pull up revenue, and now let's look over a longer time frame. So, recession was here. You

know, this is the COVID bump. Growth growth looks like they Well, during the last {quote} {unquote} recession, looks like growth didn't skip a beat. Or it continued to grow, just not at the same pace. If I owned a company, I'd want it to look like that. Yep.

Okay. So, now that we've kind of seen that, what do you guys think of of this business? Is this an attractive business? Red, no, it's not an attractive business at all. Yellow, it's okay, it's it's semi-attractive or it's got some attractive components. Or

green, it's a highly attractive business. And remember, we're just talking about the business perspective here, the business and the business model and the revenue characteristics and the pricing characteristics. Don't you don't include the moat or anything like that uh uh for now. Uh what do people say here, uh Justin? All right, we're getting a lot of greens. Yellow.

Green. Ronald's saying green. Yep. A lot of greens. >> lots of greens. I'm going to go ahead

and agree. Um I would say this is a pretty exciting business. The part of the business that is the least interesting to me is the gaming, just because that is so hit-driven, and it's so driven by, you know, um consumers that are spending on in-app purchases. That can be a good business if you have a big portfolio of games that's very diversified, but I view that kind of like a biotech business, where it's so dependent on just a few a few hit products. But, the the e-commerce business and the um the payments business, I think are very exciting. Um

so, I will mark that as green uh green for now. Johnny 9 says, I use Shopee, so it's green for me. >> Excellent. Firsthand um is always good. Uh by the way, if you want access to all these prompts and the tools, everything that we're using, Stock Simplified is normally 199 bucks, but Justin, if you could be so kind as to share a link uh in the chat um and on YouTube, etc., you

can get it for 99 bucks during this uh webinar. Okay, next is moat. Does this company have a moat? There are five sources of a moat. There are three potential states of the moat, so is the is there no moat, a narrow moat, or a wide moat? And then

finally, what is the direction of the company's moat? So, I would love people to guess right now, if you had to pick one, what do you think is the primary moat that Sea Limited benefits from? Is it network effect? Is it switching costs? Low-cost production?

Intangibles? It might benefit from multiple moats. I'm just curious to think here what people think is the most important one for right now. And while we're waiting for those answers to come in, I'll go ahead and queue this up in Gemini, so we can get some AI analysis. What do people think, Justin?

Right now, okay, some people are coming in. Let's see, network effect, switching costs. Let's see here. Ronald says network. Andrew says network effect. Yep.

I'd say the most common answer is network effect. Yep. Great. That's a very powerful moat if you can get that to [clears throat] to happen. So, what do we have here? Okay,

Gemini says it has a narrow moat. The moat direction is widening, which is very good. If If had I would rather have a narrow moat that's widening than a wide moat that's narrowing like every time. To me the direction of the moat is more important than the than the current state of the moat. All right, and this says >> rather be buying when it was narrow and widening. Correct. Yeah, good point.

>> [laughter] >> And this says network effect and switching costs. Sea Limited has built a dominated three-headed ecosystem where a massive gaming user base feeds an e-commerce giant which in turn drives a high-margin digital credit business. It's regional e-commerce market share rose to 52% providing a critical density that competitors struggle to replicate profitably. All right, network effect. It does have one. It's narrow but it's

widening. Shopee's value proposition for both buyers and seller increases with scale. As the largest marketplace in Southeast Asia, it attracts the most sellers which brings in the most buyers creating a self-reinforcing cycle. This density allows for more efficient logistics, SPX Express, and better ROI for advertisers. The recent integration of Garena's social gaming elements into the shopping experience further strengthen this effects.

And have data. 52% of GMV in Southeast Asia. So, this is up year over year. That's definitely a very strong sign. Orders were up to 3.6 billion.

And Shopee increased its regional share more than 50% in all Southeast Asia countries except Indonesia. By the way, I think that's what SEA stands for, Southeast Asia. Yeah. All right, switching costs. They're present, they're narrow, and they look stable. Switching costs are most evident

in the digital financial services, money, and e-commerce. For sellers migrating an established store with thousands reviews is uh high friction. For consumers, the SP later and digital wallet or service collect an ecosystem lock-in. Once a user has an active credit line and Shopee coins, the incentive to shop elsewhere diminishes. Uh so, principal loans outstanding is now 8 billion. Active borrowers

increased 45% and 30% in more mature ones. So, that's good to see. Intangible assets. It's It's not getting any credit from Gemini. Free Fire is a powerful brand. It's hits-driven nature

of the gaming industry makes it fragile. And Shopee's brand is strong but consumers remain highly price sensitive and voucher driven. Without constant promotion, brand loyalty is insufficient. Okay? Ad revenue increased. Active players.

So, I think it's being a little too harsh there. I would say it probably has a narrow, maybe, but it's not the primary one. Low cost production. Narrow and widening. Sea is achieving cost leadership through a logistics insourcing. By building its own delivery

network, it has reduced per cost per order and improved delivery speeds. Scale-based advantages are particularly visible in mature markets like Indonesia and Taiwan where automated lockers and dense delivery routes provide margins and unscaled um unscaled competitors cannot match. 2,500 automated lockers, 30% lower cost, and total gross profit was up 30%. Finally, is counter positioning. Not present. Not present. Maybe they had it

in the beginning but not anymore. TikTok Shop is the fastest growing platform in the region. Following the Tokopedia merger, Shopee, TikTok Shop, and Lazada account for 80% of the regional market using similar subsidized growth models. The rise of TikTok Shop in particular presents a significant challenge. If TikTok successfully leverages its social media, it could erode Shopee's competitive advantage. That's something

to definitely keep in mind. So, TikTok Shop, Lazada, and Mercado Libre. So, these are some pretty big competitors. But overall, Morningstar says it's a narrow moat, it's stable, and it's grinding. So, >> And you know what, Brian? Really fast

because you were double check or you weren't sure on the intangibles. I think it would be great if you wanted to just put in the prompt double check and verify the intangibles again. That's a great way if you're seeing some information that you're not quite sure about, just tell the model. This is a conversation. So, double check and verify is a very simple prompt that you can do and it will just rerun it again and again and again. Okay.

That's good to know. Okay, so it still says not present. Intangible asset moat exists if a brand allows a company to charge more than competitors for identical product or patents legally block. Sea fails both test. So, while it's the number one brand with the highest market share, it's a commoditized market.

Garena gaming, it says no. And money is revenue by highly lending which is a function of capital ability and risk appetite rather than so. Well, that was a good thing to see. Uh the take rate is going up. I think it's important where you get these answers and the answers while they are fantastic, it's sometimes as investors it's more important to know how you got to the answer so you can choose whether or not you agree with the take. 100% agree.

100% agree. Uh we want the AI to assist us in our thinking but the conclusions are are are belong to to us. So, I'm going to go with it has a narrow moat. Uh I'll give that a yellow here. I think the moat is there. I don't think it's

like incredibly wide. Um I I do like that the market share is increasing. But so, from a competitor perspective, I think they're safe from upstarts. I don't think they're safe from the big guys. All right, up next, long-term potential.

How >> Hey Brian, real fast. Yep. Think uh Mark Tom Thompson had a great question. How do we look at a company with multiple good moats? Yeah. Assess each of the categories and

make your own judgment on there. If a company benefits from uh has like weakness in a bunch of them, that certainly adds to your conviction uh in the moat and they do kind of stack upon each other. But I would rather have one unbelievable moat than a bunch of small ones. But of course, more more more is great, too. Again, I don't think there's any wrong right or wrong way to interpret a company's moat um and and these things are are dynamic. But we do

want to I think the act of thinking through the different sources of moat and does it apply to this company is where the real value is. Great. Okay. Uh up next. Uh let's go ahead and take a look at the company's growth potential.

Does this company have long-term potential? So, there's two ways that companies can grow. They can get new customers or they can get existing customers to spend more. Now, in Stock Simplified, we teach you to do uh we teach you to go right to the dashboard page, overview page in fiscal, and focus on these numbers right here. So, how fast is this company growing?

Well, over the last 3 years, revenue is growing about 20% per year. That's down. Over the last 10 years, it's 60% per year but it's still there. And earnings have grown. Okay, this just says 1% and they've gone negative for the last couple years. That might be a timing

thing. We can check that. But Wall Street estimates over the next 2 years this company's revenue is going to grow 28% per year. And earnings growth over the long term is estimated to be about 60% per year. So, let's double check that.

If we go back to the income statement and we go to Oh. Not what I was learning to do. If we go to total revenues, and again, let's look over the last let's say, you know, 4 or 5 years. We see that revenue is growing 22% over the last over the last couple of years. That's great to see. How about if

we look at net income? Aha. Yep. So, this is the company was a money-burning fire pit just to uh grow as quickly as possible. This is, "Hey, we got religion and we're going to focus on profits." And 1.4 billion in

net income uh over the over the last 12 months. You can see this is This is a company losses are increasing, losses are decreasing, break even, and this is some big operating uh leverage uh kicking in. So, if we just looked at the last 3 years, yeah, re- profits are growing, you know, triple digit triple digit numbers here. But we will go to the long-term potential. So, we have to develop a thesis for why we think that growth can continue.

So, let's have AI help us to build a thesis for why we should believe that the growth can continue. Okay. So, can uh Sea Limited get new customers through sales and marketing investments? Yes. Sales and marketing efforts drove a uh 38% year-over-year increase with record Shopee active buyers. So, this is a big

source of growth is continue to invest in sales and marketing. Next, can it get new distribution channels? Deepened logistics via its SPX Express and new YouTube meta content partnerships to drive social commerce. Geographic and market expansion. Yes.

Brazil, gross merchandising volume outpaced the market and Shopee in Brazil grew twice as fast and it reentered Argentina to enter to leverage Brazil's strategies synergies, excuse me. Acquisitions? Nope, this is not a area of growth for the company. Uh pricing power, so this is getting customers to spend more. Can it increase prices? Uh kind of, the take rate went

up and ad revenue can go up, but not a big source of growth. New products and services? Yes, money loan book reached 7.9 billion. SPayLater penetration reached 30% and Shopee VIP membership grew 75%. So, they are

introducing some new products and services. Looks like mostly in the payments uh as a way to build out their portfolio there. Customer retention, Shopee VIP members were three times more likely to uh f- spend five times more than non-subscribers. So, getting customers to become VIP members increases their frequency and purchased amount. And conversion rates increased a lot. So,

overall, number one, grow in new markets with Brazil being a key target. Number two, get money and credit products in more consumers' hands. Work on the in-house logistics. Add into some pricing power with the ads and untapped are acquisitions. So, red, yellow, and green for there. All right, so what do you

guys think? Red, this company has no growth potential at all or the growth potential looks very negative. Yellow, very good growth potential. I view that as like 10% to 15%ish. Or green, this company has very strong growth potential in the years ahead. There's lots of avenues and

ways that this company can grow. Uh what do we see? All right, Susan says green. Wayne says a yellow. Oh, we're getting more greens. Mark Thompson says green.

Dan says green. Percy is yellow. Let's see. JW is green. It seems a lot of greens and yellows, kind of split with a few more greens, I would suspect.

All right. >> Walt says green. I'll I'll agree with the crowd here and say green for sure. Uh I think this company has lots of long-term growth growth potential. Um and I say that as a Mercado Libre shareholder. Mercado Libre is my number

one position personally. Um so, I don't really want them to succeed in Latin America. I want um uh Mercado Libre to do well there, but then again, the market could be so big that there's room for both of them uh to grow. Okay. Up next is um Up next is uh the key metrics. So, the

metrics that you should use to judge a company do change depending on where the company is in its growth phase. We kind of said that this company is phase four, but that buyback program kind of pushed it into phase five. You could make the argument to me either way that it should be in phase four or phase five. Um for the sake of this presentation, we're going to go with phase five given that it was there because of the buyback program, but there's no sense in there's no reason that you have to use phase five. You should could should could certainly use phase four. But in phase

five, the thing we look at are revenue growth, free cash flow conversion, EBIT to interest expense, return on invested capital, and capital returns. My gut feeling, Justin, says that it's going to do pretty poorly on all of these except for revenue growth simply because it's only been in the capital return phase or it's just now entering it. Um it might do better on a phase four analysis. So, you know, the power of AI, we can kind of do both uh analysis. So, all right, let's start and we'll say we'll say it's it's phase five and uh see how it does.

Now, Justin, this is the one that Gemini and AI in general has the most problems with. Like, we see the most errors with. Why why is that? It's tough. You're we're we're doing a lot of things in as fast as possible way. So, I always encourage people the

prompts are there as a starting point. When you first meet with an expert, you start off the conversation with the question, but it continues to be a conversation. Don't trust the first answer. Explore with it. Explain your reasoning. Verify the results. Go back

and forth and you can make it better because the more context the model has, the better the answer is going to be across whether you use a fast, a thinking, or a pro version in any one of these models. Right, which is the you can change them right here, right? Yes. Got it. Okay. And one one little part is

sometimes, and I've been watching you do this, but it's been working so great, I haven't had to say anything. Sometimes it's best to start off a new conversation. Okay. >> the same conversation running. Do a new chat?

>> Clearing that context just makes it smarter. It's just like it's like taking a little break before a new meeting. You get to clear out the cobwebs. Uh S E A S E A Limited and we'll say phase five. All right, we'll do a new conversation.

What you just did, everybody should pay attention to, the ticker and the company name, so there's no confusion. The more precise you are, the more nuanced you are, the less the model has to guess. Yeah, I already see that the results changed a little bit. This is why this is the hardest one for the AI to get right, we we've noticed, but we can always back it up. But in general, it says revenue growth has been fast. Over

10% is our target. We've already seen that that has been very high. The free cash flow to net income conversion, the goal here is over 90% and this says 165%. We'll check that. EBIT to interest expense, this is a question about can the company afford the debt that it has?

The best case scenario is it's debt-free. We want to see it has five times more EBIT than it does interest expense. That says clear. Return on invested capital, this number is going to be we want this number over 20%. This number is going to be low for companies that are newer to the profit picture, which it is for Sea Limited. And then

capital returns, we want to see the company's been doing capital returns for five years. We already know that it's only just started a capital return program, so that's not going to do well here. But let's double-check a couple of these numbers. Specifically, the one that interests me is free cash flow uh to net income. So, if I go to fiscal and I go to the ratios and close down these ratios. I think it's

under financial health and it's free cash flow. Nope, it's not financial health. Is it uh capital efficiency? Nope. Oh, that's right. I think it's under

mar- is under margins? Yeah. Free cash flow to net income. So, this is Oh, wow. So, this is how much free cash flow is it generating in comparison to its net income? So, fiscal says this number is

275%. So, it's generating three times as much free cash flow as it is net income. If you had to pick one, that's what you want to see. So, free cash flow for this business is very good. So, we know that the revenue growth is strong. We know

that the free cash flow conversion is strong. EBIT to interest expense, if we close that down, um I think that one's under financial health. EBIT to interest expense, I just used the I always use the the search bar. I never remember where all these things are. There's too many. 47 times uh

conversion there. So, essentially, the balance sheet is no problem. The company's interest expense is no problem um at all. If we go to return on invested capital, that's a capital efficiency thing. Yeah, no surprise to see this. This is very low right now.

Was negative for a while and return on invested capital is about 8%. That's again not surprising given that the company just recently started to get there. So, I'm not going to knock it too hard there. And then we know it's been returning capital, but for less than five years. So, overall, the the metrics that I care about the most, I would say that it's okay. But since we're doing

this in AI, I'll say run it again, but this time do phase four analysis. And I was thinking about your question earlier. One way to improve the prompt as is for anybody especially running this on their own, go grab the 10-Q or 10-K yourself, run the prompt, and upload that 10-Q or 10-K to the model. So, you're giving it the source of information, so it doesn't maybe find that information from a randed random Reddit X post subreddit, you know, what whatever it is. Yep, that's a excellent point. Make sure you're getting you

guarantee you're getting the correct information that way. So, overall, I would say mostly greens here. Um the earnings versus estimates, the only one and since we're here, let's just check that. How is the company doing versus what Wall Street thinks? So, earnings versus estimates, if we go to quarterly, let's check revenue growth. So,

uh actual. So, revenue was 5.9 billion, the estimate was 5.6. That's a beat.

That's a beat. That's a miss. That's a beat. That's a beat. So, mostly beats on the um revenue side. How about on the

earning side? That's a miss. That's a miss. That's a miss. That's a miss and that's a beat.

So, got that one correct. So, the only knock from a Key Metrics perspective is the company is not meeting its earnings targets when looking at phase four, but overall pretty good. Justin, let's pause for a second. Any questions in the queue that you see that we should tackle? Right now, I'm just going to go back to Jaylen Smith was wondering since he's work right now, where is the replay or is there going to be a replay for people to be able to watch?

>> Yep. So, same link you clicked to join the webinar. You can watch the replay there. It's available immediately after we are done. We also keep them them stored on my YouTube channel. So,

YouTube channel is Brian Feroldi. You can watch them there. Perfect. And then is anything with the how would you say a potential Taiwan conflict? It would that affect?

I would call that a risk. >> [laughter] >> But we haven't gotten to risks yet. Oh. Yeah, that's definitely something to watch. So, we kind of take these step-by-step and risks is is up next. So,

all risk boils down to one risk and that risk is execution risk. Now, there's many different sub risks that go into increasing the execution risk. There's customer concentration risk. There's disruption risk. There's outside forces risk, which you could definitely clarify as the geopolitical situation and then there's competition risks. So, thinking

through all these risks together is how we get an overall assessment. Is this a low-risk business? Is this a medium-risk business? Is this a high-risk business? So, let's go ahead and put our risk analysis prompt into Gemini and see what it says. Okay. So, Gemini

says the overall riskiness here is medium. What are the biggest risks? Competition and concentration. Uh they're but they have tons of free cash flow and they're and their moats push back. Okay.

Concentration risk, yellow. It has user diversification and a highly diversified base of millions of retail users, but they're heavily dependent on a single tile Free Fire, which drive the vast majority of the digital entertainment bookings. And Shopee contribute 70% of revenue creating significant reliance on the e-commerce segment's health. I'm going to push back against this a little bit. I don't think that Free Fire is a concentration It is a concentration risk, but it's only a concentration risk if it stops bringing in new users and it's a source of of users for Shopee and Sea and SeaMoney or Money.

So, when when when a huge amount of the revenue was driven by this one game, I would definitely say it's a concentration risk, but now that video games are only a minority of the company's actual sales, I think this risk is actually it's there, but it's not as big as it once was. Next, disruption risk, yellow. Social commerce threat. TikTok Shop represents a major disruptive force leveraging social media engagement to peel away younger e-commerce users. And Sea is actively pivoting to content-led commerce and AI-driven logistics to disrupt its own cost structure and match social competitors.

So, disruption risk from TikTok Shop is a big deal. Next, outside forces risk. This is a red risk. Regulatory volatility, significant exposure to shifting fintech and e-commerce regulations inside Indonesia and Brazil including cross-border trade restrictions. The loan book is it is a problem. Um and then there's currency

risks with operating in emerging markets, but then you report in US dollars. So, there's currency risk. There's credit risk that the company is taking on and then there's regulatory risk. Now, it missed the Taiwan risk. So, I'll ask it about that, but those are some definitely risks to keep in mind. And then competition, red.

Intense competition from Alibaba's Lazada Lazada and TikTok Shop has forced continuous sales and marketing expense, which rose 31% year over year. SeaMoney faces a super app battle against Grab and GoTo leading to high acquisition costs in the digital wallet space. So, I'd say that this isn't a risk. Disruption for sure. Outside forces, definitely and that doesn't even include Taiwan and then competition. So, I'll

say, "What about geo risks?" >> [snorts] >> Let's see what it says there. Uh identified risk. While the company is Singaporean, it's historic ties to Chinese tech giant Tencent offered caution we can use. So, the proxy risk, Tencent was founded.

This is has aggressive move to distance itself. Convert its last P. Uh audit risk, supply chain risk. So, tariffs not so much, market access. All right. So, I would just add to it.

Add add it to it there. Um that's what it says. >> Singapore is a little bit more insulated from the the Taiwanese issue. So, I could understand that. Yeah, for sure.

But would love to know people's opinions here. Now that we have concentration, disruption, outside forces and competition and add in the Taiwan thing. Red, yellow, green. What do you guys think is the risk profile of this company? And again, we're not talking about valuation risk. That comes next.

This is business risk that we are that we are focused on here. So, red, this is a high-risk company, a lot could go wrong. Yellow, it's a medium-risk, a normal-risk company or green, pretty darn low execution risk. As a reminder, we're focused on execution risk here. So, execution risk is what are the odds that the company can't deliver the results that investors need it to for this stock to pay off. Justin,

what are people saying? I'm getting a lot of reds and a lot of yellows. Uh Walt is even saying yellow and red. Percy's yellow. Imbaya's red. Dan is yellow. Andrew's

yellow. >> So, more yellows than red would be fair? It's pretty split down the middle, I would say. Yeah. I'll uh if yeah, I would go with bright yellow {slash} red. I'll go with the

crowd here and say medium risk with the extra factor. Well, actually I'll say the business is medium risk, but when you throw in the um the the geopolitical tensions in that part of the world with with the US, that might bump it into high for me, but either way this is not a low-risk business um for for sure. All right. Up next. Uh friendly reminder, if you're watching and don't yet have access to Stock Simplified, Justin, if you could share the link to get people the discount for 99 bucks, that would be great. Up next

or up last is the valuation. Now, the valuation method that you should use does change depending on which stage of the business growth cycle the company is in. I think we should use the price to earnings and price to free cash flow ratios. Now, if it was purely a capital return company, a purely phase five, the trailing numbers are probably the best way to go. Since this company is just just now entering them, I'll look at all four. I'll look at the

forward numbers as well to kind of gauge. I'm I'm just going to guess that the um that the the numbers here for the trail the trailing numbers are going to look quite bad. But I guess we'll we'll we'll find out. So, first up is the trailing numbers. Let's take a look at trailing price to earnings ratio. Uh yeah, all over the

map, right? So, the company was not focused on profits here at all. It only became focused on profits in the last oh two years or so. So, we kind of have to sift this forward. Yeah, even then even then not so much. I'm going to change to

quarterly. And jeez, it's really just like since like April that we have kind of data that we can use to make a judgment. So, 57 times trailing profits on an earnings basis. Okay, not all that useful if I'm being honest. Let's check on a free cash flow basis though. This

might be a more accurate assessment. Let's look at a longer. Okay, so we have some free cash flow. Can we go back more? Yeah, so October of 2023 is when the free cash flow starts to kick in. All right. So, this number

is dang. Yeah, this is pretty This is much better. Okay. So, it's traded at a trailing free cash flow rate of about 24 on average. A high number is 33 times free cash flow. A low number got down to

10 times free cash flow in January of 2024. Currently about 19 times free cash flow. Now again, these are the trailing trailing numbers. Let's go ahead now and also look at the forward numbers. So, forward price to earnings.

Play around with the time scale. Um yeah, let's start from about here of 2024. All right. So, this is price to forward earnings. So, next year's earnings estimates. So, the uh high here is 47,

the low is 21. Currently about 29 times next year's earnings estimates. And the last one we'll check is free cash flow. And as I'm doing this, let me know in the chat green, this is a cheap stock. Red, it's an expensive stock. Or yellow, it's a

fairly valued stock. I'll play around with the numbers here so that we can get an accurate time scale. Um looks like April looks about a good time to to cut off. So, currently trading at 20 times forward free cash flow when the average here is 32. So, hard to hard to pin this number down exactly over the right time frame given that it kind of recently more recently became uh profitable. But green, yellow,

red, what do you guys think? Red, this company is overvalued. Yellow, it's fairly valued. Or green, it's actually looking pretty pretty attractive at current prices. What are people saying?

Mark says yellow. Mahendra says yellow. Let's see here. We got a green. Susan says yellow.

Johnny says yellow. Dan yellow. Arcon red. Wayne is yellow. Susan yellow. Percy

green. It's a little bit all over the map, but I'm thinking more yellows than not. Yellow? Yellow yellowy? >> Yellow green. A yellow with a green

tinge to it? Yellow with a >> Yeah. with a green tinge? >> say more more yellow with a little hint of green. Yeah.

If I had to pick one, I would probably say price to free cash flow on a forward basis is probably the most accurate. Looks like this number got down as low as 12. Kind of normal, if if there is such a thing as a normal, is about 32. And the company is about 20 right now. I would be more inclined to go with green greenish yellow.

Uh I I don't think that you're I don't think this company is overvalued. If anything, it's a little undervalued. It's not like a screaming undervalued to me, but I would say it's more a a little more green than it would be um yellow. All right. Uh let's do one more prompt here, Justin. This is a sentiment prompt

uh that that we built. And it's to get kind of some more insights into All right, we know the company, we know the valuation, we know what's happening with uh the market in general. What is the overall sentiment for this company on social media, amongst the analyst community, amongst um uh amongst uh individual investors uh in general. And it looks at the the price movement of the company and it kind of gives an overall uh assessment. So, uh why it moved. So, it had a strong

rally in 2020 in Q3 of 2023, which was fueled by Shopee's shift to profitability and Garena's resilience. But the stock faced a sharp correction in Q4 as the market repriced growth versus rising reinvestment costs. The next catalyst is the fourth quarter earnings report on May March 4th, 2025. The outlook is bullish despite the recent volatility, and the consensus price target is about $191 per share, which indicates 45% upside. So, it's currently 128.

I don't take price targets all that seriously, but it is a data point. All right, sentiment snapshot. So, analysts on the I don't like the formatting here. Let me start see if I can re- have them rerun that. Looks like the format uh wasn't uh wasn't great. Um but it said that

analysts Yeah, format here is a little bit off. I don't know this should be a table. Uh analyst market says green, the investor market says neutral, and the media is mixed. So, the mood shifted from hypergrowth euphoria in mid-2025 to cautious realism by early 2026 as investors prior prioritized the bottom line profitability. Institutional accumulation, over 60% of shares are held by institutions signaling long-term conviction conviction. Management authorized a $1

billion share per purchase program. The bulls say the ecosystem is strong. Garena is re- is re-accelerating. And it is very undervalued. The bears say the persistent profit misses despite record revenues uh means that costs are rising. Sea has missed

estimates in four consecutive quarters. And that it's fueling growth by buying it. Um There's intense competition. And uh TikTok Shop is a big problem. And there's extra emergent market uh risk.

And the stock is entering a cooling phase to simply enter a um that All right, cool. Cool sentiment analysis. I would agree with a whole bunch of that. All right. Would love to know your opinion taking everything that we've learned into account. So, this is a

phase four phase five somewhere on the line uh of those two. Uh this is a exciting business with a nar- with a narrow but resilient {slash} growing moat. This company has great long-term potential. Its key metrics looked quite good. Overall, the return on invested capital looked the poorest, but that's very explainable given where it is. This is a

high-risk company or a medium to high-risk company, medium high, I would say. And the valuation looks fair at worst, great at best. What do people think here overall? Red, this is a pass, forget about it. Yellow, interested, maybe put it on your watch list. Or

green, I'm going to buy this company right now. What are people saying? Let's see. Wayne says not interested, better places to put the money. Johnny's a red. Susan's a yellow.

Yep. This is definitely not a dividend stock. Yep. Let's see here. Mark says keep on the watch list.

Tony's a yellow. Yep. So, I will mark it as yes. I'm going to go ahead and say I think this stock is a buy. Um I'll I'll I'll say that I think it's a buy. I do own a little sliver of this

company my myself. Um so, it makes sense to say that it's a buy since I'm I'm a shareholder. I can tell you that this is Brian Stoffel's number three holding. This is third biggest holding. So, he used to own a lot of it. And then he

owned then he sold out completely when he saw that the business was in perpetual decline. And then he rebought in um earlier uh I think he rebought in sometime around here last year uh something like that. And then it kind of popped uh popped for him a little bit. So, he couldn't be here today, but he did want me to say that um he rebought in I don't know somewhere around here. So, something in here somewhere. And

this is now his number three holding. So, Stoffel is a is a believer in this company, and he thinks that the valuation when I last talked to him looked pretty uh pretty darn uh pretty darn cheap. So, uh there there is that to to consider. Um March 10th is when the numbers come out. Well, awesome for for thinking that. All right. Well,

thank you guys so much for joining us today for a deep dive into Sea Limited. Definitely a fascinating uh business, one that I own a little bit of. And if I was okay with the risks you're taking on, I do think this company has quite a long growth avenue to it. Although, the TikTok Shop thing is definitely something uh to watch moving forward. If you're an investor in this company, I think you need to watch revenue growth first and foremost. Dive into each of

the segments to make sure that they're continuing to grow. Watch the credit portfolio of of Shopee money or money SeaMoney, formerly SeaMoney, because if there's a downturn if a downturn comes and those credit losses really uh increase, that could blow a hole um in the bottom line. So, you are taking on some credit risk with this company uh uh too. And then um make sure that you pay a valuation that you think is very attractive for this company to compensate you for the risks that you are that you are taking on. Um if you have stocks that you would like us to run through this process, please put them uh in the chat uh in the chat below. We're happy to add them to our

voting list. We have um uh not next week. Uh next week we're going to be doing um a a webinar uh next Tuesday on how to analyze the stocks that you hold for a potential popping of the AI bubble. So, if you own stocks that are unprofitable, we're going to show you how to analyze the company's balance sheet and income statement to see if the company can survive if the AI bubble does pop. And we'll do that by doing some balance sheet analysis and some health analysis.

That's next Tuesday at 12:00. We do hope you join us for that. 2 weeks from now, we will be back with doing an individual stock deep dive. So, let us know in the comment on whatever platform you're watching this on what stocks you're interested in us putting on our list that you can vote on there. So, thank you guys so much for for for Oh, we have a question here, I see.

Uh from KB. Um I would love a prompt for evaluating management's capital allocation and their recent movements. Great idea. We will put that on our our list. March 10th >> already saved it. Yeah, awesome.

Awesome. Uh thank you for sharing the the link to Stock Splitter. Yes, all of our all of our webinars every Tuesday at 12:00 Eastern Standard Time we'll be going live on this channel. So, wherever you're viewing this on, we hope that you do join us in in in the future. So, I see PATH as a potential stock, MDLN, NBIS. We will add all of those to our

research and and stock list. So, thank you so much for joining us today. For Justin I've been Brian Froldi. We'll see you next week.