---
video_title: "Dividend Metrics Every Investor Should Know"
video_id: dGsQzARS3K0
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dGsQzARS3K0
video_date: 20260120
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Investing Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/investing
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼My Book on Amazon:▼
  📖 https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0
  
  ▼ABOUT ME:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
Dividend metrics that every investor should know explained visually by Brian Foli. First is dividend yield which is the annual dividend payment divided by the stock price. This tells you the income return on your investment and 2 to 4% tends to be the sweet spot. Next is the payout ratio which is the dividend payment divided by net income. This tells you if the dividend is sustainable and safe. And the lower this

number is the better. Look for under 70%. Then there's dividend growth rate which is dividend in year 2 minus dividend year 1 divided by dividend year 1. This tells you how fast the dividend is increasing. Look for 10% growth or more. And there's the free cash flow

payout, which is dividends paid divided by free cash flow. This tells you the company's ability to pay dividends from its cash flow. And lower is better. Then there's dividend streak. How many years in a row the company has increased its dividend payment. Look for a company

with a long-term track record of increasing their dividend payment. Then there's yield on cost, which is the current dividend divided by your original purchase price of the stock. This shows you the return based on your personal entry point to the stock. And higher is obviously better. If you want a copy of I was popular investing visuals like this, check the link in the video description.