---
video_title: "Which Dividend ETF is Best? VIG vs SCHD vs DGRO vs VYM"
video_id: rB6a0fF3Idw
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rB6a0fF3Idw
video_date: 20260108
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼My Book on Amazon:▼
  📖 https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0
  
  ▼ABOUT ME:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
Which dividend ETF is best for income investors? Explained simply by Brian Faldi. Vanguard's VIG is a massive fund. It offers up a dividend yield that's slightly higher than the S&P 500, has a very low expense ratio, holds more than 300 total companies, making it diversified, and has solid 10-year returns. This fund is the best choice if you're a dividend investor focused on growth. SCHD is another massive fund

that has more than double the yield of VIG. It has a very low expense ratio, although its longerterm returns are more modest than VIG. And this is the best choice if your sole focus is income. DGRO is a fund with 40 billion in total assets under management. Has a middle of the road dividend yield, highest expense ratio in this group, has solid long-term returns. This is a great choice for

investors that are focused on total return. Last is VM with the second highest yield in this group and a very low expense ratio. It's the most diversified, although it has the lowest 10-year return. This is a great choice for investors that are focused on diversification. So, which dividend fund is the best choice for you depends mostly on what your goals are. If visual

explanations like this are useful, you know what to