---
video_title: "Accounting vs Finance Explained Simply"
video_id: PxbRAWZ4EXk
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PxbRAWZ4EXk
video_date: 20260101
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Accounting Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/accounting
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼ABOUT US:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author (https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0), investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  👨‍💼Brian Stoffel is a writer, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's a teacher at heart. Brian has been investing for over a decade and has written over 4,000 articles for The Motley Fool. Brian plans his life and his investments around “antifragile” principles.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
What's the difference between accounting and finance explained visually by Brian Fol. Accounting is a backward-looking activity and accountants are responsible for financial reporting, auditing, tax compliance, financial controls, bookkeeping and recordkeeping. They have to have good knowledge of GAP or IFRS accounting rules, tax laws, financial statements, auditing and accounting principles. Designations you might see are a CPA, CMA, CIA or CGMA. Finance by comparison is a forward-looking activity. Finance professionals are

responsible for financial analysis, investment analysis, risk management, forecasting, budgeting, and planning. You have to have good working knowledge of financial analysis, investment analysis, risk management, and to understand capital markets, financial modeling, and strategic planning. Designations you might see include a CFA, FRM, CIA, and CPA. If you work in finance, it's also very important that you have a good grasp of the accounting principles and vice versa. If visual explanations like this are useful, you know what to