---
video_title: "How much money in each account?"
video_id: oGFOEFc0BZ4
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oGFOEFc0BZ4
video_date: 2026-01-09T13:01:44+00:00
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Investing Infographic ebook: https://Moats.School
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼My Book on Amazon:▼
  📖 https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0
  
  ▼ABOUT ME:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
How much money should you have in each account? Explained simply by Brian Feraldi. Your checking account is where you keep cash that covers your near-term cost and therefore you should keep one to two months of expenses on hand. Next account to consider as a high yield savings account which pays a higher interest rate than a checking account. Think of this like your emergency fund and you should keep 2 to 5 months of expenses in cash on hand. Next is your

retirement account such as a 401k, 403b or 457. You should invest enough in this account to take full advantage of the employer match. The next account is a health savings account, which has the most tax advantages of any account. If you have access to one, you should max it out every year. After that, you should pay attention to either a Roth or a traditional IRA if you have access to one. And this is another account that

you should then max out every year. If you have any additional money left after you take care of all of that, then you should put any additional funds into a regular taxable brokerage account. This is a great account to grow long-term wealth, although it doesn't have any tax advantages to it. If visual explanations like this are helpful, you know what to