---
video_title: "52-WEEK LOW: Is SalesForce (CRM) TOO CHEAP TO IGNORE?"
video_id: 5xfjjS28zGk
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5xfjjS28zGk
video_date: 20260106
video_description: |
  ✅ 50% Off Stock Simplifier: https://longtermmindset.spiffy.co/checkout/stock-simplifier-plus-ai?c=YTWORKSHOP100
  
  ✅ How SalesForce actually makes money
  ✅ Whether its moat is getting stronger or weaker​
  ✅ Key financial metrics
  ✅ Management’s track record and capital allocation
  ✅ The biggest opportunities & risks on the horizon
  ✅ Valuation: Buy, sell, or hold?
  ✅ Q&A
---
There we go.

>> Hey everybody, >> thank you for joining us. Happy 2026. I am coming to you live from Rhode Island as always. Where in the world are you, Mr. Stoof?

>> I am on a coffee farm in Costa Rica. Um, I would love to be showing the coffee farm in the background, but in order to get the internet that's going to allow me to do this, I'm in a little cabin uh that has access to internet. So, you'll just have to take my word for it. You might hear chickens in the background. If you do, don't worry. That's actually

quite normal. >> Well, you're wearing a t-shirt, so we know that you're not at home. >> Nope. Nope. Not not in Wisconsin. I I

got short sleeves on today and shorts. Uh, I see >> Neil Claus. Uh John, Susan, Adrianne, everyone that has commented so far. Uh thank you guys so much for joining us today. Mr. Stoofl, we are back for

another uh stock uh stock um simplifier stocks from scratch. And for this week's uh stock from scratch, what stock are we doing? >> We're doing Salesforce. Now, this is this is interesting because Brian, I have been a SAS investor since 2017. I've never to my knowledge I don't think I've ever owned Salesforce and you were telling me this might be an interesting one for us to look at. This is a company

that I have known about as a public investment for at least 20 years. I remember researching this company or not researching it looking at it in 2005 when it was like a $2 billion business. The company I was working for at the time adopted the technology. This is one that the PE ratio at the time was like 180 and I was like, well, can't buy it before I knew anything about valuation and missed out on like a I don't know 40 or 50 bagger at at this point. So, this is going to be a very fascinating company to uh to research at this point.

>> And you you like you used it in your job, right? Like that's how >> Oh, I I know I know firsthand how strong these switching costs are uh for this one. So when the moat comes up now, uh if you are familiar with researching stocks, you know that some stocks are easy to research. Some are kind of hard to research. I would classify Salesforce as middle of the road, a little bit on the harder side. They have made a ton of

acquisitions over over time. So their financial statements might not be the cleanest out there, but we will, you know, do our best. But we would love to know from people watching, if you could put in the chat on whatever platform you're watching this on, do you own Salesforce? Do you own this company now? Is it on your radar? Or um are you are

are you a current or prospective shareholder of the company? We would love to know that. While we wait for those times to come in, uh if you're unfamiliar, my name is Brian Faldi. I've been buying and selling stocks for about 20 years. Here's my performance over the last 13 years or so. It's 13 years

because that I switched brokers to my current broker in 2012. Um and I have outperformed my benchmarks which are the S&P 500 over that time frame. >> Yep. And these are my results right here. Uh these I've been investing for longer, but the my my records go back to 2014, December of 2014. My returns are

in the green. Uh the yellow line you see there is the NASDAQ composite. The red line is the S&P 500. So as you can see, also outperforming there. Yep. So how

how do we do this? Why do we win? We are firm believers that we win because we do the research. That research enables us to have conviction. That conviction enables us to develop real patience and that patience leads to wealth creation.

So it all starts it all starts the foundation of this pyramid is knowing how to do the research. So that's the goal for this next hour or so. We're going to show you how we do the research on a stock from scratch using a tool that we created called Stock Simplifier. Now if you are unfamiliar, Stock Simplifier is a is a paid product and there is a link to do so there. It's a sevenstep process to do so and that's exactly what you're going to see us do over this uh this live stream. Um now

we're going to go fairly fast. So this live stream uh that we stock simplifier does come with a full course where we explain everything we're doing in detail along with the slides. You also get the tool that we're going to be using throughout. You also get the AI prompts that we're going to be running to kind of speed up the research process. All this is included with Stock Simplifier.

So do we have any shareholders watching Stofl? >> You know we've only got a couple. You know, Carl called out that he was a shareholder. We've got Jeremy, uh, Roman, um, Carsten, but I would say that by and large, people don't own it. >> May maybe about 30%.

>> Okay. Well, while that while we're waiting for more responses to come in, I'm going to go ahead and open up a fresh copy of Stock Simplifier. I'm going to go ahead and open up a uh a fresh copy of fiscal.ai, which is our our research uh tool. I'm going to open up a fresh copy of our database of AI uh tools that we have that I'm going to use to research this process and and today we'll probably be using Gemini um Gemini to do to do a whole bunch of this because that's become uh kind of one of the favorites uh with them. So the

ticker symbol here is CRM. It looks like it is a 243 billion uh business. $243 billion. Now the first thing that we look at um with this company uh is the business growth cycle. Which of the six stages of the business growth cycle is Salesforce currently in? We would love it if you

could put into the chat of whatever product uh wherever you are watching this. Which of these six stages do you think Salesforce is in right now? Phase one, phase two, phase three, phase four, phase five, or phase six? >> Yeah. I And so Santos says five. We got

another five here. Um RC, Mark, Susan, Roman. Uh a lot of fives. Got a four. Um yeah. So I I would say a mix between

four and fives is what our viewers are are picking right now. >> All right. Well, here's our AI prompt database. I'm going to go ahead and make a copy of our full AI analysis prompt. Then I'm going to open up a fresh copy of Gemini. I'm going to paste the prompt

in there. And if all is working well, Gemini should say to us, "What stock do you want us us to analyze?" And I'm gonna say sales salesforce CRM with a ticker. And it should do the analysis and come back with which phase Salesforce it ends. Okay. So, here's

what Gemini says. It's in the phase five capital return. >> Can you zoom in just a little bit? >> Yep. Yep.

better. >> There we go. Yep, that's better. >> Okay. Why is it in phase five? Well, it

has positive operating income of about 2.2 billion on a GAP basis. It's growing revenue about 9%. It's got a capital return program, so it's buying back about 4 billion in stock and it pays out about 395 million in dividends. Now, that means that Yep. So, that means that

we should use the price to earnings ratio and the price to free cash flow ratio. uh it's a mature business and we should avoid high growth multiples and forward uh price to sales. Now what does this mean for investors? They transitioned from an aggressive growitall cost company to one that is highly disciplined and focused on margin expansion and returning capital to shareholders. They have reached significant scale where it's no longer just about acqu uh customer acquisition and there are some resources uh on it.

So I would fully agree uh with that. I'm gonna say it's definitely in the capital return phase. This fits very nicely um in in in there. So the reason we do this analysis first is the metrics that we look at and the valuation methods that we should use change depending on which of the six phases the company is in. So we think this is a step that many investors skip in their analysis. So

actually the first one uh to to do. So yeah, there we go. So we think it's in uh phase five and we had ADI do that for. All right, next step is to take a look at the business. How does this company make money? What are its

products and services? Who are its customers? And then we're going to look at some qualitative factors like how frequently customers buy. Can the company raise prices? Um and and and more. So I'm going to go to our business

analysis prompt, copy that over, put that into Gemini, and we will read the results. And Brian, this is the one where I think that this is where the AI becomes so helpful because it is such a a a smorgesboard like Slack. I think they acquire Tableau. They've got their legacy Salesforce business. I mean, there's so much. Look at that. It only

took like five seconds. I'm used to being able to talk more. >> Yeah, Gemini is um is pretty quick. Uh nice to see. Okay, company overview.

What does the company do? Salesforce is the global leader in customer relationship management technology. It provides a cloud-based platform called customer 360 that unifies a company's sales service, marketing and commerce data. More recently, the company has pivoted to an agentic AI model which it calls agent force and that allows businesses to deploy autonomous AI agents to handle customer tasks and internal workflows. So, the company that I'm working >> Go ahead.

>> I was gonna say for those that aren't familiar that Agent Force, those are those commercials you see with Michael uh Matthew McConna and Woody Harelson. So, they're they're out there talking about it. >> There you go. So, uh I used uh Salesforce.com's technology 20 years ago and I was in sales at the time. It's how

we tracked all of our uh customer leads. It's how we tracked all of our customer conversions. The funnel that we had, customer shipments were tracked in there. their customer service calls. Um all of our so all of our marketing department, customer support department and sales department were entirely run on Salesforce. If Salesforce went down,

our our company's ability to do business went to zero. It was missionritical u that the companies uh that Salesforce was up and running. All right. How does it make money? Salesforce makes the vast majority of its revenue through subscription and support fees. customers

pay to access their cloud software typically on a per user or consumption basis. Okay, >> now just one one one quick thing real quick. Um I think it's important to point out that that per user basis I think is one of the reasons we're going to see why it's down so much because on a per user basis you you might lose people because AI is running things. I I think that's part of the reason >> potentially uh good good color. Okay, so services revenue was about 25% of the total and this is tools for customer support and field services. Sales revenue is for

leads and opportunity management about 22% of revenue. Platform revenue which includes Slack and AI development tools is about 19% of revenue. Data revenue which is Mulesoft, Tableau and data cloud those are acquired products uh about 16%. Marketing and commerce about 13% and professional services about 6%. This is one-time consulting and training fees. So, pretty diversified revenue

base. >> Oh, yeah. >> Um, uh, a bunch of that is through acquisitions, but um, that's a diversified group. >> All right. Who are its customers?

Company serves 150,000 customers from small startups to Fortune 500 enterprises. Its clients pay virtually every industry including financial services, healthcare, manufacturing and the public sector. Where does it operate? 66% of revenue is in the Americas, 23% in Europe, only 11% in Asia Pacific. So 2/3 America, one-third outside. That leaves big opportunity

outside the US. All right. Business dynamics. How frequently do customers buy? typ customer customers typically enter into multi-year contracts one to three month uh one to three years and the software becomes the operating system for a company's sales and support teams and retention is very high again I can corroborate that firsthand Salesforce tracks this for remaining performance obligations which currently sit at $60 billion representing contracted revenue that we recognized in the future 60 billion in RPOS can Salesforce raise prices. Yes, in

late 2023, S Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Sal Salesforce implemented its first major pricing list Gre 9% increase in seven years. Its pricing power comes from very high switching costs. Once a company's data and workflows are embedded, moving to a competitor is difficult. The new agent force are also being used as a leverage to increase average revenue per user. >> That's good.

>> Finally, what happens in a recession? Salesforce is relatively recession resistant, but it's not recessionp proof because it's a subscription business. Revenue does not disappear overnight in a downturn. However, management tough economic climates. Customers may scrutinize budgets leading to longer sales cycles. Well, let's take a look um

shall we at some actual data from uh from Salesforce.com. So, the ticker symbol is CRM. Now, Brian, while you do that, I just want to point out I I'm getting a message that says that perhaps we've reached our limit on total number of people who can watch this stream, which is weird because we've gone way above thousands in the past. But if you're having trouble viewing this, we're aware of that. We're going to try

and fix it after that. And then I also just want to point out we will be posting this video uh to our YouTube channel so you can rewatch it at a later date if you are having trouble. >> Thank you. I already see 75% so I think we're good. But uh yeah. Okay. All

right. Well, revenue that looks pretty darn smooth and recession proof to me. >> I agree. >> Yeah. So, very very smooth revenue growth. In fact, that's about as good as

it gets. Let's take a look at some of their their key revenues. So, um sales revenue, service revenue, platform, uh integration, marketing, and professional services. Yeah, they've got a lot of All right, let's take a look at go to the bar chart in fiscal. By the way, we're in fiscal and uh I like doing this because I like seeing how fast each individual one is growing. So green is

sales revenue. This is growing 13% per year. >> Solid. >> Blue is service revenue. This is growing 19% per year.

>> Great. >> Uh black is platform and other revenue. This is growing 20% per year. Integration revenue is growing 25%. Marketing is growing 24%. And then

professional services is growing 17%. So the slowest growth is 13% over at least a 10-year uh basis. I'm sure if we dialed this into say the last, I don't know, three or four years, those growth numbers would change. 11 17 14 9 and four. So every segment looks like it's growing uh quite nicely.

>> It's healthy. Yeah. Uh diversified revenue over the last three years growing about 10%. That is down from the 20% but still a doubledigit uh range. So all right. So now that we

know kind of all of this, what do you guys think? Is this an attractive business? Uh red, no, it's unattractive. Yellow, it's good business. Or green, this is a very attractive business.

Would love to know what people think about that. But we go with a red, yellow, green uh system for this. >> Yep. And so while people are bringing that in, I'll just give my opinion. Again, the big thing that that I think people are worried about is if this is based on seats, then you might if you just give one AI agent the ability to go in and do all this or people build their own things, that could be a problem. But

based just on what we're looking at, because we'll get to that in the wrist. I agree with what Roman and Santo and Brandon and David and Brenda are saying, this is this is mostly a green to me. I I get where the yellow's coming from, but Brian, I would say that 90% of people give this a green. >> Um I I I I don't even know how you could give it a yellow to be to be honest. I mean, the results have been fantastic.

It's still growing double digits. It might not be going as fast as it had in the past, but from purely a look at the business perspective, this is an awesome business. Uh, and and I I think it's very clear that this is a green company. Uh, okay. That was great to to see. By

the way, if we're using Stock Simplifier to do all this research, if you want access to Stock Simplifier, it's normally 199 bucks if you buy it on the website. Stofl is going to share a link in the in the chat on whatever platform you're watching this on to get it for just 99 bucks. All the prompts, all of the course of the tool, absolutely everything uh is included there. Okay, next section, the moat. We're going to take a look at this company's moat. Now,

there are five potential sources of moat. There are three current states of the moat. No moat, narrow moat, wide moat, and then there's all all important moat direction. Is this a shrinking moat, a stable moat, or a widening uh moat? So, I would love people to guess right at the start, and then I'm going to run the prompt. What do you think, if

you had to guess, is the primary moat source that Salesforce.com has? Is it network effect, switching cost, lowc cost production, intangibles, counterpositioning, or not? Or nothing? You you don't think they have a moat at all? Would love to know what people's

guessing is. >> So, while while people are doing that, I think because it's it's that is starting to roll in here. Uh I'll give my my uh two cents. I think you really hit the nail on the head earlier where you said if this broke down while you were working for your previous employer, it would have been game over. Everything comes to a screeching halt. So, I agree

with what pretty much everyone who's responded has said, which is switching costs. I that has to be it. >> Well, well, let's see what AI says. So, I just ran the prompt. Uh Gemini says the moat size here is wide. The remote

direction is widening and the primary road sources are switching costs and network effects. The summary Salesforce maintains a dominant market position by its embedded platform and has 150,000 enterprises resulting in high retention and pricing power. Company's Mac ecosystem and rapid adoption of agent force further solidifies its lead. Okay. Switching costs. These are present. They

are wide and they're widening. So the main platform acts as a central system of record for everything or sales, service and marketing. Once a company builds this, getting switched is is something else. Again, I'll go back to my experience 20 years ago. I can't tell you how many personalized internal reports were generated in Salesforce that were accustomed to the company. And

our management teams, our sales teams were all built on these reports. We were not a big company but we probably had dozens if not hundreds and in fact we hired someone internally that was a Salesforce expert just job was to build custom reports based on the data that was that was coming in. So getting off of that would would would be quite would be quite ownorous. >> It's also it's worth it's worth just pointing out real quick. I I actually researched the history of Salesforce when they started out they did have a big churn problem. a bunch of people

would sign up and then churn off. Mainly because in order to sell people on this because remember they were the first SAS company. Like this wasn't a thing. You actually had to convince big companies that this was worth doing. And so they get a ton of really small businesses to sign up way way back in the day and they would churn out of it quickly. But as

soon as it got to like your experience that you're talking about right now, Brian, they started to move up market and get bigger and bigger and bigger companies. And that's how it led to what they have today. >> For sure. Yep. That's a good point. They

did start at the lower end of the market and then they moved up market. Yeah, great great point. All right, so this says 90% 92% gross retention um annually. That's I'm guessing a guess, but maybe that's accurate. Uh remaining performance obligations is up 12% and 40% of our agent forest new bricks this quarter came from existing customers extending their investment. Okay,

>> that's great. Network effects. It says narrow and widening. Has a two-sided network effect through its app exchange. As more businesses use Salesforce, more thirdparty developers like Slack, Newoft, and thousands of independent vendors build integrations and apps for it. This makes the platform more

valuable for every existing user. 32 trillion records creates data level network effects where AI becomes more powerful. I'll disagree with that. I mean, yeah, it's a network effect is only in comparison to another company's network effect. So, I'll say this is a powerful blocker for new entrance, but it's not going to protect them from Microsoft >> would be would be my push back from there. So, that that would be my

comment, but I'm happy to be proven wrong. >> Intangibles narrow and stable. It has Yeah. Brand uh very high very high brand Salesforce administrators. Uh, yep. Um,

putting a lot into R&D, 30% of the Salesforce automation market and a wide acote due to its uh, substantial intangible uh, assets. I wonder if that's from Morning Star. >> Lowcost production, nope. >> Um, counterpositioning. Nope. It did

definitely have counterpositioning at the start >> way back when, >> no doubt. So, this is a company that benefited from it 20 years ago, but now every company switched to SAS. So um so it was uh it was there we have risks with >> here that that's the key part right there that we haven't talked about yet. >> Yeah. Microsoft is a is a major competitor. Oracle is a major uh

competitor. But Morning Star says MoAT is uh wide and it's stable. So I will go ahead and agree with that. I'll say wide and um I'll say it's a wide moat and it looks pretty pretty darn good uh to me. All right. Next, growth. Uh, how is this

company going to grow from where it is and what is its long-term growth potential? Couple ways we figure this out. The easy way is just to go to fiscal and look. So, this is a company that's grown about 10% revenue over the last three years. Earnings have grown 200% over the last three years. So,

operating is kicking in. >> But what what do I think moving forward? So 10% growth over the next two years in revenue. Earnings are estimated to grow about 17% over the long term. So high mid- teens revenue uh growth. Now that's

what the analysts say. But we have to ask, well, all right, how's that going to happen? What's the magic that makes that happen? Well, there's two ways you can grow. you can get more customers, add new customers, or you can get existing customers that you already have to kind of spend more. So, let's do some

uh AI analysis, and we'll do some uh searching to see which of those um growth levers we think Salesforce can uh can pull to get to achieve that double digit growth. >> Now, Brian, while you do that, I just I want to set the context again in case people missed it. This of all companies, I think you would agree, is a company that has grown by acquisition. That doesn't mean that they haven't had organic growth, but if you look over the last 15 years, they have just been vacuuming up companies, and it's been a major criticism because sometimes they pay for that with stock, and they also have very high stock-based compensation, which we'll get to in a minute. The whole reason I bring that up is because that it seems like they've pivoted.

They're not focused on that acquisition at all costs anymore. And so the >> question I remember them making was Slack and that was >> few years ago, >> four years ago maybe >> maybe they've gotten enough scale or may maybe they're just waiting for their next acquisition. Who who knows? Uh it's easy much easier to make an acquisition when you're trading at um uh you know 10 times sales than uh four times sales, right? >> Uh okay, so let's take a look. So

marketing and sales investment uh moderate sales and marketing remains the largest expense but the company is focused on efficiency. Sales and marketing has dropped to 35% as they prioritize profitable growth. So modest decline there. Okay. New distribution channels are moderate expansion of app exchange and slack. However, no radical

new physical or retail trails were added. Market expansion is moderate. is uh Asia-Pacific is the smallest but fastest growing region. Overall, international growth remains steady, but it's not the primary driver compared to product upsells. That's interesting. I

would have thought that that would have been a bigger contributor. >> Look at this. A more recent acquisition >> strong company completed the major acquisition of Informatica in 2025 to bolster data cloud and management expected to contribute 80 bips to revenue growth. So 80 basis points. So 0.8% 8% of of growth. Um, so this says

they're not done with acquisitions. >> I mean, yeah, we'll see. >> Pricing power strong. They implemented a 6% price increase in 2025 and a 9% increase in 2023. Pricing is a significant lever for organic growth. As

long as you don't abuse it, >> that's a big deal. If you can grow two two big price hikes in three years and not losing customers, that's a big deal. >> Yeah. I I would wish they just did like, you know, 5% 4% something like that. Um uh that way you don't piss your customers off. Okay. New products and

services are strong. Agent Force and the data cloud uh hit 1.4 billion in ARR, up 114%. Agent Force grew 330% providing rapid adoption of a new AI offering and then customer retention net dollar retention remains high 92% gross retention. So Stoofl what's gross retention mean?

>> Gross retention means we are not paying attention to all the upsales that might happen. It's just you had a 100 customers at the beginning of the year, you got 92 at the end of the year. That's lower than I would expect to be honest. >> But but it's all those tiny C. It's it's like what we tal what I was saying at the beginning. They got like if you have

a startup you might use HubSpot, you might use Salesforce. I think I think it's a whole bunch of one or two people companies that are leaving. I don't think it's the big whales that they have >> and acquisitions and all that kind of stuff also. Yeah, there's multiple reasons to go to go off there, but um I mean it's still great overall. It's just like, you know, Cloudflare um uh not Cloudflare, Crowd Strike is um 90%.

Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Okay. So, overall assessment, the biggest growth drivers are going to be new products and services and pricing power. Moderate services are acquisitions and geographic expansion.

And then distribution is going to be a low uh contributor here. So, all right, red, yellow, green. What do you guys think? Does this company have growth potential? Green. Its growth potential

looks very strong, super exciting. Yellow, it looks good, but not eyepopping. Red, you are worried about the near-term growth of this business. Uh, what do people uh what do people think about that? >> I know that. So, we see David here says

green, Susan says green, Paco and Marks. Uh, we have Patrick saying yellow. Uh, we've got a whole bunch of it's it's pretty much I'm seeing these roll in. It's a combination of yellow and green. I appreciate someone did green in Spanish there. Yeah,

>> Brian, the way that I think about this, I almost think about this like a sponge. And here's what I mean. Green is pretend water is like your what what you could collect. And and the green is like there's water everywhere. You take a sponge and you're just trying to soak up as much as you possibly can. Yellow is

like, okay, I've soaked up a bunch and now I'm going to start trying to like ring it out a little bit. Um, and red is like there's no water anywhere. I I personally think of this as yellow. That's that's the way that I think of it. And I think that it did a really good job of showing that where all the greens that we saw in our AI was getting more from their existing customers that so when I say yellow, that's how I'm thinking about it. But some people might

look at the exact same things and say green. >> I think we're splitting hairs uh whether it's green or yellow. But I will I will go with I will go with yellow. I think the growth here is quite good for a company of this size. Um, but it's not like spectacular. But the fact that it's

still growing and it has a long history of growing to me is very positive. Like this is not a business in distress. >> Agree. >> For for example. Okay. Next, now we're

going to look at some key metrics. Now the metrics that we look at for a stage five business are revenue growth, free cash flow conversion, EBIT to interest expense, return on invested capital and their capital return uh program. So this is the one again that uh AI tends to have the most problems with. So we will run it in AI. We will also manually check in fiscal just to double check that everything is working correctly. So

we can see how well did Gemini do uh with it. Okay, so first up revenue growth. It says 13% which is over our 10% bogey. So this says 10% which is right on there. So Gemini was a little overaggressive on that but either way pretty good >> for a company of this size.

>> Next free cash flow conversion 162%. What that means is that the company is producing more free cash flow than it does net income. That's fairly common for a software business. >> Two two things to take into account there. One, they they are notorious for having really high stockbased compensation, which is going to make free cash flow better than net income.

And two is because they are still growing and they're a SAS company. You collect all the money at the beginning and you recognize it as revenue which becomes net income at the end. So that's not surprising. >> Yep. It's defin It's not surprising to see that. But if you had to choose, it's

it's definitely the one that you want, right? >> Yes. >> Yes, absolutely. >> Um Whoops. Did I turn >> I like it.

>> It's not night time, Brian. It's It's the day. >> All right. So, I think that is in capital efficiency. Or is it in margins?

It might be in margins. >> Yeah, I think it is in margins. >> Free cash flow to net income. Yeah. So, this is a company with 178% free cash flow conversion. So they've all they've

pretty much always generated I guess not back here uh way more free cash flow uh than than a net income. That's a very good sign uh to see that. >> Next EBIT to interest expense. This is a measure of how much debt do they have and can the income statement support the debt. >> So this says 36 and a half times coverage of their >> I think they're I think they're they're okay.

>> Yeah. So we want this number to be over five. We want more than five times EBIT than your interest expense. This says 36 uh 36 times. And now in fiscal that should be is it EBIT to interest? EBIT

to interest financial health. >> Yeah, it's in financial health. >> EBIT to interest expense. Oh, they don't have it listed. Is that because interest expense is zero?

>> Yeah, I I I mean I think that that is what it is is that they don't I don't think that they have any long-term debt. >> Yeah, this says two. that that says two. I'm guessing that is mostly a fact that they just don't have any debt or the debt that they do have is very low cost. Let's do a slightly deeper dive.

Short-term debt, none. Long-term debt, 8 billion. All right, let's do the calculation manually. Just go to the income statement and we're going to look at operating profit, 8 billion. This is roughly a proxy for EBIT, so 8.2

billion. Interest expense zero. >> Yeah. So yeah, >> it's probably that all that long-term debt is probably in your convertible notes >> at 0%. >> Yeah. So we will So Gemini says this

will >> I get why it was confused. >> Yeah, it it's green. The result here is uh the company's interest expense and debt is is not a problem at all. Next, return on invested capital. It has a AI typically has a big problem with return invested capital. It does. This says

11%. Uh if we go to um the overview page and in the back bottom left it's going to show us the five-year average. So return on invested capital is four. That's the five-year average. And if a company is not focused on profit, that number is going to be artificially low.

So I'm going to click on financials. >> I bet it's gone up a bunch in the last five years. That would be my >> I I don't think it's going to be over 20%, but I'm I'm guessing it's going to be uh up up quite >> up to the right though. >> Ratios. I'm going to go down to uh capital efficiency and return on invested capital. Yep. So, we're right.

So, 8% 8% return on invested capital. Um and this is up substantially. So, it's improving, but it's not double digit. >> Yep. Um compensation.

>> We're going to say less than 10%, but that's more of a mirage than anything else. Finally, capital returns. They've been buying back stock for three years. So, if it's three years, then that should be a yellow. This says five years. So, if we go and dive in,

if we go to um uh the cash flow statement, which is in the uh the financial statements here, uh >> it just decided to stop giving it to us. >> It did. >> It's not listed now. Um, yeah. You know, one thing that might be interesting, Brian, uh, while we're looking for that, because it it I've seen this happen sometimes, it might not come up. If you

go to ratios, >> y >> and you go to, um, uh, it's whatever the last one, the last option is, um, >> common size. >> Common size. Yes. Common size. If you do stockbased compensation to revenue, you you get an idea of what we're talking about here. Um, so it has

come down, which is great, but it's still pretty high. I mean, >> 8% 8% of revenue. Well, let's do this. Let's pull up the company's income statement. Uh, the cash flow statement isn't working for some reason. And let's

go to shares outstanding. And then you can kind of see. Okay. So, this is shares increasing. This is stockbased compensation and acquisitions. The big jumps are

acquisitions. So, I'm guessing this is Slack. Yeah. and then they peaked at 8.98 and now they're n excuse me they peaked at 989 now they're 952. So the only reason that

shares can decline like that is because of buybacks. So they started in 2022 2023. So they've been doing it for about three years. >> And you know that's a lot of money. That means that they're spending more than 8% of their revenue on buybacks. Right.

Right. If that's if that's what stockbased compensation is and the shares are going down, it has to be more than 8% of revenue. >> They need to spend that ju that much 8% of revenue on buybacks just to break even on their account. >> Yeah. Essentially. So they are returning

capital. They haven't been doing it for that long, but I think that they've gotten religion and they're going for for it. So overall pretty good on the on the on the real big numbers. they are returning capital and just the nature of the gap accounting here means return on invested capital is not that is not that high but this number should continue to increase over time um as they do as they do focus on that all right so key metrics looked looked uh pretty good uh friendly reminder if you're interested in stock simplifier the tool that we're using for this it's 99 bucks using the um link that still is going to share in the chat all right we did key metrics oh I just did all that um let's do uh next risk section So >> this is a big one. >> Yeah, definitely the big risk. So is

this going to be a red, yellow or a green risk company? Now we believe that all risk can be boiled down to one one risk execution risk. What are the odds that the company can't achieve the growth that we need it to achieve to make this investment pay off? So there are four major subris risks. There's concentration risk, there's disruption risk, there's outside forces risk, and there's competition uh risk.

>> You want to guess? >> Which one do you think is going to be the biggest one that Gemini gives us? >> I think it's going to be either competition or disruption. Personally, >> I'm going to say it's going to be disruption uh risk. Okay. But overall

risk assessment here. So Gemini says the overall risk here is very low. It gave a score of 1.25 25 even though I don't know what that means but >> yeah I'm guessing that's out of five. The primary risk is disruption and competition. Yeah, that's what I

>> but they have very high switching costs and 60 billion in backlog. Okay, concentration risk not a problem. 150,000 customers and no big customer is more than 5% of revenue. Uh concentration risk not an issue. Disruption risk. Okay, it says green.

While the shift to AI is a risk for many, Salesforce is currently the disruptor. >> I'm not sure totally buy that. >> Agent Force platform reached 500 million AR within months and management is aggressively cannibalizing its own human seatbased model with autonomous agents to prevent from competitors from doing it first. All right, so this is the innovator's dilemma and they are jumping whole hog into it. Well, what I would say is this is a perfect jumping off point for like what is the best use for stock simplifier.

This So now this thing right here is what I would spend the next week studying if I'm all of a sudden very interested in Salesforce. This is that what they're doing. Are they cannibalizing and what what are they seeing? and and go to the primary sources because to me that right there is the most important thing that's popped up in this hour that we've got on on live. >> So if this is going to be disrupting seats and their and their seat model, what you could expect to happen is that revenue growth is going to slow substantially while AI revenue increases and the traditional revenue decreases and eventually AI should kind of take over and start to actually provide needlemoving growth. But if it could be

a reason that the that this stock is at a 52- week low right now is that Wall Street sees this happening predicts me growth over the next let's just call it three years before this really kicks in. >> So okay that's that that could be very much a reason that um the share is trading where it is. Okay, next outside forces. This says yellow. Salesforce has significant exposure to global economic cycles and foreign currency fluctuations. management know that

currency volatility is negatively impacted remaining from its obligations. Uh I'm going to disagree. I'm going to call this not an issue at all. I don't >> I don't view currency issues as a major outside force. Only a third of this company's revenue is from e from from in different in different currencies. So

may maybe it might tinge growth by a few percent but I don't view that as a major outside force. I view a major outside force. Commodity prices ma impacting revenue. Oil prices impacting revenue. You need a strong economy. Um there

there's there's some uh interest rates um are outside of your control. I I would I would view this as a non non-risk personally. >> Yep. I I agree. >> Competition risk. This says green. Okay.

Despite intense competition from Microsoft and Oracle and SAP, Salesforce remains the dominant leader with 22% market share and gross margins of 80 almost 80%. So it's not yet succumbing to severe pricing pressure. >> That is the most important thing to watch are those gross margins. Now there might be some explanation for why they might contract. As we said that transition from seatbased to a aentic base there might be a period where that gross margin does need to contract but over the long run if that isn't going up and to the right or at least staying stable that's the red flashing sell button light.

>> So overall here no low concentration risk low disruption risk as of right now. Um whether you agree with not is is up for debate. Uh I would say low outside forces risk and low competition risk. So let us know if you're watching red, yellow, green. What do you think is the risk profile of Salesforce.com the

business? Red high risk, yellow, medium risk, green, very low, very low risk. And while we're waiting for those to come in, let's take a look at the gross margin of this business. Yeah. And I'm gonna assume that it's bounced around quite a bit based on acquisitions.

>> Yeah. I I and that's the part where it's so important to understand all the moving pieces. >> Well, it definitely has bounced around 75 to 73 to 77. But I mean, look at the last solid. >> Yeah.

>> Look at the last three years, gross margin has expanded. Uh for those that are unfamiliar, what this means, for every dollar in sales, how many pennies become gross profit? It used to be 73 pennies. Now it's 78 pennies. That might sound small, but that's six extra pennies per dollar in sales in pure gross profit generated. So, I view this

as a excellent development. Um, and I wonder if that can continue. Normally, when a company goes with a platform shift, the gross margin suffers in the short term. >> Significant. >> I'm guessing that this number is going to decline or at least tail off um in uh as agent force kind of grows. But I

don't know. I'm I'm making that up. But what if people think about the risk profile? >> By and large, green. Now, let me just say if I was filling out stock simplifier, I would give it a yellow.

But I just want to explain why because this would be the other thing that I would force myself to go back and research to see what the trends are, what management had to say about why they're changing, um, and what kind of forecasts there were moving forward. Based on the data, I think it's a green, but I would put a yellow because I know that would get me to go back. >> Fair enough. I would I'm gonna call this green. I'm I'm gonna say it's a lowrisk as far as businesses go. This to me is

definitely in the lowrisk category. All right. Up next, valuation. Now, because we know this is a phase five capital return company, there are two metrics that we should look at. price to earnings and price to free cash flow on a trailing basis looking backwards because it is in the capital return phase and it should be optimized for earnings. So that's in the ratio section

and then we're going to be looking at the trailing which is the top number. So we're looking at the price to earnings ratio here. So look at all this time period here when it was not in phase five. This useless utterly useless to us. It only entered phase five in 2020.

Let's just call it 2023. Yep. So, useless, useless, useless. It gets useless. Useful around here.

September. >> Yeah, you could pull it forward even more. I >> I'll go quarterly to get kind of a more nuanced view. Um nuance. So, yeah, right around here.

>> September 23. Yeah. >> And go forward >> one more. There you go. Uh, all right. There we go. Semi useful.

Okay. >> I can't see that number. What is it? 35. >> 34.

>> 34. >> 34 times trailing earnings. 34 times trailing uh earnings. All right. That's price to earnings. But remember, this

company produces more free cash flow than it does earnings. So, if you look at price to free cash flow on a trailing basis, yeah, that number might be even better. Even better. I wonder if we can go backwards further. You probably can.

>> Yep. Okay. So, this was as high as call it 52 times free cash flow. Currently 19 times free cash flow. And if we take the median and the high and the low um on this by turning on those uh those toggles. Um 16 times free cash flow was

the low back in November. Currently about 19 times trailing free cash flow. average of 27 times free cash flow. And even if we kind of take this to the same time frame, um the average over the last call it two years is 25 times free cash flow. Currently 19 times uh free cash flow. So all right, red, yellow, green.

What do you guys think of the valuation of Salesforce today? Red overvalued, yellow fairly valued, green undervalued. And while we wait for those to come in, um, I'm also going to take a look at the forward numbers because this is still a growing company. And while Stock Simplifier says trailing earnings is probably best, I'm going to argue that forward earnings is probably the best number to use here. >> Well, there's not there's nothing wrong with peeking at it.

>> No, that ex Exactly. Um so if you look at the forward number here 20 21 times forward uh earnings >> earnings. Oh >> forward earnings 21 times forward earnings. >> They are increasing their profitability very fast for a quote unquote stage five company. >> Yep. Definitely. Yeah. Or at least they

have in the past. And if you look at price to forward price to free cash flow. So this is earn um free cash flow based on next year's earnings estimates 16 times forward free cash flow got down as low as 14 times uh free free cash flow and Brian if you want to do even one more metric I like using free cash flow yield um as a metric uh free cash flow yield which is basically like yeah free cash flow yield so this is a company that's yielding its stock is yielding 5.2%. So here higher means cheaper, lower means more expensive. So this is a

company with a 5% free cash flow yield. If you were measuring it, think about like that the interest rate that you're earning on the stock from a free cash flow perspective. 5%. So if they paid out all of their free cash flow as a dividend, you'd be getting a 5.2% dividend yield on the stock right now.

>> Santo brings up a nice question real quick. Um what would its rule of 40 be? I guess maybe before we do that I will say it was a mix between green and yellow by by and large it was probably 50/50 split. >> Yeah, I'm going to say uh a yellow on price to earnings, green on price to free cash flow would be roughly uh where it is. So the rule of 40 um depends on how you calculate rule of 40 of course but if we did revenue growth rate >> um actually I made a custom metric one time I think. Let's see if it still um

pulls up with fiscal you can do. Yeah, there it is. >> Hey, look at that. >> I did do a rule of 40 as a custom metric. Uh, so the rule of 40 here is 30. Uh, so this is revenue growth plus I

think it's free cash flow growth. >> I I imagine it would have to be if it's a really good number for for uh >> Okay, I did cash I did free cash flow margin plus one-year revenue growth. So, Can you pull up the trailing 12-month view instead of the quarterly because you see it spikes a whole bunch. >> Oh, yeah. >> Probably at the beginning of the year when a bunch of that free cash flow comes in.

>> Oh, there you go. Yeah, that's better. So, let's make this go. So, this is a company with a 40 rule of 40 >> right on growth. So, on if you're a rule of 40 fan, this company is right there, which again for a mature business, mature business is very hard to achieve.

So, it's certainly right right there. So, I'm going to say agree on that. Okay. So, doing pretty good uh so far. Oh, got to go skip forward through a bunch of these things. Here we do. All

right. Now, now we're going to do one more prompt. This is going to be a sentiment prompt. So, we're going to do some analysis of okay, why is this company trading cheap? >> So, cheap. You can run this prompt to be

like, okay, go out analyze why the what what is the market's sentiment on this stock right now. Okay, so Salesfork struggled due to fears of SAS displacement by AI but rebounded following the explosive launch of agent force and a 6% price hike. While it's significantly underpowered of the S&P for the full year, strong earnings and record AI contract wins have stabilized the plate for uh the price for next catalyst is its earnings release in March of 2026 and the key focus will be at agent force ARR. Um >> oh, it gives us the outlook. That's great. So

>> analysts are bullish, investors are neutral, the media is is positive. Uh what the bulls say uh bulls argue Salesforce is no longer a slowgo CRM but a leader in agentic AI and that is it's an undervalued blue chip with a capital return program. What do the bears say? Decelerating sales in its core business suggest the market is maturing and making double digit revenue growth harder. uh Microsoft is gaining ground and the a the pivot to agent force might cannibalize existing seatbased revenue at a faster rate than it adds new consumption uh revenue. So that is and

then here's some kind of links um uh uh to it. So that is what the sentiment analysis is on the company right now. So those fears that you kind of highlighted before are what is being echoed by the sentiment out there. That's why that prompt is pretty cool. Okay, taking it all into account, uh we have determined that this is a phase five business. It's

got a great business, a wide and stable moat, good solid long-term potential. It's got mixed results on the key metrics, although I would argue overall pretty darn good. It's a lowrisk business trading at a moderate to great valuation and its sentiment is currently depressed hinging on that um hinging on that uh AI issue. Red, yellow, green. Is this a stock that hell no, get it off my radar? I'm kind of interested in put on

my watch list or green. I'm interested in buying this stock today. Uh what do people are saying? We got a we got a red and a green so far. Someone else asked Carlas what what is the rule of 40? It's

just measuring revenue growth plus some type of profitability metric and you want it to be 40 or above. Um I would say that we are getting a we're getting greenish yellow is is what we're getting. Um you know Brian I'll say this. It was about a month ago that we did Adobe, I think. And after we were done with Adobe, I I purchased shares of Adobe, so it's like a 4% position for me. This is in that same category as

Adobe for me, like blue chipish stock that I'm very interested in. And I'm sitting on a 30% cash position. So, I'm going to spend some time researching this. Doesn't mean I'm going to buy it, but I'm going to spend some time researching it. >> Yep. Uh James asks, "Would you ever look

at a technical chart to pinpoint when you wanted to get in?" Um that is something that um I personally do not do on a consistent basis, but I I see no reason not to look at it on a technical basis if you want to kind of get in and and figure and and and fig figure that out. Stofl, you use technical analysis a little bit. Yeah. So, what I would do with this is let's say I spend the next week researching this and I like it and I say, "You know what? it is. I've got

I've got 30% cash, so I'll throw a certain percent in without worrying about the technicals. Where I would look at the technicals is when I might add to it. So, in this case, I would look at it, see where it is in the 200 day moving average, and if it gets above that and bounces off of it and the 200 day moving average starts moving up, I would feel okay adding and making it even larger. >> There you go. Awesome. Well, I hope that

was useful. We kind of got the big gist for this for this this company. I do not own it, but I think it's a pretty compelling time to jump in uh to to this business. I I think it's low risk. I think it checks a heck of a lot of boxes uh for me. And the fact that the company

got religion on uh capital return programs, and it clearly has the capital to to do that, um I think is is pretty darn uh pretty darn uh compelling. Uh friendly reminder for everybody if you're interested in stock simplifier which is the tool we use to research everything and it comes with the full course. If you're like what what does that term mean? Because we do go pretty fast for this. There's a full course that goes along with it. You get the the

tool that we have and the checklist that goes along with it. You get all the prompts uh that we just used. 99 bucks if you use the link that Stofl is going to share um in in in it. Well, thank you guys so much for for joining us today. We hope that this was useful and educational. I certainly learned about

about Salesforce. I think it's a very compelling uh stock today. But we're always looking for ideas. What stock do you want us to research next? Throw it in the chat. We we we keep track of

stocks that interest people that you want us to take through this process. Um and and uh so if there's a stock out there that interests you, um >> we will add it to our newsletter. And uh our newsletter comes out tomorrow, tomorrow morning at uh at 5:00 am. And there are going to be four stocks in there for you guys to pick from for what stock we're going to be doing next list. But if you have ideas for us that you want us to uh to use um in future deep dives, uh please let us know. We are

always looking for uh for ideas. Oh um Sprouts, I think SFM is Sprouts. Is that Sprouts? >> Sprouts Farmers Market. Yes. Which

believe it or not has been a pretty incredible uh uh stock to to watch over the last couple of years. Dualingo. >> Oh, Reddit's an interesting one. Yeah. Yeah. Um I don't know. Uh SPG. Is that

Simon Property Group? Uh Netflix. Uh did we do Netflix? Yes. No.

>> You know, I'm not sure. >> Uh not 100% sure. >> Anyway, I I I'll add uh Zscaler is a very uh interesting uh one. Hymns we have put on the voting list multiple times and it just is never um >> it's close. It never gets there though.

Oh, Doug says, "Service now." Uh, that would be a good one to do. SoFi, >> down a bunch. >> Yeah, >> Service Now is down a bunch, too, recently. And SoFi, for whatever reason, is down like 10% today. It's not a

company I completely understand either. >> Brandon says, "The missing part of Stock Simplifier is the bounce board of these presentations." Do you know what that means? >> I'm not, but we're working on a >> I don't know what you mean by a bounce. Well, send us an email, Brandon. Brian

long-termmindset.co. Send us an email and we we would love to hear about it because we're always looking to improve it. >> Absolutely. We we take feedback extremely seriously and we are very open to to ideas to make it uh uh to better.

It means chatting. Oh, so like a community >> a community section to it. Um if if that's what you mean. Oh, Portillos, that's a good one. Um Zoetas. Yeah,

great. Anyway, um please email us or put in the whatever platform you're looking at this ideas for stocks to do. We are happy to take a look at them uh in in in the future. We will be back next Tuesday, same time, same place, Tuesday at 12:00 with another deep dive and we will announce to our email subscribers on Friday which stock wins tomorrow's voting. So, thank you guys so much for spending an hour with us. We hope this

was educational and we look forward to seeing you next Tuesday and pretty much every Tuesday at 12:00 throughout 2026. We do hope that you guys uh join us. So, thanks for watching and we'll see you next week. Bye.