---
video_title: "Everything You Should Unlearn From Investing Books"
video_id: 9eukpG5n4UU
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9eukpG5n4UU
video_date: 20260111
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Top 10 Investing Books Summary: https://longtermmindset.co/10books
  
  ▼ Try Fiscal AI for FREE ▼
  https://fiscal.ai/brian — 📈 Our favorite stock research tool
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼My Book on Amazon:▼
  📖 https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0
  
  ▼ABOUT ME:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  0:00 Intro
  0:30 Idea 1 - One Up On Wall Street
  6:17 Idea 2 - A Random Walk Down Wall Street
  10:15 Idea 3 - Real Money
  13:20 Idea 4 - The Intelligent Investor
  15:37 Idea 5 - The Little Book That Beats The Market
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
I have read dozens of investing books over the last 20 years, including all the classics like One Up on Wall Street, The Intelligent Investor, and The Little Book That Beats the Market. And while all these books made me a better investor, I've learned the hard way that some of their most famous lessons are just completely outdated. In this video, I'm going to highlight five outdated investing principles from classic investing books that I believe are actively sabotaging investors today. Now, let's start with a famous metric that was popularized by one of my favorite investors of all time, Peter Lynch. I first read his great book, One Up on Wall Street, more than 20 years ago. And it's an absolutely fabulous

investing book that I think everyone should read. Now, there are so many great lessons from this book that I take to heart, such as to buy what you know, meaning to look to your own life for investing ideas. To hold on to your winners for the long term, meaning that the best stocks to hold or even buy more of might be the ones you already own and have already gone up. And finally, to ignore market noise and simply to focus your attention on the analysis of the business at hand and how well the business behind the stock is doing. But as much as I love this book, there is one gripe that I have with something that he taught. In the book, Lynch

popularized a metric that he called the PEG ratio, which was very useful at the time, but has since become outdated and I think just needs to fade away into obscurity. Now, if you're unfamiliar, the PEG ratio stands for price toearnings to growth ratio. And this ratio simply divides a company's price to earnings ratio by its growth rate. For example, if a company's PE ratio was 30 and its growth rate was 20%, its PEG ratio would be 1.5. Now, the way to

interpret this ratio is to say that if this number was below one, then Lynch believed that that stock was cheap. And if this number was above two, Lynch believed that that stock was expensive. Now, back in the 1980s, this was actually a very innovative idea because it showed that there was a link between a company's price to earnings ratio and its growth rate. And rather than just making blanket statements like a PE ratio of 10 is cheap or 30 is expensive, Lynch tried to tie it directly to a company's growth rate and make the connection that a high PE ratio is okay so long as there's a sustainable high growth rate with it. Now, while this is a simple way to value companies, and it made a whole lot of sense to use the PEG ratio in the 1980s and 1990s, the PEG ratio no longer works like it once does, and it actually has some big flaws that makes it hard for investors to make investing decisions. Now, there's lots

of flaws to the PEG ratio, but the biggest one is that it doesn't really work on modern growth companies. Back in the 1980s and 1990s, growth companies were forced to become profitable very early in their life cycle and show gap profitability on the bottom line. They largely did so because they didn't have easy access to capital like modern companies do and investors wanted them to show gap profitability as soon as possible. By focusing on earnings early in their journey, that meant that you could use something like the PEG ratio to make informed decisions. But the PEG ratio doesn't work on more modern companies because more modern companies choose to have zero or even negative earnings for far longer in their life cycle than they once did. For example,

if you look at the history of companies like Salesforce or Amazon or Service Now, they were actually public and were great stocks to buy and hold even though they didn't show gap earnings for several years after they came public. That meant that if you tried to use the PEG ratio analysis on companies like that, it would have told you that those stocks were too expensive or to simply stay away when in reality they were actually tremendous buys because they were growing so quickly. A second problem with the price to earnings to grocery ratio is that it's susceptible to accounting tricks. Now, the nuance of GAP accounting makes it relatively easy for savvy CFOs to manipulate their company's short-term earnings and growth rates in order to make the PEG ratio look artificially attractive. This is why factors such as one-time events such as tax windfalls, selling a business unit, goodwill write downs, or acquisitions can actually temporarily artificially boost or depress a company's earnings and mask its true growth rate. When that happens, the

price toearnings ratio gets out of whack. And that means that the price toearnings to growth ratio is also becomes a useless figure. This means that the PEG ratio only works for companies that are fully optimized for GAAP accounting and the management team is playing no accounting tricks on investors. The final reason I don't like the PEG ratio is because it ignores business quality. The PEG ratio only looks at growth rate and PE and it doesn't account for things like the company's moat, the reinvestment needs of the business, the dilution rate, or the quality of the underlying business model. These factors matter greatly when

you're figuring out how to value a company. And companies that are a highquality business often deserve to trade at higher valuations than lower quality one does. Although that fact would be completely missing if you just looked at the PEG ratio. So, while I appreciate the simplicity of the PEG ratio and I like how it tied the growth rate to the PE ratio and valuation, I think that it overly simplifies valuation and it simply isn't as useful as it once was. While a key thing that I've learned about valuation is that the method you should use changes depending on which phase of the business growth cycle a company is in. In the early

stages of a company's growth cycle, such as stages one and two, I like to focus on total addressable market analysis and perhaps price to sales analysis to make valuation decisions. In the mid-stages of a company's growth cycle, such as stages three and four, I like to use forward multiple analysis like the forward price to earnings ratio and the forward price to free cash flow ratio in order to make valuation decisions. In the late stages of a company's growth cycle, such as stage five or stage six, this is when you can use things like the price to earnings ratio, price to free cash flow ratio, and even a company's dividend yield in order to make valuation decisions. So, while OneUp on Wall Street is absolutely still worth reading today, I think you should skip over the section related to the PEG ratio. By the way, if you're a fan of investing books like I am, I actually took some of the most popular investing books of all time and made infographics that break down their most important lessons. If you want a free copy of an

ebook that I made that visualizes the most important lessons from 10 popular books, just visit long-termmindset.co10books and let me know where to send it. The second major lesson to unlearn comes from the great book A Random Walk Down Wall Street by Burton Malchiel. This is another classic investing book that is filled with great lessons. And I love that this book talked about the idea of keeping your investment costs low, the idea that time in the market is more important than timing the market. And I

love that it was an early proponent of lowcost index funds. However, in the original version of this book, Malcielle is credited with popularizing the idea of the efficient market hypothesis, which is an idea that has seeped deeply into the modern-day investing culture and I think harms more investors than it helps. Now, if you're unfamiliar with this hypothesis, it states that asset prices like stocks are always rational because they reflect all available information perfectly in real time. So, what this theory means is that stock prices are perfectly rational since they're driven by the market and they are based on all available information. Now, while the theory behind that might sound rational and sound, just in my personal investing lifetime, I've seen hundreds of examples that prove this theory to be completely false. Stock

prices swing wildly all the time, and they often make no sense at all. To me, this means that prices are controlled by human emotions like fear and greed far more than they are by rational market participants with perfect information. For example, in the last few years during the meme stock frenzy, this period alone proved to me that the efficient market hypothesis is completely bunk. During a 12-month period, GameStop, the company, was valued at under $1 billion and as much as $18 billion in less than a 12-month time period. When I see a chart like this, it just goes to show that the efficient market hypothesis is completely bunk. And this is far from

the only example of this behavior happening. Check out this chart, which shows AMC Entertainment. During 2021, this company's valuation was just over a billion dollars. And just a few months later, this company's valuation was more than $30 billion. Crazy moves like this don't indicate that this stock was trading on rational, perfect information, but rather on the emotions of the investors at the time. Even a

stock that I held for a long period of time, Appion, experienced this blip for a short period of time. The company's stock price at one point was 50 and then a few months later was over $200 per share and then it came crashing back down to earth and several years later it's under $50 per share. Since this stock literally 4xed and then came crashing back down to earth in a short period of time really shows me that the market wasn't be efficient when it priced this company's stock. Or just consider a company like Google stock in 2025. If there's any company that should be efficiently priced, it's a big wellfollow widely owned company like Google. Yet, even its stock experienced

huge swings in 2025 due to changes in human emotion. The company started the year at just under a $3 trillion market valuation and then dipped below a $2 trillion market valuation later that same year and then grew to almost a $4 trillion market valuation. So from a peak to trough basis in a single calendar year, Google's stock literally had a $2 trillion market swing. When I see movements like that on big popular, well-known, well understood, wellfollowed growth stocks, it just tells me that the efficient market hypothesis is completely bunk. Now to be fair to Malcielle, he didn't actually propose or invent the efficient market hypothesis. That was done by Eugene FMA

a few years earlier, but his book did popularize the idea. And again, to be fair, in later versions of his same book, he clarified his belief, noting that markets can be highly efficient, even if they make errors. I would personally modify that quote just a bit to say that markets are roughly efficient, but they're driven by human emotions and they can make enormous errors. But perhaps I'm just splitting hairs. So, even though while his book is absolutely still worth reading today, any mention of the efficient market hypothesis, I think you can completely ignore. Now, the third major lesson that

needs to be unlearned come from Jim Kramer's book, Real Money. Now, Jim gets a lot of flack on the internet for his various market calls. But I've personally learned quite a bit about the markets and investing by reading his books. And in his book, Real Money, he talked about a couple investing principles that I firmly agree with, such as the idea of buy and homework, meaning that you don't just buy and hold the stock, you buy it and continually research it. He also warned investors to expect volatility as part of the investing process, which is absolutely sound advice. And then third, he

cautioned that you should be highly skeptical of Wall Street. He spent his entire career on Wall Street. So if a guy like that is warning people to be skeptical of things that he see and hear on Wall Street, perhaps you should listen. But as you can imagine, there are some ideas in his book that I don't agree with. And the most egregious of which is his idea of trading around a core position. Now, the idea here is

that instead of just buying and holding a stock that you like, Jim suggests that you sell some of that stock as it goes up and you buy more of that stock as it goes down. Jim says that this strategy increases your returns because you're constantly selling that stock high and buying that stock back low. Now, this sounds smart in theory, but it creates several realworld problems. First and foremost, following this strategy requires constant monitoring of stock prices. You essentially have to be glued to your phone every single day and monitor the valuations of stocks that you hold if you want to try and sell them when they're high and buy them when they're low. Second, all this trading

increases the tax drag on your portfolio. Buying and selling stocks creates transactions, and if those stock transactions are profitable, you're going to owe taxes on the gains that you pay. But the biggest issue that I have with following this strategy is that you dramatically increase your chances of missing out on upside of a core holding by simply selling it way too early. Imagine following a trading around a core position strategy on a great company like Netflix during the mid 2000s. The correct thing to do with this stock over its entire history was buy it high, buy it low, and buy it when it was trading at fair value. If you did that,

you've earned phenomenal long-term returns. than any time that you sold this stock, and I know many investors that have sold this stock along the way, they've cost themselves huge amounts of lost wealth. The same could be said of any really successful, phenomenal stock, which are incredibly rare, like Nvidia, like Apple, and like Microsoft. Following a trading around a core position on any of these great companies, would just dramatically increase the chances that you're going to sell out of it completely way too early and miss out on huge gains. That's why I think that this advice is not only outdated or perhaps it simply doesn't apply to individual investors at all. It

adds just far too much risk, far too much complexity when it's just a much better idea to find great companies, buy them, and then hold them as long as they stay great. Now, that brings us to the fourth major lesson that I think needs to be unlearned, and that comes from the classic book, The Intelligent Investor by Benjamin Graham. Now, this is one of Warren Buffett's favorite books of all time, and rightly so, as there are many great lessons in this book. The intelligent investor popularized the idea of Mr. Market, which is a great analogy for thinking about the behaviors of stock prices. He also talked about

the power of behavior and why it's every investor's job to control their own emotions more so than anything else. And the book introduced the concept of margin of safety, meaning that you should only put capital into an investment when there's a significant margin of safety that not only protects your capital, but maximizes the chance of upside potential. These are lessons that are timeless and are great reasons for even modern-day investors to consider reading this great book. However, there is a lesson in this book that needs to die, and that is that the safest way to invest is to buy companies for less than their net tangible assets or book value. This style of investing was what Warren Buffett called cigar butt investing. And it actually worked

quite well in the 1930s and the 1940s back when Americans were super fearful about stocks and prices due to the effects of the Great Depression. However, while that style worked great for a few decades, it no longer does. The reason this used to work in the old economy is that business value used to be derived from tangible assets which just means things as you can physically touch like factories and machineries. However, in the modern economy, a company's value is no longer generated from tangible assets per se. More of it comes from intangible assets like software, patents, and brand power. Many

modern-day companies derive their value from those intangible assets and that won't be reflected in their book value at all. Consider a company like Microsoft that deres a lot of its current value from its intangible assets such as software and brand name. That makes monitoring its book value almost a meaningless number. This is why I think the idea of cigar butt style investing is just completely outdated and needs to completely be ignored by modern-day investors. So, while I'm still a huge fan of Benjamin Graham and his books, I think the concept that he popularized of cigar butt style investing and focusing on book value simply needs to die. And

that brings us to the final lesson that investors need to unlearn, which comes from the great book, The Little Book That Beats the Market by Joel Greenblat. This is yet another book with lots of great lessons to learn where Greenblat popularized the idea of looking for great companies that were trading at bargain prices, stating that investors need to stay disciplined and patient with their investment results. And he also popularized the idea of looking at a company's return on invested capital to designate what makes for a quality company. So, while the book is still worth reading today, one lesson from this book that needs to die is that there's a magic formula that you can apply to stock market to outperform the market over time. Now, if you're unfamiliar, Greenblack's famous magic formula was a mechanical process that he used that was designed to find good companies that were trading at cheap prices by looking at two simple metrics.

The first metric that he looked at was return on invested capital, which was a rough proxy for how quality a company was. And the second metric he looked at was earnings yield, which was a rough process for how cheaply a company was. The idea behind magic formula investing was to buy stocks that had the highest return on invested capital that also traded at the lowest valuations as judged by their earnings yields. you would simply buy a big basket of these stocks and then sell them every year, thereby guaranteeing that you were getting high quality stocks that were trading at low market valuations. Now, to be completely fair to Greenblat, at the time that he published the book, Marriage Formula Investing worked extremely well. A study from Stablebread

showed that between 1988 and 2009, investing using magic formula principles dramatically outperformed the S&P 500. So, what's the problem? Well, the problem is that whenever a simple investing solution like this gets popularized, it often becomes a victim of its own success. In fact, that same analysis by stable bread showed that if you followed the magic formula over the last 10 years, you have dramatically underperformed the S&P 500 during this time. Now, during their analysis, they pointed out several reasons why magic formula investing no longer works, such as that you dramatically increase your chance of buying a value trap. The magic

formula investing doesn't work on cyclical companies and it's highly sensitive to cyclical nature of businesses. And since you're buying and selling stocks on a yearly basis, you actually are turnurning your portfolio at a very high rate which increases your tax and cost drag. Plus, it's also worth noting that whenever a popular strategy starts to work, other investors pile in which bids up prices which eventually means that that strategy will no longer work. So, while I personally believe that Joel Greenbut is a fabulous investor and someone that every investor should study, the concept of magic formula investing is one that I believe simply needs to die. Well, thanks so much for watching this video and if there's any outdated investing concepts that you think need to die, let me know in the comment section below. I'd love

to read them.