---
video_title: "Stock vs ETF vs Bond"
video_id: qRQa3WajST8
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qRQa3WajST8
video_date: 20260112
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Investing Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/investing
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼My Book on Amazon:▼
  📖 https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0
  
  ▼ABOUT ME:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
What's the difference between a stock, ETF, and bond? Explained visually by Brian Feroldi. A stock is when you own a piece of a company in order to get a claim on a share of the company's profits. You make money by buying a stock. While you're holding it, you can also receive dividend payments. You make

money primarily through when the stock appreciates. ETFs, or exchange-traded funds, are funds that owns a basket of assets. Some ETFs hold stock, others hold bonds, and others hold cryptos, etc. You make money on these funds when you buy them. You sometimes receive dividends from holding them. You make

most of your money through appreciation as the value of the ETF goes over time. Bonds are different than stocks and ETFs because this is when you lend money to a company or a government in exchange for interest payments along the way. You first buy a bond by lending money to the company or government. You're then paid interest along the way for simply making that loan. At the end of the period, you're paid back on your initial amount that you've lent. But bonds tend to be

lower risk because you are paid back at the end. An investor's job is to optimize the mix of stocks, ETFs, and bonds to create the portfolio that has the risk profile and income characteristics that they need. Visual explanations like this are useful. You know what to do.