---
video_title: "ASML vs TSM: Which semiconductor stock is the BETTER BUY right now?"
video_id: Gyn1HYkq9JE
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gyn1HYkq9JE
video_date: 2026-08-26
video_description: |
  Analyze any stock for FREE: https://stocksimplifier.com/yt
  
  ASML and TSM both play pivotal roles in the  in the semiconductor industry.
  
  Which stock is the "Better Buy" right now?
  
  Join us for a deep dive into as we debate the answer. 
  
  You'll see us research:
  
  - How  they make money
  - Key Products
  - Does each one have a "Moat" 
  - Growth potential
  - Financial
  - Valuation
---
Hello everybody. Happy Tuesday and welcome back or welcome if you are a first-timer here. My name is Brian for all the and joining me today from the sunny state of Oregon, Mr. Justin Lamb. Justin, how you doing today?

>> Doing well. Doing very well. It's actually sunny today and very warm. So I'm happy to be here. >> that. Let us know in the comment section

where you're coming from. I see Walt from Sacramento, Brad from Florida, Mauricio from Florida, Leon from Stellenbosch, South Africa. Magic of the internet. But as you guys say hello, Mr. Justin, let's get right into it. What

stocks are we talking about today? >> Oh, we're talking about some nice ones and some ones I'm curious to learn a little bit more about. I know a lot on the industry but not on the specifics for ASML and TSMC. >> Two vitally important input makers to the semiconductor chain. Every Wednesday we do a poll in our newsletter. Hey,

what stocks you want us to talk about? And this week's match up winner was ASML versus TSMC. We have a new match up coming out in tomorrow's newsletter. But we're going to take both these companies through the simplifier seven framework and we're going to ask ourselves which of these two stocks is the better buy today. So let us know in the chat. Are

we talking to shareholders? Do you own either, both, neither, on your watch list? Let us know your interest level in these stocks. Now, Justin, some stocks are easy to research, some are moderate to research, some are hard to research, and some require a PhD in biology or forensic accounting. Where is your sense for What do you think is the difficulty level of these companies?

>> This is This is interesting because they have This is I don't know. I'm I'm going to say I don't know for a change. >> I'm going to say generally speaking I would rate these companies somewhere between medium and hard. The the technology, like what they do is quite hard to understand, but the the business models and stuff like that is on the easier side. I wouldn't put these out of the range of the average investor. Like

if you're an average investor and you're going to go for like JP Morgan or biotech like Moderna, I'd say you're probably better staying away. They're just too hard. These companies I don't think necessarily belong in your too hard pile. But with that let's let's start. So we're going to go over to Stock Simplifier and we're going to start with ASML Holdings.

Can you see that on the screen okay, Justin? Can you zoom in at all? >> Yeah, this looks great. And if anybody thinks it's too small, please mention something in the chat. >> All right, ASML. So what do we got here?

This is a company that was founded 1984. It's got a market cap of about 700 billion dollars. It's in the semiconductor equipment category. Ooh, it pays a dividend. Stock Simplifier says the difficulty rating here is hard.

44,000 employees and it's tagged as both a hardware equipment maker and a toll booth business. Interesting categorization. If you look over the last 10 years market smasher. Look at that, a 15 bagger over the last 10 years smashing past the S&P 500. Mission: Together with our partners, we provide leading patterning solutions that drive the advancements of microchips.

I would say that that's highly accurate. Not much of a mission but it's it's accurate. It looks like an engineer wrote it. >> Yeah, I I very much agree with that one. >> Profitability, this >> is a company with gross margins of about 50%, operating margins 37%, net margin 30%, free cash flow margin of 37%. So, this is a company that does a

great job of converting revenue into profit. Uh 13 billion in cash, 3 billion in debt, plenty of interest coverage. So, looks like a financial powerhouse. Growth, 3 years, 5 years, and 10 years, looks like a mid-teens grower on the revenue line, slightly higher than that on the earnings and free cash flow line, and then valuation, 20 times sales, 67 times earnings, 55 times free cash flow with Oh, look at this, it's got a dividend of about 0.7%, but it's also buying back stock. So,

total shareholder yield of about 2 and 1/2%. Pretty good Pretty good overall looks. So, let's start digging into the business. ASML builds the machines that print circuit patterns onto silicon wafers. Its lithography systems come in two families, extreme ultraviolet EUV machines sold as the NXE generation, and the newer high NA EXE generation, and deep ultraviolet machines. It also sells

metrology metrology and inspect systems that measure and check the pattern those tools create. All right. So, it makes the machines that print uh chips. Money arrives in two streams the company reports separately. New and used systems go to chip makers building memory and logic capacity, and each machine has a long working life once installed. That

installed base feeds a second stream ASML calls install base management, service contracts, spare parts, and field upgrades that raise the throughput or capacity of machines already sitting in customer fabs. The company runs one reportable segment describing itself as a single patterning business rather than a set of divisions. So, that's very interesting to me cuz cuz honestly to me, Justin, selling one big machine one time isn't that exciting of a business, but maintaining, installing, upgrading a fleet of machines, that's a far more interesting business. >> Especially when you're the maybe the only one in the world that builds these machines. >> Right. Yeah, I I I'm pretty sure they're

they're a monopoly on the Okay, so new system net system sales are 75% of revenue. Net service and field operations are 25%. So, pretty good revenue mix. I would like that to be flipped personally, but hey, they're still doing they're they're doing fine overall. Look at the geographic expansion. China, Taiwan, South Korea,

US, Japan. So, this is a global very well diversified global business, 33 billion in euros is the is the um uh currency. Okay. Who's buying these things? The buyers are semiconductor manufacturers, the companies uh that fabricate the memory and logic chips inside phones, servers, and cars.

Two groups matter. The larger building leading edge capacity and needs newer padding equipment, and the second runs mature node and specialty fabs on older light sources. Every fab that already owns an ASML machine is also a service customer for as long as that machine keeps running. Cool? I'm guessing their customer retention rate is effectively 100%.

>> I would assume so, yes. As long as the other customer as long as the customer is still in business, they'll be a customer of ASML. >> At the leading edge, the choice is narrow. ASML's own filings names Canon and Nikon as competitors for its deep ultraviolet systems and names no competitor at all for extreme ultraviolet, the technology the company describes as essential for advancing Moore's law. Buyers at no older nodes do weight those two rivals.

For the service relationship, the reason the to buy a simpler upgrades raises the throughput of capacity of the machine in the fabs they already own. So, it seems at the extreme high end effectively a monopoly. Right below that, there is some competition. So, there they have to be a little bit more, let's just say price sensitive. Um as a side note, we just built a new feature into Stock Simplified. We got

the request that people wanted to share like these two pictures online, so you can click the share button right here and you can actually share out the segments that a company has and the geographic expansion. And you can do it on a whole bunch of different, you know, types and platforms and verticals and stuff like that. So, that's a feature that is built in. All right, business quality questions. Question number one, how predictable is revenue? Modestly. Systems are capital

equipment that fab that fabs replace over many years, but service and upgrades in the installed base run about a quarter of sales and grow on its own. Yeah, that makes sense to me. It's like I I'm sure the lead times for these things is years. Um but buying a brand new machine is not something you're doing constantly. So, revenue modestly predictable makes sense.

Can it raise prices? Easily. No competitor is named for extreme ultraviolet anywhere and gross margins went rose from 53 to 54% between just this quarter. So, yeah, mission critical, definitely has pricing power. Is it recession proof? Weak. Chip makers

buy these machines out of capital budgets tied to one cyclical in market. No history through recession years on record to show the demand holds. All right, fair enough. Competitor position dominant. ASML is the only name source of extreme ultraviolet lithography and as you try to invest in capital has stayed close to 40% for 5 years. Wow. All right.

How exciting is this business? Um, I would normally say five out of I'm going to go five out of five actually. It's how many how many like true monopolies are are out there? Very very few. All right.

Next question. Uh, what phase of the business growth cycle is this company in? ASML is in phase four, the capital return phase. Revenue is growing, it's profitable and actively returning capital through buybacks and dividends. Yeah. So, look

at that. Revenue is growing, profits are are are growing. Um, is it buying back stock and it's paying a dividend. This one's pretty darn simple, Justin. Yep. Capital

return. >> Next, moat. All right. Moat size. So, what's the current state? Two protections sit at

full strength. Stunk machines inside the customer fabs and proprietary technology that no rivals can match. Give ASML a wide moat. So, they got an embedded install base. Their technology with no rival and they have the returns on capital to prove it.

So, five out of five moat moat. Source. Um, current size. Moat direction. A new generation is shipping and embedded machines keeps growing. So, the

moat is widening rather than simply holding. So, the new generation of next models is shipping. High NA extreme ultraviolet began reaching customers in 2025. The base is still compounding. So, the more machines they have in service, the bigger the service revenue gets. And

the returns held on through the 2024 trough and dip. So, wide moat that's getting widener. Do you agree with that? >> Yeah, for the I think the on the moat itself, absolutely. >> Yeah, switching costs, no doubt. I mean,

these are like enormous machines, right? Once you get one installed, you ain't switching. And then on the IP, again, they're they're the market leader. So, I'll go ahead and agree with the AI here, wide and widening, for sure. All right. Growth.

Does this company have growth potential? So, ASML's revenue has compounded at 15% a year over the last 3 years, and management raised its guidance uh against to 43 billion to 45 billion against a 43 billion dollar base. Wow, so growth's going to accelerate. The 3-year revenue pace compounded at 15%, country above the 15% it needs. Guidance uh implying growth ahead, and forward estimates, analyst estimates for next year do not line up with what they're reporting revenue should at the company's own growth rate is what the surrender. Okay. So, again, look at

this, very very very consistent revenue growth, right? Mid-teens for for 10 years, no matter how you kind of slice it. Um and even, you know, this year, this is this is last 12 months versus annual, which is why it looks like it's a slowdown. So, it's not a it's not a one-to-one comparison uh there, but extremely predictable revenue growth. And then just think about the end markets. Are

chips getting more important or less important? Uh new offerings drive growth, for sure. How would you rate this, Justin? >> Oh, I would definitely rate it as high, especially since when you look at the 10-year compared to the 5-year, it's accelerating. >> Yep.

>> And I don't see AI slowing down. I see it speeding up, so from what I hear, they're selling them as fast as they can make them. I would put it high. >> Uh I'll go ahead and say I'll go four. I'll be a little more cautious than you because uh totally agree that the demand the demand is there. How how can they

really increase production to meet that demand and drive To me, high is like 20% growth or more. Like this to me is durable 15% ish revenue compounder. Um, but splitting hairs there. >> I like the nuance though. >> What?

>> I like the nuance though cuz it's uh I think for anyone really reviewing a company, when I see it, the demand is so high, the growth is going to be high especially with the monopoly. >> For sure. >> But when you're adding in the supply factor, how much could they actually grow? Putting it down to a four instead of a five just from a thought process perspective, that's good information that as investors we should be uh we should talk about, you know, what goes into that. >> Yeah.

A really simple thing is the company selling atoms or bits. It's selling atoms. Atoms don't scale as fast as bits do, right? And that goes that goes both ways. >> Yes.

>> Um, much harder to disrupt atoms than it is to disrupt bits. Uh, management, okay. Five out of five. This is saying fantastic management. Management has beat estimates in seven of the eight last eight quarters, held return of invested capital near 40%, and shrank the share count while paying a dividend.

Okay. Christophe uh Fouquet Fouquet became the CEO in 2024 after leading the EUV business from 2018 and serving as a chief business officer, a planned handover. So, he's a homegrown uh CEO. He's been at the company eight years, CEO for two. Man, am I glad we tell you that information cuz that's good to know. He only has $8 million

dollars at least direct stock, but if he was tired 2 years ago, Justin, he probably got a big stock package that is still vesting. So, this number will obviously grow. Okay? Um and before that, he was at ASM and Phillips. There's no founder. Yeah.

So, >> Yeah, I remember doing the research on this one specifically. The founder was actually a conglomerate between two businesses, and that's why we don't have a founder in this specific uh business. >> [clears throat] >> So, this company was created for two other businesses? That's fascinating. >> Yes. Or or originally, so it's uh

what we do in Stock Simplifier is the founder is there when it's a person, but when it's a conglomerate, we just let it focus on the CEO. >> Yep. Okay, that makes sense. Uh do employees like working here? A- ASML gets 4.0 out of five across

thousands of review sites. Do they beat expectations? Yes, they do. You know how much that matters to me personally. Uh are they shareholder friendly? Uh

buying back stock and paying a dividend and great returns on capital. Uh if we go to their execution scorecard, I care more about revenue personally than they do earnings. So, beat beat beat beat beat miss. They had one revenue miss. And the funny thing about I'm sure like a revenue miss is literally like a machine. It's like did they do one

machine more or less than they were um s- supposed to. >> Did one widget cause a delay where they weren't able to sold it? Yeah. >> Uh really? So, um Yeah, overall, checking all the boxes, basically. I'll

I'll go five out of five. It seems like it seems like great leadership. Risk. Okay, here we go. This is saying extremely risky. Wow, let's see why

they're s- why it's saying that. A single customer is a quarter of sales. Government export licenses gate what ASML may ship and a strong balance sheet does not remove either exposure. So, concentrated customer base, the largest customer is 24% of revenue. I'm guessing Taiwan semi.

I'm guessing. >> Most likely, yeah. >> And four customers made up 62% of revenue. One is a fab operator changing plans moves the whole top line. Yep.

Uh license ASML cannot control shipping those needs Dutch and US exports license and the company says plainly it does not control the process. So, growth is a geopolitical thing. Um its balance sheet is amazing kind of me on that. Okay, so very concentrated revenue. Does that give you pause at a company of that this size and scale?

>> It does to a certain extent and actually we just had a few questions come in uh in the chat that specifically focus on the risk both talking about the exact same thing. And I was waiting to chat about this in the risk as well because I think that because it is effectively a monopoly in a couple different areas their biggest strength is also their biggest weakness because if someone else is able to join this arena and actually do something that is competitive. And they actually have the supply, the demand is there. People are just [clears throat] waiting for the the hardware. So, I think it's really one of those double-edged swords where it the growth and everything is so strong, but the risk is actually really high because it takes one person, one competitor to all of a sudden potentially take some customers away or make it less predictable in the future.

>> So this is interesting so countries the filing names architecture that leans less on lithography and state-backed new entrants as the real threats. So we haven't seen that yet but it's definitely saying um state-backed entrants. It could shift towards chip architecture. The company calls high NA essential to advancing Moore's Law and four machines probably probably in the deep dive. Um Only a handful of companies on Earth the offsetting strengths.

Uh top handful could disruption specific threats. Uh yep state-backed the competition factor points towards new competitors Jim by the ambition if self-sufficiency and geopolitical context actors whose funding does not depend on a technology being commercially viable first. So absolutely like how much of a risk do you think that is? So on the one hand if China is pushing their companies to hey make this is a critical technology become a competitor to this. You know a downside to customer concentration. Well

let's talk about the good and the bad of it. On the plus side you need a very small sales team to sell to 15 customers right? Like you can have a sales rep per account essentially. So sales and marketing is not a big expense. On the flip side if a competitor comes in same thing. They

don't need a huge sales team to go out and start to compete against these these thing these a company like this and if you lose just one account for one reason that seriously dents your growth. So yeah I would say that that is definitely a big risk to keep in mind. Uh how much is outside of their control? Export licenses so licensing is a big thing. Yeah, just geopolitical is is a big thing there.

And then offsetting that are the financials and the awesomeness of the of the financials. So, concentrated customer base, rising risk of of China, geopolitical headwinds. I'm curious how you, Justin, would rank the riskiness of this company. Stock simplifier says, five out of five at one out of five, as risky as it gets. >> Yeah, I would actually put it as moderate for myself. Okay. Just because

the demand is so high and primarily speaking, the competitive or the biggest risk would be a China-backed competitor. >> Mhm. >> And there is more demand than there is supply. So, even if you added a competitor, I don't know if you would be taking away actual customers because I think that the pie is actually increasing in size. That's why I would put it as a moderate risk where I think sentiment as soon as if a competitor came out tomorrow, sentiment would get scared, other investors might get scared, but the reality of it over the long term, I would be I doubt I would be worried at all.

>> So, you're 100% right about the sentiment. How long would that take to the actually flow through and hit the company's financial statements? Probably a couple of years. Yeah, I don't like the >> I actually really like what this person said where in 3 years, it could actually do something. These machines are so large even if you put all of China's the the government backing behind it, how many years would it actually take to build a viable competitor? And then once

you build a viable competitor, how long would it take to take away a customer and the time frame just keeps on extending into the future. >> Mhm. Pedro brings up the Terafab, which is Tesla's new Terafab facility. So, one reason why that was not in Stock Screener is because this pulls from SEC filings and it's probably not in the SEC filing. So, Pedro, I think you're on the right hunt that that is a potential competitor a couple years down the down the road, but at the very least ASML has not put that in its regulatory filings as of yet. So,

you know, if you were to say, "Hey, this is a monopoly. This is a monopoly at the high end and and it's been extremely successful." My natural inclination would be to say, "This is a very low-risk investment." Right? >> Yeah.

>> But after reading through the disruption risk, the geopolitical risk and stuff like that, I don't think it's high risk. I I think moderate makes sense to me as a good as a good middle ground. It's more of going in, there are some things that could threaten the sentiment that could later threaten the financial statements, but as long as you know them going in there, that's what that's to me what really matters. >> I think we're 3 to 5 years away from any type of real risk for that. >> All right. So, clearly a great business.

What about the valuation? So, one out of five, it's very expensive. Reads as a steeply valued PE of 54, well above its historic range, lands it in the red zone, reinforced by a dividend yield also in the red. So, phase four companies business growth cycle naturally picks the price-to-earnings ratio first, which is when when it's when it's useful, this is the metric the best metric to kind of look at. So, you can see that back in 2025 it traded as low as 25 times earnings, currently 55 times earnings. If you look over a

3-year period, 55 Yeah, look at that. Like the stock is just like doubled um on a on a valuation basis. Over a 10-year period, very similar thing. So, if if this was {quote} averagely priced over its 5-year average, it'd be about 1,200 bucks per share. The current price is 1,700 bucks per share if it did that. Now, that's PE. It's always good

to check multiples. So, on a price-to-free cash flow basis, definitely in the expensive zone. If we look on dividend yield, so this inverted where higher lower is Excuse me, higher is cheaper, lower is better. So, the average yield here is about .8%. It's

currently about 5%. Even if we go to price-to-sales, this company got as low as seven times sales, currently 16 times sales. Um to me, Justin, multiple analysis is really all we need for for a company at this stage. We could do a reverse DCF or a DCF even, but seems give given how clean this numbers for this company's financials are, um I'm I'm I'm willing to make a valuation call. Are you?

>> Well, valuation is more your zone than mine. I I'm just looking at this chart and I'm remembering actually speaking with a community member last year, last summer specifically, looking at ASML and saying, "Wow, I just don't understand why this isn't higher." And it would have been such a great time to buy then. >> [laughter] >> What if we did do a reverse DCF? Let's let's I guess we can do a reverse a DCF here. So, we'll do a 10% discount rate.

We'll do a 2% long-term growth rate. We'll do a 10 years a single a single growth rate. The current margin is 28% free cash flow. Yeah, I think it probably get to like 30. Um this is saying it has to grow revenue 24%.

24? Yeah, okay, I guess so. 24% revenue growth over the next 10 years holding margin free cash flow margin at 30% and that's right about I guess it got as high as 36. So, we maybe can go a little more aggressive with this and say 33 split the difference there. So, this is a company that has to grow its revenue above 20% per year for 10 years at today's prices in order for today's valuation to make sense generating 90 billion in free cash flow 10 years from now up from 14 billion today. To me, given the multiples and

given that I'd have a hard time calling this anything cheaper than expensive personally. >> Yeah, I would I would agree. Although, after what you just did with the reverse DCF it I feel like those those numbers are actually going to be quite easy for them to continue to beat. >> Easy, given the risks? Given the 10-year risk we just mentioned?

>> Yes, just for the simple fact that I would say while I look at the Achilles' heel, you know, like I said the double-edged sword, I don't see real competitive risk for 3 to 5 years. >> Yeah, fair enough. >> So, when you stretch it out 10 years, I still see it growing without competition for 3 to 5 years and even when you get competition, are people going to want to jump at the first one being offered? That I see it okay, now it's going to be year 7 to 10 before you're risking actual customers leaving with the expansion of the industry. >> Well, either way, I think we both agree this is a capital return company, awesome business, wide moat, what moat's getting wider, the growth is quite solid, fantastic management team, moderate risk level.

You could argue either way on that. No To me, there's no doubt. This is a This is an expensive stock with a lot priced a lot priced into it. But overall, just a really fabulous fabulous business. I'm just going to naturally tag that to be on my watch list. I'm going to go ahead and set a

price alert. This is a company that would probably interest me about I don't know 1,400 bucks a share. Yeah. That's something that would be in to me. And I'm also going to download that one-pager. So here's like the one-pager

on it that kind of like oops zoomed in too far. Summary of everything that we just talked about with all of our numbers on there. And yeah, this would be kind of like fairly valued about 1,300. You could argue it's a little a little that might be too aggressive on the on the valuation front to like think that we'll get back there. But obviously really solid really solid business overall.

If you're curious about what we're using, we are using Stock Simplified to do all this analysis. We have two paid plans you can do for Stock Simplified, a standard plan which costs 20 bucks a month, our pro plan which includes some of those advanced tools and and the deep AI analysis. That costs 40 bucks a month. But just last week we also launched a free plan, a $0 per month free plan where you can get access to 5 years of financials, a bunch of the free tools that we have. We don't give you the AI analysis, but you can put your stocks in there, organize a dashboard, get price alerts, 5 years of financials.

If you're watching this and you don't yet have a Stock Simplified account, just go to stocksimplified.com/free and you can create a free Stock Simplified account, start to put your dashboard in there and start rating stocks. We are really happy to have this free plan available so people can really get kick the tires and see see how it works. All All With that, stock number two is TSM. Yeah, TSM.

Also called TSMC, so that always confuses me about is this a is this C C or not? All right. This is a $2 trillion company. $2 trillion uh company. Also in the semiconductor equipment space. Also paying a dividend

and the dividend uh the difficulty rating here is hard. Founded 3 years later, 2,000 employees, market beater over the last 5 years, over the last 10 Look, very similar returns over the last 10 years. And just uh a money-printing machine um over the over the long term. Although it looks like it did a whole bunch of nothing for a couple years there before really taking off um recently. So, their mission is our mission.

>> [laughter] >> I'm guessing they I'm guessing they don't have one. Um margins. This is a company with a 60% gross margin, a little bit higher, a 50% operating margin. My goodness. My goodness, is that good? Net margin of

44% free cash flow margin of only 26%. So, huge difference between net margin and free cash flow margin. I'm guessing that's just massive CapEx spending uh to to grow. Uh financials. Plenty of cash.

Uh similar levels of debt. Revenue growth a little bit faster than ASML. Earnings growth similar, free cash flow growth similar. Valuation. Uh 0.6 times sales.

I doubt that. I doubt that that is uh correct. Uh there might be some currency things uh going on going down there. We'll check that. We'll check that more closely.

Uh all right. So, this is a company that is in the New York Stock Exchange but based in Taiwan. So, yeah, currency stuff could be playing some uh havoc with the numbers there. TSMC is a pure-play semiconductor foundry. It does not design or sell chips of its own. It

manufactures wafers and customers' designs. Around that core, it sells mask making, wafer probing, assembling and testing, design services, and advanced packaging. The company describes its business by the end markets its customers serve, high-performance computing, smartphones, connected edge devices, automotive, and digital consumer electronics. Revenue is earned per wafer produced. So, the business turns on being first to each new process and generation and on keeping expensive factories full. That's interesting. So,

it's it's on a it's I didn't realize it was a per per chip model. That's very very interesting. Uh that's far better than I thought it was going to be. Uh the company owns its its fabs and runs them in Taiwan, the United States, Japan, and Germany, which makes deciding how much capacity to build and where the central financial choice every year. What is distinctive is that it sells no chips of its own, so it never competes with the customers who hands its design.

Uh so, yeah, whatever the currency there is NT 4.4 trillion. >> [laughter] >> Hence, the hence the price-to-sales ratio being 0.6. When measured not in US dollars, it does look like it's going to be a little bit cheaper.

Um high-performance computing is 60% of revenue, growing 21%. Smartphones are 27% of revenue, growing 8%. Internet of Things, automotive, other. Yeah, this has got to be the AI platform, high-performance computing, and it's growing 21% per year. So, yeah, again, really strong growth, but the the star performer is high high-performance computing. Uh it's in

the US mostly 74% China, Taiwan, Amea, and Japan. Customers. The buyers are chip companies that own a design and need someone else to build it. And they come in two kinds. Fabulous designers own no factories at all, so all the manufacturing is bought from outside. And then there's integrated

device manufacturers, run their own plans, and still send work out when a design needs a process generation they cannot yet run themselves. The fabulous group carries the business. What they weigh when choosing is the company where is process technology, manufacturing excellence, customer trust, and service quality. Meaning earlier technology readiness, better quality, and faster yields. The alternatives are other foundry service providers that integrated device manufacturers that also sell capacity the company stated reach volume production on its recent process before competitors.

So it's just it's just outstanding at what it does. It doesn't compete with any of its um of businesses, and it also is it it's the manufacturing arm of fabulous chip fabless chip companies. All right, business quality. How predictable is revenue? Capacity is bought continuously rather on replacement cycle, and revenue grew every year in the window, but no backlog or recurring revenue layer holds it up.

No order book, no remaining performance obligations because it's a Huh. Because of its business model. Well, I would still guess that revenue is fairly predictable. Uh can it raise prices easily? Customers who need the newest process generation have no substitutes. And look at its

operating margin. Yeah, I would say that that's probably accurate. How recession proof is it? It says modestly. And what's their competitive position?

Dominant. Dominant competitive position, semi-recurring revenue business model, globally diversified. To me, this is a five out of five business. All right, next question. >> I completely agree.

>> Uh what phase of the business growth cycle are we in? It says capital return. Revenue is positive, profits are positive, have been for years, no buybacks but they are paying a dividend. Yep, capital return, easy peasy. Moat.

Does it have a moat? Two mech- two mechanisms at that full strength, plus returns near 30%. A wide moat. Huge operating margin, the designs are node bound, moving a taped out design means re-engineering and re-qualifying it. All right, so there are some switching costs and a barrier nobody has paid. Research ran 6 to 8% revenue

yearly, the top on top of the capital bill. So they're investing on their own internal capabilities, um as well. I mean, just look at the operating margin for does it have a does it have a um a moat? Uh yeah, I would say it definitely does. Okay, is it growing shrinking? A new

process generation is ramping on a step change in capital spending while returns keep expanding. So the moat is widening. There's two nanometer arriving, the node reached 3% of wafer revenue in the first quarter out. Revenue is still climbing. Uh returns are still climbing and the build is funded. Capital spending

stepped up to 1 trillion NT. Uh one Yeah, trillion. Uh million millions in fiscal year 2025. So they are investing heavily and it looks like their newest generation, the two nanometers, are just just just ramping now. >> And just for your knowledge, Brian, uh NT is New Taiwan and it's about uh let's see, what was it? I was just

looking it up. For $1, it's equivalent to 30 New Taiwanese. So, divide by 30 cents and you have dollars and I will be making an update very shortly to move this over to US dollars. So, we're finding new things live. >> Yeah, great. How hard is it to switch?

Very hard. Once Yeah, once you start at the manufacturing process, there's huge switching costs. Does scale help each customer nodes deepens it? This is more of a networking effect. I doubt that that kind of does. Is there a cost

advantage? Yes. The industry's heaviest capital base points to a yield and process cost advantage in cost, not price, that that rivals. So, there's a cost advantage and very hard for incumbents to copy. Yeah. I agree with

with the AI is saying here. Wide moat business with a with a a moat that's extremely strong. All right, growth analysis. Revenue is compounded at 19% and above 15% for a high-growth business. It's well growing way faster than the economy. The latest

quarter accelerated. Second quarter revenue was up 36% and 12% sequentially. So, the trailing rate is not peaking and there's but there's no backlog. So, let's look back at history. Revenue did decline in 2022. That was the pullback year for

a lot of uh tech companies and profits dipped back here, but it's pretty much been a very steep, very like look at the acceleration in revenue ever since kind of like AI took off. Is the industry growing? For sure. Can new offerings drive growth? Absolutely. Yeah, this to

me I'm going to I'm going to rate it the same way I did um ASML. TSMC solid growth. Not five out of five, but four out of five solid growth. Management question. Five out of five. This is a great

management team. Earnings beat estimates in seven of the last eight quarters. The share count has not moved in five years and the heaviest spending produced the best return. Earnings only beat analysts in seven of the last eight quarters and there was a tiny shortfall. There's no dilution.

And spending that earns what does keep on its return on capital. Morris Chang, this guy is like legendary. He's the founder of the uh of the the company as a joint venture between the Republic of China and private investors. He served as his chairman until 2018. I I read something fascinating about Morris Chang a couple days ago.

He was given zero stock in the company. Zero. Yet, he is a multi-billionaire from stock and all that stock he purchased with his own money. >> Wow. >> Yeah.

>> That's impressive. >> Yes. So, Hall of Fame founder? Morris Chang. Absolutely. With with with

shareholder alignment. Uh C. C. Wei has been at the company CEO for eight years and was at the company for 28. I love homegrown founders.

Uh $500 million with the stock. He's been the CEO since 2018, chairman since 2024. After 28 years, he came up through operations, holds a doctorate in electrical engineering. Do employees like working here? Uh 3.3 out of five stars. Do they beat

expectations? Absolutely. Are they shareholder friendly? For sure. And do they have good returns on capital?

Absolutely. And again, let's check that revenue execution. Revenue execution has looked really good. Re- really really good, really consistent. Yeah. To me, five out of

five. >> Oh, without a doubt. >> team. Yep. Risks.

Moderate risks. The three factors range benign to a strong against the geopolitical elevator. Okay. One geographic risk. The majority of production sits in the Republic of China and the ability to resell runs through United States export control. Yeah, I

would say there's some geopolitical risk here. The other three are contained. The largest customer is 19% of revenue. No named force. I'm guessing that's that's Nvidia is the the largest um uh percent of revenue. And execution

argues against worse. Earnings beats everything in the last quarter. So, customer concentration potential issues, although it's seems like it's more. The 10 largest are 78% of revenue. Just as concentrated as ASML.

Disruption a threat. A missed process generation named a threat in the company's currently heading in this cadence. Yeah, yet another company Justin that's that's dealing in bits uh in the atoms, not bits. So, >> Yeah. >> harder to disrupt. How much is outside

of their control? Definitely with um geopolitical stuff. With excellent financials. How do you want to rate this one for riskiness? >> I think it really nailed it for me as the moderate. I think that

there are just because I don't see a ton of we'll call it if risks were bullet points, I don't see a long list of risks. >> Yeah. >> But the political risk is so high that that's the only reason why it would go down to moderate from very low. >> Yeah. Yet another company that if if there was no geopolitical, no customer concentration, no doubt would be a low risk company. It's basically it's

basically a monopoly, but yeah, when you add those in, yeah, there I would say moderately risky is is is appropriate here. All right, valuation. Taiwan Semi two out of five. Uh PE is 30. It's above its historic range. The dividend yield is 0.77. And

same. So, PE ratio is about 30. You can see that the average is about 25. So, the {quote} "fair value" using a 5-year PE would be about 336 per share. This is 416.

Got down to as low as Wow, it was Oh, it was 11 times earnings back in 2022. And if we look over a 10-year period, towards the higher end, but not insane. Let's do free cash flow. Similar, although free cash flow consistently runs at a uh higher number than earnings. And if we go dividend yield, the dividend yield was almost 3% back in 2022. Wow,

what a bargain it was uh back then. Free cash flow yield uh very similar. And if we do that same reverse DCF, uh yeah, this is going to be off. This is using the um This is using the other currency. Uh that that's why there. Um it's it's

comparing a market cap in dollars to um free cash flow in new Ti- new Taiwanese. That's why you're getting that kind of weird number there. Um so, multiple analysis is definitely going to be uh the way to go here. And yeah, looking really >> It's funny when you go back 5 years, you can just put your marker on November of 2022 when uh ChatGPT came out. And it's basically since then straight up.

>> Yep. This is when ChatGPT came out. Yeah. Sentiment was quite low, and then boom, got more uh important. Yeah, to me, very very similar though. Uh I I

would rate it as I think I rate it Taiwan's uh ASML is very expensive. I would rate this as um >> And you put >> expensive. >> You put the other as two as well. >> Oh, I did. Okay.

>> Mhm. >> I'll rate this. Look at this. Like almost the exact same composite score. [laughter] And this is a company in phase four, um great business, wide moat, strong moat direction, a good growth, fantastic management team, moderately risky, also expensive, also expensive valued. I'm also going to put this, I

would say, on on a watch list. That's kind of where it's worth on. And for a price alert, I would go, let's just say, yeah, 333 would certainly be something. All right, Justin. So, to review, both businesses, awesome. Both

businesses, more expensive than you would want to kind of pay. Both businesses have good growth, and both are facing the same geopolitical risks, the same disruption risks, and the same customer concentration risks. If you had to choose between Taiwan Semi and ASML right now, what's your choice? >> Oh, that is a tough one. I would say, I think over the long term, ASML might have less risk just for the geopolitical.

>> Okay. >> So, ASML might be my choice, and I think that there are more people trying to put their hat in the ring for semiconductor chips than there are for the lithography. So, I think with ASML, less people are trying to compete, and even if they were, it would take so long to do. To me, trying to be risk averse, I would go with ASML over TSMC. >> Okay. Uh

No pushback from me. I I don't think you're going to go wrong with either company. Either company is is really fantastic. If I had to choose, I'm going with Taiwan Semi. I like going with larger companies. It's

a two trillion versus 600 billion. I like the business model of Taiwan Semi um bit better. Um the risk I think is is prob- is the risk is higher for Taiwan Semi um absolutely, but to me you're getting compensated for that with a a better valuation. Uh I don't like the ASML valuation at all. Uh on second look I would probably rate it as a one out of five as opposed to two out of five. I

think Taiwan is more expensive, but I would rate it as a two out of five. So, to me very similar businesses, very similar growth, very you're taking on risk either way, but if I had to choose one, I think I would give the slight edge to Taiwan Semi uh here is what is what I would choose. But again, two absolutely absolutely fabulous businesses. >> Yeah, this really in my head this is about as close as you're going to get to a [laughter] coin toss comparing the two because you could just go down the individual lines and it's ooh, this is a I like this. This is a good comparison right here.

>> Yeah, for sure. And then here's the one-page overview of uh Taiwan Semi uh that we have. Some of the things you can do here, you can check out the financial statements and they're and they are set to the Taiwanese uh market there. So, you can see just how like consistent the revenue growth uh has been. From a capital return perspective, both of these companies are paying dividends.

You can see that uh Taiwan Semi really been paying a dividend for uh quite some time. Both of them have been buying back stock. Uh both uh uh excuse me, Taiwan Semi has not been buying back stock, but the stock-based compensation, even though this looks like a lot in absolute terms, this is very very small. Like look at the dilution rate. The dilution rate has been effectively zero for uh for 10 years. So, I love management

teams that kind of that that kind of uh do that. So, yeah, my choice Taiwan Semi, but I don't think you can go wrong with either. Well, thank you guys so much for watching. Uh as a reminder, if you haven't tried Stock Simplified yet, the tool the tool that we've been using, go to stocksplitter.com/free and you can start create a free account that gives you access to a bunch of tools. You can figure out what phase the

company is in, you can analyze its dividend, get access to the dashboard, price alerts, and 5 years of of financial statements. For people that are paid users, you get access to all the tools that we kind of just showed you there. So, it's a tool that we are extremely proud of and if you have feedback for suggestions, you're talking to the team that that built it right now. So, we are always open to hearing ways that we can make it better. Thank you guys so much. We will

see you next week with another head-to-head match-up and thanks Justin for joining me. >> Thank you for having me. >> Bye everyone.