---
video_title: "The Little Book That Still Beats the Market // Joel Greenblatt"
video_id: LNVOcjIhax8
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LNVOcjIhax8
video_date: 20260107
video_description: |
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Top 10 Investing Books Summary: https://longtermmindset.co/10books
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼My Book on Amazon:▼
  📖 https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0
  
  ▼ABOUT ME:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
The Little Book That's Still Beats the Market by Joel Greenblatt, explained visually by Brian Feroldi. In the book, Joel Greenblatt emphasizes the use of the magic formula, which is to simply buy good companies at bargain prices. Two, good investors rely on systems, not gut feeling. Don't try to outthink the market, just stick to a formula. Three, focus on returns on capital. A great

business earns a lot on each dollar that it invests. Four, long-term results require patience. You must trust that the formula works, but not every year. Five, insist on buying at a good price. Even great businesses can be bad investments if you overpay. Six, make

sure you diversify, but not too much. Greenblatt suggests investing in 20 to 30 well-chosen companies. Seven, always rebalance. Greenblatt likes to set it, forget it, and check back in annually. Eight, remember that anyone can do this.

You don't need a PhD or a job on Wall Street to invest well. Nine, always ignore Wall Street. Good investors use volatility to serve them, not scare them. 10, time, don't be flashy. Focus on being effective. This might sound too

simple to work, but it does. And if visual summaries like this are useful, you know what to do.