---
video_title: "Which DIVIDEND ETF is Best? (VIG vs SCHD vs DGRO vs VYM)"
video_id: 7K4jPUqXDJg
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7K4jPUqXDJg
video_date: 20260124
video_description: |
  ▼ Try Fiscal AI for FREE ▼
  https://fiscal.ai/brian — 📈 Our favorite stock research tool
  
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 ETF Investing Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/etf
  
  ▼ Free AI Prompts▼
  🤖 Business Model Analysis: http://longtermmindset.co/ai
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼My Book on Amazon:▼
  📖 https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0
  
  ▼ABOUT ME:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
Which dividend ETF is the best choice for your portfolio? In this video, we're going to compare the four most popular dividend ETFs to each other to figure that out. We'll take a look at these ETFs yields, dividend growth, total return, expense ratio, and volatility to figure out which is the best choice for your investment dollar. Let's start by looking at the biggest dividend ETF out there, VIG, which is Vanguard's Dividend Appreciation ETF. Now, before we can dive into the details, we first need to establish a baseline for comparison. And

I think the best fund to do that with is VOO, which is Vanguard's S&P 500 ETF, and also the most popular ETF in the world with 1.5 trillion in assets under management. Now, VOO tracks the 500 largest companies in the United States, and it has a tiny expense ratio of just 0.03%. Now, VOO owns all 500 companies in the S&P 500, and it's important to know that some of those companies do not pay a dividend. That's because there's a

trade-off that companies have to make between paying profits out as a dividend or using that capital for other purposes, such as to fund growth. So, while about 80% of the companies in the S&P 500 do pay a dividend, many of the largest companies like Nvidia, Google, and Meta pay out tiny dividends, and some other mega caps like Amazon, Tesla, and Berkshire pay no dividends at all because they use their profits for other purposes. That's one reason why VOO only has a dividend yield of 1.1%, and VOO's dividend hasn't grown that fast, either. It's only grown about 6% per year for the last 10 years. But,

none of that has stopped VOO from being a great investment. This fund has returned 15.9% per year over the last 10 years, which is in part due to those mega cap companies choosing to use their profits to drive growth instead of pay them out to shareholders as dividends. All right, now that we have a baseline established, let's see how VIG compares. Now, VIG was launched back in 2006, and it's the largest dividend ETF in the world with a hundred billion in total assets. And VIG

has a very low expense ratio of just 0.05% which is exactly what you'd expect from a Vanguard fund. Now, as of the start of 2026, this ETF offers up a very attractive yield of 1.6% which is 50% higher than VOO. And because VIG prioritizes companies that are growing their dividend, VIG's dividend has grown about 8% per year for the last 10 years which is faster than VOO's dividend has grown. However,

because VIG prioritizes dividend payers, the total return for VIG over the last 10 years is about 14.1% per year. Now, that's fantastic in absolute terms, but it's not as strong as VOO. So, if you put $10,000 in each of these funds 10 years ago, you'd have about $44,000 today if you invested in VOO and only about 37,000 if you invested in VIG. However, it is worth noting that VIG has provided a slightly smoother ride than investing in VOO. The

biggest drawdown in VIG has been a negative 31% return for VIG versus a negative 43% for VOO. And that makes sense because companies that pay dividends tend to be slightly less volatile than the market in general. So, overall, VIG is a great choice for Vanguard loyalists who are willing to exchange a slightly higher dividend yield and slightly lower volatility for a less long-term upside potential. Next, let's take a look at SCHD which is the Schwab US Dividend ETF that was launched back in 2011. Now, SCHD focus on the hundred highest dividend yielding stocks that also have a strong record of dividend sustainability. And this fund

has attracted more than 70 billion in assets under management and has a tiny expense ratio of just 0.06%. Now, where SCHD shines is its very attractive dividend yield of 3.8% as of the start of 2026. And that's more than triple the dividend yield that you get with VOO and more than double what you get with VIG. In addition, because

SCHD also focuses on dividend growers, its dividend has actually grown about 10.8% per year for the last decade, which is even faster dividend growth than we've seen out of VIG. Now, on the downside, SCHD's focus on dividend yield means that it has only delivered an annualized return over the last decade of about 12.9% annually. And that's a good example of showing that companies that prioritize big dividend payments don't always provide the same total return as companies that prioritize other things such as growth. So, if you put $10,000

into VOO, VIG, and SCHD 10 years ago, SCHD has actually delivered the lowest overall return over the last 10 years. In addition, just because you own SCHD doesn't necessarily mean you've had a smoother ride. In some cases over the last 10 years, SCHD, which is the purple line here, has actually been more volatile and had more downside than VOO and VIG. But, when taking everything together, SCHD is the perfect choice for investors who want their portfolio to generate meaningful cash flow right now, and they're willing to sacrifice long-term appreciation in order to get it. So, if you're the type of investor who wants big quarterly dividend payments, for those payments to grow over time, SCHD is a solid choice for you. Now, if you're a fan of ETF

investing, I created a series of infographics that break down the fundamentals of ETFs into simple visuals, and I compiled them into a free ebook. If you want a copy of that ebook, just visit longtermmindset.co/etf and let me know where to send it. Let's take a look at our next dividend ETF, which is DGRO. Now, that's the iShares Core Dividend Growth ETF, which was launched back in 2014. Now, DGRO focus

on companies that are consistently growing their dividends over time and have a sustainable payout ratio. And that has allowed DGRO to gather about 40 billion in assets under management. Though it's worth noting that it has the highest expense ratio on this list of 0.08%, which is still quite low in absolute terms. Now, DGRO offers up a dividend yield of 2.1%

and its dividend has grown about 11% annually over the last 10 years. And that is the fastest growth rate that we've seen on this list of ETFs. What should be equally impressive to you as an investor is its total return over the last decade has been about 14.2% per year. Now, while that number still does lag VOO, it's actually the highest total return when compared to the other dividend ETFs we've looked at thus far.

However, if you look at this ETF's volatility over the last decade, we've seen similar drawdowns to the other ETFs that are out there. DGRO has essentially been just as volatile as the S&P 500, although there have been periods when it has been slightly less volatile than average. So, DGRO is a great choice if you want a higher than average yield, but you want to do your best to keep up with the market's return over the long term. And that brings us to our final ETF we're going to look at, which is VYM, the Vanguard High Dividend Yield ETF. Now, as the name suggests, VYM focuses on companies that have above average dividend yields, and it also excludes REITs from its ownership. Now,

this ETF has been around for a very long time as it was started way back in 2006 and has grown to be a massive fund with 84 billion in total assets under management. As you'd also expect from Vanguard, it has a very low expense ratio of 0.06%. Now, as of the start of 2026, this ETF offers up a dividend yield of 2.4%, which is more than double the market in general, although it's also the slowest dividend growth rate we've seen from this group at growing at a compound annual growth rate of about 7% per year for the last decade. VYM's total return

over the last decade has been about 12.4% per year. Now, while that number is appealing in absolute terms, it's worth pointing out that it's actually the worst performing ETF from a total return perspective on this entire list. If you invested 10 grand in this ETF 10 years ago, you'd only have $32,000 today, which certainly isn't chump change, but it's well below the $44,000 you'd have if you invested in VOO instead. In addition, VYM, which is the purple line here, has had plenty of volatility along the way, sometimes taking even longer to recover than the market in general. So, it's not like

investing in this ETF has been volatility free, either. But, overall, VYM seems to be a great choice for Vanguard investors who want to get a higher than average dividend yield than they do with VIG. So, if you're the type of investor that wants broad exposure to hundreds of dividend-paying companies, and you want a higher than average dividend yield, VYM seems like a decent enough choice. So, now that we've covered everything, which dividend ETF is best? Well, the unfortunate answer to that question is it really depends on what you [snorts] are looking for in a dividend fund. If your focus is to just

generate as much income from your portfolio as possible, SCHD is the clear winner. It has the highest yield, a solid long-term track record, and a very low expense ratio. If your goal is to get the highest total return and a higher than average dividend yield along the way, DGRO looks like a great choice. It gives you a little bit of everything, solid growth, a decent yield, and a massively diversified footprint. But, if you're a Vanguard fan and just want to keep your costs as low as possible, VIG seems like a great dividend fund to go with.