---
video_title: "The AI Bubble Stress Test: Can Your Stocks Survive?"
video_id: ECkLfbohGgo
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ECkLfbohGgo
video_date: 20260120
video_description: |
  AI stocks are booming, but history has a warning. In every bubble, some companies survive and thrive. Others vanish almost overnight.
  
  In this live session, we’ll dissect the financial DNA of today’s most-hyped AI companies and run a real-world balance sheet stress test. You’ll learn how to spot the red flags that signaled disaster in past bubbles, and how to apply those lessons to today’s market.
  
  By the end, you’ll know how to tell the difference between an Amazon and a Webvan in your portfolio.
  
  What you’ll learn:
  
  How to read a balance sheet like a survival map
  The key financial signals that predict collapse
  A simple framework to stress test any AI stock
  
  No fluff. No hype. Just clear, actionable insights for serious investors.
  
  🎙️ New to streaming or looking to level up? Check out StreamYard and get $10 discount! 😍 https://streamyard.com/pal/d/4661271507238912
---
Hey, look at that. The technology works. >> Hey everybody, happy Tuesday to you. Hello from Rhode Island, says Barbara. Well, hello from Rhode Island, Barbara.

>> Got Kuwait, Germany. Well, I've got a couple from different places in Germany. Italy and Seattle, Chicago. Sorry if you're a Bears fan, you probably had a rough weekend. Although that touchdown pass they had was probably one of the most exciting plays. One of the most

exciting plays I've I've ever seen. Uh you know, it's funny someone said frigid uh Maryland. Brian, I don't know what the weather's like uh where you are. >> Cold. It's cold.

>> Now, what does cold mean? Put it in perspective here. >> Uh mid20s. >> Okay. All right. So, I am in Costa Rica

right now. It's one of the reasons that the audio is not quite the same quality that it usually is. I apologize for that. We leave to head back to Wisconsin this week. It is going to be 90 degrees when we leave.

When we step off the plane, I've looked, the windchill is supposed to be 30° below zero. [laughter] So, 120 degrees. My kids [clears throat] are like, "What should I wear?" I'm just like, "I I don't even know what to tell you." everything you want. [laughter]

Everything >> when we get to when we get to uh the luggage uh area, it's like we're going to go into the bathroom and spend the next three hours just putting every layer on just for the ride home. >> It's like um that scene in Cool Runnings when the Jamaican Canada for the first time >> and his his hair breaks right off. That's that's what it's going to be like. Anyway, people are probably not here to hear us talk about the weather. Brian, they are here for this week's presentation about an AI bubble stress test. And this

is not the first time we've actually talked about it. I'm not sure if you remember, but the last time we talked about an AI bubble stress test, we talked about position sizing. >> But today we're not talking about position sizing. Um today what we want to be able to do at the end of this session is determine a company's cash runway to understand how a company funds itself especially in these startup AI companies and assess their survival risk. Now we'd love to get an idea for what kind of background you might have on this. So feel free in the comments

section on whatever platform you're coming to us from. Do you know how to measure a company's cash runway? Brian, while we wait for these answers to stream in, I'm just curious if and when this became something you cared about, were aware of, if there's any companies that you own where this matters right now. >> Yeah. Uh so I became aware of it probably about 10 or 15 years ago when I started to invest in individual uh individual stocks and I experienced a lot of hardship with those stocks early early on. Um this is something I wish I

knew how to do because I wouldn't have bought a whole bunch of companies that I did um ear early on. So we seem to have a mix of people that have some idea how to do it. know they're uh they're a complete noob with howing to do it. Um I would say that this is a really important skill and this is a really key metric to look at if you're going to be investing particularly in high growth stocks. >> Yeah, I agree. And I'm just curious when

you when you say you wish you would have known about them. >> Is that because the results were were not were not pretty? >> Yeah, you could fill in the blank there pretty easily [laughter] how well um it it done. I've never bought a stock and held it all the way to minus 100, but I've come close. >> All right. All right. We want to make

sure that people learn from our mistakes. Because while learning from your own mistakes usually sticks with you longer, if you can learn from our mistakes, you can avoid the worst. Now, let's just go over why this matters. Because that's important. Because many early stage companies can go bankrupt.

And that is important to remember. really doesn't matter what the sentiment is. If companies goes bankrupt, you're going to lose everything you've got. Number two, they could sell themselves to someone else at dep depressed prices. Or number three, and this is a big one, you could get diluted like crazy, and that's where a company's going to issue tons more shares uh and what you own matters less over time. So cash runway

analysis is going to help you quantify these risks so that and this is really important. You can size your position accordingly. We're not saying avoid these stocks altogether, but size them accordingly. Now Brian, you've got some good examples and you came up with these. So I'm going to I'm going to let you talk us through these.

>> Yeah. So just in the recent in in recent history um you know the most most recent kind of bubble to point to would be 2020 2021 when so many spacks came public where there was just a deluge of high growth companies that came public and they were relying on their stock prices in the public markets to essentially uh fund themselves. If anybody here remembers the company App Harvest, this was a stock that the CEO was all over financial news and and and media. Some investors that I know were really excited about uh really excited about this company. And AppH Harvest was a stage one company. We'll get into what

that means in a little bit. And this company had a $3 billion market cap when it came public, but it would have failed this test we're about to go through spectacularly. And within a matter of essentially 18 months, this company was bankrupt. So IPO, high-flying multi-billion valuation to bankrupt in in a matter of uh in a matter of about 18 months. Or how about this company? Uh

this company had a 12 billion or 15 billion market cap at one point. Another stage one company a lot of people were very excited uh about want minus 99% essentially. So, Virgin Galactic is still a public company, but they have failed sp they they they really have not done well um looking at this test. And then another one here, look at this stock. Uh it was a spa $30 billion market cap at the peak and you have just suffered a total catastrophic loss um if you bought and held uh this business.

Now, to be fair, this company proved to be more fraudulent, um, which which leans into it, but it shows you if you're going to be investing in high-flying growth stocks, which many AI stocks that are publicly traded today are really uh high high-flying and they're going to be running at a loss on purpose for a one for a period of time. It is critical that you do the analysis that we're going to talk to about that so that you can understand the risk that you're taking and what you said size it appropriately so that you go in eyes wide open. >> Yep. Totally agree. So, uh here's the important thing to note. This is only a

concern for a certain subset of AI companies. Um and to get an idea of what we mean about this, you can take a look at this graph that we've got right here that we love and refer to so much. This is the business growth cycle and it shows how every company is going to go through in some way, shape or form something like this maturation process where the blue line is revenue and that bottom line is profits going from maximum losses to break even to the point where they're turning out significant profits. Now, companies that are in the middle of stage three all the way through those, there are valid reasons to analyze, but what we're teaching today won't be that important. Why? Because these companies can

selffund. And so, if we're talking about AI companies, think Nvidia. Nvidia is a company that can easily self-fund. Now, you still need to worry about their moat and their valuation and hundred other things, but you don't need to worry about them being able to self-fund or a stage four company like Amazon, which is very very exposed to AI through AWS. You don't have to worry about it. Even a

company like UiPath, which is much, much smaller, um, is still able to self-fund. And so, this isn't a a terribly important thing when it comes to that. What we're focused on today is a subset of companies that are right here. AI focused, although it doesn't even need to be AI, but AI focused companies that are in stage one and stage two. Those are the companies that we really, really need to focus on. Now, what Brian is

going to do right now is he's going to put a link in the chat to a prompt. Okay? When you get that, if you click on that link, what it's going to do is it's going to bring you to a web page that looks just like this. Brian, can you see where it says Google Docs, copy document, and so on there? All right, you can.

>> So, all you're going to do is make a copy of it. And then once you make a copy of it, you have your own copy of a prompt that we came up with that tells you what stage of the business growth cycle is this company in. Okay. What you're going to do is you're going to go edit and you're going to go select all and then you can go edit and copy. And I know there's shortcuts to this, but I just want to get this out there. And so

what we're going to do is we'll open up a new chat. Now, you could do it in Gemini, you could do it in chat GPT, you can do it in whatever uh LLM you want to use, but you go there and then you paste it. And I do paste by going commandV to paste it. And you hit enter. And then Gemini takes a second because it thinks a little bit more. Um, I'll just ask it

to answer now. We'll see if it does it. Yeah, there we go. What company name or ticker would you like me to analyze? So, Brian, we're going to start out with a company called Soundhound. Soundhound

AI. Have you ever heard that name before? Just out of curiosity, Brian? Nope. All right. Sound. We're going to

type it in and we're going to talk about what it does. Now, if you're curious about what a company does, the other website that we're going to use today is fiscal.ai. This is the reason that we choose this is it has a lot of functionality that you can get absolutely free. So, if you go to fiscalai, let me just show you how you can do this. You can type in the ticker

symbol right here, S O N, and you can click on it, and it'll tell you right here what the company does. So if I look at this, it says it develops independent voice AI platform that enables businesses across several industries to deliver high quality conversational experiences to their customers. Its products include Houdinifi platform that offers a suite of tools to help their brands. All right, so I mean I look at this and I think you might use that at like a call center. So, that's the company, but let's put the ticker in and let's see what stage it says Soundhound is in right now. And while this is

coming up, Brian, I'm just curious if you were to evaluate your portfolio. Is it heavily is it heavily weighted towards AI? Have you been adding companies just for that? Are they kind of tangential? I'm just kind of curious how yours is. I have purposely avoided

AI in my portfolio because I haven't figured out how to define emote as of yet. And as a a ravid um AI user myself, um I'm quite promiscuous and right now I like Gemini just like you're doing here. Previously I use Chat GPT a lot. I occasionally use Grock. I occasionally use uh Perplexity. So I haven't seen

strong reasons to stick with one model versus the other. The only company that I think is an AI winner right now is um Nvidia. And I don't know how long that moat is going to last. Although last time we looked at Nvidia, I thought that their moat was a heck of a lot wider than I initially um initially thought it to be. So AI is not a major theme that I'm investing in right now.

>> Got it. But I I would expect that you have a lot of tangential companies that are benefiting like Amazon, Google, and so on. >> Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Be be I I guess I should say be beyond a few of the mag seven. Okay. Well, uh what this says is that this is a phase one startup company and it is confident of that. Now, it says that because operating income it is negative 116 million and that is worse than the negative 34 million. >> Quite a bit worse.

>> Quite a bit worse. It is growing fast. Revenue growth was 68%. There's no capital returns. Says that if you are going to value this company, focus on forward price to sales or total addressable market. It's pre-p profofit

with expanding losses. Uh yeah, so they're aggressively scaling their revenue through organic growth and acquisitions. It's prioritizing topline growth and market share over near-term profitability. Um yeah, so there you go. I would agree with this. And you can

actually see this if you go on over to fiscal AI. You can also look at uh you can pull up the company's total revenue, but then you can also pull up I like looking at their operating income uh because that really tells the story. And there you go. This is their revenue. This is their operating income. I would

agree they are probably stage one or stage two. The bottom line is that means that they are perfect for what we're going to do today. So let's talk about this idea of a cash runway and we're going to use a very simple visual here. Now this plane represents our stage one or stage two company in this case sound. The runway is like the cash runway the amount of cash that a company has in the bank. And then what we're measuring as a

plane makes its way down the runway is the free cash flow burn per year. basically is saying how much money is a company losing per year. So, let's just say you run a lemonade stand and you've got $10,000 in the bank. That's your runway. Let's say that because you're aggressively expanding, you are burning $2500 per year. Well, that's some real

easy math there. If you've got $10,000 and you're burning through 2500 every year absent any fundraising, your cash runway is 4 years long. Pretty simple. The equation is also really simple. To figure out what a cash runway is, what you do is you go to the balance sheet and you find cash and short-term investments. Now, Brian, do you want to

explain really quick because I get this question sometimes. Why do we include those short-term investments? Because uh some companies choose to keep a portion of their cash in higher yielding assets at a bank such as a a CD or a short-term bond or government treasuries. And they're not technically they're not technically a cash, but for all intents and purposes, it is cash. It is basically usable cash. So, um, some

companies, if you look at their actual just their their cash balance, let's say it says $50 million, but then they have $400 million in marketable securities. It would be wrong to say they only have $50 million in cash. So, you need to include all sources of immediately available liquidity because that is usable capital that the company can access to fund itself. >> Exactly. So, that is the runway. It's

the cash and investments. And then all you're doing is you're figuring out what the free cash flow losses are. Now, if you're not familiar with this, this is on the cash flow statement. And free cash flow takes two things. Operating cash flow or the amount of money that you generate or lose from operating your business minus any capital expenditures.

So, that's the very simple equation we're going to use to figure out what the cash runway is. Now, Brian, before we dive into Soundhound as our example, just real quick, do we have any questions that we should answer? Oh, so uh somebody tried to do the prompt in chat chippyt and got different uh different numbers phase two. So Gemini was correct, chatt uh was was wrong. Yeah, sometimes it can make sense to to hit the the do again uh button. They are

certainly not there. And Amit wants to know if we're going to be sharing these slides. >> Uh we will be so we will be uh the these slides will all be available on our YouTube channel and the replay will be there as well. So you'll have access to that forever. It's going to live on our YouTube channel.

>> Yep. Pedro mentioned that if you go to our YouTube channel, which is under my name, Brian Faldi. Um, and I think it's under your name, too, where where they also live whenever it's both of us, and you can access the ones we've done previously. Correct. >> There you go. All right. Cool. So, let's

dive into Sound with our first practice. Now, you'll see at the bottom of the screen, I've got some cells. What I'm showing here is just how I write this out on a sheet of paper. You can literally do this on a sheet of paper. This is a lot simpler than you might think. So, what you're going to do is if

you go to fiscal AI and you type in the ticker symbol, which I already did, S O N, and you click on it, you'll get this screen right here. Now, the first piece of information we need is the amount of cash and short-term investments that Sound has. Here's how you do it. All you have to do is click first on financials and then click on the balance sheet. And you'll see that fiscal AI actually adds together the amount of cash and short-term equivalents right here for you. And what you're going to do is

you're going to fill in the LTM, which is last 12 months. In other words, for Sound, that probably means as of September 30th, 2025, the last fiscal year. So that's the end of 2024, then 2023, then 2022. And you just fill those in. Pretty simple right there. We

know how long the cash runway is and how long it has been. Right now sitting at about $270 million. But we're not done yet. We need to know how fast are they going down that runway. For that we're again go financials, but this time you click on free cash flow. And one of the

things that we love about fiscal AI is they calculate this for us. So you just scroll down. Once you do the cash flow statement, and right here it tells you the free cash flow losses. And I know it's a negative number. For math's sake, we'll just put this in as a positive number. We just need to know that these

are losses. If they're not losses, this lesson doesn't matter. And we plug those numbers in. And so you see there that over the last 12 months, the company now has $270 million, but they're also burning about $110 million over the last 12 months. Now, you just go through and you do some very simple math. Again, you're just

dividing the cash by the free cash flow losses and you figure out what the cash runway is right there. Now, Brian, if you were just looking at this in the direction of the cash runway length, what might you think here? >> Well, obviously the numbers getting better, so they're becoming more fiscally responsible or at least their runway for a living is uh is increasing. That sounds good, right? >> That sounds good. So, direction is

something to think about. However, it is also important to think about this on an absolute basis as well. And so you can run these anywhere from a one, which is where a company has significantly less than a year's worth of cash left, all the way to a four, which is like about three years left, to five plus years, which is a seven. So let's just ask folks, if you were to give this a number right now, what number would you give this cash runway? Um, yeah, because the direction, of course, it's positive.

That's good. Um, but just put in the chat what number would you give this if you were to give it one? And while people are doing that, Brian, if if you were to kind of take where it is now, but where it's been, you know, what what would you give this? >> Well, overall, I would probably give it somewhere between a two, two and a three, I guess. No, a three because it is time started at three years. Maybe

you can opine on why did you choose less than a year, three years and five years for for this grading scale? What what's the significant of three years? >> So the significance of three years is that what you're looking for is for this company at some point in time to switch directions and start cutting their losses. They can continue losing money, but as long as those losses don't keep growing, then you can give them three years to get there. Um, however, if if it's if it's significantly less than that, then I think that's when you start really running into problems.

>> Uh, Aman says, I thought free cash flow is the cash coming in. How can it be a loss? >> Right? So, free cash flow ideally is cash coming in. However, companies especially that are in stage one or stage two are losing money. So, the free

cash flow is losses in that case. >> Yep. Just like profit can be a negative number, free cash flow can be a negative number. >> That's right. And Brian, I g I personally gave it the same score that you did. I gave it a three. Okay.

Here's the problem. We're not done yet. And why aren't we done yet? Uh because we have to ask ourselves this question. Can we trust the company? We don't want

to be Charlie Brown with Lucy pulling the ball out from underneath us. And this is the extra level of investigation that's necessary if you're going to investigate in these company, invest in these companies. It's really easy to figure out the cash runway. This next part is the part that you really need to get in your bones. So, let's think about this for a minute, Brian. If you're

running a lemonade stand and you need to raise your cash, you need to raise assets. >> Well, you've got two options to do that. Brian, what are your two options? >> You can borrow the money, aka take out debt, right? Taking out debt, borrowing the money from bank would definitely increase your uh cash balance. That's

one way to do it. The second way would be to increase the equity that's put into the the company. Now, there's a couple ways that you could increase the equity that gets put into the company, but the most common way that companies that are stage one or stage two early on money losing companies um choose to raise equity is by selling stock to investors, selling ownership in themselves to investors, which is exactly what happens when companies come public. >> All right? So, [snorts] there's two ways that this can go wrong, right? Because they there's debt,

there's equity. The first is that the company goes bankrupt. Okay, so chapter 11 bankruptcy, that's where the business might continue operating. And you might think, well, the business is still going. That's great. I own shares. Well,

it's not quite that easy. The business declares Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Their debt obligations are reorganized in a way that's sustainable. But here's the important thing for you to know is that the stock is delisted and investors, they get pretty much nothing. Now, a new entity might be created at a later date and go public. But guess what? If you

own shares of the previous version and then a newer version comes out of chapter 11 bankruptcy and lists again, you don't own any shares of that. GM during the financial crisis is a great example of that. But it's not the only one. You remember we work Brian? >> Yeah. They went bankrupt two years ago,

something like that. >> And it's not surprising why. this is what their free cash flow was for a number of years that they they they simply ran out of cash. So that's the first thing that can go wrong. That's pretty obvious how that works. The

second way is a little bit sneakier, a little bit more insidious because if you don't know about this, then you might be left wondering what happened to the shares you own. And that's through something called dilution. Now, Brian, you made this next uh visual, so I'm going to turn it over to you to explain. >> It's a delusion is a hard concept to understand um if you've never experienced it as a shareholder or it is kind of invisible to you as a shareholder, whereas bankruptcy is obviously is much more is much more obvious. The easiest way that we have found to to visualize dilution is through the concept of inheritance. So,

let's say your parents have a net worth of $100,000 and there's 10 kids in total. Each kid gets an equal share or $10,000 each. However, your wonderful parents choose to have one more kid. One more kid. So, that same $100,000 inheritance instead of being divided by 10 kids is divided by 11 kids. So, how

much is your share of that inheritance? Well, it's now only $9,000 because your parents diluted your stake by having one extra child. This is the this is the way to think about um dilution. Dilution is when you add more investors to the to the pool, you're sharing the spoils of that investment over a larger and larger base. This is something that many people overlook, but when we look at companies, especially companies that are in phase one, phase two, it's something that we study like a hawk because this is a major risk to companies that are early on in their development that existing shareholders get diluted into oblivion.

And here's the thing, we want to be clear that sometimes dilution works out. For instance, this is an old chart, but this shows you the number of shares of Tesla outstanding. They were from 201 uh3 until 2023 diluting their shareholders by almost 6% per year. And that sounds pretty bad. However, while their market cap went up 3,500%, the returns were only up 2,000%. Now,

there's there's a big difference between those obviously. However, I don't think anyone's going to complain about 2,000% returns over a decade. That's phenomenal. And Tesla probably would not have survived long enough to have earned those 2,000% returns if it wasn't for diluting shareholders. That doesn't mean that it always works out. It can go badly for shareholders as

well. So Brian, there's a company called Mankind. You're you used to work in this field. Can you remind me what Mankind does? >> They made inhaled insulin. So, uh, for

people with diabetes, instead of taking a needle injection, you inhaled it with a with an inhaler. Very exciting technology that just took years to to come to market. And the the market adoption was extremely slow. Look at this. From 2016 to 2023, they increased their shares outstanding by 17% on average per year. And so, look

at this. when we look their market cap over that time frame tripled. So let's say it was a $5 billion company then at the end of it it was roughly a $15 billion company and so you might think oh it's great that I own shares of that company but its market cap didn't increase because the stock kept going up. In fact the stock pretty much stayed exactly the same. It only went up 5% over seven years. So, how did the market

cap get so much bigger? Because they just kept issuing more shares and they were valued exactly the same. So, it can work out really, really poorly as well. >> And I would probably argue that in most cases with phase one and state phase two companies, if a company does dilute shareholders a lot, it almost always works out very very poorly. Companies like Tesla are the exception and I would say that companies like Mankind or even far worse are more of the rule.

>> Yep. Yeah, I agree. So, knowing that, let's go back to Sound because we said it was like a three. Remember from one to seven, we said it was a three, which isn't very good, but it's not the worst. But let's investigate whether or not they might pull the ball out from under us like Lucy and Charlie Brown. And here's how you can do that.

It's actually very easy. If you go to the cash flow statement right here, so financials and then cash flow statement, and then scroll down to this section right here that's called financing activities. This is this is the meat of it. This is where all of it is. And what you're going to look for is if the company has taken on debt or issued debt and if the company has issued new shares. And so here's what we find in

the financing activities part. First, let's look for debt. Have they issued lots of debt over the past few years? Well, this section right here is the one that talks about debt. And I'm going to code this green, Brian. And here's why

I'm going to code it green. Not only have they not issued debt, they've actually paid it off. That's what those negative numbers right there. You might not be able to see it, but it says -12 million215 million. So, as far as debt's concerned, Sound is actually in pretty good shape.

But that's just one part of the equation. The other part of the equation is, have they issued lots of shares over the past few years? And how much in in terms of a dollar value? This section right here is the one that you investigate to check that out. It's called net issuance or repurchase of common shares. This I'm going to code

red. Why am I going to code this red? Because they have issued over $500 million in new shares. I think this is roughly a $4 billion company. So, we're talking about like an eighth of its value. And you can see it right

here. Over the past 12 months, $300 million in new shares. In 2024, 400 million. In 2023, 100 million. So, it's really clear here that this is a problem. Future dilution is a likely

threat. And Brian, if we look at the numbers, this is after Sound Hound went public. Look at their number of shares outstanding. I mean, this is this is a little wild. 160% increase in less than three years.

I'll say that again. >> 160% in less than three years. >> That is some mega delution uh right there. And this is you said like you said after you went public. So when a company goes public, you would expect to see a large jump in the shares outstanding because they went from being private to being public, right?

>> Totally normal, acceptable, I guess we we should say. But this is after they came public. Yep. And so look at this. Your ownership stake, if you bought when the company went public, your share is worth 62% less today because you own 62% less of the company than you did back then. That is a big

deal. And look at look at what's happened to the stock itself. So the orange here shows you how much the market cap has grown. Okay, the market cap has grown 470%. That sounds like an amazing deal. That's

like sexupppling, right? Shares are only up 167%. Now, still that's not bad, 167%. But you can see the effect of dilution right there. So, the question then just becomes, all right, before we gave it a three, but my my gut tells me based on that dilution, it deserves to be nudged over a slot. So this is where

the key is. I adjust for that and I say, "Okay, Soundhound does have two and a half years of cash available. You know that it looks like their runway might be manageable if they start cutting their losses. However, I need to keep in mind that this management team has shown that they are willing to dilute me and I have to take that into account as well." So Brian, do we have any questions about that? We're going to do one more quick

example and then we can talk about some other stuff. Yeah, Joseph had a question about your 160% dilution. So, how did you get to that 62% less value versus the 160% increase in dilution, >> right? So, think about it this way. You can never be more and you can never have less than 100% of what you have, right?

So, what I did was I said, let's imagine that there's a hundred shund 100 shares and I own one of them. Couple years later, if something goes up 160%, instead of a 100 shares, there's going to be 260 shares. So, I take that one share, divide it by 260, and it's 62% less than what I have before. It's the inverse of it. Yeah. Think about it

from from having a kid perspective, right? Kids and parents and inheritance is a great way to think about it. If you have one sibling, right, and it's an equal split, you get 50% of the total, 50/50, right? If if your parents have two more kids, so you go from two kids to four kids, they've doubled the number of kids that they have, but your your ownership went from 50% to 25%. >> So even though they 100%ed more kids, the 100% of the share count, your your ownership only went down by 25%. So

that's just that's just the way the math works. >> Yep. Yep. Exactly. Um all right, let's do one more. And I'm going to let I want

people to practice this if they want to do it as well. So, what we're going to do is we're going to do this on a company called Aurora. Now, again, Brian, I'll ask you, are you familiar with Aurora? We can go ahead and and type it in here. All right. Aurora

Innovation, another AI company. If I go to the overview right here, it's self-driving technology in the US focused on Aurora Driver, which is a platform that brings self-driving hardware, software, and data services basically to like commercial vehicles. In other words, it's trying to help trucks use self-driving technology. That's what we're talking about here. So, what I want people to do is I want you to if you have your computer available, if you're on a laptop, it's a lot easier. Go to fiscal AI and see if

you can figure out this number right here. What number would be right here saying how much of a runway did they have at the end of 2024? Okay? Or you can do 2025. We could or or the most recent quarter. But the goal is figure

out what that cash runaway is. put it in the chat section and and see check and see if you got the answer right. Now, if you don't have that capability, that's okay. Or maybe you're not comfortable with fiscal AI. I'm going to start doing that on the screen right now. But again,

if you want to do it on your own, please do it on your own and then put it in the chat section. So, here's what I would do if I were doing this on my own. Which, by the way, Aurora has five times more cash than Soundhow. So, you think that this is going to work out. >> All right. So, I head on over to Fiscal

AI. I type in AUR. That's ticker symbol. I click on it. Remember, I go through all the normal steps. I go financials.

And then I go balance sheet. And right here, I've got my cash and short-term investments. Brian, look at this. What What was Sound like? Uh 200 something million dollars. This has got $1.25

billion dollar. If that's all I knew, I'd be like, "This this looks much much better." >> And that number has grown over time. >> And that number has grown over time. However, that's just one part of the equation. The other part is, all right,

so I know the runway is longer at Aurora than Soundhound, but how fast is the plane going down the runway? So remember, we go financials, cash flow statement, scroll down, and you find free cash flow right here. plug that number in and then do a little bit of math and here is what we get. Now, Brian, I'm curious. Did the numbers that anyone came up with, does it do they basically jive with what we got here?

>> Yep. >> Looks like can >> Yeah, got it. >> Two years. Okay. So, the question is, how do we feel about two years?

You know, Brian, I'll just ask you what what what number would you give that if it was two years? >> So, two-year runway here, but look at their look at their absolute level of free cash flow losses, right? So, it was 500 million a year, and that has that's not only a huge number, it's grown quite substantially. So two two two years of of of runway, you know, that that in of itself is about a two two and a half something along the lines there. But when factoring in the free cash flow losses, which are pretty meaty, pretty big, and they've been growing uh historically, that would get I would nudge this towards a two.

>> Yeah. And Brian, we can also kind of be a sleuth here and let's just use some basic logic. If they had 1.2 2 billion two years ago and they were burning half of that per year. And yet when 2024 ended, they still had $1.2 billion.

>> Neat trick. >> And they were still burning half of it. And yet 9 months later, they still had $1.2 billion and were still burning 600 million per year. What's got to be going on here?

>> Well, there's only two potential answers. Answer one is they're issuing debt. Answer two is they are issuing equity. >> That's right. So this is where I would have given it right around where where where some other people said. But now we

have to ask ourselves this crucial question. Does it deserve to be nudged over? And if it does, should we nudge it over because of debt, because of dilution, or both? So again, you can go to fiscal.ai AI and look this up for Aurora on your own and you can put the answer in that you find in the chat. But

if you aren't able to do that or don't want to, this is how you do it. You go finances and you go back to that cash flow statement and just go roll on down to the financing activities. Now, this first part is actually pretty encouraging, Brian. I don't see debt mentioned anywhere in this, but but there's always a butt. Look at this section right here.

$1 billion in dilution over the last two plus years. In the last 12 months alone, they've issued a billion dollar worth of new shares. What do you think of that? >> Quite high. But given how much their cash burn is, I understand why they're doing it.

>> Absolutely. Look at this. In the last in less than 3 years, the number of shares outstanding has gone up substantially, 66%. And because of that, your ownership stake in the company has fallen by 40%. Again, it's the inverse problem. And so,

let's look at this. So over this time frame, the market cap of the company is up 123%. If that's the returns that my stock got, I would have said, "All right, that sounds good. Keep me invested in Aurora." But that's not the returns that I've gotten. The returns

that I've gotten versus 123% increase in this in the market cap is just 36%. How would you feel about that? >> Again, the company the company doubled in value. The whole company doubled in value, but me, the individual shareholder, is only up 36%. I think visuals like this really help to hammer home what what what the cost of dilution, the the cost of dilution to you as a shareholder. Because if you

just see a number on an income statement increasing, that's one thing. All you're focused on is like the the the stock price. But it's really when you see things like this that shows the value of the whole company versus the value of one share of stock that you can actually visualize this is the cost of dilution. This is the cost that you're paying to raise that capital. >> Yep. Exactly. And so if I had to go back

to this, even though I gave it a two, I would nudge it over to between a like around a one because I would say, man, I I I no matter how much I like this, that is a serious serious risk with that cash runway. So the key takeaways from this lesson is one, this lesson specifically only deals with phase one and phase two companies that are focused on survival. The simple equation is just taking the cash and investments and dividing it by those free cash flow losses. Remembering that the two big risks are bankruptcy and delilution. And we've got to look to see should that company be nudged over to the left. However, Brian, and this is

so so important, that does not mean that you should avoid such stocks. I want to say that again. It does not mean that you have to avoid Sound that you have to avoid Aurora. Let me give you an example from my own portfolio. I don't own it anymore, but I own for much of the last year shares of AS Space Mobile. It's

basically I mean the elevator pitch would be that this is a company. It's not AI focused, but it's a phase one company that is aiming to replicate what Starlink does only it broadcasts internet right to your phone. You don't need one of Elon Musk's Starlink like uh satellite receivers, which I in incidentally use on this farm right here. And you can see that it worked out really well. I sold some of my shares in October and that was a 250% gain. But

you'll also see that after selling, even though I got those big gains, it was just one and a half% of my portfolio. That's the key. You take these lessons and then you apply them to your own portfolio. And that is the idea behind what we're going to talk about next, which is Stock Investing Mentor. So, Brian, let's tell folks a little bit about what Stock Investing Mentor is.

>> Sure. So, this is a threepart program where if you enjoy sessions like this, um, people that join Stock Investing Mentor get to meet with you every single week and do a one-hour live training session where you teach them some aspect of investing. And this was a perfect example of what those sessions could be like. Number two, you get full real time live access to my portfolio. Everything that I own, you get to see in real time.

And then three, you get access to a private online investing community of other investing enthusiasts who are following Brian Stole's portfolio and those lessons. And it's a place where you can share ideas and share lessons with each other. Yep. So, let's just dive into each one of these. First, I want to talk about the one-hour live weekly sessions. So, I follow something

called the adapt framework. It is the framework that has helped me outperform the market over the last 10 plus years. And we cycle through different topics every time. We meet every Thursday at noon Eastern and everything is recorded so that if you can't make it, replays are included. Now each time we do this, A is assess the story, D is a data deep dive, valuation, portfolio allocation, tracking progress. There are several

different topics that you can look at within each one of these. We designed the lessons so that it's about half 30 minutes real life application again like we did here and then the other half we spend answering whatever questions you might have as we go along. >> So that's the lessons that you get. Second thing is you get full access to Stofl's portfolio here. So you can see everything that he owns. You can also

get realtime updates whenever he makes a buy or sell decisions. He also breaks down in full detail all the rationale for why he's making it. Plus you get a regular update on every single stock that that he owns. One thing that I think is important to know about stock investing mentor is that Stofl's reputation and net worth are on the line. So 90% of his net worth are invested in the stock investing mentor stocks. So if he does a poor job

managing his portfolio, nobody's going to feel the pain more than more than he will. And I think he's willing to make this bet on himself because if you look at his returns over the last 10 plus years, he's outperformed not only the S&P 500, that's the red line that is quote unquote impossible uh to beat, but he's actually also outperformed the yellow line. The yellow line there is the NASDAQ uh composite. Uh if you know anything about the returns of the NASDAQ composite over the last 10 years, they've been sensational. And I will point out you've done this without ever owning Nvidia. [laughter]

>> That's true. I've done it without owning Nvidia. And I think people will look at this and they'll notice uh boy something happened there in 2022. You bet it did. So I will just say that's 550% return since December 2014 with a more than 50% draw down in 2022. And I just want to

let folks know there were many lessons learned during that year which I apply to Stock Investing Mentor and I think that would apply to both of us. Is that fair to say Brian? >> Oh 100%. Yeah. >> Yeah. All right. So let's talk about

this last part of Stock Investing Mentor which is a private online investing community. Um one thing that we love about this is that it's a way for you to find and interact with investors just like yourself. You can get answers to questions that you have at any point in time. It's open 24/7. And this is really important. The conversations are vetted

by people who are willing to pay money to be part of the community, who are willing to devote some time to be part of a community. And that means that it's free of trolls or people who can come in and just make comments or distract from constructive discussion because they like doing that. So you can meet other members, you can ask questions anytime, and you can also access all the resources and all the prior lessons. Brian, we're over 70 lessons now in Stock Investing Mentor. >> So, the team is it's led by Brian Stoflel. Uh he's been managing his

portfolio since uh since 2009, but we also have a number of helpers, including myself that help to to fill in and assist with the uh the um the lessons. So, Brian Withers, myself, and then Ken Taylor are also part of the team. >> Yep. And we've got a lot of people who've been part of this now for more than a year like Jennifer who says she loves how this has how personalized a stock investing mentor feels. Now Brian, we just talked about the three key cornerstone parts of Stock Investing Mentor, the live training, the portfolio access, and the investor community. But

we've also got some bonuses that we want to throw in as well. >> Yeah. So bonus number one is you get full access to Stofl's watch list. So these are not companies that he currently owns, but they are stocks that are in his universe that he could buy or he has owned in the past. I think having a watch list, an active watch list is a really key feature because you see not just the stocks that he owns, but the stocks that he could own if the situation came along. So if the price

was right or the growth was right. And Brian, you know, that actually reminds me of something that we should put in this in the future, which is that every six weeks I do a full valuation kind of 360 where I look at all the stocks that I own and the ones that I follow and I rate them from one super expensive, stay away from to seven super cheap, consider buying. Every stock that I follow, I do that on and next week is when the next iteration of that valuation framework comes out. Now, the second bonus we want to talk about is a free ecourse on how to find unlimited stock ideas for free because we know a lot of people want to know, well, where do you get your ideas from? Uh, third, uh, we have a a series of homemade um, templates, tools, spreadsheets, and AI powered tools such as the um such as the chat that the AI prompt that we gave away earlier. Stofl

has been incorporating AI and um and these tools into his process and and as we make and use these tools itself, they are included in the program. >> That's right. And we also have a bonus and that bonus is our stock simplifier program. Now, if you join us on Tuesdays, you know that most of the time what we're doing is using Stock Simplifier to make a first pass at a company to try and figure out what that company is all about. And usually our list price for that is $1.99. If you buy

it while we're offering it, you can get it for $99. But Brian, tell us about how people can actually get this for free. >> Yep. So, if you join Stock Investing Mentor before this live webinar ends, it's been about 10 minutes or so, we'll throw in and give you free access to Stock Simplifier included. So Brian, why don't you in the chat right now, if you could put in where people can go to join Stock Investing Mentor. If you use that

link and join Stock Investing Mentor, you can get this for free. Now again, it only counts if you join before this live webinar ends and it gives you access to all the courses and all the prompts that are a part of Stock Simplifier. So, these are the six things, seven really, that are included if you buy Stock Investing Mentor within the next 10 minutes. And Brian, what else do folks need to know? >> Yep. So, joining Stock Investing Mentor

is completely risk-free. If you choose to sign up and don't want to, you have 30 days to check it out, kick the tires, attend some um attend some of these events. If you find later it's not for you, no problem. We have a full 30-day money back guarantee on it. >> Yep. And also, it's important to

remember that the beautiful thing about running one of these services is how quickly it can pay for itself for anyone who joins. If you get one stock investing idea that you decide to choose and it does really well, well, then it pays for the cost of admission. Or if you avoid something that you would have lost as much, it pays for the cost of admission. Or if you make one connection with a fellow investor who you can bat ideas around with, it pays for the cost of admission. So, how much is the cost of admission? Well, it's $3.99 per

quarter or $9.99 annually. However, because you have joined us, you've given us an hour of your time. We are offering 20% off a year-long subscription to Stock Investing Mentor for $7.99. That's

a $200 savings. And as you can see right here, Amit says, "If you really want to be an intelligent investor, you should join Stock Investing Mentor." Or Paul, who's been with us for over a year, says the investment will pay for itself many times over. Or Franchesco, who claims that it was the best investment he made last year. So, now that you know what Stock Investing Mentor is, Brian, we've got a couple of frequently asked questions that we should go over.

>> Yep. So, question one, uh, what happens if you work full-time? How how the heck are you going to fit this into your schedule? >> You know, that's exactly who we had in mind when we created this program. We wanted the busy professional who is probably accumulating some cash.

However, they don't have time to learn about this. We record everything. We transcript everything. We send it to you so you can ask us questions. It can fit into your schedule whenever works for you.

>> I'm just answering a question uh that we had in the chat. Number two, uh how about uh what about if you live outside the US? Is this for US only investors? >> No. In fact, I would say between a quarter and a third of all stock investing mentor members are international. Now, the stocks that I

own are all US listed. However, the dynamics of everything that we talk about applies everywhere in the world. It's like gravity is the same in the US as it is in India or as it is in Australia. It doesn't matter where you are. Uh, and then finally, so what happens if you join and then later learn it's not for you?

>> That's totally fine. In fact, we consider that a win because you've tried it out, you think it's not for you, that's totally fine. Just let us know. You'll send us a direct message and we will right away send you an instant refund. >> Yeah, Kashik here says he purchased Stock Simplifier last week. Thank you

very much. Uh, can it be refunded if I join the stock investing mentor course? Uh, yes, that is something we can do for you. Just email us brian long-termmindset.co or send us a message in stockinvestingmentor. That is something

we're happy to do for you. >> Yep. So, just to remind everyone that this deal of 20% off, that expires on Thursday, January 22nd at 11:59 p.m. Let me just say that again. If you want to

save $200, that deal expires on Thursday at 11:59 p.m. If you want to save, let's see, roughly $400 and get Stock Investing Mentor for 200 bucks off and get Stock Simplifier for free. That deal ends. Brian, what would you say in about five minutes?

>> Yep. About five minutes or or so. X portfolio says you should have gone to cash in 2022. Yeah, >> I totally agree. [laughter] the if you could play the should have a would I could have game to infinity uh with your with your with your portfolio and it's it is good to look back and learn lessons but it's not as helpful to be like this is what I should have done if we're going to play that game I should have put all of my money into Bitcoin in 2011 [laughter] >> exactly >> so we are happy to take any questions u that it um that you uh that you have about um about stock investing uh a mentor uh so Ellen yes correct So, Stock Investing Mentor is $9.99 per year if

you use the the um link that we shared uh in in the chat. It is $799. Uh it is just $799 uh per year. And uh that does include Stock Investing Mentor. >> Yep. Buy within the next five minutes.

It'll include Stock Simplify. There you go. >> Just for those of you that know, because we know every time we do that, that's very popular. We get lots of people doing it. Give it 24 hours and you will have full access to Stock Simplifier as well. Y just because we have to go and

do it a little bit behind the screen to make sure that all happens. >> Yeah, it certainly does. And we are happy to take any questions that you guys have while we have the last uh four minutes or so here. Stoofa, we got a question about what we are. Do you know your compounding your growth rate over the last five years by chance?

>> Over the last five years, boy, I really am not a 100% sure. I'd have to go back and look at it. What I can tell you is over the last 10 years, it's over 19%. Believe it's close to 20% over the last 10 years. >> Yeah, there you go. Um, so, uh, is is

that the number that you pay attention to? Like what what number do you pay attention to when you're looking at your portfolio returns? >> I pay attention to So, I wish I had all the data that goes back to when I started in 2009, but once I really started taking this seriously, I went back as far as I could, which was December 31st, 2014. So, from December 31st, 2014 to today, I have uh 551% return. So six to 7xing what I've what I've started with.

>> There you go. Yeah. So probably right around that 19% over the last uh five five years um or or so. And importantly that includes that massive draw down in uh in 2022 which I certainly experienced um I certainly experienced uh firsthand. Have another question here. How

frequently can they expect an update from you or a trade on your portfolio? Roughly how often do you make trades in your portfolio? you know, it's it's gotten to be more because I've become much more valuation sensitive. Um, and so I would say I would say during the course of a year, and I'm just I'm just thinking here, I don't have the hard data to back it up, but I bet u at least one trade every two weeks. Um, sometimes, and they can come in a flurry, you know, it could be three weeks without a trade and then there might be three trades in a day depending on what's happening in the world. Mhm.

Do you own anything else besides uh stocks? Are the returns from your portfolio just from stocks or do you own crypto or bonds or anything like that? >> So I So I keep my cash in SGOV which is basically short short-term bonds. That's just because it gives me that 4% yield that you get if you're in a money market. So I don't know if you'd really count that as bonds. Uh and then I also

did own at one point Bitcoin. Did very well with it. at 8x, but I don't own any more of it now. >> So, um, before we leave here, we do want to get some feedback from you. What session would you like to cover? Um,

next month when we talk, uh, about this. So, as a reminder, we go live every Tuesday. Three of those sessions. We're going to do a deep dive on an individual stock that you guys vote on. One is going to be a more generalized investing lesson like we just talked about today with the with the cash runway. But, we

would love to know what topics interest you. you still the top what you had in mind were >> yes so software as a service companies that are out of favor because man oh man are there a lot of software as a service companies are out of favor and a lesson on digging into them and figuring out what makes sense that would be number one the other because we like to highlight what makes stock investing mentor unique which is portfolio management so the other option would be something about how to sell your high-f flyers there's a lot of people who've got stocks that are just becoming a bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger part of their portfolio. And I don't know about you, Brian, but buying is easy, selling is hard. And so, we've got some uh episodes that we've created about how to exit out of those high-f flyers as well. >> Yeah. So, maybe maybe a session on when

to sell, like specific times that you could do selling. So, if that interests you, uh talking specifically about software stocks, software valuations, um that's one topic we could do. When to sell would be another. You know, we have gotten this request in the past too. um how to use technical analysis as a long-term investor. So, if you guys have

a preference for any of those, um please put them in the chat. We will definitely take uh suggestions on what you guys are interested in learning about. So, software companies, when to sell or how long-term investors can actually incorporate technical analysis into their portfolio, put in the in the chat and whatever platform you're looking at, and we're happy to uh talk about that in the future. >> Yep. just to answer uh uh Kank's uh question. Yeah, as as you saw 2022 I

suffered a a fairly large draw down. Um and look at this. So I've got one person saying I have a stock that's up 710%. When do I sell? That would be that that would be exactly what we could cover in that se session.

>> Yep. So So the answer there is not enough information given. >> Yeah. Exactly. [laughter] Exactly. Yeah.

>> We do have two three votes now for technical analysis as well. >> Yep. Technical analysis is something that I personally thought was voodoo for I will say 20 years. U basically the entire time that I invested I thought it was complete hogwash and and and utter and utter nonsense. Um I have since flipped my mind and I now think that it can be used and there are ways that long-term investors can actually you you utilize it. It actually can be a tool in

your tool belt and we're happy to talk about the reasons that we changed our mind about that. Provide some information and then provide some ways that you can actually use it as an as an investor. So, if you're on the fence about that and you're like, "Oh, I think it's horrible. I'm never going to use it." We understand. We actually have

some things that we can present that we hope can actually change your mind about it. As as our minds were basically changed. >> So, uh Brian, we're going to give people one more minute if they want to get that deal. uh stock investing mentor member. You can still get that 20% off for the next about day and a half. But to get

the stock simplifier for free, you're going to need to head on over and do that right now. We'll keep our eye on if a couple of them roll in. If you start the process right now and you need an extra minute or two. Uh but Brian, when we come back next week at this Tuesday time slot, one thing, I will not be here anymore. I'll be back in Wisconsin freezing cold, probably wearing 16 layers. Uh but second, uh just want to

let people know what we're going to be doing next week. >> Yep. So next week we're going to be doing a deep dive on an individual stock. We've chosen four software companies uh that are all down quite substantially as there's a recent kind of like apocalypse, if you will, in software land and um many software stocks have been really uh hammered hard. So, tomorrow in our newsletter, we're going to be issuing a poll and whatever stock gets the most votes is what we're going to be doing a deep dive onto uh next Tuesday. So, we really hope

that you vote in our newsletter, longtermmindset.co, to sign up for that and then and then join us for next week's session. >> All right. Well, we know what a big deal it is to give us an hour of your time and there are thousands of people that are watching now and we really appreciate you giving us an hour's worth of your time. So until next week, Brian's out.