---
video_title: "Investing For Beginners 2026 | FULL STOCK INVESTING COURSE TUTORIAL"
video_id: sSjbgnMDH0s
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sSjbgnMDH0s
video_date: 20260103
video_description: |
  ▼ Course Slides ▼
  Key Slides: https://longtermmindset.co/slides
  
  ▼My Book on Amazon:▼
  📖 https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0
  
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Investing Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/investing
  
  ▼When To Sell Mini-Course ▼
  https://longtermmindset.co/sell
  
  ▼ABOUT ME:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
  
  1:15 Why Invest in the Stock Market? (Beginner Investing Explained)
  4:30 Why Listen to Me? My Investing Background & Experience
  6:25 What Is a Stock? Simple Definition for Beginners
  7:52 What Is the Stock Market and How Does It Work?
  9:28 What Are the Dow Jones, S&P 500, and Nasdaq? (Explained Simply)
  10:20 Dow Jones vs S&P 500 vs Nasdaq: Key Differences Explained
  12:13 Why Do Companies Go Public? (IPO Basics)
  13:23 Why Do Investors Buy Stocks? (Wealth Building 101)
  14:30 Why Do Stocks Have Value? (Intrinsic Value Explained)
  15:38 Investing Basics Using a Lemonade Stand Example
  22:23 Why Does the Stock Market Go Up Over Time?
  25:32 Stocks vs Bonds: What’s the Difference?
  27:52 Stocks vs Mutual Funds vs Index Funds vs ETFs (Beginner Guide)
  30:44 How to Start Investing Step-by-Step
  31:10 How to Choose an Online Brokerage Account
  31:40 Fidelity vs Schwab vs Vanguard vs Interactive Brokers (Comparison)
  32:15 How to Set Your Investing Goals (Beginner Framework)
  33:00 Asset Allocation Strategy by Age & Time Horizon
  33:40 What Is a Target-Date Retirement Fund?
  34:11 My Lifetime Investing & Asset Allocation Strategy
  34:40 401k vs IRA vs Roth IRA vs Taxable Accounts Explained
  37:30 Passive vs Active Investing: Which Strategy Is Best?
  38:20 Visualizing the Investing Process (Simple Framework)
  39:20 Full 401k Investing Walkthrough (Beginner Tutorial)
  41:25 What Is a Target-Date Fund? (Full Breakdown)
  42:38 Brian Feroldi’s Full Investing Plan
  43:30 Risk & Volatility: Why the Stock Market Goes Up and Down
  50:50 History of Stock Market Crashes (What Investors Should Know)
  52:30 How Often Does the Market Fall? (Market Crash Statistics)
  50:54 Why the Stock Market Recovers After a Decline
  58:25 Busting Common Investing Myths
  1:00:24 Common Investing Mistakes to Avoid
  1:01:30 When Should You Sell a Stock? (Beginner Guide)
  1:03:20 How Stock Taxes Work When You Sell (Capital Gains Explained)
---
Most people have absolutely no idea how the stock market can actually make you rich. And to be completely honest with you, neither did I when I first started investing more than 20 years ago. But let me show you something that completely blew me away the first time I saw it. If you invested $10,000 in Apple back in 1990, you'd have more than $10 million today. And that's just one tiny example of how the stock market can turn an ordinary sum of money into a life-changing sum of money. The profits

I've earned in the stock market over the last 20 years have completely transformed my life. I've been able to pay off all of my debts, including my credit cards, cars, and even my house. In this video, I'm going to explain everything that I wish I was taught about investing in the stock market 20 years ago. And if you stay with me for the full video, I promise that you'll understand the stock market better than 99% of the general population. Now, I've broken this video up into 10 simple sections, and you can feel free to skip forward or backwards through a section that interests you the most. But let's

start by answering this question. Why should you invest in the first place? Why should you care about the stock market? To show you why, let's trace the fictional net worth of a typical US worker that I'm going to call Aaron. Now, Aaron here started his career in 1981.

And at the time in the US, the average US salary was $26,000 per year. So, we're going to say that Aaron represents the salary of the average American worker. Now, Aaron was not good with money. He lived paycheck to paycheck. But Aaron made one really good financial decision. In 1981, this brand new thing

was launched. It was called a 401k. Aaron decided to invest $400 from his average American salary into the US stock market every single month. Now, Aaron didn't follow the markets or investing at all. And whenever the paperwork came to him to show him how he was doing, he just threw it in the trash. He didn't understand it. Now,

fast forward to the year 2020, and after a 40-year working career, Aaron decides to retire. So, here's a question for you. How much is Aaron's 401k worth? Well, you might be surprised to hear that the value of Aaron's 401k has grown to $3 million. Now, if you're good with math, you might be a little puzzled and think, well, $400 per month times 12 months per year of contributions times a 40-year career, that only adds up to $192,000.

Where the heck did that extra money come from? How did 192,000 turn into three million? The answer there, of course, is investing in the stock market. Here's a chart that shows the value of Aaron's 401k over this 40 year career. The blue line on this graph represents the contributions that he made along the way. Now, you might be wondering, was

1981 to 2020 a fluke? Like, did I cherrypick that data? The answer is no. If you actually study US stock market history, you see that the stock market has generated a return and after tax return. If you actually study US market history, you'll see that the US stock market has generated an average real return after inflation of about 7% per year for more than 200 years.

Importantly, that figure is after the effects of inflation. If you know anything about that word, you know that the purchasing power of the US dollar has dramatically declined over the last 100 years. In fact, if you have held dollars for the last 200 years, your dollar has lost over 1% of its purchasing power every year for the last 200 plus years. But by comparison, investing in assets like gold, bonds, and stocks has not only preserved your purchasing power, it has grown it dramatically over time. This is why learning about the stock market and how to invest in it is so vitally important.

It can help ordinary people with ordinary incomes to become multi-millionaires. By the way, if you want access to the slides that I'm going to be using throughout this presentation, just visit long-termmindset.colides or click the link you see in the video description to download a free copy. Now, before I move on, why the heck should you listen to me? Like, who am I?

Well, my name is Brian Faldi. You're watching my YouTube channel, and here is my personal stock performance of my portfolio over the last 13 plus years. It's handedly outperformed the S&P 500, which is my personal benchmark, as well as the total stock market. Now, to give you a quick history of my investing experience, I first bought my stock back in 2004 after reading a very influential book on me called Rich Dad Poor Dad. Now, that kickstarted a love affair that continues to this day with all things related to the stock market. So, I spent

10 years intensely studying everything that I could get my hands on about investing. By 2014, I'd honed my skills so much that I actually landed a job as a writer for the Mly Fool. And I spent more than five years writing articles for them, logging up more than 3,000 articles related to stocks and investing. If you're familiar with a website called Tip Ranks that ranks writers such as myself, I was consistently ranked in the top 2% of all financial writers out there. Now, the profits that I earned from actually investing in the stock market allowed me to pay off my house in 2017. In 2019, I

started to take social media seriously. And in 2022, my book called Why Does the Stock Market Go Up was officially published. And if you're interested, you can buy that book on Amazon. I'll also link a link in the video description. Now, since then, I've spoken all over the United States and lectured about the power of the US stock market. I've been

featured in dozens of high-profile news articles. I've been interviewed on TV. I've been featured at the New York Stock Exchange. And I've also been a guest on dozens, if not hundreds of high-profile podcasts, as well have been hired by high-profile companies to talk about this stuff at companies like Microsoft and Amazon. So, that's a little bit about me. Now, with that out of the way,

let's answer some fundamental questions, such as what is the stock market in the first place? Now, to find that out, let's break it down into two separate components. First, by understanding what the word stock means. A stock is simply a legal document that represents an owner's permanent legal claim on a portion of a corporation's assets and future profits. If you're familiar with the concept of buying real estate, you know that the there's a piece of paper that indicates who owns a piece of real estate, and we call that a deed. So, a

deed is a legal document that says who owns a house. Well, a stock is just a legal document that figures out how much of a corporation. That's all a stock is. Let's use Apple as example. Apple is a corporation with more than 15 billion shares of stock. And those shares of

stock are owned by the public. So, anybody can go out and become a partial shareholder of Apple. Now, there's nothing magic about the number 15 billion. That just is the number that Apple chose to split itself into. and it could have chosen any number that it wanted. For example, Microsoft currently

has about seven billion shares outstanding. Uber currently has about two billion shares outstanding. So, a company can break itself up into however many shares of stock that it wants to. So, that's what a stock is. So, what does that second word mean, market?

Well, I think the easiest way to think about this is to think of a farmers market. A farmers market is a place where food buyers go to connect with food [snorts] sellers to exchange money for food. Well, a stock market is the exact same concept, but instead of there being food buyers, we call those people investors. And instead of there being food sellers, we call those corporations. And the two interact and buy and sell stock with each other. Now

to get slightly more technical, the stock market is really a collection of exchanges where shares of publicly traded companies are issued, bought, and sold. Now, there are dozens of stock markets all around the world, but the United States is home to two of the largest in the world. The first is called the New York Stock Exchange or NYSE. The second is called the National Association of Security Dealers Automated Quotations, which you've probably heard called NASDAQ. Now, on the NYSE and NASDAQ, there are thousands of publicly traded stocks. And every

day, the price of those stocks rise and fall based on investors enthusiasm for buying and selling those shares. Now, the way that investors keep track of what's happening in the market and track the performance of the stock market in the US is by using something called indices. Indices are simply small samplings of companies that are taken from the US stock market and are used to represent the entire market as a whole. Now, the best known is called the Dow Jones or better known as the Dow Jones Industrial Average. This is simply a collection of 30 publicly traded companies in the US, 30 big ones, and the stock prices of those companies are aggregated together and reported in the news to give you an idea of what happened in the stock market that day.

Now, the Dow is the oldest stock exchange in the US. Now, if you've heard of the Dow, you've undoubtedly heard of the S&P 500, which is a competitor of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The standard emporis 500 tracks the share price of more than 500 publicly traded stocks which is more than 10 times more than the Dow Jones Industrial Average. And every single day the prices of those 500 companies rise and fall and all those numbers are added together to give you the price of the S&P 500. Now the final one that you've probably heard of is the NASDAQ Composite. This is not to

be confused with the NASDAQ stock exchange. The NASDAQ Composite holds and tracks about 3,000 publicly traded companies that all listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange, including some of the biggest companies in the world. So, to give you a brief overview of these three indices, the Dow, S&P 500, and NASDAQ Composite. The Dow is the oldest, having launched in 1896. The S&P 500 is the most widely cited, and that was launched in 1957. And the Nasdaq Composite is the

newest, launched in 1971. Now, these three indices differ from each other in a couple of ways. One is the number of holdings. The Dow only tracks 30 companies, whereas the NASDAQ tracks more than 3,000. Another key difference is the Dow is what's called a price weighted index. So, the larger dollar

amount that the price of a stock is in the in the Dow indicates how big of a holding it is. Whereas the S&P 500 and NASDAQ are market capitalization weighted, which means that the larger the company is gives it more weighting in the index. Now, broadly speaking, these three indices do roughly track each other, but there are some other subtle differences between them. The Dow tends to focus on blue chip large cap companies. The S&P 500 has a broad swath and the NASDAQ tends to focus on growthheavy and technology focused companies. And while their long-term

returns are fairly similar to each other, as a broad statement, the Dow tends to be slightly less volatile than the S&P 500, whereas the NASDAQ tends to be slightly more volatile than the S&P 500. Now, to help you visualize everything I just said, think about it like this. The US stock market has two major exchanges, the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ Composite. Now, the Dow, S&P 500, and NASDAQ track stocks that are traded on those exchanges, and the Dow, S&P 500, and NASDAQ are indices that track the performance of a certain number of companies that are listed on those exchanges. Now that we know what the stock market is, let's talk about why companies go public in the first place.

In the United States, there are roughly 4,000 publicly traded companies, and if you zoom out to the world, there's about 60,000 publicly traded companies. So why do companies go public? Well, the answer there is largely because those companies want access to public investors money. So here's a quick example. Rewind the clock to 2019. Uber was a private

company that wanted to become public. It wanted to raise capital. So Uber took the stock that it had in itself and it sold some of that stock to the public. In exchange, the public bought that stock from Uber and gave Uber $8.1 billion in the process. In the last few

years, we've seen companies like Instacart come public, which raised $660 million. We've seen Reddit come public, which raised about $748 million. And we've seen a company like Rivian come public, which raised more than 12 billion on its IPO. All right. So when a company comes public, it gets a huge check from the investor base. Why do

investors buy stock in those companies? Well, they do so in order to grow the investment that they've made in those businesses. And there are two ways that investors can grow their money by making an investment in the business. The first is through capital gains. This is when you buy a stock at one price and sell it at a higher price later. The second way

is to generate income from holding that asset. Now, for example, if you own a home and you rent out your home, the home is generating income for you. The same thing could happen with stocks where stocks pay their investors dividends. In the example I showed earlier, if you bought Apple stock more than 30 years ago, you would have earned a 33% compound annual return on your investment. That is a great reason to want to buy the stock. So that's why

investors buy the stock. They hope by buying stock in companies, the companies will grow the value of their investment for them. Now that brings up another question. Why are stocks worth anything in the first place? Why do they have any value at all? Well, let's go back to our

Apple example. Apple again has 15 billion shares of stock. And when you buy one of those shares of stock, you buy a legal claim on all of Apple's assets and its future profits. So, Apple has assets like real estate that it has all over the world. Apple also has [snorts] hundreds of billions of dollars in cash and you, the investor, when you buy shares in that stock, become a part owner of that cash. And more

importantly, you, the investor, have a legal claim on the profits that Apple generates into the future. So, all of those assets and the company's future profits are owned by Apple Corporation. So all of those assets are then divided by the 15 billion shares that are outstanding. And that is why Apple's stock is worth anything at all. Well, that brings up a question. How much is a

legal claim on a company's assets and profits worth? Well, the to answer that question, I like to make things as simple as possible. So, let's use the example of a lemonade stand. Now, pretend for a second that this lemonade stand had sales of $10,000 per year, and it also had expenses of $9,000 per year. So, every year that this lemonade stand operates, it makes a profit of $1,000.

And this happens year in and year out. $10,000 in sales, $1,000 in profit, etc. Now, let's say I own this lemonade stand and I decide that I want to sell it and I offer it to you and I say, "How much would you pay me to buy my lemonade stand?" Well, you have no idea what the lemonade stand is worth or how to even value the company. So, let's pretend that you offer me $1,000.

Now, I also don't know how to value the company. So, let's pretend that I accept it. So, let's analyze the value of this deal. Well, the price that we agreed upon to sell the company was $1,000. But if we compare that to the earnings or the $1,000 in profits that the business is expected to generate per year, we just simply do some simple math and we see this this deal has a price to earnings ratio of one. It's valued at

one times its earnings. Another way to think about that is if we take the profits that the business is expected to generate and divide it by the purchase price, we can get the return on investment that I, the buyer, would get from buying that business. And a,000 divided by a,000 would be a 100% [snorts] return on investment for the buyer. So, a $1,000 purchase price would be an amazing deal for the buyer, but that would be a horrible deal for the seller. So, $1,000 per year is way too low of a purchase price. So, let's throw another

number out there. Let's say $100,000. Let's do that same analysis on this deal now. So, the price that we are offered is $100,000 and the earnings of the same business are $1,000. That is a price toearnings ratio of 100. Well, let's flip those

numbers around again and say, well, what's the return on investment for the buyer? So, the buyer pays $100,000 and they get $1,000 each year. That's a 1% return on investment. Well, now the seller got an amazing deal on that purchase price, but the buyer got a horrible deal. Like why would the buyer accept a 1% return when they can go out and buy corporate bonds and earn a much higher return than that? So that

$100,000 and that 1% return for the buyer is too low. So let's say that the buyer and the seller agree that a fair a fair return on investment for the buyer is 10% per year. Well, to get a 10% return for the buyer, that would imply a purchase price of $10,000. $1,000 in annual profit divided by a $10,000 purchase price. Now, in investor speak, we would say that that deal is priced at 10 times earnings or a price to earnings ratio of 10. So, we agree

and the deal gets done. That is one way that businesses can be valued. Now that we understand that concept, let's take it and and make it slightly more complicated. Let's imagine now that instead of the business having just $1,000 in profits every year, the profits start at $1,000 per year, but they now grow 20% each year. The business grows its profits 20% each year. So a,000 and then 1,200 and then

1440 and then 1728, etc., etc., etc. So with that in mind, if we assume that the price toearnings ratio of the lemonade stand is still 10, how much what would the purchase price of my lemonade stand be in five years time? Well, now we can actually figure that out. We simply take

that price to earnings ratio of 10, the agreed upon fair value, and we multiply it by the profit that the company earns in any given year. And that is how we would arrive at the purchase price for the business. So at a $1,000 profit, the business is worth $10,000. At a $2,74 profit, which would be in year five, the business is worth $20,000. So the higher the profits go of the business, the more valuable the business becomes. So in

year five, for example, if we wanted to figure out what the business was worth, well, the profits were $2,000. We would multiply that by 10. The business is worth $20,740. Now, that's a very simple concept to understand. But here's the important thing to know. That same concept applies

to publicly traded stocks as well. When a company's profits grow, the business, the underlying business becomes more valuable and the investors that buy that stock make more money. So let's go back to our Apple example. So Apple in 2008 launched the iPhone and its profits were 6.5 billion that year. And then later it

launched the iPad and then Apple TV and then Apple Watch and then Apple Pay. And all along the way, its profits were increasing substantially over time. This is why Apple's stock increased substantially over time, too. As the profits of the business went up, the price of the stock price went up, too. So much so that if you invested $1,000 in Apple back in 2008, it would be worth about $42,700 as of the end of 2025.

Now, Apple isn't alone in this phenomenon. Here's what happened to Microsoft's profits over the last 40 years. And here is what happens to Microsoft's business stock price. Here's what happened to Google's profits over the last 20 years. And here is what happened to Google's stock price. So, as

a company's profits increase, all things held equal, so does its stock price. And as a friendly reminder, if you want access to these slides that I'm going through, just visit long-termmindset.co/slides or click the link in the video description. All right. Next, we have to figure out why does the stock market go up? We understand what a stock is and

how what it's worth and why a stock price can go up. Why does a stock market go up? Well, this same concept applies to the stock market, too. Here is a chart that shows the 200-year plus returns for the US stock market. But here is a chart that shows what has happened to corporate profits in the United States after tax over the last 70 years. Notice the trend. corporate

profits have consistently gone up. Not every year, not in lock step, but the long-term trend is undeniable that profits have gone up. So, just like we saw before where if a individual company's profits go up, the value of the company goes up, the same thing is true of all of the stocks that are publicly traded. As their profits go up, so do their stock prices. So the reason that the stock market has gone up so much and so much faster than inflation over the last 200 years is that profits of those businesses in the US stock market have also increased substantially over the last 200 years.

Well, that begs the question, why? Why do profits rise over time? What is it that causes the stock market to go up? Well, there's a few factors that are underlying that trend that cause profits to rise over time. Those factors include productivity. So, productivity.

Companies get better and better each year at making more and more stuff with fewer and fewer inputs. Another factor is inflation. Inflation is when businesses raise prices and that increases profits. Third is innovation. when new products and new services are launched to market that open up markets that didn't exist before. For example,

what was the value of the cell phone market, worldwide cell phone market in 1995 versus 2025? Night and day, right? A fourth is global expansion. There are consumers all around the world and US companies create products and distribute them to consumers around the world. The more consumers they they distribute them to, the the higher their profits grow.

And then finally is population. There's more humans in the world every year, meaning more consumers in the world every year, which increases the total demand for corporate products and services, increasing profits. So those are the factors that have caused corporate profits to increase for decades. And since profits have been increasing for decades, that has driven the stock market to increase for decades. So, as long as these mega trends, mega profit drivers remain in place, you should have full confidence that profits will continue to rise and that over time eventually stock prices will rise, too. Now, let's talk about

the different types of investments that you've probably heard of. Specifically, what's the difference between stocks and bonds? So, stocks are ownership in a company. It's that slice of the company that the owner of the stock has a part of. A bond by comparison is a loan that goes out to a company or to a government. Now, from a risk

perspective, the owner of the stock takes on much more risk. And because of that, stocks tend to be more volatile. Because a bond is a loan, by contrast, it's seen as lower risk and it has less volatility to it. On the flip side, from a return potential, the risk, the upside potential of a stock is unlimited. A stock can go up many thousands of percents. Bonds, by contrast, have much

lower return potential because the interest rate is printed on the bond when you buy it. So, it's much lower return. Now, both stocks and bonds do provide income potential. Uh stocks provide income through dividends. Bonds are through interest. The ownership of

stocks are called shareholders whereas the owner of bonds are called creditors. And in the event of a bankruptcy, the stockholders are paid last, but bond holders are paid off before stockholders. This is yet another reason why bonds tend to be lower risk than stocks do. So stocks are a great choice for growth oriented investors and bonds are a better choice for income oriented investors or more conservative investors. Now, from an inflation perspective, stocks have historically outpaced inflation, whereas bonds tend to lose their purchasing power over time to uh inflation. And stocks tend to be

very highly liquid of publicly traded companies, meaning it's easy to turn them into cash. Bonds a little bit less risky, a little harder to turn them into cash. From a return perspective, US bonds have returned about 3.6% after inflation over the last 200 plus years. Stocks by contrast have returned about double what bonds have done about 7% per year 6.9% over the last 200 plus

years. Now when it comes to stocks we should take a more granulated look because yes you can buy and sell shares in individual stocks but what are mutual funds? What are exchangeraded funds and what are index funds? These are various ways that you can take ownership in stocks. So stocks are when you buy the individual shares of the companies.

Mutual funds are a pulled investment that hires a manager and the manager goes out and picks the stocks to invest in. So invest in a plethora of stocks. Index funds are a type of fund that just tracks a market index such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average or the S&P 500. And an exchange traded fund is a collection of securities that trade on an exchange. And you can buy or sell groups of stocks with the same ease as it is to buy a synd. Now when you buy a

shares in stock, you own the stock directly. With the funds, mutual funds, index funds, and exchange traded funds, you have indirect ownership. You don't own the stocks directly, but you own the fund which owns the stock. From a management perspective, stocks are managed by the buyers and sellers of the stocks. Mutual funds are bought and sold by the active manager. Index funds are

passively managed, meaning that there isn't somebody picking the stocks to invest in. From a fee perspective, the only fees you pay on direct stock ownership is the transaction fees or commissions, but by now many commissions are essentially zero. Mutual funds tend to have very high expense ratios, whereas index fund and ETFs are much lower expense ratios. From a buying and selling perspective, you buy stocks and ETFs during market hours. You trade them during the day. Mutual fund and index

funds, if you place an order during the day, it won't actually transact till the end of the day. From a diversification perspective, you can get diversification by buying lots of stocks. But mutual funds, index funds, and ETFs tend to offer diversification just through the funds themselves. in the there's differences in the minimum amount that you need to invest in each of these types of stocks. If you're buying an individual stock, there's often no minimum. Some mutual funds and index

funds do have minimums, whereas exchange traded funds often have no minimums. That makes stocks and ETFs good choices if you don't have a lot of money to invest in or you're a beginner. From a risk perspective, individual stocks tend to be higher risk. Exchange traded funds and index funds tend to be lower risk. And from a tax perspective, stocks tend to be and from a tax efficiency perspective, owning individual stocks can or cannot be tax inefficient depending on how you operate them. Index

funds and ETFs tend to be much more tax efficient than mutual funds because they don't trade stocks as often. And as a reminder, if you want access to these slides, just visit long-termmindset.colides. So, how do we go about investing? We're interested in investing in stocks and bonds. How do we do that? Well, to do

that, the first thing you need to do is to get your money over to a brokerage account. A broker is simply a company that allows you to buy and sell investments. You tell them what you want to buy and they will go about and do the buying and selling for you. If you don't have a broker already, there's a couple of key things you need to keep in mind before choosing one. You need to take a look at fees. You don't want any

commissions, account fees, or hidden costs at all. Um, from an interest rate perspective, you want to be earning a good return on the cash that's held in that. The same way we'd want a high return on a savings account or a checking account. You want lots of different investment options. You don't want to be limited. You want to make

sure that the platform that you're using has a mobile interface. It's easy to use, very low minimums. You want to have to be very secure and encrypted. Based in the US is certainly my preference. And you want to hope that they have good customer service. Now, thankfully, there

are brokerages out there that do check all of these boxes. Um, some of the bigger and more popular ones are Fidelity, Charles Schwab, Vanguard, and Interactive Brokers. Personally, I use Interactive Brokers, but all these are just fine brokers for investors. If you if you force me to choose, if I couldn't go with Interactive Brokers, I would probably go with Fidelity as it seems like a great platform. Charles Schro is also just fine. Vanguard is a little bit

more restricted, but there's lots of great brokers out there. Just Google around and you can typically find one with a great deal. Now, once the brokerage account is open, the next deck is to pick an investing goal. So, what kind of goals could we have as an investor? Well, one goal, the most common goal is just to build wealth over time, having the market compound your returns for. But there's other investing

goals you could take on like paying for a big expense upcoming like college or a house. Achieving financial independence is a a major goal for some people. Paying for retirement is another. Just generating regular income is very attractive to some investors and for others just preserving the capital they already have is a goal that some investors go for. So it's important to know the reason that you're investing, what you're trying to achieve with your investments. The next once you have your

goal, you need to determine the time frame. How long before this investment pays off? Generally speaking, if you have a short time frame we need to pay off, say less than a year, you should want that money in cash. You shouldn't want it in bonds or stocks because the variability of returns that you get over less than a year are just too random and you likely won't be able to achieve your goals. As the amount of time that you have for that investment to pay off increases, the standard advice is that you can allocate more and more of your capital to riskier, higher return assets like bonds and ultimately stocks. If you

have a 10 plus year time horizon in mind, allocating completely to stocks can make a lot of sense. Now, there are these things out there called target date retirement funds that offer to do all of this navigation for you. And it is common practice to have your investments get more conservative as time passes on. So you do want to think about what your asset allocation strategy is as you move through time. Generally speaking, the younger you are, the more aggressive you should be. The

older you are, the less aggressive you should be. But that varies from person uh to person. Here is my personal lifetime asset allocation strategy. As long as I am 10 plus years away from needing my portfolio, I plan on being the majority of my money in stocks, very little in cash and bonds, and a little bit in in REITs. As I get closer to my quote unquote retirement or needing to draw down that, I'm going to allocate less to stocks, more to bonds, and more to cash. This is at least my long-term

plan as of right now. Now once we know our time horizon and goals, the next thing we need to do is pick a type of account. You probably have heard of Roth IAS, IRA, 401ks, etc. But what do these mean? Well, broadly speaking, there are two different categories of account types. There's a regular taxable account

and then there are taxed advantaged accounts. And there's multiple different type of tax advantaged accounts. Each of these funds are good to know, but there are some limitations in them that are important before you pick which one. So, one limitation to know about is how much you can contribute to them. You can contribute an unlimited amount of money to a taxable account, but if you want to contribute to a 401k, IRA or Roth IRA, there are contribution limits that you need to be uh aware of. Now, from a tax

perspective, you don't get any tax benefit on a taxable account. But 401ks and traditional IAS, you actually make pre-tax contributions, and that can lower your your taxable income in this year. A Roth, by comparison, is a post tax contribution. So, you get no immediate tax benefit. Now, when you're taking money out of the accounts, there's also tax implications to think of. If you sell stocks for a gain in

your taxable account, that gets added towards your stated income. you need to pay taxes uh on that. A 401k and traditional IRA and a Roth IRA by comparison have different tax treatments a after you're taking money out. 401ks and traditional IAS are taxed as ordinary income. But if you sell stocks in a Roth IRA, as long as you qualify and follow all the rules, the money you take out of there is actually taxfree.

And then from a growth perspective, in a taxable account, you are not taxed if you just hold the stocks. you're only taxed on the dividends interest that you make along the way. But 401ks, traditional IAS, and Roth IAS are all tax deferred or Roth IAS taxfree. Now, a regular taxable account has no penalty if you want to pull your money out early. 401ks, traditional IAS, and Roth IAS do have more restrictive rules on when you can access the capital that's in there since they're meant for retirement. There's also these things

called required minimum distributions that you need to be aware of after you reach a certain age, which is 73 as of the time of this recording. You are required by law to take a certain amount of money out of your accounts so that the tax man can collect his taxes on it. At a high level though, taxable accounts tend to be best for people that want flexible investing and 401ks, traditional IAS, and Roth IAS are best for people that want specific tax benefits either early in their career or towards the end of their career. Now, let's talk about the difference between passive and active investment. Another thing that you need to figure out for yourself. So active investment is when

you are buying and selling securities in order to achieve a goal different from what the market gives you. So for most people that is outperforming the market. Passive investing is when you are just tracking a market index. You're taking a hands-off approach and just riding the waves of the markets. So the goal of active investing often is to beat the market. With passive investment, it's

about matching uh the market. There are pros and cons to both active investing and passive investing that you can certainly read about on the screen, but it's important to know yourself before you pick a style. Are you want to be an active investor that participates in the market, pays attention, or do you want to be a passive hands-off investor? There are pros and cons uh to each. Okay. Now, how do we actually go about

investing? It's important to visualize the total way that it works. So, first, we get our money over to a brokerage account like Fidelity, Interactive Brokers, etc., and we open up that account. But when it comes to figuring out what type of account, this is when we choose. Is it a taxable account? Is

it an IRA? Is it a Roth IRA? That is just the wrapper, the tax treatment of that account. But functionally, it's the exact same thing. Now, in the account is where we put our investments. And the

first investment that goes in there is cash. Cash that we use to buy other investments. And once the money is in the account, we can go out and we can buy companies directly like Walmart, like Apple, like Nvidia, like Johnson and Johnson. Another option is to buy an index fund or ETF, which has all of those companies in there. And the same is true for a mutual fund. Mutual fund

might only have a select number of those investments uh in there. But it's important to understand once you put money into an account, you then have to go through and actually buy something with it. Make an actual investment. So don't just put money into a Roth thinking that it is invested. You do have to go out and buy it. So here are

the six steps we just talked about. The investing goal, time horizon, asset allocation, account type, strategy, and investments. And let's just think through at the start of this video, we talked about Aaron. How did Aaron do it? The hero we talked about early on. Well,

Aaron's investing goal was retirement, and Aaron had a long-term time horizon, 10 plus years. Now, Aaron again didn't know what he was doing, so he chose an aggressive asset allocation, and he put all of his money into a 401k. Now, Aaron just invested in broad-based US markets and followed the US stock market passively, and he did so by investing in index funds. And this very simple strategy is what allowed Aaron's portfolio to grow from zero to more than $3 million at the end of his working career. And believe it or not, but this is the advice that essentially Warren Buffett advises to his heirs. So he told

his trustees of his estate to put 10% of the cash that he has in short-term bonds and 90% in a lowcost S&P 500 fund. So, that's essentially the exact advice that Aaron followed when setting up his 401k. Now, when it comes to figuring out which index funds or which funds should we look at, here are the ticker symbols, the fund names, expense ratio, and more. Notice that five of the 10 biggest funds in the world are S&P 500 funds. So, they just track the performance of the S&P uh 500. Now, index funds have a lot of pros

working for them. They're very low cost. There's no thinking involved. They're very tax efficient and they offer consistent long-term performance. On the downside though, index funds don't outperform the market. They're not very

customized and they can become concentrated in a few handful of companies over time. Now, another option for you to consider is target date retirement funds. These are funds that automatically adjust the holdings of the portfolio to be more conservative over time. So that glide path we talked about earlier is what exactly these target date retirement funds do track. So here's an example of 10 different target date retirement funds offered by Vanguard. Notice that each fund has a

specific year associated with it like 2025, 2040, 2060, etc. What you do with these funds is you pick the one that has the retirement date that closely matches your proposed retirement date and then the fund will automatically adjust itself to that retirement date automatically for you. So target date funds have become very popular in recent years because they're very easy to use. You set it and forget it. You just pick one fund and that's the only fund that you need for your whole uh life. On the

downside, these funds tend to have a little bit higher fees when compared to do-it-yourself and they tend to be a little bit more conservative. But overall, target date retirement funds are a wonderful innovation that makes investing super super simple. Fair reminder, if you want access to these slides, just click the link in the video description. Now, let me walk you through how I personally invest or my personal goals for these investing decisions. So my overall investing goal is to build wealth, to pay for my retirement, and to achieve financial independence. My time horizon for

needing my capital is 10 plus years. So because of that, I can be pretty aggressive with my asset allocation strategy. Now, I personally choose to invest in all four types of accounts. I have all four and I go with both an active and passive strategy. So my active strategy is with individual stocks and my passive strategy is just with index funds for simplicity and here are the returns that I've achieved in my active part of my portfolio and I have outperformed the S&P 500. So this is a

strategy that works well for me. I don't recommend this strategy for everybody. It just fits my personality and personal financial situation. Now let's move on to a subject that every investor needs to know and that is the market riskiness and dealing with volatility which is a huge problem for every investor. So markets will eventually go down. But why

does this happen? Well, let's go back to our example that we had before of the lemonade stand that traded for 10 times earnings. Unfortunately, this is not the case. That multiple that put is put on businesses is not a flat consistent number. That number bounces around like crazy depending on the investor's moods and emotions. And as that number

changes, moving up or down, even though the profit picture of the business is the same, because that multiple is constantly moving up and down, that has a dramatic impact on the valuation of the business S&P 500 level scale. Here is the PE ratio of the S&P 500 over the last 150 years. Notice that sometimes the PE ratio is increasing or expanding. Other times the PE ratio is contracting or moving down which has a huge impact on the prices the mark public prices of the US stock market. Now let's understand why this happens. Going back to our very

simple example of the lemonade stand that has that very consistent profit profile of $1,000 per year each and every year. Now, we already discussed about how getting a 10% return for the buyer is that PE ratio of 10. So, $1,000 in profit times that 10 PE ratio equals a valuation or a price of the business of $10,000. Now, put that in your mind and I want you to imagine that right before you're about to buy my lemonade stand, you see this in the paper. Amazon announces that it just bought a lemonade stand company and it promises free lemonade to all of its Prime members.

Now, I want you to imagine that that headline came and answer this question. Do you still want to pay me $10,000 for my lemonade stand business? The answer is probably not. Now, why is that? Why would you not be willing to pay that $10,000 for the business just because of a news item of a press release? Well, in your mind, the buyer's

mind, instead of this being the future of the business, that $1,000 in profit every year, suddenly this is now the future of the business. that news item came out and it scared you because you are no longer confident in the future profitability of the company now because you are now fearful of what the company's future profitability is. There's no way you're going to accept 10% return. That is too low to compensate you for the risk and the uncertainty that the business now faces. So, let's say that you say the only way I'm going to buy this business is if I get a 20% return. That's a high enough return to

compensate me for the new risk that I'm taking on. If we're demanding a 20% return as the buyer, that drops the price to earnings ratio to five. So, instead of the business being worth $10,000, the business is only worth $5,000. So, a press release came out and the value of the business got cut in half. Okay, now that you have that scenario in your mind, wait, rewind, rewind a bit.

Erase that from your your brain. The business is $10,000. Amazon is not taking over. That is not in the picture. But imagine if you saw this headline come out. And the Wall Street Journal

says that the state of Rhode Island, where the business operates, has outlawed all new lemonade stand businesses, but all existing lemonade stand businesses are grandfathered in. Essentially, the government now created a monopoly for existing lemonade stand businesses. There's no risk of new lemonade stands coming into the market. Then ask, would I, the seller, still want to sell you the business for $10,000? Would I be willing to give away this business for $10,000?

Well, the answer is now no. Because me, the seller, along with you, the buyer, now believe because of this law change that all of these numbers are about to go up. We don't have competition to worry about anymore. So, I'm feeling really good about the future prospects of the business, and likely you are, too. So, me, the seller, I'm no longer willing to sell my business and give away a 10% return, but I would be willing to sell it to give away a 5% return and double the value of the business to a 20 PE ratio. So instead of

the business being worth $10,000, I would only be willing to sell this company for $20,000. Now I want to ask you this question. In both scenarios, a press release came out and the value of the business got cut in half or the value of the business doubled. So ask yourself this question. What changed between those two scenarios? The answer

is investor perception changed drastically. The business was the exact same the both times but the investor perception of the business changed drastically. So when bad news came along the investors were filled with fear and fear caused uncertainty and the price toearnings ratio shrank dramatic. On the flip side, when good news came along, investors were filled with greed and that greed caused the PE ratio to expand dramatic. So, some people feel fear and they get fearful and they want to sell.

Other people feel greed and they feel very greedy and they want to buy and that fear causes the price to earnings ratio to go down. And that greed causes the price toearnings ratio to go up. And this is a very predictable cycle that happens again and again and again in the market. There's fear that causes market prices to decline and greed that causes market prices to increase and fear eventually gives way to to greed and greed eventually gives way to fear. And this cycle repeats again and again and again. I mean just within the last

hundred years we've seen some major crashes come along in in the markets. things like 1929, Great Depression, World War II, the oil crisis of the 70s, the inflation crisis in the 80s, Black Monday, the dotcom bubble, the great housing crisis 2008 to 2019 crash. In all cases, there was something going wrong in the world and that caused the market to go through a multimonth or a multi-year period when prices fell dramatically. huge declines in the stock market during these periods caused by very real economic consequences that were happening happening around the globe. But these are just the big ones that everybody knows about. What's

actually fascinating is that if you look at what happens in any given year, market declines from the recent high are extremely normal. This wonderful chart from JP Asset Management shows the market returns of the S&P 500 which is the black line and the red dot is the midyear intriar decline from the recent high. Notice how big the declines are even in very strong up years. It's not uncommon for there to be a 10 plus% decline even when the markets go up dramatically. And this satirical cartoon shows this happening on Wall Street where somebody whispers the word sell.

It becomes a panic and everybody becomes very emotionally involved and then somebody whispers the word buy and then greed takes over. And this happens again and again. It is a predictable repeatable pattern. And this is why as an investor in the markets you have to internalize that declines are perfectly normal. Since 1928, the market has declined about 10% once a year, about 20% once every four years, 30% about once a decade, and 50% a few times each century. This is the kind of thing that

happens in the market. The market goes up more often than it goes down, but it goes down with a regular repeating occurrence. And if you want to look at the odds of experience a stock market loss, how often does the market decline, say 5%, the answer is 95% of the time. In 95% of years, you should expect the stock market to decline by 5% or more. How about 10% decline? That happens

about 63% of all years. 20% declines or more, about once about 26% of the time, once every four years. 30% declines happen about once every 10 years or so and 40% declines or worse happen about 5% or years. And yet if you look if you I made this chart which shows the histogram of the S&P 500 returns despite having truly random truly random results in any given year the market continuously goes up and produces that 10% return on average over the long hall. But why why do markets rebound from declines? The declines are

easy to understand. There's always something big, usually something big, bad happening in the world that causes them to happen. Why do markets recover? What is the forcing function that causes markets to recover? Where there's a few things that happen when markets decline that eventually leads to a recovery.

First is corporates are innovative. Companies are forced during periods of distress to adapt, adopt new business products, services, change prices on products, introduce new products to the market, get rid of dying divisions. Corporate innovation goes up during periods of market stress because everybody is freaking out. Next is corporate consolidation. During downturns, weak businesses die or in serious trouble. But strong companies

can emerge and buy out those businesses or take over the customers that are left once those businesses die. In addition, the government usually is fully aware that there's something going on in the in the market and they provide stimulus and support to the market to ease the burden on its citizens. Central banks also respond by lowering rates which which stimulates borrowing and growth. And yet during even declines, the population continues to grow. So the natural increase in demand for goods and services continues to rise. Eventually

the earnings that the companies are earnings start to recover as earnings have gone down during the downturn. They do eventually hit a bottom and start to recover. Once the market hindicates that stock earnings have recovered that eventually leads to a recovery in prices. Meanwhile investors are the companies that are behind the these businesses are still profitable. And while their profit, they're still generating profits during these tough periods, they're using those profits to buy back stock and pay out dividends which support the stock prices. And

eventually all of those factors return investor confidence slowly. It's a slow process of be investors becoming confident again. But once investors start to see that prices have risen and investor confidence return, prices rise more, more investors become confident, etc., etc. And this is why the process of the cycle of the markets repeats again and again and again. And if you

look at gross domestic product in the United States over the last 80 or so years, look at the long-term trend. It's up and to the right. And each of those gray bar periods includes periods of extreme market and economic stress. But look at the long-term trend. Even during those periods of extreme economic stress, the company continues to produce more and more goods, profits continue to grow higher and higher over time. This

is why the market recovers. And this is why if you stick to a long-term time horizon, while the returns that you get in any given year are all over the map, if you hold on to the S&P 500 over a period of decades, which is the appropriate time to measure market returns, you should earn a very solid return over the long term as the variations in stock prices neutralize themselves. So there are always going to be always a smart sounding reason to sell stocks. There's always going to be that smart sounding reason. So what should you do as an investor? How should

you respond to this volatility? The answer is be like Aaron, our hero from the start of this video. Aaron just bought on a fixed schedule. No matter what was going on to the news, he contributed $400 a month to his 401k in good times and in bad. And he was buying at market tops as well as market bottoms simply by investing consistently. And

Warren Buffett's mentor, this guy here, had a fantastic way of describing this phenomenon. His quote is, "In the short term, the market is a voting machine. It's driven by popularity. But in the long term, the market is a weighing machine. It weighs the profitability of the corporations that are in there. This

is Benjamin Graham, Warren Buffett's mentor. Very wise word. All right. Now, let's talk about some mistakes and myths related to the market and bust them. So, myth number one is that investing is only for the wealthy. Not true. Anyone

can start investing today with any amount of money. Investing isn't for the wealthy. Investing is how ordinary people become wealthy. How about reason number two? You need to time the market.

Not true. Consistent investing in good times and bad outperforms market timing. How about stocks are risky? Yes, stocks are risky in the short term, but in the long term, stocks are an extremely safe asset. It's the only asset that consistently outperforms inflation over long periods of time. How about bonds?

Bonds are safer than stocks. Incorrect. Bonds are less volatile than stocks, especially over the short term, but stocks are actually safer than bonds when measured over the long term. How about you should sell when the market drops? There's the myth. Incorrect.

Markets recover over time. We talked about the factors that cause markets to recover. And as long as those factors are in place, markets will always recover from decline. How about you need a financial advisor? You shouldn't invest your money on your own.

Incorrect. You can invest your own money. No one has your incentives in mind more so than you. No one cares about your money more than you do. So there's nothing wrong with hiring a financial adviser, but you have all the tools you need today to manage your money yourself. And then finally, step

seven is you need to watch the market. Incorrect. You don't need to watch the market. If you just buy and hold index funds and continually add to them over long periods of time, you shouldn't care about what stock prices are in the short term. Investing is all about patiently waiting for that market to return its long-term average. It's not about

following prices on a day-to-day basis. All right, now let's talk about some common investing mistakes. Mistake number one is trying to time the market. It's extremely difficult to do. There's no need to just consistently add money to your portfolio every month. Number

two, don't have diversified portfolio. They only buy a handful of say tech stocks or stocks they read about on Reddit or whatever. That's not a good thing to do. You want to diversify your assets. The more diversification you have, the more protection you have from one asset blowing up. Mistake number

three is they sell when markets get volatile. That is the exact wrong strategy. You don't want to sell when markets become volatile. all you're doing is locking in your losses and missing out on the recovery. Mistake number four is to ignore fees and costs that are out there. Don't ignore fees.

Keep your fees and costs as low as possible. And then mistake number five is failing to rebalance. Rebalancing is something that you should do on a semi-regular basis, maybe once a year or once every three years. And just make sure that your actual portfolio matches the risk profile that you want to take on as an investor. All right, now it's time about selling and taxes. Let's

cover these two important topics. When do you sell stocks? This is a very tricky thing. Selling is way harder than buying a stock. But I do think that there are four broad reasons to go about selling a stock. Reason number one is

that the thesis for owning that stock has changed. Perhaps something came along that technologically disrupted it. Perhaps a management team left. a product is no longer as popular as it once was. The margins got worse. If the

reason you bought a stock changes, perhaps you should think about selling. Reason number two is emotional reasons. Perhaps your portfolio is out of balance. Perhaps you're not sleeping well at night. Perhaps you're glued to your phone because you're watching a stock price every minute of every day.

That's an emotional reason. If if investing is making your actual life worse, there's no harm with selling that to eliminate that burden that you place on yourself psychologically. Reason number three is for tax purposes. Sometimes it can make sense to sell a losing investment because you want to take a tax advantage. You get a tax break for doing so. That's a perfectly

valid reason. And then finally is your priorities change. We all live lives. Things happen in our everyday lives. You want to buy a house. You want to send a

kid to college. You have you have a kid. You get married. You get divorced. Life things can come along and that can change your priorities. There's nothing

wrong with selling to make sure your portfolio matches your actual real world priority. Now, as a friendly aside, I have studied the great investors, the greatest investors of all time, and I put together a short course that explains all of the reasons why they sell. If you're interested in that course, just visit long-termmindset.co. co/sell or click the link in the video description if that course interests you. Finally, let's talk about the tax

consequences of selling your investments. The tax consequences that you're going to take on totally depends on the type of account that you have held your stocks and investments in. If you have a taxable account, generally speaking, there's three possible scenarios. One is that you sell for a short-term gain, which means you've held that stock for less than a year, you might pay a higher tax rate. Second scenario is you sell for a long-term gain, which is a stock that's held for more than one year, you're generally taxed at a lower rate. And finally, if

you sell at a loss, you can actually use that loss to deduct it from your ordinary income up to a $3,000 per year loss in the United States. Now, if you sell in a 401k, you won't face any immediate tax benefits at all. You only face benefit, you only face a tax penalty when you withdraw that money from your portfolio. And there could be huge consequences depending on your age when you do that. With I traditional IAS, taxes are deferred. So you only pay

taxes when you pull money out of your out of your account, but you can buy and sell in that account as long as you're not taking it from it. Generally speaking, taxfree. And it's a similar for the Roth IRA. Um Roth IRA, you've paid taxes upfront. So, if you take money out of your account later and you follow all the rules, generally speaking, that is a qualified withdrawal, which should be tax-free so long as you play by the rules. Now, as a

reminder, if you want access to all the slides that I'm using in this video, just click long-term.co/slides and I'll send them to you. The key takeaway from this presentation, thank you for sticking with me this long. Remember Aaron? Aaron became a multi-millionaire just by making one good financial decision and letting his money run for his entire career. Aaron became a

multi-millionaire off of a simple few hundred investment over his career. And the reason is he took advantage of the awesome power of the US stock market to generate those market beating inflation beating returns and compounding his wealth over years. This is how true wealth is built in the stock market. And I know that you can do it. You have all the tools that you need. So now that you

are hopefully if you've watched this video to the end, you now know more about the stock market than 95% of the global population and I wish you investing success on your journey to achieving your financial goals. Thanks so much for watching this video. And if you want to keep learning from here, the algorithm thinks that you're going to like watching this video