---
video_title: "How To Read A Stock (AAPL)"
video_id: kg6Si6Vq4So
channel_name: "Brian Feroldi"
channel_id: UCs60_Z83HU76uygzHRQl0kA
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kg6Si6Vq4So
video_date: 20260113
video_description: |
  ▼ Try Fiscal AI for FREE ▼
  https://fiscal.ai/brian — 📈 Our favorite stock research tool
  
  ▼ Free Investing eBook ▼
  📚 Investing Infographic eBook: https://longtermmindset.co/investing
  
  ▼ Tools & Courses ▼
  ✅ Stock Analysis AI Prompts: https://StockSimplifier.com
  
  ▼🛒 Shop Our Store! ▼
   https://longtermmindset.co/store
  
  ▼My Book on Amazon:▼
  📖 https://amzn.to/3JVr9Q0
  
  ▼ABOUT ME:▼
  👨‍💼Brian Feroldi is an author, investor, YouTuber, and financial educator. He's been investing in the stock market since 2004. Brian likes to buy and hold the highest quality companies he can find.
  
  ⚠️ Disclaimer: ⚠️
  This content is for educational, illustrative, and entertainment purposes only. Nothing in this video should be considered financial advice, a recommendation, or a solicitation to buy or sell any security.
  
  Investing involves risk, including the risk of losing your principal. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Always do your own research. If you need personalized advice, consult a licensed financial, legal, or tax professional.
  
  The opinions shared are my own as of the recording date and may change without notice. I do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of any information shared. By watching this video, you agree not to hold me or any guest liable for decisions made based on this content.
  
  Some links included may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a commission if you use them, at no extra cost to you. I only recommend products I believe in.
---
How to read a stock explained visually by Brian Faldi. First thing to know is a stock exchange which is where you can buy and sell the stock. For example, the company Apple is listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange. Next is the ticker symbol which is the short name for the stock. Apple's ticker symbol is AAPL.

Then there's the current price which is how much one share of the stock costs. Apple traded at a price of $225 per share. And there's market capitalization which is how much the equity value of the entire company is. Then there's volatility aka beta which is how much a stock price goes up and down. Apple had a beta of 1.2 2, which means that it's

21% more volatile than the stock market in general. Then there's the price to earnings ratio, which is how expensive the stock is to buy compared to how much money the business makes. Apple had a price to earnings ratio of about 35, whereas the average PE ratio on the market was about 27, meaning Apple was more expensive than the market in general. Then there's earnings per share, which is how much money the company makes for each share that it has. Apple made about $644 for each share of stock. Then there's dividend

yield, which is how much money you get paid for holding the stock. And then there's the 52- week range, which is the highest and lowest price of stock traded at the last year. Visual explanations like this are useful.