---
video_title: "The War With China Will be Fought Here"
video_id: n09Wf7J-Utg
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n09Wf7J-Utg
video_date: 2025-12-15T14:21:18+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-318
  
  World War III will not be fought with the weapons you think. China’s latest weapons tech is much more advanced—and it’s so secretive even the US government can’t figure out what China will do next.
---
Chinese build out of in space is mind-boggling, his word not mine. And then the second thing that he was very clear about is that China has basically decided that space is a war-fighting domain. And so as you think about sort of a Taiwan contingency or sort of anything in this ecosystem, you can't just think about the maritime space, cyberspace, you know, air airborne equities and terrestrial issues. You also have to think about space and how space will be used to create another layer in this in this perspective conflict. And it was something where I mean my I think Randy's Randy has a riff he should give on this after I finish here, but like the amount of work that China has done to build out their space infrastructure layer, which is sort of a launch and all of the things associated with that has been incredible. And the amount of

metal they've put in space over the last decade is also incredible. The analogy I've been giving people is the United States has been humming along at a pretty impressive rate in the sort of space space industry since Sputnik, right? And so we're humming down the road at sort of 60-70 miles an hour. If anyone's driven down a highway before at that speed and been passed by a car that's going at about 110, you sort of you know how your car reverberates and you hear that sort of sound as the car goes by. The Chinese aren't right up beside us yet, but you've also had that experience where you can tell the car in the rearview mirror is coming up on you fast. And that's what's happening in

space right now. So as you think about 2027, as you think about a prospective Taiwan conflict, and you think about that dynamic, just think about what a space layer in a Taiwan conflict looks like looks like. And it will be it'll be it'll be the first time space is sort of used in that way. Well, I was just going to add, you know, and this is not just sort of cool advanced technology. We're we're in the era of Star Wars in real life. This is this is

about war-fighting. And if you understand how you actually put hot metal on targets, it's an architecture. It's a system of systems. And I would say 5 years ago, if an aircraft carrier surface action group some surface ship left San Diego or even Hawaii, the ability for the Chinese to track first of all the sensor see it, let alone track it, but track it into the Western Pacific was pretty spotty. We no longer have the advantage of uh that opaque and and and ability to have cover due to lack of Chinese coverage. The Chinese can cover

everything from the western part of the United States and Hawaii on its way to the western Pacific. So seeing, sensing, tracking, targeting, these are all parts of modern warfare and the architecture that's required and China's building it out. They're also building out counter-space capabilities probably at a more rapid rate. We've been a little more restrained because we wanted to be good citizens of not only the Earth, but in outer space and responsible and and good citizenship to many men. We don't do counter-space. We don't do offensive

space operations. Well, the Chinese, you know, were blowing satellites out of the out of the space area 20 years ago almost. And they've been thinking about dealing with our space capabilities in more serious ways than I think the reverse. So we do have a a very comprehensive recommendation on space. And it's it's basically a run faster in many areas. Do what we can to thwart the

Chinese, although that's, you know, that window may have largely closed. So this is really consequential and need to to properly resource our space force and the related agencies that are adjacent to that. What is the PLA's most dangerous space weapon? Actually, this is a reveal and conceal game, right? So I think the answer is we don't know.

You know, there's been there's been all kinds of public reports about some of the things that may or may may or may not have happened in space about proximity operations and things like that. So the simple answer is I don't think we know, but but they've definitely demonstrated some things in space that that that trouble our military leaders. Yeah, I mean and what we do know suggests that there are some great dangers and risks there. So they've they've developed anti-satellite missile capabilities. They've developed high-energy targeted systems, lasers, you know, to take out a US satellite, you can either blow it up, but you can also make it non-operational through blinding it or obscuring the the operations of it. And so Chinese are

doing it all. You know, [clears throat] the thing that Randy just sort of triggered me on there is that one of the parts of the recommendations is a focus on simulation and sort of how do we build out space force's ability to sort of think about war-gaming and simulation capabilities. You know, when you're joint strike fighter pilot or you're an F-18 pilot or even if you're a on a surface combatant, you you have things where you can exercise your capabilities and exercise new technologies and things like that. That's a layer inside of the space force that we need to really build out and be thoughtful about. There's never been a conflict in space. So like, you know,

the the measure countermeasure cycle and sort of all the things that we've war-gamed over the years in the airborne space at the in the maritime space and the terrestrial space just hasn't been done. And so one of the recommendations is, you know, we urge our client Congress to sort of be really thoughtful and deliberate about making sure this part of the the ecosystem is appropriately resourced. Is there a danger in right now most of our launches in the US to space are handled by one company, right? Which is SpaceX, which is controlled by Elon Musk, who also happens to have major investments in China. Of course, he's also very clever and has made amazing breakthroughs in technology. So

like how do you guys think about this from a national security strategic point of view? Well, I would say take Elon Musk out of it for a second. I would say when the decision was made to rely on private industry for launch in the United States, you should never be reliant on one source, one company, one individual, no matter who it is and whatever business ties they might have to China. Bring Elon Musk back into the conversation and the fact that he's got these interests. You know, I think that's that's concerning. I know that when you look at

Taiwan and their decision-making about advanced communications and how they want to be resilient, they're certainly not thinking about Starlink. There's a lot more of this hour-long podcast to watch. Just click below to see it at chin uncensored.tv. When you join us there, you can be part of my exclusive China Uncensored 50 Cent Army, where we stand up to the CCP together.

Link is below.