---
video_title: "Behind the CCP’s Plan to Overwhelm Taiwan"
video_id: 9LzoVgMVx6Q
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9LzoVgMVx6Q
video_date: 2025-12-01T18:16:20+00:00
video_description: |
  Subscribe to watch the full episode: https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-316
  
  The CCP may already have the advantage in a Taiwan conflict—and not just with its own military power. In this clip, counterintelligence expert Dr. Robert Eldridge outlines the CCP’s strategy for forcing the West to fight proxy battles on five fronts, so they can’t focus on Taiwan even if they want.
---
I just I guess I just don't see how Japan avoids the war if there's an invasion of [music] Taiwan. Yeah. I uh yeah, I don't know how much we we should go into this right right here openly, but I'm not as optimistic uh about the US ability to respond to a Taiwan contingency. Um uh particularly after having lived in Taiwan, uh I was uh I was concerned before I moved to Taiwan. I'm uh I'm still overcoming my depression after living in Taiwan about the prospects for uh US capabilities in defending Taiwan.

>> Is that a is that a military a question of military capability or political willpower? Um quite often here in Japan, also in Taiwan, people ask, "Will the US, you know, be there for for Taiwan or be there for Japan?" Uh to me, um we're past the question of of willpower. It's a question of uh capabilities. So asking whether we're we'll be there or not that that's sort of like you know dreamland at this point. Um the real

question is does the US have the capabilities anymore and uh and I'm I I question that uh you know quite seriously. Um so in the back in the day obviously China was weaker, Taiwan was relatively stronger, the US was much stronger. um and wasn't really sure what Japan would do. Um but things have changed, you know, in recent decades. Um and you know, I would argue China's a whole lot stronger than you know, we want to think it is. Um we're a whole

lot weaker than we want to think ourselves to be. Um the truth lies somewhere in between in between there. Um, another huge thing that's changed is that a Taiwan contingency is no longer limited to the Taiwan Straits as it was, you know, in the past. Now, it could involve uh North Korean action on the Korean Peninsula or in the Sea of Japan. So that would immediately divide um Japanese self-defense force attention between two theaters. It would also

divide American attention between two theaters. It would prevent Korea, which has the most to lose from a a Taiwan invasion, from being able to provide any assistance. And then you have Russia involved. And if you remember back in February 2022 um between Putin and and Xiinping, their meeting that was basically a quidd proquo. Uh China would recognize what um what Russia did in Ukraine and Russia would essentially recognize what China eventually does in in Taiwan. So

essentially it's a a military alliance between them. So that'll bring Russia, a Russian front into Taiwan contingency. So that'll tie up the remainder of the Japanese self-defense forces up in the north. And I'm not suggesting that Russia will launch an invasion of Hokkaido, but they can do a lot of stuff to distract Japan, which would also distract the United States. Um, so you have three fronts now. It's no

longer limited to to one front, the Taiwan Strait, plus you have, uh, any activity that might happen in the South China Sea. So now you have a fourth front. Plus, uh, and you've covered this extensively on your shows, um, all the Chinese, uh, foreign nationals that are abroad, South Korea, you know, United States, Japan, there's 1 million Chinese citizens in Japan, and they're obligated, you know, to, you know, to abide by the 2010, you know, national defense mobilization law of China's. So they become uh you know they basically participate in uh you know incursions or uh you know disturbances here in Japan. China as you may have covered before has stockpiles of weapons in Japan already.

So those 1 million Chinese citizens that are in Japan, they can just go to their local stockpile, follow whatever instructions are given to them and cause disruption. Uh and if they wanted to, if they timed it well, they have uh let's say 10 cruise ships from Hokkaido all the way down to Ishigaki calling at Japanese ports, four or 5,000 Chinese on each of those ships. the holes filled with weapons, they could cause massive d disruption at all the different ports. So that's your fifth front right there. So when you take all of these things going on simultaneously, um that I think that gives China a huge advantage uh to cover that 100 mile, you know, Taiwan straight. Um, and then you

know the personnel they already have in in Taiwan. Uh, and their strategy, you know, for the time being is to decapitate the Taiwanese government. To me, that's more like the real situation, you know, right now. >> Well, it sounds pretty hopeless. I guess we should we should probably just capitulate to whatever the CCP wants then, right?

>> No, we shouldn't. We should do what we can right now to build up deterrence, right? >> [snorts and clears throat] >> Well, that's a good question because that's that's very interesting for Japan because of, you know, the post post-war constitutions, they're limited to a self-defense force. Um, by the time China invades, it's too late to to develop that further. Um, but how with within those restrictions, how can Japan develop its essentially military might because I would imagine not just China would be upset by that. A lot of

other Asian countries would be very concerned about uh seeing this kind of development in Japan. >> Yeah. Uh to be honest, I don't think any other Asian countries would be concerned about it. I think that's uh essentially a myth. >> Really?

>> Yeah. >> Even like South Korea. >> Yeah. Korea. But any other Asian country? No. Unless they're under

Chinese thumbs. [clears throat] >> Yeah. >> What are you saying about South Korea? Well, increasingly, you know, Japan and South Korea working together on on defense matters. So, it's not so much Japan, it's been South Korea over the years. It's been the the slow one to

come along. Uh but, you know, more and more nowadays, they are. And as I alluded to before, South Korea is the one that loses the most after Taiwan, uh if Taiwan were invaded, uh because they're going to be essentially blocked in after that. Um, so they're they're going to have to step up and they would certainly want Japan to be able to step up uh to that about Japan being prepared. The uh you know the legislation that you alluded to before that it's an existential threat to Japan if if Taiwan were invaded. Um that is

like a bridge that would allow them to get involved um somehow. not coming directly to Taiwan's aid but helping the US which is going to Japan's or to Taiwan's aid. Um so it's still a little from from my perspective a little bit removed from being directly involved in a conflict. Um so in my opinion it needs to really step up its game. That's where the Taiwan Relations Act um allows Japan to do a lot of different things. um that uh

you know it should have been doing already. Um Japan has an unfortunate habit of of correcting things after the fact. So uh you know it's had a lot of disasters over the years. It's been after the disasters that it that it's taken the actions that it should have done before the disaster. So, um, I call it J Kugi where it realizes something after the fact. So, I

don't think it'll really, um, you know, really, really develop its military until after some sort of contingency that had a huge impact on Japan. Um, and what I mean by that is, you know, for example, you know, adopting uh conscription. Um I don't think right now Japan is is willing to do that but if it faced a situation where it needed to um after that happened after it realized it then it would it may may try to do that. Um and then going back to your original question about how how would Japan be involved. Um I think there are two factors. One is who's the leader of

Japan at that time. So if you have somebody in the pro-China school, um that person could be easily manipulated. So if you had a Kishida, if you had an uh an Ishiba, that would make it very easy for China to take action. Um if you have somebody like Takahichi uh or you know somebody who you know had a strong belief in in uh defending the country uh then that would make it a lot harder for China but not impossible. But uh another scenario that I have in mind is that China knows Japan so well it knows what buttons it can push, how far it can go. Um it's and as you know

you know better uh about this China's always you know you know pushing the limits uh and seeing how far it can go somewhere within Japan it knows that that country this country extremely well. So what I think would happen um in in a situation in in Taiwan, not every situation um but I think it would China would go out of its way not to hit US bases in Japan. Therefore, Japan wouldn't have a a reason to get involved in a Taiwan contingency depending on who's the leader at the time, how they interpret an ex existential threat. So, there are a lot of different uh whatifs, you know, involved. But if it hits a Japanese base or a US base in Japan, which is essentially Japanese territory, then Japan can exercise the right of self-defense and it doesn't need any other, you know, laws or legislation.

But if China didn't hit a Japanese, you know, US base in Japan, you know, didn't hit Japan, [snorts] then Japan would struggle about how to respond. There's a lot more of this hour-long podcast to watch. Just click below to see it at chinaunensored.tv. When you join us there, you can be part of my exclusive Chinaensored 50 C army where we stand up to the CCP together.

The link is below.