---
video_title: "China’s Trillion Dollar Heist"
video_id: hbM0tSHRnPQ
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hbM0tSHRnPQ
video_date: 2025-11-15T19:08:54+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the whole podcast: https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-315
  
  The CCP has siphoned off trillions of dollars in innovation and wealth right under our noses. This isn’t just theft, it’s the buildup for war. Counterintelligence expert Casey Fleming explains how decades of “trade” with China has led to something much scarier.
  
  Pre-order Casey’s book “The Red Tsunami”: http://theredtsunami.com
---
We are broken. We are broken in [music] the US, worse in Canada, worse in the UK, worse [music] in uh Australia. And if you saw Hong Kong go down in a matter of weeks with barely a whimper, that's what's going on right now. And while we stay busy, we stay uh distracted with all the chaos and all the news, uh there's they're it's not slowly anymore, they're rapidly taking our freedom. >> Yeah, I think the the pre-sale idea for the book is is is a great way to get it out there. Uh I'm I'm just curious a bit

about your background. You've been in counter intelligence for so long. When what do you remember when the moment was that you realized that China, the Chinese Communist Party was the threat it is? Actually, yeah. It was 2001, couple of months after 911. Um, there

was this thing called the Hainan Island incident where uh the Japanese I'm I'm sorry, the Chinese Air Force forced down an a US Navy surveillance plane that was 70 mi off the coast of Hainan Island. So, they rammed it, forced down on the ground, 24 people, 24 sailors, uh, because it was a Navy plane, uh, were forced on the ground. They were kept uh in solitary confinement. They were questioned. Uh they weren't tortured, but they were questioned heavily for I think 10 days. Then they were released

and they and the Chinese Communist Party kept the aircraft for blueprinting uh all that information. So for me that was like that was a wakeup call. It's like I didn't know what was going on. I had I knew something was very serious for them to do that. And who are these guys? By

the way, my dad fought World War II in China, uh, protecting China and freedom and used to fly out of, uh, out of a Chinese base to, uh, to read weather patterns and so on and how it would affect, uh, the Pacific's weather. So, you know, we were partnered with the the Chinese back then. But that's what the that's what this whole thing is. The world has evolved. It's become a very very difficult powder keg today.

That was my J that was my day zero was when I understood what was going on with Hainana Island. The other one my [clears throat] day one was I was um in a an FBI intelligence briefing and one of the subjects one of the lines of business in the FBI we came across this was economic espionage. I'm like wait a minute these are my clients you know and they they went through three case studies in one city. I said, "Is it could this be really this bad?" So, I commissioned a study and the study came back and said, "Oh my god, this is really really bad." And this was circa

20 uh 2011, so 15 years ago. Um and uh so I said you know do we need another cyber security software product and that was the industry that I was in um and do I want to entertain a CEO's job with a with a cyber security software company do we really need another one of those what and the point is that software is all all focused on protecting the perimeter right the perimeter of the castle and all that and so I said no nobody's focused on the enemy who's doing it and so that's when I commissioned the company My company was uh Black Ops Partners back in 2011. So we focused on that and we focused on protecting uh the assets, protecting intellectual property with Fortune 1000 companies. And through that we saw just the devastation, you know, rendering, think about this. You spend $3 billion on a cancer drug. $3 billion in seven

years or 10 years on a cancer drug. And then your enemy steals your intellectual property and they completely neutralize the time and the money that you just spent. And now they're selling your product back to your customers because they've infiltrated your company and your networks. They have your company, your product, your customers, and they're selling it back at like 25 to 45 cents on the dollar. How long are you going to stay in business? Now, this has

been going on for decades. So, how so think about it when you take a company and there are hundreds. You take a company and you destroy it and then you take that that revenue. So, that revenue here was revenue, profit, jobs, schools, hospitals, national security. When you take that out of the economy and you put that over in the totalitarian communist economy, then what does that tell you?

So now we're much weaker and they're much stronger because they've taken that and there's just hundreds of those industries. Solar panels, US technology stolen, you know, you pretty much can't get solar panels unless it's from China. Electronic windmills, it's called American superconductor. uh total US technology now 80%'s over in China. This goes on and on from from uh seeds for agriculture, hybrid seeds for agriculture, uh all that research and development, you've got all this stuff.

And then by the way, everything when you're working with the Chinese Communist Party and that regime, everything is weaponized against the West to destroy the West, including viruses, by the way. So, this thing is a this is a big animal to get your hand around. It's very complex. And that's why, well, just give me the net. Give me 30 second review so I can just go about my day. No, this isn't one of those

things. If you care about your life, you care about your family, and you care about your freedom, you're going to get more detail. And >> I'm glad you brought this up because I first came across your work when you were working for Black Ops and and at the time about 10 years ago, you said uh Chinese intellectual property theft costs the US $5 trillion every year. Uh I mean, usually the number that like I think the US government gives out is about 600 billion. just curious like why the difference and is it still an issue 10 years from now?

>> Your questions I I love them and you just you just you just energize me. So, um, that number 600 million you just quoted is from 2010 and it's from a government that never went to MBA school and it's just the raw data or the raw technology or the raw IP that was stolen. That's intellectual property for the audience and they don't put the time value of money on that. So if I spent, you know, a billion on whatever um a new computer chip or well that would be like three billion. If I spent that money on a computer chip, then it uh and when it gets stolen, that computer chip was supposed to run my company for 10 years. So you have to

multiply that time. We use a factor of 10. Um so back in the day, and by the way, I'm the guy that's been to the government said, "You guys can't talk." Okay. And this is the FBI back in the day. They said, "Well, [snorts] we can

only quote our case load. We can only quote what we're working, you know, in other words, what we've prosecuted." And I'm think, "Okay, so we know that you prosecute one to two% and it's like," and then their answer is, "Casey, that's why we need guys like you." And actually, there was a billboard campaign on the West Coast up and down 101 Silicon Valley and all that. and it said, "Yeah, we lost 11 billion dollars last year." And this was back 2011,

2012. And uh and they're billboards and they think they're doing a good The FBI thought they were doing a good job. And I said, "Dude, if I'm a CEO of any company up and down 101, I said 11 billion divided by you name it, 500 companies, that's a rounding error. Okay, I'll just, you know, cut costs some other place or sell more to get around it. That's a rounding error.

That's not even on my top 10 list. So, next question. So, they had the number wrong. The number's been wrong all along. The the size and the scale has been number wrong. Number those numbers

have been wrong all along. And that's, you know, that's the rest of us that are out here that do this. Like I said, this is just another Friday. So, I'm communicating to you guys. And and by the way, those are great those are great questions because if you're having these questions, that means your audience and John Q public is having these questions.

So the number today is more like uh probably 10 trillion worldwide. Worldwide, it's about 10 trillion that we lose to economic theft. So that's the number today. and and there's a reference you can go to cyber security magazine and uh guy named Steve Morgan does good good numbers and good quotes on that stuff and I think his number is 10 trillion now globally due to economic theft but I actually have a sort of an economics question about this so so let's say the the world loses uh $10 trillion a year to China but China like it's not that China's actually [clears throat] making all of that back, right? There's going to be some heavy losses in that transfer, right?

>> Well, there yes, there are. Anytime they steal technology, it goes into a thing called military uh civilian fusion centers and there's like a half a dozen of them. So they split the IP out and they say okay how do we use this militarily and first and foremost militarily to accomplish our objectives and then secondly how do we do it commercially to feed our economy and sell it back to the rest of the world. So yeah, there there is probably an economic loss going through it, but still I mean we're we have an insatiable thirst. The West does and specifically the United States. Um we can't get

enough of cheap products or slightly discounted products coming from the manufacturer by the way that we created the world's manufacturer. So, you know, it's we think as individuals that we we understand the world, but you don't understand the world from your enemy's perspective. >> There's a lot more of this hour-long podcast to watch. Just click below to see it at chinaunensored.tv.

When you join us there, you can be part of my exclusive China Uncensored 50 C army where we stand up to the CCP together. And also check out Casey Fleming's book, The Red Tsunami, available for pre-order now. The link is below.