---
video_title: "China Tried to Sabotage Japan’s New Prime Minister"
video_id: d20pRRT9zak
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d20pRRT9zak
video_date: 2025-11-19T18:35:06+00:00
video_description: |
  Click here to watch the full episode: https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-316
  
  Japan’s new Prime Minister, Takaichi Sanae, is taking the toughest stance toward the Chinese Communist Party in decades. Counterintelligence expert Dr. Robert Eldridge explains how CCP tried to block her rise behind the scenes. You know, interfering in Japan’s internal affairs.
---
Guess

the big news is you know Japan's new prime minister Takahi [music] Sai she is taking a much firmer line towards the CCP than um you know the last three prime ministers. Uh yeah tell how how is the CCP responding to this? Well, you know, as as you're aware, and you've covered it uh you know, recently in in a in an excellent manner, um there's a a rabid psychologically uh deranged um console general uh sent uh from China, from the CCP here in in my area of Osaka. and uh about a week ago uh he did not take too kindly to uh the prime minister's comments uh in uh parliament uh questioning uh about uh what Japan would do in a Taiwan contingency uh scenario. So uh they've been um China's been uh you know in opposition to Takichi from not only day one but even before she became prime minister and I can go into a little bit more detail about that uh that led us to the events recently uh if you'd like.

[clears throat] >> Yeah, please because that's that's the important context of this. >> Exactly. So, uh, this was, uh, third, uh, the third time for, uh, Miss Takayichi to run, uh, to become party president of the Liberal Democratic Party. And, uh, the third time was a charm. Uh, she was, you know, widely approved and accepted. Uh and then uh

generally what happens in in the Japanese parliamentary system uh is that the the ruling LDP uh leader usually becomes the prime minister. There have been a couple examples where that wasn't the case but generally that person becomes the prime minister uh in order to make it difficult for her to become prime minister after she won the party presidency. Uh 2 days later, the Chinese ambassador to Japan called in the head of the coalition partner uh it's a party called um Kato and they're a pro-China party here in Japan. uh they called in uh the head of the Kmetto and basically told uh him his name is Saito that he is not to cooperate with Takahichi in forming a government. So uh essentially the KTO left the coalition government and by doing that it would make it very difficult for her to become prime minister.

This was done as most um observers uh believe done at China's you know direction or instructions. she overcame that and uh she was elected uh prime minister on October 21st. So they had it in for her you know well before that they almost succeeded in uh in uh preventing the start of her administration. So they are uh have been in you know interfering in in Japan's politics for a number of years as you alluded to before but specifically in this case uh they were doing that and they were basically I think looking for an opportunity to really put pressure on her after uh she took office. So she's only been in office for uh less than 3 weeks. She's

had a very busy time. uh a lot of diplomacy involved. She was in Malaysia. Uh she hosted President Trump recently. She went to Korea for the APEC. Uh and

then uh the day after she returned to Japan, then she started the um the questioning in the parliament when all the different um you know parties both ruling party as well as opposition parties will question the the new cabinet and to put pressure on her. um the opposition parties uh essentially kind of ganged up and put all the questions to her rather than to the respective cabinet ministers uh you know to field the questions. So they not only had she been on the road, she came back um but they all essentially um you know piled questions onto her and made it you know uh very long days for her. uh one day after the other. So, she's been in that uh situation for roughly the past uh 10 days or so.

>> I mean, I'm a little shocked to hear that there is uh a party in Japan that is so pro-China that they would like just listen to the Chinese embassy when they tell them don't form a government. >> Yeah. You say Kato, I say CCP shills. [laughter] >> Let's call the whole thing off. Yeah.

So, they've been a party uh they've been around for uh roughly 60 years or so. Uh and they've been um they've seen themselves over the years as a bridge uh you know between Japan and the uh and and China. They facilitated the normalization of relations with China uh in the early 1970s. um they uh they have their own um uh sort of a Buddhist faith. Uh it's called Sulka Gakai.

Uh and they present themselves as a peaceloving you know organization. um their university uh has hosted a lot of uh Chinese students but particularly elite uh elite Chinese to Japan some of whom have gone into the diplomatic corps um and some have even served as ambassador to Japan. So uh Kato has been essentially a funnel for uh political and financial activity between China and Japan. Um and they've been part unfortunately uh of the coalition government uh since the uh since roughly uh the year 2000. And this is one of the great ironies of the coalition government is that the longer that coalition government continued with the um with the between the LDP and Kato, the more traditional LDP supporters left the LDP and the more that they left the party, the more the LDP became dependent on the Kato for uh election support.

So uh their dependency grew but the trust and the faith and the respect uh for the party decreased uh over time and so um with Takichi's election the people that had been traditional supporters of the LDP became extremely um you know excited about the potential that she could kind of normalize the party again, make it a conservative party again. And when the co unilaterally broke the coalition with with her with the LDP, so many former LDP supporters were, you know, elated. And since then, they've been coming back to the LDP in in the thousands. Well, I'm I was going to say like there is this resistance to Takahichi and um you know her kind of stance on China, but after the Chinese diplomat diplomat Shu Jen basically threatening that saying she should be assassinated that she should be decapitated like clearly that's gota that's got to rile some feathers right people got to be like you know you can't you can't threaten to assassinate our prime minister even if they were formerly like pro CCCP. >> Mhm.

Well, quite a few, you know, uh people have, you know, left the co. Um a couple of days ago, I had lunch with somebody who's one of those. And uh he was kind of explaining the the family friend dynamics. Uh what happens when when you leave a cult like that? I'm going to say it as it is. Um so yeah more and more

people are are dissatisfied with the Kmetto uh that were you know traditional either party members or believers in it. Um I also heard that uh that people that subscribed to their newspaper are have been leaving it over the past year or so uh in the tens of thousands. So uh there is a bolt uh from that party uh for sure. And as far as uh you know some reservations about Takichi uh her um support rate has been high throughout the the past few weeks. So when her cabinet came into office it was 71%.

uh after her diplomacy in Malaysia hosting President Trump and then going to Korea, the numbers jumped to about 82%. >> Those are unheard of numbers in the US. >> I know like American presidents would kill for that. >> Yeah. And then uh what's even you know more encouraging or or extremely encouraging is that the millennials uh you know the 18 to 29 year old age group here in Japan uh the support rate for Takichi prior to uh the beheading threat was 89%.

Wow. So I think there's a you know a a misunderstanding that um among you know some in the media that Takichi is so hawkish or conservative that she's fringe but in fact um you know she she's very much mainstream and once people hear her speak um she's like a a policy machine gun. She's been, you know, studying, learning these issues for, you know, more than 31 years. She's been a politician for 31 years, but she's been interested in in um, you know, in politics and national issues from uh, probably even before she was uh, she went to college. >> There's a lot more of this hour-long podcast to watch. Just click below to

see it at chinaunensored.tv. When you join us there, you can be part of my exclusive China Uncensored 50 C army where we stand up to the CCP together. The link is below.