---
video_title: "Inside the CCP’s Plan for Humanity"
video_id: njiTf9VgNVo
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=njiTf9VgNVo
video_date: 2025-11-18T15:43:11+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the whole podcast: https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-315
  
  Communism isn’t just a political ideology, it’s a religion. And the Chinese Communist Party wants to make it the only one on Earth. Counterintelligence expert Casey Fleming exposes how the CCP is waging religious and spiritual war against humanity.
  
  Pre-order Casey’s book “The Red Tsunami”: http://theredtsunami.com
---
[Music] And that's why the later the the longer we wait to address this, the more that it's going to be more difficult to fight it. And then we can get into this thing called religious war and spiritual war. Um, so it's this, like I said, I we can go we can talk for weeks on this subject. >> Well, well, tell us a little bit about that. >> Uh, religious warfare.

Um, communism is a religion. People, most people don't understand that. They don't know it. Communism is a religion. 90 over 97% of the people in China have quote no religion. Well, yeah, they kind of do.

It's the Chinese Communist Party. China Communism is a religion. And to be a religion and a communist being a religion, you must null and void all other religions. So Xiinping has gone through China banning Christian crosses, Star of David um uh mosques, synagogues, synagogues, churches. They if they can be turned into something else, they are.

Um so there cannot be any other god that is competing with the Chinese Communist Party. Um that ought to shake everybody to their boots. Just that just that fact alone means that we are so divided, so oil and water with a country, with a people um with and by the way, I got to segue here. There is only one China. Our beef is not with the Chinese people. A

lot of those people want to be free and they want to be out take out from under the umbrella of totalitarian oppression. So our beef is not with the Chinese people. our beef was with the Chinese Communist Party. However, um the belief that there's only one God and it's the Chinese Communist Party. That's what we're talking about. And that shows that

we are how divided we are and how we just cannot and will I mean our country, the US was founded on Judeo Christian principles. And just by that one fact alone, and there's about a thousand of them, that should say, "Okay, I'm not buying any more Chinese products for the for the rest of my life, and I'm going to train my kids not to do that." So that's religious warfare. Underneath religious warfare, there's spiritual warfare. Dark versus light, good versus evil, God versus Satan. Well, if your if

your religion says that only uh the the Chinese Communist Party and the leader Xiinping is your god, then he's in competition with all the other gods that are out there and potentially the god that most of us are familiar with if you're Christian um or Jewish. Um, so, so this really is when you really boil it down and you really start adding everything up and connecting all the dots, this is a religious war and it's a spiritual war. It's good versus evil and it's God versus Satan. And yes, I'm drawing the conclusion that the CCP is partnered with Satan on this thing because if you're looking at an eitheror, good versus evil, dark versus light, um, that's kind of what we're looking at. That's not kind of that's exactly what we're looking at. But each

individual needs to come up to that conclusion on their own. They need to get their own information. The thing here is when you when you go to social media and you go to legacy media, it's destroying your critical thinking capability. So over time uh you're not you're just fed the propaganda and it's like okay this is what I should be thinking because you're you're no longer having those skills of critical thinking. So all these things combined um say that it's a that everybody every citizen needs to take this as a wakeup call and to start their own journey to understand really what's going on in their world. I hate to say it. We've all

been lulled into uh busy uh entertainment, materialism, all these kind of things and we've got to get back to basics. >> Communism is rooted in envy and the devil fell because of envy. So they're definitely >> Well, yeah. And communism is rooted in fear and the devil and Satan are based on fear that you know um with uh um God and you know and by the way in the book we have top top religious leaders that uh uh communicate on this. It's not it's not just my word. It's top top black

pastors, top white pastors, and they'll explain it in much better detail than I do. Um but yes uh it's either or when you when you draw the list and you run the chart the the t chart you you know the devil's based on fear communist parties based on fear um and the other side the good side the light side is based on faith. So that's the difference and the way you chase out fear is you have faith. So anyway, like I said, it's uh we're we're getting to the edge of my uh of my uh my authority on that subject and that's why I defer to uh to my uh pastor colleagues that to to explain it even further. >> Well, so we are at war with the Chinese Communist Party. What does the Chinese

Communist Party consider victory in this war? And how would that affect the lives of everyday Americans? Are we talking actual Chinese government here in the US or something else? >> Actual Chinese government in the US. And if you don't subcome, you don't submit.

You will be re-educated. What that means? You will be tortured. You will be punished until you get your mind right. And if you don't, and if you look like you're not going to get it right, they'll just execute you. I mean,

if you want to know how you're going to be treated, look how the Chinese Communist Party has treated the Tibetans, the Weaguers, their own people, the Weaguers, and uh who are Chinese Muslims. And then also look at how they've treated uh fallen gong practitioners because they won't commit to the CCP. So, they're of course the enemy. If you don't commit to the CCP and you're Chinese, that's the worst of the worst. So, um so they're the enemy of the CCP. Fallen Gong in China and

Fallen Gong in the US. And by the way, they're being persecuted by Yes. 4040 Chinese police stations on US soil. US sovereign soil. So they're be that's their espionage offices, their training offices, and their persecution centers.

40 of them in the United States. Can you imagine the FBI having or the CIA having 40 um police stations in uh in China and being allowed to have those police stations in China? By the way, they're in Canada and they're in Australia and Mexico and so on. That's how deep this subject is. And quite honestly, it's it's fascinating. You know, on one side

of it, it's a spy thriller, but you're on the front lines and you're the main character. But it is a it's it's honestly it's a devious spy thriller and it'll have your butt in a movie seat for a long time. The problem is it's a true story. I mean why should we care what the CCP is doing to you know weaguers or Tibetans or fallen gong uh even on US soil? Like what does that have to do with most Americans? because that's how

you will be treated in a in like I said the world will be won or lost within the next 10 years. That's how you and your family will be treated. Um you will be slaves to the the Chinese communist machine. And if you don't like it, you'll get you'll have some time to get your head right and then that's it. And by the way, they work on a 996 schedule over there. Okay? So, um suicide's rampant.

They have suicide nets in their factories because they work people 900 am to 900 pm six hours a day and only a a 10-minute break for food and and if you got a problem with that then you're you're locked up in the back of the warehouse or in the back of the the factory or wherever it's at. So how they treat their people here's another one we haven't even talked about this live human organ transplant industry. Okay. So, live human organ transplants. The the another word for that is murder.

They've done over in the numbers that we have is over three million of those murders just for their transplants. And there's a black market. So, you could they're there's a book coming out in February with a colleague and it's called Organs to Order. So, in other words, just like fast food, Organs to order. And incidentally, they also have this is what's cool. So, when you want

to buy that that new product um from China that you can't wait to get your hands on um whatever it is, they have infant farms, infants. So what they do is they get someone pregnant, CCP members get their um they they use their DNA to get somebody pregnant and pregnant and now that that child that either infant or that child grows up for spare parts for that Chinese CCP member or leader to have spare parts that are complete donor match. That's what that's who you're dealing with now. You want to fund that? you want to buy products and fund that then then then that's your conscience.

It's not mine. I I want to mention that that while that sounds very far-fetched and I I haven't actually seen any evidence of that, but what I remember when this idea of um like forced organ harvesting came out and this was like the mid late 2000s, right? >> And everyone was like conspiracy theory, conspiracy theory, conspiracy theory. And it ultimately just turned out to be good investigative journalism. And I mean now the proof of that is is everywhere, right? The the the regular

the the you know run-of-the-mill organ harvesting killing fallen gong and weaguers for their organs. So this this child thing is is again while to me this is new information. I I'm like yeah this actually really merits some some more investigation cuz that's pretty that's like just an extra level of creepy. Well, it's an extra level of truth that you know, like I said, we've been doing this for 15 years. We've got a network about fi over 500 people. And to me,

it's just another Friday, okay, to I'm sure your audience, they're like, "This guy's got a tin foil hat." You know, you he needs to be ushered out the door. >> Not our audience. >> And by the way, I had a pretty strong resume 15 years ago when I started this thing. And when I started after getting the information and going I spoke to CEOs, boards of directors and so on and uh it was you could see that some of the audience would think that I was tinfoil hat guy. And so I basically had to throw

my resume in the fireplace and and continue along this battle. And um so somebody says, "Well, why do you do this, Casey?" And I said, "Well, if it's not me, then who?" And you know, it's it's it's not for fame. It's none of that stuff. It's duty. 100%. It's duty.

Um, and all these things that I'm I'm saying right now to to your answer, Matt, earlier. It's like, hey, can you just give us a 30 minute pre or 30 second preview and just give us a summary, Casey? It's like can't do. You're in a war you don't know you're in and it's really, really bad. And you've got an enemy that's the most formidable, destructive, capable enemy in history who wants you dead. Okay, that's it. I

think that I did that in less than 30 seconds. >> There's a lot more of this hour-long podcast to watch. Just click below to see it at china uncensored.tv. When you join us there, you can be part of my exclusive China uncensored 50 C army where we stand up to the CCP together. And also check out Casey

Fleming's book, The Red Tsunami, available for pre-order now. The link is below.