---
video_title: "What REALLY Happened on Trump's Call to Japan?"
video_id: u-YVj8v9JhI
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u-YVj8v9JhI
video_date: 2025-12-02T15:40:42+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-317
  
  The WSJ reports that Trump asked Japan’s PM to back off on Taiwan after his call with Xi Jinping. Did Trump really just roll over for his “great friend” dictator Xi?
---
Xi Jinping called Trump that well, okay, have a call that doesn't make sense. He initiated a phone call with President Trump. >> Now the reporting is saying that the US may have initiated the phone call. Really? When did that happen? Uh in the

last day or two. Oh, wow. Uh well, I mean originally it was it was the idea that she reached out to Okay. President Trump which would not have that something like that has not happened since 9/11. So, that was reported by the Wall Street Journal.

And then the Wall Street Journal also reported that Trump told Okay, so she and Trump have a conversation. And then according to this the CCP read out of the conversation that like she was talking about how Taiwan is like definitely part of China and you know the US and China have to work together on the post World War like you know alliance and all this stuff. And according to Trump's you know post he didn't mention that at all. >> No mention of Taiwan, yeah. >> Yeah, he didn't mention Taiwan at all and he was just like yeah, we we're getting along great and they're going to buy some soybeans. I am going to China

in April. Yeah, and then and then he invited she to come to the US. Yeah, it's really it's really confusing like it when there's like these two different readouts. It really just becomes a he said she said thing. >> Uh-huh. Uh-huh.

And well, I think the CCP would like us to believe that it's a she said she said. Uh you mean just she talking? >> Well, talking loudly. >> Like you just have to believe them about what she said. Yeah.

Yeah. But then the Wall Street Journal reported that Well, so it's true that after she and Trump had a call Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Takeuchi had a call. Yeah. And then the Wall Street Journal reported that Trump told Takeuchi to tone it down on Taiwan. Well, hold on. Hold on. So, this article

by the Wall Street Journal there's it's very problematic for a bunch of reasons. One is the information about the call between Trump and Takeuchi is like third or even fourth hand the way that they report on anonymous sources. It's like it's like anonymous sources who were briefed about the call then telling the Wall Street Journal. >> even know if they were briefed about the call, right? Like we don't know because then the because the Japanese government official then came one of the cabinet ministers came out and then denied the report.

>> Right. And so the Wall Street Journal prints that that official Japanese statement denied the reports and then just goes on to report like third hand what these you know anonymous officials may have not may have not have been briefed on. The Wall Street Journal just reported that the thing and then responding to the Wall Street Journal the Japanese government was like that's not true. Yeah, but the the whole thing is just like it's so weird and it relies on sources that won't be named and can't be named and it's just like I just like I just don't even know what's true anymore. But my point here is the Wall Street Journal is apparently wrong twice on the story even though they're the one to like break the story like that they were wrong that she called Trump and then they were also wrong that uh Trump told Takeuchi to cool it on Taiwan.

But because the Wall Street Journal came out with this first like everybody was treating it like this is what happened. Yeah. >> Right? And a lot of people won't get the follow up. Like you didn't even know the follow up information that it wasn't she who called Trump according to >> know that. I mean I did know about the

Japanese cabinet ministry secretary or whatever denying the part about Trump saying cool it on Taiwan cuz cuz right [clears throat] now that is the whole thing going on between China and Japan right now is that she's basically suggesting that any Chinese invasion or attack on Taiwan would be an existential issue for Japan and they would need to get involved as well in the fight. >> said she said Takeuchi. Yes. Yep. >> That is very confusing for the the Japanese Prime Minister said that you know it would be possibly an existential situation for Japan which is important because that according to the Japanese constitution would allow them to mobilize their military.

>> Yeah. Um so I mean it would be very significant if like when there's like this huge escalation between China and Japan if the US president was like hey Japan cool it. Tone it down. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. And I mean there there is this

persistent basically propaganda that that like Trump is just uh in China's pocket just as he's in Putin's pocket and you know anything that any data that counters that is just kind of ignored. Yeah, it's I think you saw that after the thing about the Trump she call came out like however you react to the story was of course essentially based on how you felt about Trump. Yeah. Like this is the annoying thing that like people can't actually look at what's happening because they just like feel so strongly about Trump. >> artist from the art. Well, they

they feel so strongly about the Trump either pro or against him that like everything gets filtered through that lens, right? So like the pro Trump people are like everything Trump does is magical and right and then there are some accounts on X that basically just do that. Mhm. >> Like they're reporting the news but it's always like look how great Trump is and then uh the people who are against Trump basically and that's much more prevalent in the mainstream media where you just like are trying to read an article about something and then it's just basically like digging like all it's like people digging on Trump the whole time. Yeah, well I mean the Wall Street Journal article is a great example of that just these things that are just stated as fact.

>> Yeah, I don't think what's happening with the Wall Street Journal though is because it's like a pro or anti-Trump slant. I think that it's because this one reporter at the Wall Street Journal has sources quote unquote within the CCP. So, whenever she writes an article and then she's quoting these anonymous sources from the CCP I think you kind of have to read that as this is what the CCP wants out there. Yeah. That that is actually pretty common and we've talked about it in a lot of episodes covering. Like there was the

was it the Wall Street Journal too that did the whole Xi Jinping is Stalin thing a few years ago? I don't know what you're talking about. You have to remind me. All right. Well, let me look it up.

You you can carry on. >> But yeah, I mean especially with the Wall Street Journal I think there's been suddenly a lot of skepticism about their China reporting because they you know they're reporting they're breaking these stories but if they're they're continually wrong and they're wrong because of sources their sources within China then this is like highly suspect, right? Actually, I'm pretty sure it was a Politico article. Oh, Politico is terrible for like these anonymous sourced stuff things. Yeah, it's from December 2023.

China's she goes full Stalin. Yeah, yeah, it was I I we we did a whole episode on that that was just kind of breaking apart everything wrong with that. But I mean the problem is like the the people who for some reason don't watch China Uncensored see these articles and just like oh, I guess that's well, I mean who's reading Politico? Well, People are watching Minecraft videos. Normal people probably don't read Politico but It gets >> Politicos read Politico, right? Like

>> And it gets everything gets filtered around. >> Politicians read Politico. Why is it called Politico? Their whole thing when they Politico when it started was like for kind of inside yeah, back channel gossipy kind of news about what was going on in DC and stuff like that. >> Yeah.

But yeah, so >> Oh yeah, like they were claiming that like China had executed a leader. Was it wrong? >> Yeah. Well, yeah, anyways it was it was it was a big old it was a mess. >> As long as you cover something first you don't have to cover it right. Amen.

Yeah, well so that's the thing now like I think the Wall Street Journal China reporting I I've been skeptical about it for a while but now it seems like more and more like it's just a lot of it coming out might just be disguised propaganda. Right. And then there's this feedback loop where then state-run media like Xinhua can cite the Wall Street Journal. Yeah, yeah. So, it's like source washing, right? It's like

the Wall Street Journal publishes something based on anonymous sources from inside the CCP and then the CCP media cite that as like proof that this is being reported by Western media, yeah. And if especially if like the original information comes from the CCP it's it's basically citing itself. Yeah. But again, if you if you get that information out there first then nobody else is denying it at first then it's it becomes the truth. Yeah.

>> Too quickly. Yeah, so I even saw something from like Bill Bishop on X who she writes this cynicism newsletter. Which we only recently discovered was cynicism and not sinosism. >> Yeah, for years I had called it sinosism but like he you know posted on X like be really like careful or skeptical about this whole like Trump told Japan to tone it down on Taiwan story. Yeah.

>> You know? So like yeah, I think a lot of people were kind of like, "Really?" But, if you hate Trump, then it's confirmation. He's just He loves dictators. Yeah, exactly. So, it's just

So, the point is you shouldn't trust the mainstream Western media. There's only one source you should trust. Us. That's right. >> That's right.

This is just one clip from our longer podcast. Do you like this kind of discussion? Click below and watch it and download it all at chinauncensored.tv. When you subscribe to our website, you'll also be part of my exclusive China Uncensored 50 Cent Army, and we can stand up to the CCP together. Link

is below.