---
video_title: "The Most Powerful Enemy We’ve Ever Seen"
video_id: UP8JiOyNIzE
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UP8JiOyNIzE
video_date: 2025-11-14T13:43:47+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the whole podcast: https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-315
  
  They started the war years ago. But most people don’t even realize it. Counterintelligence expert Casey Fleming explains how China’s “unrestricted warfare” strategy targets every man, woman, and child. 
  
  Pre-order Casey’s book “The Red Tsunami”: http://theredtsunami.com
---
[Music] Uh you've been saying uh we're already in World War II uh except it's not going to be fought with bombs and tanks. So what makes you say a war is already happening especially if you know how do you define a war if it's not bombs and tanks? >> That's actually a great question. the we in the west and Americans and the rest of the free people, the world is used to war being either peace or war. Well, the Chinese Communist Party has expanded that space between peace and war and it's ever growing. And inside that gray

zone between peace and war, it's called unrestricted warfare is their strategy. So, going back a little bit, there were two Chinese Air Force colonels that wrote a book in 1999 called Unrestricted Warfare. um not only have they followed it, they have done brilliant execution on it and have ex and have have expanded it for many many years since. So you are already in unrestricted war. Um there are over a hundred different methods of unrestricted war. One most importantly

that everybody's familiar with is drug warfare which fentinel is part of that drug warfare and the fentinel capital illicit fentinel capital of the world is Wuhan, China. Another one is cognitive war. You've heard of Tik Tok, that's cognitive war. Uh you've heard of education war, uh economic war. There's all these different wars. And the

difference is this time it's focused on every man, woman, and child. It's not focused on the military where we're trained to think that if we're in a war, our military is going to protect us. This war, our our military is in the it it may never be involved. Unrestricted war is meant to destroy an enemy from within. So you never have to go to conventional warfare with tanks, guns, bombs, and troops.

>> Well, fortunately, we have our politicians to protect us. >> Yeah, right. Um actually, no. Our politicians are have been corrupted quite a bit. In fact, recently in October, last October, a month ago, uh 180 uh uh politicians went to China under this free trade and bolstering uh free trade. And of course, that's an

it's an espionage operation. And so they're now now the Chinese Communist Party, and this goes on every year. So the Chinese Communist Party now has a direct link to their buddies over the United States to to infilt infiltrate and subvert everything that we're all about. So you know all that all that travel should be absolutely banned. All this foreign influence whether it's cash uh inind donations purchases that kind of thing should be absolutely banned. uh

because what it's doing it's absolutely eroding our freedom and that freedom of every man, woman and child is being taken all day every day. So uh somebody needs to get a hold of this thing. It's uh it's been going on for a very very long time probably the last 40 and 50 years if you really if you really follow it. And the ultimate enemy of the Chinese Communist Party is the United States and the freedom that we enjoy because you can't have communism with freedom. It's oil and water. And so as

long as there's freedom anywhere on the planet, it is a threat to communism uh and communism control, you know, uh surveillance, totalitarian control, and so on. And so they can't have their people looking over on social media saying, "Hey, these guys over here on in the West are having a big time with all their freedom." They can't have that. So that's why we've been a mortal enemy. And they and they state it all the time if if you listen to it, but you're not going to hear that in legacy or mainstream media. So that's really

what's going on. And every man, woman, and child has been at war. This isn't new for those of us in counter intelligence who see this all day every day. This is just another Friday. Um, but to everybody else is quite a shock.

And it could be tin, you know, you think this guy's tinfoil hat. It's not. I've been doing this specifically for 15 years and it has only uh become worse month after month, day after day, year after year. >> Well, yeah. Some people would say, I mean, first of all, some people would say China is not really communist. And

then they would point to like these these, you know, politicians going to China. What's wrong with China and the US working together on trade? That's good for both countries. Fentinel, yeah, that's bad. But the Chinese Communist Party, they're always saying they're trying to rein it in, but it's just the lower level people doing that. It's not

the Communist Party itself. Why Why do you think we are actually at war? Why can't we just work together, get along? I mean, honestly, I want to come at you really hard right now, but I'm not but I'm not going to. Um, because number one, you know, just read the words Chinese Communist Party. Okay, there's

one. And it's a totalitarian communist regime and and it has elements of capitalism, but under st total totalitarian communist control. So they so it's not a free society. It's not a free market. And if you understand communism, which I just described, then you know that your enemy is using everything they possibly can against you. So they get you addicted to cheap

products. They get you addicted to all these other things that we're you know, our Wall Street invests in China because they think this is big country and they that's what they dangle. They dangle the big carrot. We've got 1.4 billion people. What they don't tell you is all

their books are cooked. The numbers are not what they what they say. Never what they say they are. Everything is done under plausible deniability. I would suggest people read the book The Art of War by Sun Zoo. And that's exactly what

these cats are following. So that's really that's really and you have to understand it's your your enemy. Nobody will come out and tell you this stuff except the, you know, guys like me that are in the counter intelligence business that'll actually tell you really what's going on, who's on first and connecting all the dots. And if you don't work in counter intelligence, you don't know how to connect the dots. But once you connect the dots, it is beyond clear that you're in a war and you're in the fight of your life. You just don't know

it till somebody lets you know. Connect the dots. So, so counter intelligence um connects the dots and research, you know, explodes the dots. In other words, deep dives on those dots to pro to to provide the information and so on. So, that's where all this stuff fits in. And

by the way, when you have intelligence or counter intelligence, it's no longer intelligence when it becomes public knowledge. It becomes public knowledge. So again, you know, we're used to well, you have to understand mainstream media is compromised by the Chinese Communist Party. We think, you know, Wall Street thinks there's 1.4 billion people in a market that we just continue that uh can attack. That's not the case. It's we our

intelligence says it's probably more like 1.1 billion. And over half of them are living in poverty. So, they sure aren't going to be buying any of our products and services. So, it's just it's a I mean, I I would we can go for hours. We can go for days on this

subject. Uh, and I would I'd love to have that discussion, but it's really what's going on behind the scenes. And for those of us that have been in it, we've had enough. In fact, I've had enough to the point where I decided to write a book. I don't want to write a book. Still don't want to write a book.

But somebody has to wake up the people and the public because here's the here's the biggest fear of the Chinese Communist Party. And it's also the biggest fear of our federal government is that the American people and all of the people in the free world become informed. It's the reason I'm writing the book. And if they beformed, okay, that's one thing. But if they become united and take action, that's a scary thing. And I'm talk when I talk

taking action, I'm speaking peacefully. Underscore that. But that is the job of the book is to wake up every person in the free world, every man, woman, and and uh young adult in the free world. So everybody's on the same page with this thing. Then there's a movement behind this. It's in development. It's called

freedom forever. Global. And that's where the unification, the unity comes in based on freedom. And for us in America, that's the uh the Constitution. So, we've had a lot of us. I I I work in

a network of about 500 people. We've had enough. And you know, our government's not there. It's they've proven year after year not they're not going to save us. The government is still extremely fragmented and siloed. And uh so it's,

you know, people need to understand, you know, for example, every people vote every day. You vote every day. Several times a day, actually. because we vote with our wallets and if they know where to put the money that's not supporting the Chinese Communist Party and incidentally the Chinese Communist Party uh is the grand puppeteer over Russia, Iran, Pakistan, Venezuela, drug cartels and underneath Iran they also uh control the terrorist organizations. So, you know, this is a serious deal. And yes,

you are in squarely, as we started this program, you're squarely in World War II. You just don't know it. And you've been there for for many years. And you're being played. So, when you tell somebody they're being played, they're like, "Uh-uh, we're done with that. Tell

me how I can stop being played." So, that's where we are. >> Well, you said, you know, you didn't want to write this book, but you've been forced to write this book. A lot of people don't want to read a book. C. Can

Can you sum it up in like a 30 secondond Tik Tok video? >> Oh, I love Tik Tok. Tik Tok is a cognitive warfare. It's actually a military application uh in the hands of our children and our youth. So, Tik Tok.

Yeah. Oh, it's going to be sold. Oh, okay. Well, my background is in technology and management consulting. You'll never get rid of the algorithm.

The algorithm is still controlled by the Chinese Communist Party and bite dance. And uh you I don't care who it's sold to. So the answer is get the heck off of Tik Tok everybody. It's a weaponized application. Uh and we go into the detail on what they track and how they use it against you. But in a in the

short form to answer your question, it's uh the book people need to find time to write the book. Okay? This is not the time to be lazy. Uh I'm doing the book to help every brother and sister out. for think of me as your brother on the front lines and I'm coming back for Christmas and I'm telling you what's going on. And so when you say people

don't have time to write a read a book, listen, if you have time to do any if you have time to go to a football game or to watch football on TV, you have time to read a book and to understand what's going on and how your family and you are being attacked. And you won't be watching football in a short time to come if you don't take action. So, in in the short version, the summary, you're in a war you don't know you're in. You're in with an enemy that is the most powerful, significant enemy and attack on freedom that we've ever seen in our history, uh, in the world's history, and we've built this monster. >> There's a lot more of this hour-long podcast to watch. Just click below to

see it at chinaunensored.tv. When you join us there, you can be part of my exclusive China uncensored 50 C army where we stand up to the CCP together. And also check out Casey Fleming's book, The Red Tsunami, available for pre-order now. The link is below.