---
video_title: "Will China’s Taiwan Invasion Drag Japan into World War III?"
video_id: viDvZ8UqpAY
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=viDvZ8UqpAY
video_date: 2025-11-25T14:42:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Subscribe to watch the full episode: https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-316
  
  A Taiwan invasion won’t just threaten Taiwan—it could drag Japan, the U.S., and the whole region into a major conflict. In this clip, counterintelligence expert Dr. Robert Eldridge explains why Japan believes a Taiwan contingency is inevitable, how the CCP might retaliate after Japan expels its rogue consul general, and why Japan is accelerating its defense ties with the US and Taiwan.
  #china
---
It would be really good to see essentially like an international alliance formed um about you know how to deal with uh you know China's outrageous behavior. [snorts] Um although the 1961 convention on you know diplomatic protocol that's more than enough in the end. I I think I think he will be kicked out. Uh I just I [clears throat] personally wish it would happen a whole lot sooner. >> Uh the CCP seems to be gearing up to essentially when he gets kicked out uh start essenti a campaign against Japan.

You know, I I would imagine it's sim it would be similar to what they've done to Japan in the past and South Korea in the past to try to make them knuckle under. How do you think the um current Japanese administration would react to that? >> Um yeah, you you said start. I think you mean uh you know increase or enhance or something like that because they're always at war with Japan. Um but yeah, it it you know certainly a a boycott of you know Japanese goods, the destruction of Japanese property in Japan in China.

Uh the potential for uh physical harassment, murder of Japanese citizens in China. Uh yeah, they'll probably go um you know all out uh as they as they usually do. um uh that I can I can easily see. Um Takayichi is unlike uh you know most or all of her her predecessors. She's very well-grounded and she she won't budge. I don't think

she has again she has overwhelming support of the Japanese public and there are going to be people who are going to you know get weak need over this. Um but um but I I think there's a new generation of of Japanese and I think there's a new sheriff in town. Um and they're not easily going to tolerate uh you know China's you know behavior. Um yeah, I think uh uh the ultimate solution uh and this is true of of the states as well is that uh both Japan and and US as well as Taiwan. I I just spent the past year in Taiwan.

uh the three three of us, three countries need to um you know decouple ourselves certainly economically from China. Uh if we don't do that, China's always going to have leverage uh over you know all three countries and especially Japan. Uh so it's you know imperative that Japan uh you know decouples its economy from from China's. Do you see signs that Japan is moving towards that? >> It it actually started some time ago, but I think it's going to really pick up speed now. And if you look at the

agreements reached between uh President Trump and Prime Minister Takichi, you know, about uh supply chains and and rare earth uh rare earth materials and whatnot. Um I think there's a a greater effort uh in that direction. Um, also, uh, I think Takahichi is, uh, going to increasingly get the support of the business community in Japan, uh, because they, I think they're finally waking up to, um, you know, the dangers that, uh, that China represents, particularly the bullying and the ability to hold, uh, you know, countries and companies hostage to their whims. Um, and I think they're increasingly seeing China as unstable politically, socially, economically, uh, certainly diplomatically. Um, so I don't think it's going to be immediate.

It'll be gradual, but I think the dial may be, uh, you know, picking up speed. Well, I wonder if like any retaliation by the CCP like Shel is suggesting that they're gearing up for, you know, another hard line if that's going to backfire because Takishi maybe even more than Abbe has been talking about how if the CCP attacks Taiwan, that's an existential crisis for Japan. And like I think at this point it's getting harder and harder for people like in the Kato to argue that oh you know we have to play nice otherwise we will be dragged into a war we don't want. I think it's becoming clearer that like the war they don't want is coming one way or another. It's just is Japan going to be strong?

And that is kind of the zeitgeist at the moment in Japan like a strong Japan. Um, I think uh, as in Taiwan, also in Japan, I think there's a reluctance to to truly confront the question about whether there's going to be a Taiwan contingency. I'm in the school that uh, that there will be and that it's going to come sooner rather than later. Um, but I don't think everybody um, you know, sees that. Uh certainly few people want that. But uh but this

would be yet another example uh if if China were to uh increase its uh degree of bullying uh towards Taiwan that would it would scare some people in Japan, but it would um further solidify the recognition that uh Taiwan's in danger. uh Japan is the immediate neighbor and is the one that's going to be most affected by it. Therefore, Japan needs to to do more, you know, uh for Taiwan. Um this was one of the recommendations I wrote to Takahuchi before her meeting with with Trump. I wanted her to kind of commit more uh to Taiwan's defense. Let

preempt Trump and and tell him about that. Uh so I'm not privy to to what exactly was communicated. Um but um you know there's a lot more that Japan you know needs to do. Also the US needs to do Taiwan needs to do all three countries need to do. Um first and foremost is uh Japan needs its own Taiwan relations act and it it still doesn't have that yet.

What what is Japan's diplomatic relationship with Taiwan at the moment? Is it like the US? >> Ye yes and no. It models uh the relationship uh you know as with the US. So it has a it has a representative in in in Taiwan an embassy but it's not called an embassy. Uh it's an

essentially an association. um the person assigned to it uh in in this particular case uh Mr. Katyama. He's an he's a you know full-fledged ambassador. Um uh there is a great deal of mutual respect, friendship, admiration, economic exchange, people-to-people exchange. Um but there's um very very

very very little miltomill interaction. And uh anything that that actually happens uh is usually done in civilian clothes um and uh done, you know, under the radar, so to speak. So um the open miltomill relationship uh they don't have. So they're further behind uh the US, you know, on that on that score. Plus, as I alluded to, they don't have a Taiwan Relations Act either.

There's a lot more of this hour-long podcast to watch. Just click below to see it at chinaunensored.tv. When you join us there, you can be part of my exclusive China uncensored 50 C army where we stand up to the CCP together. The link is below.