---
video_title: "China Is Turning Countries Into Vassal States"
video_id: pqhUXpkiGiA
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pqhUXpkiGiA
video_date: 2025-12-23T13:53:07+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-319
  
  For decades, the West believed trade with China would bring peace and democracy. Instead, it brought vassal states. Former U.S. Air Force strategist Guermantes Lailari shows how economic dependence on China has reshaped global politics, decision-making, and national security—without a single shot fired.
  
  You can read his article here:
  https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/editorials/archives/2025/12/08/2003848493
---
if we know that they're using ports in this way, why do we still let them, [music] you know, control parts of five US ports? >> Good question. Um, one of the one of the one of the important notes in the new national security strategy, it talks about reciprocity. In other words, if we allow country X to do something in our country, then they should allow us to do some the similar thing in their country. And if they don't allow it, then we shouldn't allow them to do it in our country. So, for

example, you can't buy land in China. So, we should make laws that say if you're a Chinese national or Chinese company, uh you can't buy land in the United States. Uh I think that's where the current administration's going. Um, you know, I'm sure that China would never allow any American company to operate their ports. Um, so again, reciprocity, I think, is a very powerful tool if if we can get it get it going and and change the laws so that those kinds of things don't happen. Uh, as a

first a measure of dealing with the onslaught. But, you know, to me, allowing 600,000 students from China to come in is is is is like the worst thing that we could do. And and and and here's the funny part. President Trump says, "Oh, if we don't do that, our American institutions, higher, you know, universities will will collapse." So they need the economic presence of 600,000 Chinese to maintain their pre you know maintain their their their ability to operate which goes back to actually the other part of my article which talks about this um uh deterrence by entanglement. See, China uses the e

the economic weapon to entangle you or your company or your country so that you are limited. You become self-limiting by uh by this entanglement. So you're afraid of offending China. So you start doing things that make you uh less offensive. Uh you know, for example, uh when movies come out, right, Hollywood wants to sell them to China.

And so they self uh edit them, self-censor themselves so that there's nothing offensive in the movie. Um and and if you if you watch carefully these movies that are that are uh being made and and you know allowed in China, they they either neutral or they're they have some pro aspect of making China look good. Uh and so the again it's the economic uh finger uh trying to manipulate uh people. Uh so it's it that's what I that's my research. It's it's all this um what I call the dark side of China and it's it's massive. So, if the US and

its allies stay economically entangled with China, what's the worstc case scenario that most Americans aren't prepared for? Well, I think the worst case scenario is uh China, you know, using the cooking the frog concept, uh China slowly but surely uh erodess our ability to understand the threat that China is and we become uh ignorant and eventually China is able to manipulate our government into doing everything that we oppose in our constitution. Uh so we we start people start changing laws that are more China friendly and they get more access to us and then uh we basically become a vassal state of China and uh that would be very bad I think. >> Is there a country where that's happened? >> Yeah. I mean you've interviewed Cleo

Pascal in the past and and she's given you the case study of the Solomon Islands, right? I thought you were going to say Canada. >> I thought you were going to say South Africa or Cambodia. >> No, I mean that's a that's a most recent example. Um there are many countries that you start looking at uh uh that are I mean Cambodia and Laos the you know they've had this problem. I mean recently you've

got the problem with the ties and Cambodia. I mean that that that could be an instigation of the ch Chinese China Chinese government uh in that but I mean a good case study is the Solomon Islands where eventually the the politicians got co-opted uh through corruption economic and uh have basically allowed China to start operating in in that country uh with cart blanch and uh already starting to to make uh uh not only the people of the Solomon Islands suffer but also So, our access to the Solomon Islands, they denied access to our Coastg Guard ships. I mean, that's that's a simple example. Uh, you've got uh you've got many people who are writing about how Canada has been co-opted by the Chinese government. You've got uh uh in 2020 2021 time frame the story of Australia where they where they caught uh the the Chinese uh infiltrating their government and they had to make laws to to protect them against it. It's it's continuous

uh pressure and this entanglement problem um can be used also in a positive way where if people if countries and people and companies understand that they need to disentangle themselves from China then they have a way to understand the problem and then they entangle themselves with allies. um you know uh for example Australia economy the the imports and exports are to China are like in the 30 percentile a third of of Australia's exports go to China and about uh 20 25% uh import from from China. Uh they're they're probably one of the worst in the Indoacific. Um and so they uh for example Taiwan is also in that category was in that category. It's now in the lower 30s. Um but um that's

probably you know a way to measure uh this entanglement. Now the entanglement you can focus on critical areas like the United States is focusing on this the the problem of entanglement with China's on the rare earth metals. so that you can prioritize this disentanglement by focusing on areas that are critical for your economy, critical for your military or defense uh areas and then you work your way out. That's that's that's why I think this idea of deterrence by entanglement is is a very powerful way to understand the problem and then uh uh start focusing on ways to disentangle your oneself from China. I mean, it's funny like the whole like the whole economic philosophy of the past several decades has been like, oh, we should do business with dictators because that will prevent war. And in a

sense, like Australia and New Zealand being so economically dependent on China is stopping a war, but that's a that's a bad thing because they're not standing up to the aggression of the CCP. It's war by other means. >> Yeah. Well, I mean, remember I mean the the CCP has been supporting revolutionary groups since its very beginning. Uh like six of the uh six countries in southern Africa were all Mauist rebel groups uh a uh the uh SWAPO and a A&U and all these groups were all supported by China. Um and

there are mauist rebels in continuing to operate in India. Um you know they're they're they love doing this unconventional warfare, this irregular warfare uh to uh to to their benefit. And we we in the west are a little naive and u have you know thought that globalism was going to be the the the sort of the kumbaya era of the of the next century where there would be no wars and everybody would would be fine and and and and and peace peace on earth and all that. Uh but that's not the case. We're dealing with now Russia, China, Iran, North Korea, uh Venezuela. I mean,

all these countries are are are do not have the the the the feeling that they're they're going to sit around and and and just enjoy life. They are actively engaged in disrupting uh co-opting and uh trying to destroy the West. >> Thank you for watching. A link to Gman's recent article is below. And this was just one short highlight from our hour-long podcast. The full interview is

available exclusively on our website, chinaunensored.tv. When you subscribe, you'll get hundreds of interviews and more importantly, you'll be supporting us to stand up against the CCP. The link is below.