---
video_title: "Trump is Getting Played on China"
video_id: TrcG_Mc2Edo
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TrcG_Mc2Edo
video_date: 2025-11-17T15:35:32+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the whole podcast: https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-315
  
  Donald Trump says he’s tough on China, but is he being outplayed by Xi Jinping? Counterintelligence expert Casey Fleming says yes. The Chinese Communist Party is using deception, rare earth minerals, and economic leverage to manipulate global leaders. And Trump is falling for it.
  
  Pre-order Casey’s book “The Red Tsunami”: http://theredtsunami.com
---
You have called the decade between 2025 and 2020 [music] 2035 the decisive decade. Why do you call it that? >> Because it's actually less than that. I say the world will be won or lost within the next 10 years. Um I hope it's 10 years. It's probably going to be less.

When you see the level of chaos that has has expanded, that is all a distraction for a strategy to take additional and further control that that strategy was in was in it wasn't in slow-mo. It was in normal mode. When you see this chaos being such frontline, uh that means they're taking everything. They're taking freedom. You know, when you when you hear of one cyber breach, one cyber attack, you need to think of that as your uh your freedom, what a chunk of your freedom is gone forever.

Your children's freedom is gone forever. Don't say, "Oh, that was Anthem or that was Marriott." Eh, too bad for them, you know. It's no, it's too bad for you. If you understand what that does to the economy and you understand the power that your enemy has to do that over you, they also have that power to hit every other company um and so on. So there you

go. >> Part of this decisive decade is that the CCP is sort of this puppet master orchestrating not just the kinds of, you know, drug warfare, economic warfare we've talked about, but also using actors around the world. uh Russia, Venezuela, tuning a lot about Venezuela right now. Also, just international money laundering. Uh how how do these play a factor in what the CCP's overall ambitions are and what is the US doing about it?

>> Well, the CCP's ambitions are total takeover of the world. They feel it's their destiny to rule the world. They did it for 2,300 years and the last century was the century of great humiliation which began with the the uh opium wars of the 1850s and uh and then of course World War II where the Japanese came in. Um so you know this is uh this is something that is critical. They there it's total takeover and all these things are wound in together. It's

not just drug warfare as you mentioned. It's money laundering. It's working with the drug cartels. Just let's just pinpoint that Wuhan is the illicit drug capital of the world. And incidentally, yes, of course, the Chinese Communist Party says, "Oh, we Xi Jinping, we'll work on that. We'll work on that." It's

all plausible deniability. If you if you understand enough of your enemy, you understand that they it's all about deception and plausible deniability. Um, that's not how we were raised. That's not how we grew up through society, business, or wherever you ended up. That's not how we think. But they

wire everything they can. They can they weaponize everything they possibly can. Uh which the moneyaundering piece of it. I mean, there's it's just so much detail. There are grow there are marijuana grow farms just in Oklahoma.

There's over 3,000 and they're run by the CCP. There are grow farms in Maine and in California. So what they use they use uh very toxic uh carcinogens in fertilizer and also in u uh herbicides. And the same thing when you buy it online for your grow operation if you're an American citizen or Canadian citizen you're getting this stuff from Canada. It's all uh car heavily carcinogenic.

Vaping is heavily carcinogenic. Um all this stuff needs to b be banned. I mean, so it's all these things needs to be pulled apart and somebody needs to run the show and start banning this stuff because we can't we can't get enough of it. As they weaponize, we can't get enough what they weaponize. But you have to understand what is weaponized, how do they do it, and what needs to be banned.

And I'm telling you there, we just covered a couple right here, but there are literally thousands. We're remember they've been at this for decades. So, President Trump just completed uh Asia tour. Uh, a lot of it seemed focused on countering China, but what what what do you think about uh the tour tour as a whole and what came out of the Trump she meeting itself? >> I hate I honestly hate to say it, but I think uh I've been on other interviews and uh he gets played. He got played by

Putin. He's being played by Xiinping. Xiinping showed you his true cards. uh and their strategy over the last 25 years they've been uh the world's uh collecting the world's rare earth minerals which which drives our innovation and and drives our military and as well as the world's innovation and the world's military. So they've cornered the market on this and we've allowed that to happen. So if you think

your government's here to help you, your government actually allowed that to happen as well as pharmaceutical drugs. um uh where they've cornered the market on these things. So they so you know this is who you're actually dealing with. So when you think about this, they show he showed his cards when he said, "Hey, you do this, you put these tariffs on me, I'm going to I'm going to hold all these rare earths from you." And then Trump said, "Well, we got a a an extension of a year." Well, he can

also cut that extension back of a year. First of all, a year is nothing. Um so you know saying we we delayed it a year doesn't give you anything that that just strengthens Xiinping's power over the world. Um I think like you know Trump did meet with the uh the Japanese prime minister and they they made a rare earths deal like it seems like the Trump administration is trying to uh get off of the uh Chinese rare earths kick if they can. And then if if that's the case, if there's a if there's a pathway to working with Japan, which has a lot of I think they're like off the coast of Japan, uh rare earths, and there's like a mining operation in the US that can be restarted and but that's going to take time. It does take a lot of time. So by

uh making a a short-term deal with China, even that year, does give us some wiggle room to get started on alternative sources. Right. >> Everything you said is correct. uh Trump is at least trying to help that. We don't think that Trump understands the severity of the Chinese Communist Party uh of that issue. Um so he is making

[clears throat] making efforts but does he we don't think that he understands like I said the entire picture and to the severity and the depth of this thing. So yes, he's doing the right things with rare earth but the bigger picture is we think he's absolutely being played. Um this is not a business deal. his heritage and his success has been through doing business deals, right? And tariffs are part of a business deal. Um, he's in a war. He's

absolutely in a war. You need to be thinking like your enemy and looking at the world like your enemy. So, look for the next meeting with Xi Jinping to be um very very hard-hitting on the side of the Chinese Communist Party. I think that was just a play to to soften everything and to to have plausible deniability. Uh, hey, look, we just want to work with you guys. Hey, everything's

cool. No. Um, these are hardcore full-blown communist and their only mission is to completely destroy the West for total takeover. >> So, important question about that meeting. I don't know if you saw this photo uh of Trump showing Xi Jinping something and Xi Jinping is laughing.

>> Yeah, I didn't see the photo. Oh, >> okay. >> Diplomacy is a a very odd world. Um I I interfaced with the White House back in the day. Uh I was White House advance for uh for one of our presidents back in the day. So, and I've been in and out of

Washington many times, meaning the the federal government. uh in the last 15 years I've presented in front of many agencies. In fact, one of them I I won't name it. Um the chairman actually came I saw him at a Christmas party a couple of years ago and he said, "Hey, you been on the hill?" I said, [laughter] "Yeah, many times." He said, "You look

familiar." He says, "You know, have you been in front of this agency?" I said, "Yes, I have." He says, "This year." I said, "Yes." He said, "Well, I was the

chairman." And then he says, "How did you know? How did you know? He said, I feel like I've seen this movie before. I I I'm just going through the checklist.

How did you know? And that was 20 I'll just give you the years, 2017 when I was at that specific agency. And this was a couple years ago for a Christmas party. So that's really, you know, that's how bad our our um government is on recognizing the problem. Then secondly, they're being played because a lot of them a lot of Congress takes uh uh CCP cash donations to their uh campaign packs. So, and then I just mentioned

earlier in this in this uh interview that these guys, a group of them went over to China to uh basically be played under the guise of doing business together. So, that's the reason for this book is to wake everybody up. I mean, the evidence the evidence is beyond anybody's imagination. So, when probably halfway through the book, people are going to put it down, say, "I've had enough. I've got enough to make my decisions to move on." But if you read the full book, the

the level of detail and evidence that's there will get the most um discerning reader uh informed. And the other thing is I'll say is, you know, part of this thing between Democrats and Republicans and blacks against whites and zoomers against boomers and all this stuff. That's all the chaos that's that's planned. And let me tell you, we've got more in if we all just wake up as brothers in the US and in all of the free nations in the world. If we just wake up that we're brothers, we have more in common with each other than we do with our enemy. So my advice is

everybody needs to get together. You know, start to understand that you've got to we've all share a common enemy and it's not the left and it's not the right. Um I'm more of a center kind of a guy. Uh only and I'm driven by the Constitution and freedom period. So I I I bristle when I hear all this nonsense between, you know, the the shutdown, the government shutdown. Are you kidding me?

when Xiinping and Beijing are laughing at us and where if we can't come together as a country, how are we going to come together if it ever goes to conventional war? Again, we're in a full-blown war right now. People just don't know what it is, what the strategy is, and uh and so on. >> There's a lot more of this hour-long podcast to watch. Just click below to see it at chinaunensored.tv.

When you join us there, you can be part of my exclusive China uncensored 50 C army where we stand up to the CCP together. And also check out Casey Fleming's book, The Red Tsunami, available for pre-order now. The link is below.