---
video_title: "Can China Tank the US Economy Before Invading Taiwan?"
video_id: SHdtbCRo5QY
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SHdtbCRo5QY
video_date: 2025-12-11T15:41:38+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-318
  
  China is holding the US political leadership hostage. And when they invade Taiwan, they may get just what they want—without the US lifting a finger to stop them.
---
We are not nearly as dependent on Russia as we are with China. [music] If China were to invade Taiwan, would we have the ability to uh use economic leverage on China or would it be a case that China is much more capable of putting economic pressure on the United States to stay out of the invasion? We've done uh not necessarily the commission wearing other hats. We've done some some war gaming and some uh simulations that involve the economic piece. And uh the reality is we're interdependent and and we could do a lot of damage to each other. Um there are

some levers that we have that that uh people would you know, it'd be pretty significant. They're relying on us for energy and they're relying on us for food. Us and and the Western world, let's say. So, you know, cutting off the Malacca Strait and and um halting agricultural exports could do a lot of damage. But when you look at a contingency like Taiwan, this is why China's game is to to first win without fighting, but second, make it a a um fait accompli, uh quick endeavor that doesn't bring in other parties and and not have to face that kind of severe sanction before the the job is complete in terms of capitulation in Taipei. So, there's a lot of moving

parts to this. The frustrating part to to me and I I suspect Mike and others is you know, we don't actually prepare. You know, why isn't our Treasury Department leading an effort to say if China attacks Taiwan, here's the five things we'd like to do in very quick order in order to put pressure on China and and raise costs for them significantly to the point where they might reconsider their their uh end goals with a particular operation. We don't talk to allies about it. We don't prepare because even asking the questions uh gets people spooked. It

gets our even our our uh executive branch agencies. Well, we have constituents out there that if we even start looking at this would be be very uncomfortable and nervous about it. So, you know, we should be doing a lot more to prepare. We should have uh a game plan uh in place. I I very much subscribe to the Dwight Eisenhower uh phrase that uh plans are useless, but planning is essential. I

mean, we should be modeling this. We should be working this and we should be developing a plan and we should be sharing that plan with allies and and we should be ready. We're not. How how soon do you think the CCP will invade Taiwan? Well, I I I do think they want to win without fighting.

And there's no doubt they're preparing. You know, Xi Jinping's directive to be ready by 2027. That's a ready by date. That's not a go date. Um they they but the the uh gray so-called gray zone tactics, the coercion, the intimidation, the pressure combined with information warfare, lawfare, they want to give people of Taiwan the impression that they have no alternative but to capitulate. So, when you see something

like uh a soft blockade, which, you know, could be from missile closure areas for military exercise, it could be a lawfare move where they say, "Actually, we're the sovereign power that has the right to inspect that commercial shipping coming in and out of Kaohsiung and Keelung." These are all things I would expect to see before an invasion. Now, there are other variables, you know, uh if Lai Ching-te declares independence, which I don't think he would. He's smart guy. Um you know, that could trigger the anti-secession law and could uh trigger Chinese kinetic operations. If they sense that the

United States is walking away from Taiwan or Japan is walking away from Taiwan, uh that might change their calculus. The National Security Strategy, which was just released, uh does have strong language in terms of our interest of deterring uh China and preserving Taiwan's status as it is. So, you know, there are a lot of factors, but I I I think, you know, we're going to see more coercion and more integration of political warfare, information warfare, and lawfare before we see that uh kinetic operation, which by the way still remains pretty risky. 80 nautical miles of water, mountainous inhospitable terrain, unfavorable sea conditions for most of the year, uh all for a PLA that hasn't seen combat since 1979. So, it's it's still a risk. So, I

think you know, I think what we're focused on in the near term is these gray zone tactics and all the coercion and intimidation. You know, I I've I've heard Randy give that pitch before and every time I um as I listen to him, I I basically say like, "Listen, the fight is already on." Um and and the the fight the intention of the fight is to not to actually have to go to war. And the part that Randy didn't mention, which I always think is really important to sort of remind people after you sort of hear Randy's riff, is that Salt Typhoon, Volt Typhoon, all of the cyber operations, um all of the sort of public reports you hear about the Chinese um and the MSS parking themselves all over American infrastructure, those are also gray zone tactics and the purpose of those are to hold our political leadership um hostage to decision-making. And so, um anytime you hear that, you know, personal data has been hacked or, you know, your your Verizon or AT&T phone have been hacked, that is all part of this, too. Um and

so, they're already deploying a whole-of-nation approach to making sure that Taiwan is sort of frozen in place and so that they can sort of move the goalposts and that the American political establishment and military establishment are held at risk as well. Um so that there's not sort of the decisions um or decision space, I should say, to um to figure out what we want to do. And so, that's all part of it as well. In the commission report, you had some recommendations about what to do about those gray zone tactics of the US. Yeah, so I guess another thing to point out about the commission is we do an annual report and tend not to repeat recommendations uh year in, year out uh and and try to bring fresh ideas to the Congress in every new report. So, we've talked about

gray zone tactics. We've talked about different ways to help the US posture for this uh challenge. This year we focused on the uh posture opportunities in areas surrounding Taiwan. So, in the Philippines, the enhanced defense cooperation agreement sites, in the Japanese Southwest Islands, uh in the Pacific Island uh region, Oceania. And, you know, when you think about the US ability to deter China, we're we're a Pacific power, but we're not fully resident in the Western Pacific. So, we're very reliant on

partners and allies to bring their own capabilities to bear, to to really join in the effort to deter China, but also to to give us access, basing, overflight uh access opportunities. And so, one of the recommendations was for Taiwan that is uh essentially doubling its defense budget if if all its commitments come through with a special budget and increasing the the baseline uh annual budget, that they could take some of their money and actually help us by investing in infrastructure in areas surrounding Taiwan. So, opening up a foreign military sales case where they're not buying a weapon from the United States, but they're helping us build out a a site in northern Luzon in the Philippines that would be available to us uh to forward deploy in the event of a contingency. So, the posture challenges are very real. When you look at uh Admiral Paparo's plans for uh a Taiwan contingency and and what he refers to as hells- hellscape, uh we have to be able to get to the fight. We have to be able to uh posture

in in places like the Japanese Southwest Island chain and Philippines, uh Palawan, northern Luzon. So, we're working on all that. Uh but it's coming along very slowly and we have our fights about color of money in the United States. You know, some of this is is planned spend from military construction, so-called MILCON. Members of Congress don't like spending MILCON in other countries. They like spending

MILCON in their district. So, why not get Taiwan to contribute to the build-out of these facilities, which at the end of the day are largely about the protection of Taiwan? There's a lot more of this hour-long podcast to watch. Just click below to see it at ChinaUncensored.tv.

When you join us there, you can be part of my exclusive China Uncensored 50 Cent Army, where we stand up to the CCP together. Link is below.