---
video_title: "Japanese Youth Are Having a MAGA Revolution"
video_id: aCqf1az7zNs
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aCqf1az7zNs
video_date: 2025-11-20T15:40:09+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full episode: https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-316
  
  Japan’s youth are shifting to the political right—and the CCP is terrified. In this clip, Counterintelligence expert Dr. Robert Eldridge breaks down the political earthquake happening there right now. Young Japanese voters are rejecting the self-hating narratives of the mainstream media and embracing leaders who stand up to the CCP.
---
A lot of this gets filtered through, you know, what's going on in the US [music] and Europe, but there is this sense, at least out here, that the the the these Japanese young people, they're maybe hard right or like anti-immigration. They don't want non-Japanese people in the country. A lot of things that, you know, some Americans, some Europeans would like. Other things that, you know, other people are like freaked out about. So, like, what what what has changed with this new generation?

Several years ago, when the voting age was uh lowered to uh 18, and I want to say that was about 7 or 8 years ago because my my daughter became eligible to to vote at that time, and I I wrote an an academic article about that at the time. Um the younger people, rather than becoming radicalized, like we see back home in the states, uh if anything, um they were questioning, "Where did Japan go wrong? Where's Where's it going off the rails? Um why isn't it living up to, you know, the the hope and the expectations that previous generations had of the country? And if anything, they were looking for answers um that brought them to I think I think respect, you know, Japanese history and culture and traditions more.

And probably the reason for that is that in their compulsory education, which goes through the end of middle school, so, you know, 15 or so, um and then for those that went on to high school, those that went on to college, they were basically denied an opportunity to learn about their modern history um in favor of, you know, the rote memory, you know, tested exams. And they got exposed in, you know, in recent years, particularly, you know, thanks to the internet, uh to um you know, to alternative, you know, sources of information, rather than the mainstream media. And like in the US, the mainstream media here in Japan tends to be, you know, on the left. And um so, on the left here means I, you know, uh self-hating, anti-Japanese, uh kind of stuff you'd expect in China or uh or Korea or maybe North Korea. And so, uh a lot of the media here adopts that narrative um of, you know, self-hating, self-loathing.

And so, the the youth were, you know, over the years and much of the postwar were exposed to that, but now I think, thanks to the internet, um thanks to the fact that uh the generation before them, uh so, I would say in between, you know, my age group and their age group, uh maybe, you know, uh those in their 30s and 40s, they began to really question um stuff that they've been taught. And so, they're still like looking for answers, but they've become a whole lot more confident uh and, you know, believe more in their in their their their history and their their culture and traditions than uh other generations in the postwar did. And then matching that with the so-called conservative wing of the LDP brings that youth, you know, supporter with that that uh I'd say older, uh more conservative group. And they were represented by Abe, you know, who was unfortunately assassinated 3 years ago, you know, Takaichi today, things like that. Unfortunately, after Abe stepped down in in 2020, um he was succeeded by uh his chief cabinet secretary, um who who was kind of like a, you know, a powerless uh individual. And

then the next two prime ministers, Kishida and Ishiba, were essentially uh you know, cutouts of the American Democratic Party. But what do you mean by that? Uh just like the the wacky policies that, you know, the the COVID stuff, um the you know, ev- everything, the, you know, um interventionism, you know, globalism, uh you know, um the LGBTQ XYZ, whatever that stuff is. It just went absolutely crazy here in Japan uh under Kishida and to some extent Ishiba after that, which really like butted heads with, you know, Japanese traditions and culture and things like that. So, a lot of Japanese felt that they were being hijacked by uh you know, essentially US globalists and particularly the US Democratic Party.

And the previous US ambassador to Japan, Rahm Emanuel, he was actively involved in facilitating certain legislation here in Japan. So, he went beyond the role of a traditional ambassador, which is to promote your own country's point of view, and actually um getting involved in the details of legislation within Japan. So, that caused a huge uh backlash in Japan. So, this was happening 2022, 2023, 2024, uh now we're in 25. In 2022, there was an upper house election, and a a party that uh you alluded to before, uh that's anti-immigration, uh I don't think that's correct, but they're described as anti-immigration, they won the first seat in the upper house.

And then last year in the general elections, which is for the lower house, which is more powerful house, uh they won a number of seats. And then in the upper house elections this summer, they won even more. And the next time they they they have elections in Japan, they're expected to do even even better. And so, that party has challenged the ruling party, which was dominated by essentially an identical to the US Democratic Party, even though they're supposed to be a conservative party, um there was a huge uh gap or opening, you know, among the Japanese public about who, you know, who the conservatives were or who represented the conservatives. Nobody was representing representing the conservatives. The only choice voters

had was the LDP, but they were so closely identified with the US Democratic Party that the LDP members started leaving the party as I alluded to before, >> [snorts] >> and they they basically, you know, really stopped turning out uh to voting to vote until this new party, Sanseito, emerged. And um now Takaichi, as the conservative embodiment of the original conservative party, is in office, um they're hoping that she's able to kind of recapture the conservative vote in Japan. So, I her her popularity is extremely high, but the the LDP's popularity remains pretty low right now. So, there's a there's a gap between her popularity and the LDP itself. Well, I can see why this um resurgence of interest in like a strong Japan, maybe Japanese nationalism, that's kind of a loaded term, but like a a love of like a strong Japan, and Takaichi kind of embodying this, I could see why the CCP would be a little nervous about that.

Um especially I mean, it's I can't I I really can't believe that Xuejian, the uh consul general in Osaka, did the joke about joke about assassinating Takaichi in the context It's It's not a joke, yeah, that's that's not the right word, but like basically threatened that >> [clears throat] >> in the context where like Abe was assassinated. Uh you're you're right, um but living in Osaka as I do over the past 35 years, he's been here for 4 years. He is uh as I alluded to before, he's uh an extremist, um he's uh off the rails, um I, you know, he's the embodiment of the wolf warrior, you know, diplomacy, um I'm sure he's doing it at the direction of, you know, his government and this and the CCP. Um I don't think it's a coincidence, uh although I I'll, you know, I'll mention I don't have evidence for this, but I don't think it's a coincidence that uh that uh former Prime Minister Abe was assassinated in July 2022 and this Consul General arrived the year before. And Abe's assassination took place in the prefecture next door to where the Consul General's is located.

So, When you say you don't think it's a coincidence. Mhm. I think you know what I'm saying. Okay. There's a lot more of this hour-long podcast to watch. Just click below to

see it at China Uncensored.tv. When you join us there, you can be part of my exclusive China Uncensored 50-Cent Army, where we stand up to the CCP together. The link is below.