---
video_title: "Why Xi Jinping Can’t Name a Successor"
video_id: 6rMJtJi3tv0
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6rMJtJi3tv0
video_date: 2025-12-04T18:17:19+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-317
  
  Xi Jinping celebrates CCP reformer Hu Yaobang, whose death in 1989 sparked pro-reform protests across China. Does this mean Xi will finally implement reforms to the CCP?
---
[Music] The other thing that I thought was very interesting this week was Did you see the thing about Xi's speech commemorating the uh birthday of Hu Yaobang? Uh why was that interesting? Well, number one because this is going to be a difficult thing to talk about cuz it involves people with the name of Xi and Hu. Who? What? When? Yeah. Oh, yeah. Let's

add some Wen Jiabao stuff in here. And then let's talk about Hu Jintao as well. So, we have two Hus. Uh-huh. We don't know which Hu is when.

Thank goodness there aren't any current Chinese leaders whose last name is Hao. Yeah. Uh how would we get through this? How would she get that right? Um So, like this happens I believe it's kind of uh every 10 years there's some kind of like commemoration of Hu Yaobang's uh birthday cuz she talked about this in 2015. I guess they

did Well, I and then 2025. So, I guess it's just like three instances. So, does that make a pattern? I don't know. Wait, did they do it in 2005, too? Uh I believe so,

yeah. >> Okay. Um so, Hu Yaobang, he's an interesting figure. He So, after Mao's Cultural Revolution, uh you know, a disaster, even people in the top levels of Communist Party kind of realized >> Mao was 70% correct and 30% wrong. Yeah, yeah.

So, you know, Deng Xiaoping comes in and he starts to implement all of these economic reforms, which at the time what was by no means guaranteed to go through because there were still hardcore Maoists in the Chinese Communist Party who had power. Uh let alone like what was any of Deng Xiaoping's plans going to work. Um so, it was important for him to have uh loyal officials implementing his economic reforms. And his left and right hand, as they were called, was one of them was Hu Yaobang. The other was Jiang No, Zhao Oh my god. God, I'm doing

it again. Zhao Ziyang. Zhao Ziyang. Who was like a protégé of Hu Yaobang. Yeah. Yeah.

Um I keep confusing that name with Jiang Zemin. Yeah, that was the moral. Yes. Different person. Different person.

>> Different person. Uh so, anyways, the thing that was interesting about these two guys is that they also wanted to do political reforms as well. They wanted they tried to start investigating other uh Communist officials and their families, corruption. They did an anti-corruption campaign. Hmm. I'm sure those Communist

Party officials and their families loved that. They did. >> Yeah. Uh and so, Hu was uh forced to retire. Okay. Hu Yaobang was forced to retire.

Yes. What did I say? You said who was forced to retire, but it sounded almost like >> asking you. >> Yes, exactly. It sounded like you were saying, "Who was forced to retire?"

Yeah. Uh who Who was forced to retire? Who was forced to retire? Um but >> That hates everything about what's happening right now. When is this going to be over? How?

Good good one. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um but so, then he died in 1989. Uh the Communist Party tried to just do kind of a small little thing for him, but thousands of uh Chinese people came to uh Tiananmen to mourn. Yeah, I mean especially it became the Tiananmen protest. It became the Tiananmen Square

student democracy protest. Which became the Tiananmen Square massacre. Which became the what? Yeah. When? Huh? Yeah.

>> How? Yeah. Uh the so, uh so, Hu Yaobang was very popular among the people for trying to do reforms. Yes. And uh yeah, a lot of people had a lot of hope that the Communist Party would reform and get better and yeah. Yeah.

But so, now Xi Jinping makes this uh commemorative speech about Hu Yaobang. And I think it's very interesting like the parallels he's beginning to draw is like Hu Yaobang, this great beloved Communist official doing an anti-corruption campaign. >> So, now he's been rehabilitated and he's beloved again? Well, Xi Jinping is. He uh Hu Yaobang has not really been like rehabilitated.

He was never like purged. >> He was just a forced to retire, right? >> Yeah. So, there is there is no um actually Hu Yaobang uh I believe is responsible for rehabilitating Xi's father. Oh.

>> Who was purged in the Cultural Revolution. So, you know, some some favors there. But yeah, definitely I think Xi Jinping is very purposely drawing parallels, you know, Xi Jinping also beloved by the people, also fighting for anti-corruption, a reformer. Uh and the big thing to me that is this showing is that like everyone better get on board with his anti-corruption campaign cuz there's going to be a lot more purges coming in the near future. More purges.

>> More purges. Who could have seen that coming? Xi saw it coming. He did. Um but yeah, like this is coming off of, you know, the high-level purges in the military that, you know, got all the rumor mill started about like, "Oh, maybe Xi Jinping isn't in power anymore.

He's been replaced." >> Cuz uh because maybe somebody else is purging Xi Jinping's people. Yeah. Yeah, but our our analysis has been that like one of the one of the main guys purged, uh Miao Hua, uh who was on the surface a Xi ally and was was responsible for all like the political work within the Chinese military, he seems to be at the center of this web of people who are who have been purged. And it could be like something like where he was like a Lin Biao type person, perhaps. Like he was

building up a uh clique himself that maybe Xi felt threatened with. And I think there are rumors that like he like when like he was taken out, he like named like a thousand other people. Uh who knows if that's true, but what we have seen with the anti-corruption campaign is always that like Xi will go after like a lower-level guy who will then rat out a bunch of people and he'll like work his way up to a higher place. And so, I'm sure like all of these purges are going to result in more purges. And this was I think this was Xi's attempt to be like, "Get ready, guys, but it's all okay. I'm

a reformer." Yeah, well, that's >> That's the interesting part, too, because I think one of the things that you know, one of the reasons we disliked this whole rumor mill about Xi losing power and whatever that was sucking up all the oxygen for months is that it gives people hope in the CCP, right? Yeah. That the CCP will reform itself. That like oh, if Xi Jinping steps too far out of line, the party elders >> will step in.

>> Well, and the military will step in and restrain him. And so, the party can fix its own problems. You don't have to do anything about the fact that the Communist Party is in charge, right? Yeah. >> have to protest. You don't have to, you

know, like you can wait for the party to fix itself. So, it's actually advantageous in some ways for the CCP to have all these rumor mills going. Perhaps leaking things to different people, you know, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So,

the the whole thing about, you know, Xi Jinping losing power, it none of it happened, but people who still really believe that Xi Jinping is losing power, like the goal posts keep moving, right? >> Mhm. So, it's like, "Oh, well, uh he didn't get purged in August. He didn't get purged in October. Well, maybe he's just going to stay on until the next Party Congress next year, where he'll he'll definitely step down then."

Yeah. Yeah. Although he still has not uh anointed a successor. No. Nor will he anytime soon.

Uh it's also it's also very dangerous for him to anoint a successor. Right? Like the reason he It's not that he doesn't think he's going to die, although he he might actually think he's going to live to 150 um by, you know, just getting new organs from Uyghurs and Falun Gong. >> It's like an Invader Zim episode. Yeah, but but like that successor other people will will be like, "Oh, I'll be like in the faction of the successor." And then that becomes a

threat to Xi Jinping's power, right? So, that's why he can't name a successor. It's just too risky for him cuz that successor would then be able to build up his own power base. I hope >> But it's like when he goes, I hope it's like Alexander the Great where they ask >> 29. Well, too late for that. But no,

we're all all of his generals are like, "So, who is going to succeed you?" And he just says, "The strongest." And then it creates lots and lots of problems cuz that's not a good succession. Uh play >> mean before he died, he said that? Yeah.

Okay. I was like, "I didn't know about this, but" Yeah. And then like all of his generals tore up the empire and fought amongst themselves. And then four And then like they basically split it up, right? Yeah, it was basically And saying they split it up is kind of making it sound like they came to like the civil agreement. It was like

>> amicable. It was not a good divorce. >> No, it's like the four strongest got the territory that they could and couldn't like take others. And they they were always fighting. And yeah.

Um It does make you wonder about the future of China. I don't think that there's going to be like, you know, I don't think it's necessary going to go back to like the 1920s of warlord situation though. Who knows? Yeah. Like Xi Jinping holds control of Beijing and then like one of his rivals has seized Guangdong or something. Yeah.

This is just one clip from our longer Do you like this kind of discussion? Click below and watch it and download it all at ChinaUncensored.tv. When you subscribe to our website, you'll also be part of my exclusive China Uncensored 50-Cent Army and we can stand up to the CCP together. Link is below.