---
video_title: "China Has COMPLETELY Dominated This Industry"
video_id: mWkQf8Turg4
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mWkQf8Turg4
video_date: 2025-12-09T14:58:14+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-318
  
  What is the number one industry that China has taken over from the US? It’s not what I thought. And it’s actually much scarier than I imagined.
---
This is interesting that you mentioned the, you know, the the normalizing free trade because there were a lot of promises [music] at the time of how great uh normalizing trade relations with China would be. How has that played out? >> I mean, not not very well is is the simple answer. Uh I wrote a a piece in um real world a few months ago where I sort of talked about the biotech sector, right? Um so what we sort of see we've seen over the last 25 years there is we've sort of seen the salami slicing of the various manufacturing capabilities and research and development capabilities um move to China. And now

China has this incredible position in the biotech industry where not only are they sort of in control of the manufacturing, they're now doing all of the sort of research related work. And as a consequence of all of that, they've built out sort of the infrastructure layer for the entire ecosystem, right? So most people when you hear biotech, they think pharma, right? Well, the benefit of building out the infrastructure layer is that as biotech as we sort of unlock biotech as a general purpose technology in the coming years, just like we've unlocked physics and uh chemistry historically, the Chinese will own that infrastructure layer. That means that as we think about coding in biology and coding in sort of DNA, not in ones and zeros, um they can essentially write the operating system for the bi for biology, which is an incredibly powerful tool. So if you

think about sort of dependencies, we often think about semiconductors. Imagine if we're totally dependent on China for API key starting materials um or anything else that we sort of need in the bio economy to um to you know do bio cement or other biioaterials. So it's um it has it has not worked out well. My first job in Congress was actually with a senator from Michigan. If you ever talked to anyone who's familiar with the automotive industry um I remember when I first got to Congress it was about counterfeit parts coming from China. Now

we're seeing more and more pieces um just come straight from China whether it's the raw materials or the sort of intermediate goods or the sort of finished part. So it has not worked out well. Um and it's sort of been a boiling of the frog, right? It was happening. There were there were localities that was it was affecting but no one sort of took a look at it on sort of the aggregate level. Um and and it's it's a

pretty dire story in my opinion. >> Yeah. You know who was right about this 25 years ago? It was the anarchists who were protesting the WTO or letting China into the WTO. >> We should have listened.

>> Yeah. You know, if you if you really do a study of the China hawk, you know, phenomena, it's really it starts with two groups. Human rights, religious freedom, and American labor. Even the the security folks were were lagging behind. I mean, I'd like to think I was early on that in the mid '9s, particularly around the time of the Taiwan Strait crisis, 95,96, but you know, it they weren't the leading edge. You know, the PLA, even

when I started in the early 90s, you could argue, was still recovering from the throws of the cultural revolution and a military that was more interested in internal security, more interested in making money, extremely corrupt, and you know, PLA officers would own side businesses, etc. Um, so really it was uh human rights, religious freedom. So that's the uh interesting uh coalition of people like Nancy Pelosi and Jesse Helms at the time and labor and uh I I think Labor did get a lot right in terms of the move towards trade liberalization, globalization and the fact that many elites forgot the people left behind. >> Well, I think what the report really makes a good point in bringing out is that you know people might hear like, "Oh, China's building a lot of EVs or solar panels. who cares? But the report

makes it clear this is economic warfare. >> Yeah. The commission's first recommendation is uh we need to sort of reorient to an economic statecraftraft model that that modernizes our institutions across the executive branch to think about this in a more thoughtful and strategic way and honestly a way that is faster. Um because I I think I said um at some of the one of the open [clears throat] sessions we had with the press that like the the the American inner agency has sort of become like war waring feudal states and you know that's not the way we should be thinking about this. There should be a unity of command on the economic side just we like we have on the national security side and we should be thinking about this in a more sort of deliberate way. I don't know Randy you

got anything to pile on there? Yeah, it's not only uh interstate feudal warfare, whatever thieftum uh warfare, it's within agencies. So, uh a great deal of the responsibility for export controls belongs with our commerce department. Commerce department sees itself as the entity that promotes American business and for decades with respect to China definitely saw themselves as a government agency that would help American businesses get started. um you know, market entry, market growth, etc. Uh and then there's

this uh sleepy part of of commerce uh called the Bureau of Industry and Security that was trying to do what it could to have sensible export controls uh in place, but you know, in many times they get trumped by department leadership. Interestingly, you know, we'll see what happens in the next few weeks here, but I think that tension has not gone away at all. I think there's still uh a fight within an agency, let alone as Mike said, competing uh agencies. >> Yeah, I do remember there was an AP report that came out a couple of months ago about how the US the commerce department was still promoting like US companies in China to China's security services while you know the US government on the other hand was still talking about the dangers of China censorship and all these things. But then you had part of the commerce department who was saying to Chinese police departments, you should use these US companies.

>> Yeah. Mike, you should talk about uh a little more on the recommendation and and bringing the intelligence uh capabilities into this process. >> Yeah. So I'll first I'll respond to that one the one comment there. um you know there is something called the foreign commercial service and they certainly do you know work all around the world um to to promote American businesses and um I don't you know the commission's not advocating for um or advocating or recommending to Congress that we do sort of a full decoupling of of the American and Chinese economy. I think we're just

sort of saying like there's there's a way to do this in a way that's sort of targeted uh in areas of competition. So you know I I suspect that um there will always be a foreign commercial service presence in China. It's a huge market and American businesses are going to want to operate there. Um, and you know, I don't know how familiar you guys are with the foreign commercial service, but it's like one of the most underappreciated entities in the executive branch. They deploy to embassies all around the world and do some really incredible work. I've run

into them in Africa, Latin America, um Asia, and and all of them are are incredibly smart, incredibly capable people that often have their finger on the pulse of uh the economies of countries in a way that um you know, the economic section or the political section of an embassy don't necessarily have. So, huge advocate for the foreign commercial service. Uh on the the point Randy asked me to talk about on uh the intelligence community. Um Randy and I actually did a an op-ed earlier this year where we sort of said like the the the export control iron curtain of the US government needs to have the refresh key hit on it. And and the the analogy that we talked about is um after 911 uh you'll you guys will remember there's this big sort of reorganization in the executive branch in terms of sanctions and how we implement sanctions. And one

of the big changes in that sort of ecosystem at the time was that we deliberately took a piece of the Treasury Department and made it a member of the intelligence community. And the reason we did that is because when you're in the intelligence community, you're able to drive requirements. Um I'm able to say, Randy, go collect me this information on this. Go collect me information on that. When you're not in the intelligence community, it's more of like a tin cupping effort or a pretty please. And so um one of the big

recommendations here is that the Bureau of Industry Security or if there's any reorganization of this like we recommended in terms of economic statecraftraft that we make sure that those export control professionals are a member of the intelligence community so that they can actually drive requirements um and make sort of decisions that are based on intelligence that's coming into the government and that um will have the effect of operationalizing them in a in a way that we uh saw in the sanctions community after 9/11 which has proven to be incredibly effective. Listen, the way the reason that we were able to act quickly after Russia invaded Ukraine was because they were able to drive requirements because they were able to pull intelligence. And so, um, that's a key part of the recommendation as well. >> There's a lot more of this hour-long podcast to watch. Just click below to see it at chinaunensored.tv.

When you join us there, you can be part of my exclusive Chinaensored 50 C army where we stand up to the CCP together. Link is below.