---
video_title: "The CCP’s Secret Weapon Against the US"
video_id: nmWidWRlQuo
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nmWidWRlQuo
video_date: 2025-12-27T15:17:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-319
  
  What if the next major battlefield isn’t the Taiwan Strait? The CCP has its tentacles all over the world, and could use those to cause chaos, or even trigger war. Former U.S. Air Force strategist Guermantes Lailari shows how much the US is at risk.
  
  You can read his article here:
  https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/editorials/archives/2025/12/08/2003848493
---
The CCP doesn't necessarily need to invade Taiwan militarily. Um, you know, you mentioned in your article, [music] which we'll put a link to below, the risk of state-owned enterprises being involved in critical infrastructure. Let's take, for example, the Kaohsiung Port in Taiwan. Yeah, so um, there's a there's a company called Chinese a state-owned company called Cosco. It's not the American Costco.

Um, and they they manage ports around the world. In the case of Kaohsiung, which is the the largest port in Taiwan and this in the southern city of Kaohsiung for those of you that are not familiar with the geography of Taiwan, um, is significant. They they don't officially operate the port, but they have a investment of about 30% in the port. So, they have some kind of access to the port. Um, and it's even worse in the sense in the United States where um, the the these state-owned enterprises are actually running five of our largest large ports in the United States.

They're not just investing, they actually control parts of our US ports. It seems dangerous. Uh, which is a problem and you know, in 2021 the FBI found um, monitor a modem a monitoring system on the cranes that had nothing to do with crane operations and uh, the analysis was that this this this these electronics were designed to uh, send back information back to China. Uh, so yeah, it's it's it's definitely a problem when you allow a potential adversary access to your infrastructure just because you think it's a cheaper option when considering that often times the the reason why it's a cheaper option is because as a state-owned enterprise or any any company in China it is controlled by the CCP. So, if they tell this company to underbid any anybody else, they'll do it and they'll be compensated for it from the government of China and they'll get the contract and then they'll uh, start doing other things, which I've elaborated in my article.

Well, I mean, this is shocking to me with like Kaohsiung Kaohsiung Port in particular because there's an obvious CCP threat to Taiwan and yet I I didn't I didn't even hear about this until like last week. Why wasn't there more publicity around the CCP investing in a major Taiwanese port? Well, if you look at the record, it was allowed during the time of President Ma Ying-jeou. Um, and he allowed two Chinese companies to invest in um, those ports. Uh, there are also media outlets in Taiwan that are owned by Chinese companies or uh, you know, mainland Chinese people.

Uh, which is also kind of awkward. It it it is a major problem, but we have the same problem in the United States and a lot of other countries have the same problem. So, the and the the the the Senate Committee on on on the threat of Chi the CCP to the US has been reporting on all these vulnerabilities that we've allowed ourselves to get get accustomed to. Uh, maybe it's time for me to to lay out kind of my my thoughts about the threat of the of these entities above and beyond the fact that they have access to our infrastructure. The main the main method that there are other methods, but the main method that I see in the pattern of behavior that the Chinese Communist Party does around the world is they use the the power of the economy uh, or to fund or to buy [clears throat] to get to gain access to something.

Once they gain access, then they start collecting intelligence on whatever they've gained access to. And then once they uh, started collecting intelligence, then they can do operations of whatever they want to do. They could they could do nothing or they could start doing things like they've been doing in Mexico where they they control two of the largest ports on the west side of Mexico. Uh, Chinese companies ship fentanyl precursors to those ports. They know how to they So, they've gained access to these ports, they run the ports, they literally run the ports. So, they know

all the customs agents, they know how to get through the legal the legal oversight at a at a port and move those precursors to drug cartels in Mexico, which end up killing Americans in in the United States. So, that's a simple example of how they use the use the economic leverage of controlling a port. They have the intelligence of how to move things in and out and they've decided to use fentanyl as one of their operations. That's not the only thing they do in the port. They can move people illegally, uh, human trafficking, they can move special forces through, they could do a lot of things. So, that's the other at

the other end is the operations and it's unlimited in what they can do. This makes me feel better about selling, you know, Nvidia H200 chips to China. Yeah. Yeah, I there's a lot of things that the US government does that I agree with and some of the things like what you just mentioned I disagree with, but um, it's it's for me it's important to understand the pattern of behavior so we can recognize the threat and if we choose to deal with it, we know how we know what the repercussions are if we don't deal with it. And Are we good? Are we

I guess the question on the ports you you mentioned was happening in Mexico ports and you mentioned a few minutes ago the FBI finding this remote equipment on Chinese cranes in US ports. Did we do anything about that? Yeah, uh, my understanding is that we've we've started to well, as of 2021 they started first of all removing those those modems and then re re-wiring them. I don't know have the full details cuz it was kind of um, there wasn't a lot of information on what they did specifically, but the fact is the FBI did find them and and the the subsequent actions that were taken to mitigate uh, the impact of of what that is. I mean, think about the the balloon that went over the United States, right? It was

the same thing. You know, it was just floating over the US. It wasn't doing anything, right? But it was collecting intelligence. I mean, that's that's the thing. They

the the thing about the important aspect of the CCP is to understand that their DNA is based on the idea that their survival their their survival is dependent on getting intelligence as as quickly and as quantitatively as as large as possible because they were almost wiped out five times in their history from the 1920s until 1949 and the only thing that saved them was intelligence. So, they really focus on intelligence and and that's one thing that I don't think people in the United States or or the rest of the world understands that they their intelligence system is on steroids. On hyper steroids and they they will they need to collect because they view intelligence as an essential aspect of their survival. It's both internal and external and you can see it. I mean, they're a police state, but they're a police state as no other country is uh, in terms of their monitoring of their own people and controlling everything about their those people's lives.

Uh, we and we heard about a lot of that during COVID. Um, and it continues and it continues to get from their point of view better control of their people. That's what they want to do. And that what they're doing inside China is what they want to do outside China. You know, I guess you talking about how intelligence is the DNA of the CCP, you know, something I've been wondering about is you see these um, news stories about not in the US in Korea like things like, oh, well, Chinese students stumbling upon like bases in Korea or whatever or flying drones like flying recreational drones nearby or you know, somebody a Chinese person buying an RV park next to like and it it feels funny like almost amateurish in a way like is this actually a good way of getting intelligence on you know, US military bases?

Okay, are you familiar with the term ling chi? Uh, that's the term for a death by a thousand cuts, right? It used to be a a Chinese way of killing somebody who had uh Like tried to kill the emperor. Uh who who Well, you could you if you if you uh did something against your teacher, you could be killed for for being disrespectful. Uh and that's the way they do it. Um so,

that's what they're doing. They're they're they're they're they're killing us by a thousand cuts. Uh they're overwhelming the FBI. The FBI can't keep track of the unfortunately the 600,000 students that President Trump is allowing in. They're and we're not set up to deal with this level of sophistication uh and mass. The that that's the power

of China is they have the ability to throw lots of people at a problem and they're going to get it. And they don't really care if someone gets caught because they have a couple other hundred people doing the same thing uh at the same time. So, we might we might be able to, you know, pick a few off the top, but there's a whole lot uh underneath. And it's not just Chinese, you know, people. It's also uh Americans who have been co-opted uh by Chinese intelligence officials and it's uh or can be another foreigner in the United States. So, it's it

we Yes, but there's been a lot of cases of I think it's in Michigan where the there's a guard base that the Taiwanese military is invited to uh get training at. And there've been lots of Chinese nationals, like you said, stumbling through the base or trying to get through the base or flying drones near the base. But the Chinese government will keep on throwing people at it. They don't care what happens to those people. Uh and if they get arrested, you know, who knows?

Maybe they they those people families will get rewarded or or continue to get the funding until those the the their sons and daughters are released. Um we don't do the same thing. No one in the world does this kind of uh intelligence gathering with so many people and so many different dimensions. Uh we need we are not prepared for what they're doing to us. Um and it's um we need to understand that if we don't if we don't unders- try to understand the depth and breadth of their intelligence operations against us, uh you know, there's so many things they can plant.

Thank you for watching. A link to G Man's recent article is below. And this was just one short highlight from our hour-long podcast. The full interview is available exclusively on our website chinainsider.tv.

When you subscribe, you'll get hundreds of interviews and more importantly, you'll be supporting us to stand up against the CCP. The link is below.