---
video_title: "China Beats the US Every Time—Can We Turn It Around?"
video_id: xRkhoKFLjBI
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xRkhoKFLjBI
video_date: 2025-12-16T16:18:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-319
  
  Pentagon war games show the U.S. would lose a conflict over Taiwan. But what if that’s not the story everyone thinks it is? Former U.S. Air Force strategist Guermantes Lailari explains what those simulations really mean.
  
  You can read his article here:
  Guermantes Lailari on Taiwan : Disentanglement: Halting CCP rule
  https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/editorials/archives/2025/12/08/2003848493
---
Pentagon war games. They show that the US always loses uh in a conflict in Taiwan. Uh are we already losing the war? >> So don't forget it's a war game, right? And >> it's fun.

>> Oh, because it's a game. >> It's a game. Yeah. >> Yeah. But if you if you assume the outcome is the same every time, why would you play it?

>> I like to win. >> Okay. So, war games are designed to not only make uh people think about the challenges associated with a specific problem, but they're also designed to make people think about what they can do in a future scenario where it's not a war game. It's real. So every time that someone participates, they learn and they try to evaluate new ways to to do it. And the the war game that you're

referring to, I think it's the New York Times uh reference overmatch from the Office of Net Assessment is um a war game. Well, not a war game. It's an analysis. It's an analysis of of what would happen. Okay. And that report was

originally published in 2021 and every year they've been republishing it and updating it based on any changes that they found. So this is an ongoing uh challenge and the def the department of war is dealing with that challenge and they're adapting to that problem set. So, so in the future maybe uh I don't know how long the the new outcome might be different than you losing every time you play. >> Well, speaking of the report, what does what does overmatch mean in this case? >> Uh overmatch is referring to the idea that China has built a massive military machine that is calibrated to try to prevent the US from getting involved. and if if

getting if they do try to get involved that they will be the US will be overmatched. Basically, it's their strategy of denial by punishment if the US tries to get involved. >> And so, I mean, there's a spin on this where it's, you know, bad news, the US loses, why should we even fight? Uh, what does the what do you think the overmatch report actually says without the spin? Well, if I told you then I'd get in trouble and I don't know because it's top secret. So,

>> the podcast over. >> Well, how does the New York Times have access to this top secret overmatch report? >> No. >> Well, they talk to people who've who've read it and then they, you know, there's they're basically telling the New York Times like a source in the Pentagon is, you know, something out of, you know, the 1970s. But basically the idea is that uh they're talking to people who've read the report and they're being told what the conclusions are and that and that and that in itself like I said is a war game does not predict the future. Uh

it only analyzes what data it's been given. And so let me give you an example. I'm sure that President Putin got numerous reports and analysis prior to his invasion in 2022 of Ukraine. In fact, the FSB and the CIA predicted that the Russians would overwhelm Kiev and take Ukraine within two weeks and game over. Well, that war game, that assessment was wrong. The Iranians, same

thing. They thought that the Israelis would run out of anti-missile uh systems uh twice. They launched uh several hundred uh missiles at at Israel and surprise Israel was able to absorb and prevent any kind of major damage. Again, the Iranian assessment was wrong. So, I'm not saying that the Office of Net Assessments uh assessment is wrong. I'm

just saying that not all assessments are accurate and things change over time and also China is adapting as well. So you've got you you've got an analysis that says that the US will will will have a hard time dealing with this with this problem, but you also have the uh Department of War retooling itself to deal with that problem. How are they doing the retooling? >> Uh they're doing several things. Um they're focusing on this concept of joint uh it's a long phrase. It's it's

called a joint all domain command and control uh uh network. And it's designed to connect sensors, shooters, command centers, all domains, land, sea, air, space, and cyber and services into a uh other services into a into a real-time system. Uh they're also um redesigning their architectures. They're uh they're using AI uh for faster assisted decision making uh in deploying not only regular forces but autonomous systems like UAVs, underwater uh vehicles and uh surface vehicles. They're retooling their forces um in terms of developing uh systems like uh HIMARS uh deploying them for deploying forces uh weapon systems ahead into the Indo-acific region. Uh so these are all

things that they're also focusing on irregular warfare as an option. They're re they're retooling um their directives. Um they're focusing on ret on training uh new strategy, new concepts, new tactics. Um so that's the Pentagon's response to this challenge. And uh it's not just for the Navy or the Air Force, it's for everybody uh in the military. So that's what they're doing.

>> Do you think it's uh going in the right direction? >> Yeah, I I I I do think they're going in the right direction. Um but I think they're going to be learning along the way that they might have to make some further modifications along the way. Um but this okay and that's just that's just part of it. Uh the other part of it is to get uh to get the allies in the region to also uh make the investment uh to to deal with the threat.

>> Thank you for watching. A link to Gman's recent article is below. And this was just one short highlight from our hour-long podcast. The full interview is available exclusively on our website, chinaunensored.tv.

When you subscribe, you'll get hundreds of interviews and more importantly, you'll be supporting us to stand up against the CCP.