---
video_title: "This is How Taiwan BEATS China"
video_id: yizAAbW7ssg
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yizAAbW7ssg
video_date: 2025-12-20T16:22:26+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-319
  
  Xi Jinping is purging millions of CCP members. But they want him gone, too. He’s terrified that if he makes one wrong move, he’ll be forced out. And there’ll be hell to pay.
  
  Joining us is former U.S. Air Force strategist Guermantes Lailari. You can read his article here:
  https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/editorials/archives/2025/12/08/2003848493
---
Denial strategy is basically making the idea behind it is preventing the other side [music] from succeeding. It's not winning a war, it's denying the other side from achieving their objectives. And so it's a lot easier to do that than to try to destroy the other side and and you can't really do that uh with China because that would probably mean nuclear war and >> [clears throat] >> that that's a different ballgame nobody wants to play. So deterrence by denial an equivalent would be like Israel's Iron Dome, right? They denied Iran any possibility of actually hitting targets in Israel.

Right. It's and it's the whole missile defense it's the whole missile defense system. It's Iron Dome, David's Sling, Arrow 2, Arrow 3 and then also the US that that was deployed there and yes, it's the whole it's denying exactly. It's denying Iran the the achieving any kind of success. It's also the Ukrainians denied the Russians their goal of taking Ukraine in 2 weeks.

So that is denial. So in in the Taiwan case it would be Taiwan has to focus on not losing and China has to focus on winning. So for example in the Taiwan case would mean that um Taiwan has to prevent China from taking Taipei for example, which is the capital and all the government institutions that are in the capital. Uh if they took Penghu or they took Matsu and Kinmen Islands, that would not uh that would be partially what they want to do, but it's not doesn't it doesn't give them full success in their mission. They have to take over all of Taiwan.

And if they do that, that would be their success. And Taiwan just needs to prevent them from doing that. Well, so if these reports about you know, China being able to destroy US ships, satellites before they even enter the region for a Taiwan conflict. Uh what does that mean for deterrence by denial? Cuz isn't that just the US getting denied?

Yeah. Um So there's lots of different possibilities. One would be sort of a strike in the dark in the PLA uh takes out as much as they can in the first strike much like Imperial Japan tried to do in its attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 December. Are you saying China would do a direct strike on the US mainland? Uh no, it would it probably be a direct strike on the bases in Okinawa, perhaps strikes on Guam, try to take out any ships nearby to sort of set set the tone for the idea that this is one scenario, okay? There are lots of scenarios.

It could start off with a quarantine, a blockade, something that's not kinetic initially. Um and then uh China could put the screws slowly on the whole situation and cause the people in Taiwan to suffer and then you know, the idea would be that the people in Taiwan would rebel and and then then they could strike when when the chips are down for Taiwan. I mean there's a lot of different possibilities and so the strategy that the Pentagon's trying to do is is to put in place the people and the weapon systems, the capabilities in the area so if China tries to do something like that um they might be partially successful, but they won't be fully successful. And any further movement in let's say trying to take Taiwan will be denied because they'll have redundant systems in place that the PLA won't be able to to hit. The main strategy that China would probably try to do is not attack everybody and then everybody will be attacking China, right? What they want to do is attack

let's say Taiwan or attack uh Philippines or Japan. Basically what they want to separate out uh and take on one country at a time or one area at a time rather than try to do the whole thing. Cuz the whole thing is is is more risky because that means they can't put all their forces into one focused area. Um uh so what they want to do is focus their efforts on one area while trying to prevent uh let's say US forces from Korea from joining the forces in in Japan to support Taiwan. Um if there's a a US carrier nearby, they might try to strike it. That's you know, that that

might be the case, but again it might they might not hit it. They might try to hit it, but it might not be sufficient. They might try to shoot lots of missiles at it. So there's lots of possibilities in in here that and a lot of assumptions and you have to understand that you know, they can dial it to the worst case scenario for for the United States and then yeah, of course the outcome is not good. Um but these are all things that that will create doubt in in the PLA's mind, Xi Jinping's mind that they will be successful. Now the

other side of it is if they're not successful um because the hype that the CCP and the nationalists in China have have believed that China's ready and should take Taiwan and they don't, that could be a huge problem for the Communist Party of China because um they didn't achieve this goal and uh at a minimum Xi Jinping is done. At a maximum the whole party's out and the the people are not going to tolerate this failure very well. But uh you know, that's kind of a broad spectrum, but at a minimum Xi Jinping is out and you know, he doesn't want to take that risk of fail failure. So the more doubt that the US and its allies can create the better. I think it's interesting that Matt brought up the example of Israel and the Iron Dome because we've heard reports that there have been secret meetings between Taiwan and Israel about basically creating a Taiwanese version of the Iron Dome.

Right. So according to press reports both in in Asia and in and in Israel, the deputy deputy minister of foreign affairs visited Israel recently. Taiwanese government has not said anything about it nor has the Israeli government. Um but assuming it's true, uh uh sure. Uh the idea of missile defense is is useful for Taiwan. Taiwan has its own

missile defense system. It also has the Patriot and it has um lots of different uh systems and the idea would be to make sure that those systems are connected and are would function similar to what the Israelis were able to achieve when the Iranians launched their missiles against Israel. So this this is plausible uh because remember it's a defense system. It's not an offensive system and the possibility Israel's involved is likely. And for those of you that don't know, in the in the 1980s and 1990s, the Israelis were providing um weapon systems to Taiwan.

Uh for example, um the the air-to-air missile that that Taiwan currently has uh is a offshoot of one of those missiles that the Israelis not only sold to them, but they also provided the the blueprints for producing that air-to-air missile. The same goes for the uh anti-air missile that Taiwan has and the same goes for a lot of systems. The uh the fighter trainer that currently is being used by Taiwan that they designed and built themselves has Israeli technology in it. So there's a lot of Israeli technology here that they transferred to Taiwan to develop their own capabilities. And there's even a book written about the fact that the Israelis and the Taiwanese were at at at several points co-developing a nuclear weapon.

So the Israelis have had had a do have a history in with Taiwan because you think about it, Taiwan and Israel are small countries that um are dealing with a big neighbor, bad neighbor, challenging neighbor and that these the US government has from time to time helped and not helped. And so the smaller countries tend to work together. Well, one question I have about the idea of deterrence by denial, doesn't that kind of rely on the assumption that in this case China is a rational actor and will look at the consequences and be like I will make a rational decision and not engage in this war. That there could be just other ideological factors involved that might not make it work. Right. So, Xi Jinping could wake up

tomorrow morning and say to the PLA invade. There might not be any rational reason for him to do it to say that and they could do it. Um the the the the but as I mentioned previously there are constraining factors uh for Xi Jinping because he doesn't want to fail. Don't forget once he starts something like this um the world will react to it. And um their economy is not doing very well right now and if they do something like that um there might be uh economic repercussions although they have been working on the dual circulation strategy uh as well to counteract a response by uh the world to its aggression. Um so,

they they've taken note from what happened to Russia in the Ukraine war and are trying to accelerate the and uh ma- um mediate the risk associated with uh attacking Taiwan. It's no secret that that that that China since Mao has wanted to take Taiwan. Uh so, it shouldn't be a surprise to anybody that they do something. And you know, the other option is that is they could wait until the next election and and try to influence the outcome and get a uh political party in in in in installed here that will be pro-China and they will eat they won't need to do any kind of invasion or blockade against Taiwan because they'll um quote unquote own you know, the government already. So, there are a lot of mitig- uh possibilities that could occur and that are affecting their decision-making.

Thank you for watching. A link to G Man's recent article is below. And this was just one short highlight from our hour-long podcast. The full interview is available exclusively on our website chinacensored.tv.

When you subscribe, you'll get hundreds of interviews and more importantly, you'll be supporting us to stand up against the CCP. The link is below.