---
video_title: "China Is KILLING Us"
video_id: txesTR8lBjc
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=txesTR8lBjc
video_date: 2025-12-10T17:30:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-318
  
  The war over Taiwan won’t start with bullets. It will start with money. It’s already begun, and the CCP has much better strategic thinking than the US.
---
China the the CCP looks at the economy [music] like and like economic statecraftraft in a different way than the US does you know so is this is this a response to that or like how would you say like the US government how Congress would need to reorient >> I mean you're absolutely right the Chinese do think about this in an entirely different way. Um, and I, you know, I don't, we're not trying to reform the entire executive branch here. I think the piece that we're just trying to focus on is sort of the export controls control and sanction space and how do we do that in a more um rapid way because one of the things we're seeing is that, you know, right now BIS doesn't or the Bureau of Industry and Security doesn't have people enough people to do enforcement. It doesn't have enough people to do sort of intelligence analysis. It's still, you know, running on paper in some cases. And so there's a

there's a big modernization effort here. I think Shelley to your to your question, just to be a little more specific, I think there'll be lessons learned from reorganization. So I think getting folks in the same place, having them sort of think about things as a instead of a cross functional team, as one team and getting to that sort of unity of command issue would be a big deal. And I and I think that will help us sort of reorient in sort of the economic stcraft space, which I think we're going to be in for the next couple decades. Randy, you anything to pile on there?

Yeah, I agree with all that. I I think the other thing is um put China aside, there could actually be efficiencies that are beneficial to the American business community. If you look at how export controls are are implemented right now, you've got a portion of it at the commerce department, which is the the unlicensed and the uh not not unlicensed, excuse me, the uh non non-military, non-sensitive, non-controlled items. And then you have state department running uh export controls on the controlled items. Businesses can spend time just figuring out where to submit or they submit to the wrong place and then it gets shoved over to the other agency after weeks if not months go by. So the idea of having

one agency that controls uh export controls for all items really could create uh positive efficiencies that go beyond addressing the problems that our commission was primarily looking at which is how does China slip through the cracks given this um kind of incohate and and uh uncoordinated approach to export controls. you know, and we did um Congress when I was when I was still working for Leader Schumer um did some some very good work on FRMA and sort of the reform of the CPHAS process. Um I mean, China has already figured out a way in sort of the you know, in the warfare space to sort of do the countermeasure to our measure, right? So like we do need to continue to sort of modernize and be reactive to the things we're seeing on the ground. And so we did roll that sort of like how do we think about civ cifhious or affirm 2.0

reform effort as well into this economic statecraft uh idea. I mean, we talked about how uh there was a lot of promises to the free trade with China, but uh you know, labor in the US accurately predicted, especially like US automakers, how disastrous that would be for American workers. You talked about, you know, biotech, how we could become very dependent on China for that. We already are dependent completely on China for generic drugs. Um what do you think the most dangerous point of dependency on China is for us right now as a country?

>> I mean I would I would think about it as a trend line. Um you know the trend line on semiconductors is pretty troubling. It's not advanced semiconductors but it's um a foundational or legacy chips. You know if you look around the rooms that we're in right now anything that has basically you know electric cord running into it probably has at least one semiconductor in it. Even the even the switch that turns your lights on has chips in it. Right? These are

foundational chips. These are not the, you know, the fancy two nanometer chips that I have in my um in my iPhone, but they are the sort of lifeblood of everything that runs on electricity in your house. And so if there's aside from pharmaceuticals, if there's a dependency that like is is pretty troubling, um it's semiconductors. And we still have we still have capacity here in the United States, but it is um incredibly um uh incred there's an incredible amount of growth going on in this ecosystem in China. And so it's something to keep an eye on uh in a very um serious and thoughtful way. Biotech

for sure, chips for sure. Randy, what else? Well, we we had a commissioner uh a couple cycles ago, a fellow Republican named Derek Scissors, and he and I used to have this debate about which is which is worse. I I talk about the fact that, you know, our uh prime defense companies h are are producing exquisite weapon systems that we need to generate combat capabilities that are absolutely reliant on critical minerals, rare earths that are from China, uh mined and processed from China. and he'd say, "Well, before you even fire off a missile or or uh, you know, expend munitions, the Chinese are going to cut off pharmaceuticals to the Americans, and the Americans are going to capitulate because nobody wants to go without their drugs." You know,

the reality is it's both. So, um, you know, it's hard to to sort of rack and stack these things, but surely in a in a crisis or contingency, you don't want your weapons productions to be beholden to China's willingness to continue to supply rare earth and critical minerals, and you want your drugs to come to the country. So, you know, we do need a process uh and the commission has been pounding the table on this for years uh that looks at all these vulnerabilities that are unacceptable and how we diversify and um you know make ourselves more resilient. We keep hearing some you know assessments that we could be uh much more resilient much less reliant on China on on rarest and critical minerals two to three years. I mean, we hear that every year. It gets pushed out, pushed

out, pushed out. Uh, we actually have to take action. We have to be intentional. We have to commit the resources. We have to work with partners and allies. Uh, if

we're going to achieve that in two to three years, I'm I'm skeptical that it could be done, but uh even if it's 5 years, we better start now. Well, I mean, there was the China's announcement a couple months ago that they were going to have these like insane controls on like anyone who wants to use any rare earths from China has to get permission. Uh that was a big, you know, political shock, I guess. >> Absolutely. And they they weaponize interdependency all the time. Um they've

they've done it uh to Japan uh cutting off rare earth 2010 2012. They've done it to smaller countries uh routinely uh but even with the United States these threats you you'll remember during uh the pandemic the quote from the podium of the foreign ministry was we will drown you in a sea of co um you know meaning that they had the pharmaceuticals and they had the production capabilities and we were completely relying on them and and and uh you know we we had to scramble when it came to um uh the very you know masks and and and and the other protections. Uh but it it was clear the Chinese knew that our vulnerabilities and it was clear that they were willing to threaten cut to to cut us off. >> There's a lot more of this hour-long podcast to watch. Just click below to see it at chinaunensored.tv.

When you join us there, you can be part of my exclusive Chinaensored 50 C army where we stand up to the CCP together. Link is below.