---
video_title: "China Plans to DESTROY This US Base"
video_id: zWYb0Z8WFU4
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zWYb0Z8WFU4
video_date: 2025-12-26T14:40:16+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-320
  
  A secret base in the Indian Ocean could be critical in the coming war with China. Because after China takes Taiwan, the real battle will begin. Guest Cleo Paskal explains how the UK-US base on Diego Garcia is critical, and how the UK is foolishly handing it to a country that is heavily influenced by the CCP’s United Front. 
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
The UK is trying to transfer sovereignty of the Chos Archipelago in the Indian Ocean to another country, Maitius. Why does the CCP love this? >> This is uh the Chos Archipelago includes an island called Dia Garcia. It's a sort of an atole which has one of the most important uh US military bases on it. It's a joint UK US base, but it's basically a a US base. That base has

capabilities that are unlike others uh almost anywhere in the world. It can reload submarines. It can u dock aircraft carriers. It the big bombers can land and take off from there. They've got prepositioning ships. It's

incredibly important. And uh the deal that the UK is uh agreeing with Maitius hands this archipelago including that island sovereignity over to Maitius. The justification is decolonization. The people from that chain of islands the chigosians are ethnically, culturally and linguistically different than the Maitians. But for some reason, uh, the UK government is justifying this under the decolonization narrative, even though Chigosians have no guaranteed right to return. The small trust fund

that's being set up for them will be administered by Maitius. Um, so it's really kind of inexplicable on the UK's part why they think this achieves decolonization and at the same time it puts at risk uh the the ability of the US to continue to base there. The deal says that the UK has to pay a certain amount, very large amount actually, to Maitius for the lease of the base and if they miss one payment, the Maitians can terminate the lease. I think it's likely that at some point the UK will skip a payment and it could be uh pressure from the left saying why are we paying for the US to militarize the Indian Ocean. could be pressure from the right saying, "Why are we paying militia so that they can lower their taxes even though our taxes are so high?" But whatever it is,

and and I think that narrative, by the way, on both sides will be pushed by United Front work from from the Chinese in order to get them to skip a payment in order for the UK to be able to pull itself out and then leave the US technically illegally occupying uh one of the Chos Islands. What does the CCP want to happen to this archipelago? >> I I think it it wants to put the US in an untenable position legally where it has to leave and you could get a uh administration in the US that similar to the way that the Afghan pull out was done for a whole bunch of reasons, justification would be pushed within the US system to pull out of Diego. And then that anchoring of uh the US ability to operate in the Indian Ocean from a military also an intelligence perspective uh will be taken off the taken off the table. >> So this hurts the US abilities to actually counter China in the Indo Pacific should a war break out over I don't know Taiwan, India.

>> Yes. It and also it it ranges the Middle East. uh so it it also makes it a lot more difficult for the US to be able to operate in the Middle East. So it makes uh Chinese operations across the whole Indian Ocean rim uh a lot easier. >> So for people watching like what can you do this is like on the other side of the world we can't control what the UK government does right as Americans at least like how do we stop the CCP from getting what it wants here? So uh the

what the Chagosians are saying and those in the British Parliament are saying who are concerned about this is they really need to hear from the US that the US doesn't like the deal. Um the the UK government is currently saying US has no problems with it even though uh before this the the Trump administration came into power key members of the Trump administration like then Senator Rubio were very viciferously against the deal. um suddenly it's it's kind of gone quiet. So there needs to be noise from the US side expressing their legitimate concern over this deal. It doesn't achieve decolonization. It increases uh

the security risk for the democracies of the region. Um it makes it much more difficult for the US to uh to operate and to to help achieve a free and open Indoacific. is it is the US anchor point for the Indian o ocean part of the Indo-Pacific. Uh so you just and what it depends on what tools you have at your disposal. But don't underestimate how important it would be to let if you're an American to let your representative, your senator know this really concerns you and they need to let the British know that the uh American side thinks that this is not a good idea.

Thank you for watching and this was just one short highlight from our hour-long podcast. The full interview is available exclusively on our website chinaunensored.tv. When you subscribe, you'll get hundreds of interviews and most importantly, you'll be supporting us standing up to the CCP. The link is below.