---
video_title: "China’s Bomb Threat Against Australia’s Leader"
video_id: 81nbhZQX_N8
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=81nbhZQX_N8
video_date: 2026-03-09T00:57:42+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-327
  Australia’s prime minister Anthony Albanese evacuated his official residence after a bomb threat that said: "If you insist on proceeding with the performance of Shen Yun], then the Prime Minister's Lodge will be blown into ruins and blood will flow like a river.”  While this should sound the alarm against Chinese interference, the average news consumer may think it was actually Shen Yun making the bomb threat thanks to misleading headlines.
---
Another example of bad China reporting this week. Should we get into this? The Shanyun one? Yeah. Well, because this is a huge story. We've covered Shanyun before and how the Chinese Communist, I mean, Shanyun's tagline is China before communism. And yet some people still think it's tied to China. I don't think that it was always their tagline. I think that's only been their tagline for probably many years at this point. It's definitely maybe like, I would say maybe three years or something. I think I don't really remember what it was before that. But I definitely remember at some point post-pandemic it became China before communism. Because I remember seeing that and being like, oh, well, that's a clear. Yeah, it's clear. But so obviously the CCP hates it. Constantly they're sending bomb threats or various kinds of threats whenever they're performing. And it's come out of this as escalated. Like they threaten to shoot Kier Starmer to bomb Australian PM Albinese. I'm a little confused about the way you're wording this. When you say they, who's doing what? To see the. Yeah, the way that you said that was like unclear. Right. Wait, what did you think I was saying was saying? Well, this is the whole problem with the way that the CCP threats have been reporting on this. So for years, the Chinese Communist Party has been behind sometimes anonymously, but they're behind it. These, these threats of like bomb threats and so on that they do to disrupt shunyun performances. Right? Like calling in a bomb threat to the Kennedy Center. Right. So and then right when shunyun is about to perform that night. And so the CCP's goal and they're doing this through proxies. It's not like the Council general, like typing out threatening emails. But they, they, they're basically doing it because they, they know that that, you know, the shunyun performers or their, their company is going, is like most good people are going to try to do the right thing. And if there's a threat, they're going to tell the police like, Hey, someone made a threat. Okay. And so I think what happened to the Australian thing is they, some anonymous, you know, Chinese person who I believe to be linked to the CCP, but maybe there's no evidence of that. Basically tells shunyun that if they do their performance, then something's going to, going to happen to the Australian Prime Minister. So shunyun is like, well, like obviously we have to report this, right? And so, you know, the Prime Minister gets evacuated from where he's staying. And the crazy thing is the, the way the media reports on it, it's like, well, we'll put up these, these, these headlines, bomb threat against Albanese link to Chinese dance true. Right. It's Chinese dance true. Well, link to security threat. It's a lot linked. But the link is that they were trying to, to like the game, the warning to the police, that someone was threatening the Prime Minister. Yeah. But because that, that threat was anonymous, shunyun gets caught in the middle as the one, yeah, it's being reported like shunyun is making the threat. Right. And so this is, I think that this is a great example of the CCP's narrative warfare and media warfare where they basically like, the CCP's doing all these super shady things behind the scenes. And then they kind of make, through a proxy, they do this threat and they make shunyun, the dance troop that they fear more than anything, like be the one that gets linked to all these things. When in fact, shunyun is the victim here of all these things, right? Because then like shunyun gets in like, I don't think they could have known that. I don't think that like the Chinese person who made these bomb threats would necessarily know how the Western media is. How bad, Western media. I agree with that. It's just that this is the result, right? Yeah, no, it's, it is the result. But I think what they were intending is to disrupt shunyun performances, right? This is what they were intending. There have been bomb threats going on for years. There's shunyun, one of the shunyun MCs like keeps a running like public blog where you can go read all the threats like that. Yes, this is, this is the guy interviewed like seven years ago. And for some reason, I did the interview and you were not around Chris Lysha. He had like a hundred different types of, a hundred different threats or something that the CCP had made or done like slashing tires on their tour bus. Yeah, so you can actually go, maybe we'll put this up to this blog and where they document like, okay, this is the threat that can't, like, and you can read some of the threats and stuff like that. And it's, they've been doing this for years, but the, it does get some theaters evacuated, like, performances delayed. I think they're trying to intimidate the theaters and to not having them back, right? Because do you want to deal with the hassle of having to deal with like the police and bomb threats whenever this Chinese dance company comes to perform? But to bring it back to some of the media reporting, like the most egregious example is from the independent where the headline is, what is Shanyun? The dance group linked to a bomb threat against the Australian PM. Oh my god. So I'm heading, Shanyun says it's reviving traditional Chinese culture. The country's government calls it a cult. So what would you walk away from other than that like this weird cult dance troop sent a bomb threat to the Australian PM? Yes. And I think you pointed out is also that like it's unclear which country. Yeah, it kind of sounds like Australia calls Shanyun a cult. Yeah, it's because it's linked to the threat against the European, right? Like, it's the whole, that's terribly written. And yeah, like I wonder if this is also a victim of the Trump distortion field because, you know, Shanyun, it was created by fallen-gong practitioners. There's been a lot of reporting that like, for some reason, like these millions of Chinese people in China getting persecuted are somehow tied to left-right American politics. And so there's this weird twist of like, oh well, then like, they must be like Trump's supporters. They must be crazy. What's incredible is how successfully the CCP has turned like 100 million victims into the perpetrators. Yeah, yeah. Well, I mean, I think that this is something the CCP understands, which is how to use like, in America, in a US society to their benefit. This kind of has to do with another story I was looking at today, which was about how the CCP weaponizes like environmentalism groups to try to stop things like rare earth mines in the US. Oh, yeah, yeah. Like chip fabs, micron has been trying to build a fab in upstate New York for years now. That would be absolutely fab. Like semiconductor chips, right? Like something that we would desperately need if the CCP goes to war and tries to take over Taiwan. And it's been like delayed for years because of a frivolous lawsuit from an environmental group in California. From what I saw, there was something about just, I think it was like, it's being held up by just six concerned citizens. The California environmental group knocked on doors in the area, trying to find people who would be willing to like, front this lawsuit. And like, I don't know if the specific California one is, but like in some of these cases, especially against the rare earth mines, it's been proved that there's been Chinese funding given to some of these nonprofits. So yeah, like the CCP, here's using something that's like, oh, environmentalism, right? To then, and actually there are documented cases of the CCP using that against Chengyun too, trying to get like lawsuits against Chengyun against their headquarters for like as environmental groups. So I think this was documented in some indictment that I read. Remember there was these people who were indicted for trying to also do things like, drive an IRS to like launch some investigations. So yeah, to revoke Chengyun's tax exempt status. That's what it was. And so there was among the other things that these people were doing, like, there were, like one of them was like, kind of trying to like go around the campus of Chengyun's, like Chengyun's campus, like with a gun. And then he was like sending threats. Like they get, I think bomb threats all the time at their campus. And then trying to also like essentially like gin up like environmentalist, like lawsuits against this. I mean, that makes sense. Their dance moves are hot. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, Chinainsensor.tv, where you can watch the full hour long podcast. Plus, get MP3 downloads of our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. Link is below.