---
video_title: "Taiwan Is NOT China’s Goal"
video_id: 5XY1-vE3qrA
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5XY1-vE3qrA
video_date: 2026-01-02T14:28:05+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-320
  A secret base in the Indian Ocean could be critical in the coming war with China. Because after China takes Taiwan, the real battle will begin. Guest Cleo Paskal explains how the UK-US base on Diego Garcia is critical, and how the UK is foolishly handing it to a country that is heavily influenced by the CCP’s United Front. 
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
Assuming

that the next like the flash point for [music] a armed conflict with China is Taiwan. Uh what would like what would the timeline be like? How would the US losing access to the Indian Ocean affect that? Is this the CCP thinking about Taiwan or is this the CCP thinking about what comes after Taiwan? So I [clears throat] Taiwan for me is is not an end point.

It's the beginning of the next phase. It's the breaking of the first island chain. And one of the reasons that I I look at the Pacific Islands is because if you're if you're a Chinese planner, if you're a strategist sitting in China trying to plan campaigns, there are two areas that give you a big problem. Um, I mean there are many, but two specific areas. One is the Pacific Islands. If you have if you're trying to

take Taiwan and you have hostile powers, especially down the second island chain, uh, but even beyond, uh, your your movements are constrained and vulnerable. That's that's why I think that if there is a move on Taiwan, something's going to happen in Guam. Um, which is also why it's not great that the Commonwealth of Northern Marianis lets in Chinese without a Chinese without a visa who are then being found on Guam. Um, where they go illegally by boat, 60 miles, you know, all US territory, right? These are problems on the US territory side. But in YAP,

you the new National Defense Authorization Act, which is passed, um, has close to $1.5 billion dollars to build up the runway and taxi way. the uh for the airport on the main island of Yap. Uh Yap is an island chain and it's uh the main island of Yap. It's also called Yap. But meanwhile, a Chinese

construction crew has been working on a short runway re an old Imperial Japanese runway further down the chain and they just broke ground on a bridge on the main island of Yap. They're they just donated money for like a some water catchment thing on one of the other islands which will give it an excuse to kind of start to send other people out there. Um, so you're seeing all this Chinese activity flashing up in unexpected areas along the Second Island chain area. Uh, but also even beyond it in places like Solomon Islands to uh make it so that if there is a move on Taiwan, it it may be unexpectedly difficult for the US to do what the US planners think they're going to do in the approach to to Taiwan. On the other side, the second thing that if I was a Chinese planner, I would be worried about is India because India can open up a viable second land front. Um, if the

if China is distracted or is focused on a on a maritime uh war over Taiwan, u there's potential opening for India to make a move to liberate a part of Tibet for example. So you want to be I would want to be in a position to distract India to pull it away through Pakistan activity um Indian Ocean activity. The Indians have been are very cognizant of this and have been very active trying to uh re retrench in places like the Maldes and Sri Lanka and Seyells to uh increase its its perimeter of non non-Chinese operations. But there's also a lot of effective Chinese operations within India. Um the same sort of attempts at elite capture that you see everywhere else you're seeing within India as well.

So I would see that that Diego piece you part part of that if the Chinese can get uh the US nonoperational there is less likely uh to be a backup for the for India. if India is going to um be in a position to cause a second front kind of problem for China. That's just it. As a as a Chinese planner, that's what I would be worried about. And those are the two locations, the Pacific Islands and India, that that would be of most concern to me. The Russians, I would

figure I kind of have they'd probably stay neutral at best, but probably neutral. Um so they're not that much of an active problem for me. um the the Mongolians uh the Arctic zone that all seems to be more or less under control but India and the Pacific Islands are a problem and India uh extend is increasingly extending into the Indian Ocean. >> Yeah, it's really what people think of as the American Empire with its bases and military all over the world. That's what China is trying to build.

>> Yeah. Well, first trying to neutralize and then trying to replace. And it, you know, I mean, this is very much British Empire era stuff. You know, the trade follows the flag, but you got to get you're getting the flag in there first. I mean, it's it's very kind of old school way of looking at empire and trade.

>> And they already have all the tea in China. >> Yeah. And Yeah. and and where you for example studied uh World War II in the Pacific both the Japanese and the American activities so that they can learn what not to do as well as what to do. I undoubtedly based from what you can see on the ground, they've also studied the the n British in the well all probably all the colonial powers in the 19th century, but the British were among some of the most successful because when they go into a place like Solomon's, you can kind of see what state governance mechanisms they're trying to adjust. the

the free trade zones, the special economic zones, the um I think they're probably pushing towards different courts procedures for ethnic Chinese. Um it's very very much of a British colonial style model. Um and a big part of that is these islands that are off in areas that from them you can control uh passage military and trade passage through large areas. you can monitor control and with technological advances the the the space becomes compressed and you can get even more control uh and more monitoring from a location like Diego than you could when it was originally set up in in the early '7s. Since they since I wonder since they've studied since the CCP has studied all of this history and all these different sides and how they've acted, do you think there's like some strategic benefit to, you know, Trump being kind of the chaotic wild card that just doesn't follow any plan? You don't know

what he's going to do? Is that like the way to break the CCP's study of all of these plans? It just be the the chaos factor. Well, that was remember when there was that that video that was released from that professor who was talking talking about how they had all their people in place and then you know kind of this came along. I think you know there there is there is an advantage to to not being predictable.

Um uh but in some areas like maintaining US bases in critical areas it would be nice to be predictable. I mean, it's kind of hard to argue against that. Like, you can't reason to be like, "Oh, what way will the US go?" Well, I mean, I guess that is that is the whole issue. Like, you have a a different administration that believes in decolonization and they don't bother to look at the details of this not actually being decolonization.

>> I don't know what it is because very smart people who are currently in the administration were vocal against it. And the Chigosians are desperate now. They've announced a government in exile. Like they're they're doing everything they can to try to call attention to this because they know once the deal goes through that's it for them as a people. They have no guarantee they're going to be able to go back to their homeland and the 40 million pounds that they're getting a compensation. It's

going to be administered by the Mitians. And there's a long history of the Maritians not being particularly uh generous or kind to the Chigosians. So it's >> well so since the situation is bad hypothetically saying there was some plucky YouTube show that could raise awareness about this issue and get people interested. What would what would the people do to fight this? you you you call your representatives if you're an American. Uh you and if you're and if

you're British, you also call your representatives. You this this needs to flash again on the on political radars. So uh you let you let your represent and it dep whatever is important to you. If you care about decolonization, this is relevant. If you care about uh US security, this is relevant. If you care

about China being able to be in a position to checkmate the world's largest democracy in the context of India, this is important. Whatever you care about, um I you know that's what you let your representative know. And the timeline again is tight. They I think that the the those little gnomes in in the British those those humphres in in the British uh government deliberately have done it over the Christmas holiday and are going to try to get a vote on it uh quickly in the new year. >> Thank you for watching and this was just one short highlight from our hourlong podcast. The full interview is available

exclusively on our website chinaunensored.tv. When you subscribe, you'll get hundreds of interviews, and most importantly, you'll be supporting us standing up to the CCP.