---
video_title: "How You Can Keep Taiwan Independent"
video_id: TIsQq4wnOfQ
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TIsQq4wnOfQ
video_date: 2026-06-16T14:52:45+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-339
  You may have heard a lot about China’s threat to invade Taiwan and felt powerless to do anything to prevent it. We asked Taiwan’s ambassador to the US, Alexander Yui, what Americans can do to help a fellow democracy half way around the world that is fighting for survival. His answer: try Taiwan’s stinky tofu.
---
You know, we have a lot of viewers who they really feel like they want to support Taiwan, but they're not in government or they're not, you know, they're just everyday Americans. What can they do to support Taiwan? Well, they can call their representatives on skating. No, obviously, it's ample support for as I mentioned in Congress by partisan by camera, but the people in the citizens, well, I think they can voice, you know, to their representatives, that Taiwan is important to him or her as a citizen, that they support Taiwan as a democracy. But also the linkages between US and Taiwanese companies and investments and students, actually, we're doing a lot of work with students because there's alliance between Taiwanese and US universities, state universities, private universities to generate as much STEM and semiconductor talents as possible. There's not a number of engineers in either side, US or Taiwan. And that exchange and interaction, it will be stronger, but as a citizen, just to know that we are like you, we have been following your footsteps towards becoming a better democracy. Taiwan's democracy is a little less messy. Our legislature is very physical sometimes, but it's a learning process. We're becoming as maturing as a democracy as we should, and we need the support of other democracies as well. And your support to allow us to buy the necessary armaments to defend ourselves, ourselves, and not rely on others, but this friendly gesture is always important. And also, the best thing you can do as a citizen is try to Taiwan and try to stink your tofu and just be in Taiwan itself. It's important. I tell politicians here, and it says, your presence in Taiwan is important because it shows the world that we're not alone, that we're not isolated. And that's very well appreciated in Taiwan that we have so many friends. When we see friends, you've been in Taiwan, we're fairly friendly bunch. You don't need to bring burner phones to Taiwan. You're friendly. So, liberties are respected and freedom of speech and all that. So, just interact more with Taiwan, we're more than happy to do so. But yeah, visit Taiwan. It'll be a great way to know Taiwan, to know that it's not Thai food. It's Taiwanese food. But again, but also, this interaction is important. And I appreciate the fact that we have this discussion about so people can know a little more about Taiwan. We really appreciate the opportunity at the time that you're giving us to be able to talk about Taiwan. And we appreciate you being here, Mr. Ambassador. On the note of Taiwan's democracy, we were all in Taiwan during the 2020 election. So, we got to go view the vote counting. Okay. Yeah. And then we got to compare it to our own election. Well, I think we just felt like, I mean, before anything happened here for 2012, I think we just felt like I had tears in my eyes, like feeling like this is democracy, you know, like watching people vote and then watching them count the votes and anyone could go watch. Like I saw people bringing their kids to watch, you know, and it's kind of, it felt like it was beautiful. They were, they were like bringing their kids to learn what democracy was and it was amazing. We were already in love with Taiwan, but I think that just, like we honor that so much, actually. Oh, thank you. You know, our democracy is based on yours. So, again, happy birthday, United States, 250 years. And we want to also be able to celebrate our 250 years of democracy someday. And, you know, but that takes a strong defense. And, you know, we will do what again, we will do whatever it takes to preserve our democratic values. Yeah. But again, also appreciate that you've been Taiwan. But I think last time you, we won't have the last time. So you last time was there in elections, this past elections or the last elections. 2020. Oh, okay. So, yeah. So, well, you should go back. I do for another trip. We are do for it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Again, you will see that the Taiwan of today and the Taiwan of four, five, six, ten years ago is totally different in terms of how we're preparing for this possible conflict that we hope will never come. And that is something that is transformed in Taiwan quite a lot. Again, especially after Ukraine invasion by Russia, people in Taiwan has changed their mindsets about who we are, what we should do to preserve our values. And that's, you will sense it once you're in Taiwan. Well, thank you for your time. No, thank you, Chris. Thank you, Madden. Thank you, Shelley. It's kind of cool that an ambassador knows about us. Yeah, that is pretty cool. I think sometimes it's weird that especially since we've been doing the show for so long, and I think since COVID, it starts to feel like this unreality, like real people are watching the show. Yeah, what we always had that sense, like when we first went to Hong Kong and the first time somebody actually recognized me, it's like, oh, yeah, the numbers on YouTube, the views, those are actual human beings watching. Yeah, I have a photo of that woman meeting you actually from our 2014 trip, which I cannot show anywhere for their safety. For their safety. Well, I mean, that's one of the great things about the website. It's like it allows us to actually like talk to you guys in a way that we don't otherwise usually get to. Yeah. That's true. And I think that's so important to this way of being able to fight that. Like I think one of the great things we do on the show is like fight that narrative warfare that the CCP is waging on everybody. And when the ambassador was talking about, he mentioned this with the show is like we're doing this. I mean, I think it's kind of helping people expose all the stuff. And I was actually thinking about something I saw an X a few weeks ago, which appeared in my feed, which was just this person who is not. She had a lot of X followers, but she's not political on like she, like her X thing is completely not geopolitics. But she happened to be in Taiwan. Oh, I remember this. Yeah. And then she was just like, oh, yeah, like Taiwan's pretty great and all this stuff about like Taiwan. And then just the replies were just flooded with pro CCP, like bots and I don't know if some of them probably wrote people, but like it's just like this vitriol over the fact that all she was saying, she didn't even say anything about China and Taiwan or whatever. She was just saying that she thought that people in China were really nice and she really enjoyed the experience of being there where she currently was. And then she even noticed it where she was like, why like she's like, it's incredible that I just say something nice about Taiwan and suddenly all of these people are attacking me. Yeah. Yeah. It's going to be at horses. AI is able to make these bots function more. Yeah. But you know, it is really positive. And one of the things Ambassador Yu was saying is, you know, American should go to Taiwan. And I've noticed a trend, like over the last five years since COVID, and even 10 years that people who were going, they want to travel to China. They want to see the culture have been increasingly choosing to go to Taiwan instead. Some of the people are people who've been watching our show. Some of it is people who've never heard of our show, but like they've become increasingly aware that the CCP is made China like kind of a cultural wasteland. And Taiwan has that culture and that beauty that that they're seek when it comes to China. But Matt, did you know that if you go to Chongqing, it looks like you're on the ground floor, but you're actually 35 stories up. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, Chinainsensor.tv, where you can watch the full hour long interview plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.