---
video_title: "Is Trump Selling Out Taiwan to Win Over China?"
video_id: z_UvtKtCIrA
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z_UvtKtCIrA
video_date: 2026-06-09T16:15:54+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-338
  Donald Trump said he discussed Taiwan arms sale with Xi Jinping, which goes against the longstanding “Six Assurances” issued by Ronald Reagan, which says that US presidents won’t discuss Taiwan arms sales with Chinese leaders. This made some speculate that Trump is using Taiwan like a bargaining chip in dealings with China.
---
But when it comes to China, I think they are watching closely and they are continuing to build up their military. It's not as if it's taken a halt. They're still churning out warships. They're still using them. They're around Taiwan. They exercise. They train. You have their aircraft carriers have developed. They're probably 20 years ahead of where most of the American experts said they could possibly be with that usual kind of condescension towards what the Chinese are capable of. They're operating in the western Pacific and the kind of training they do, the sort of hardware, the ships they have involved in it. It continues to get better and better. Got a ways to go to be up to our level. But at the same time, the speed with which they're doing at the priority they give to military, and measures, and military building up a military, despite facing no enemies, other than ones they've conjured up. It continues to cause an awful lot of alarm. If you listen to the public statements of Admiral Paparo, the commander of US Indo-Paycom, he's always had a very good sense of the China threat. You can see from what he says is that he's worried about things. He's got to be ready. One thing that is causing some people concern is after the Trump-she meeting, people are speculating that oh, maybe Trump is going to strike some kind of deal with Xi Jinping and sell out Taiwan. There's a shortage of missiles because of the Iran war, so the US will stop selling weapons to Taiwan. What do you think about those fears? I think they're overblown. I've watched this for years, and actually I would say that during really until Trump won, and probably even after it during a fair bit, that in the State Department, and I was even in parts of Department of Defense, but particularly State Department, I think Taiwan was genuinely viewed as a dispensable bargaining chip. It was an irritant to the so-called more important relationship between the US and China. I think they would have sold out Taiwan if they could have. Congress wouldn't let them. But with President Trump, I'm not sure I don't see that as a concern. I think, I don't think that does worry me, as I think there are people around him, and in the sort of national security universe, some in the administration, some just lurking around it, who don't think Taiwan should be defended. Their thinking is that well, the Chinese military overmatch is so great. If we fought them over Taiwan, we would lose. The humiliation would be such that America would be finished as a global power. There are people who actually think that. And hopefully President Trump isn't giving them too much weight when he makes these decisions. But I don't see it. Actually, it's something that you do have to pay attention to, but these fears are not new. That is how I would see it, but that meeting with Xi Jinping and yes, one heard all of the predictions about what he was going to do, etc., etc. But the thing that set the tone, I think, was the very end. When they had that garbage bin, the foot of the Air Force one, they required everybody to throw everything they had been given as gifts by the Chinese into it before they got onto the plane. I think that sent a pretty clear message about what the what the administration thinks about China. And I think you can extrapolate that onto Taiwan as well. It appears that after the plane took off that President Trump called Prime Minister Takaichi of Japan to let her know what had happened. And it also appears that he actually did not back down when Xi Jinping raised his voice and was laying into the Japanese and their so-called militarism, etc., etc. I think Trump did not say, yeah, I see your point, but rather he apparently did not back down, which is as it should be. So I am not all that concerned. I think in case of Taiwan, of course, the more they do for themselves, the easier a cell it is. The more easy it is for the US to to support them. And that is an important part of the equation. But I don't see us selling out the Taiwanese at all. The arms sales, of course, are an issue. But in some ways that, you know, unless they do what say what George, the second George Bush, the Bush administration did and actually handcuffed the Taiwanese unless they agree not to provoke, not to do anything that Chinese don't like, unless they use those as a direct threat against Taiwan. I don't see that being much of an issue, but rather they, the delays in getting the weaponry to the Taiwanese has as much to do 30 years of sort of malfeasance by America's military, its uniformed and civilian elites who didn't think that we need to build up this, you know, industrial defense industrial base didn't think we needed it. And so that's put us really behind the curve when it comes to having enough hardware for anybody at all. But you do need to do, pay attention to small things that, you know, one might say, well, it's just a little language, a few sentence the president makes, but sometimes it has an outsized effect. And it's interpreted in the wrong way by our friends and by our enemies as well. So you need to be careful and and doing things like not approving say an arm sale that has already been approved by Congress. An administration does that in hopes of having a nice visit when she's in a nicer visit, when she's in paying visits, Washington, I think that would be a big mistake if they held it out as a sort of some sort of a palliative or some way to sort of placate the Chinese and keep them happy or so you'll have some have things nicer when she visits Washington. I think even if we approve it right now, the Chinese are going to come. And if they want to come, they will, if they don't, they won't. So hopefully we're not being too clever, clever by half. When it comes to this particular issue of arm sales to Taiwan and the opposition in Taiwan actually uses this as a political lever against the really the administration, the DPP administration that runs Taiwan, they're saying, look, the Americans are not a reliable ally and they're insulting us by doing this. And the DPP, the administration knows that isn't true, but they're at a loss of how to respond to it. So this is sort of an unforced difficulty if we aren't careful enough about this particular issue of arm sales and making sure that there's no doubt about our the commitment we have to Taiwan, you know, is worth noting that we've got a lot of advisors in Taiwan now, probably 10 times as many as we had a few years ago. And that gives you a pretty good sign of American commitment, but it doesn't get perhaps the attention it deserves, but it's worth remembering that. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more so I invite you to visit our website Chinainsensor.tv where you can watch the full hour long interview, plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. Link is below.