---
video_title: "China Is Choking the Waterways"
video_id: UlqChw2ygco
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UlqChw2ygco
video_date: 2026-07-30T17:23:13+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-344
  In 2021, China’s National People’s Congress passed a law that gave its coast guard the right to stop, inspect, board and use force against ships in waters it unilaterally considers its own. This threatens the US-led free maritime travel initiative that allows ships free access in public waterways.
---
So, what do you think the US should be doing in response to [music] what China's doing it in the Bashi Channel, South China Sea, east of Taiwan, these like patrols and, you know, that kind of stuff? >> Well, we need to have more resources there. That's the first and foremost. We need more ships there. So, you just saw the report here this week of US Coast Guard sending in six ships to operate in the South China Sea.

That's a step forward. I've called for more activity by the US 7th Fleet, but having worked in the 7th Fleet, you know, it's like you have a six-shooter, a gun, a revolver with six bullets. I mean, you only have six bullets. So, if there's 50 bad guys, what are you going to do? I mean, you you only got six bullets. So,

you need more bullets, you need more ships, you need more platforms, which gets us back in our ship-building discussion. We also have this issue with we're tied up right now. We've got two aircraft carrier strike groups and an amphibious ready group with, you know, nearly 20 ships and 15,000 plus sailors locked down in the the Gulf of Oman dealing with the blockade of the Strait of Hormuz. We've been dealing with that for, you know, 35 years, even farther back, you know, go back to '87, '88 with the Operation Praying Mantis and the escorts that we were doing back then, the US Navy was doing the tankers then. So, we've been absorbed, the US Navy's been absorbed for a great deal of our last 40 years of our lives in in guarding and keeping the waterways free and secure in the in the Middle East.

That's detracted from our ability to put more resources into the Pacific. So, when President Trump in his first administration called for NATO to spend more, I think he had in the back of his mind, "Hey, you guys spend more, have your navies develop, get more resources out here, and protect some of your own interests because you rely upon the the Strait of Hormuz more than we do." Uh but, that hasn't materialized. So, we're in a crisis situation because people didn't accurately portray the threat from the Chinese Communist Party over the last 35 years. They downplayed it. We

I use the phrase threat deflation. They deflated the threat, and because of that deflation, it was never um you know, it's like if I take a a Bunsen burner, and if I put the Bunsen burn and its flame, and if I put the flame right under my hand, I'm going to feel that immediately, and I'm going to move my hand away. I'm going to feel that pain, and I'm going to say, "I'm doing something about it. I got to go get ice on that burn, or it's going to blister, and I'm going to be in pain for a long time." Well, what the what the intelligence community and the you know, the the think tanks in America did in terms of China the China hands is they just pulled that Bunsen burner down. They

never said that there wasn't a flame, but they just took it away and said, "It's not going to hurt you for 25 years. Don't worry about it." And we got into our minds for 25, 30 years, "Don't worry about it. There's nothing going to burn you. Just keep going, keep doing these other things.

You got other problems. You got the Middle East, blah blah blah." And we never really took the threat seriously. And if we had actually had a more honest and objective assessment of where China's intentions were and their capabilities were going to, we would have had that flame closer to our hand, and we would have taken an action 10 20 years ago. We didn't do it. And so, now we're

suffering from that lack of activity, and the burn is really hurting today. >> I I there's something that people today take for granted that's actually very unusual in history, which is this idea that there can be free trade and and shipping around the world. Like there's trillions and trillions of dollars worth of goods transported by ships. And at the core, uh this 20th and late 20th and early 21st century phenomenon is because the US military is explicitly or implicitly there to protect all those shipping lanes. And this this was not the case uh in the 1800s. I mean I mean I guess I

guess Jefferson had to send the Navy to go deal with the Barbary pirates in the Mediterranean. Um you know, and then you had, you know, the the British would ship things, but they had to protect their own things, and the French would protect their own ships, and and you know, all these conflicts. And it wasn't like a small nation could just send a ship, and it would be free and clear and automatically get to its destination. But we've had that now, and we've had it for several generations. And so we forget that this is actually a very unusual thing. And I think what China's

trying to do, you mentioned this in the in the east east of Taiwan, it's like they're asking for papers, right? And that feels like like, oh, that's that's super weird. But that's that's how the world was before, and that's what it's kind of mostly been throughout history. And and now China's just trying to to go back to that where they they get to control as much as their military might would allow them to. >> I agree completely, Matt. That's exactly

the paradigm shift that's in the process of occurring. And it's not going to it hasn't happened overnight. It's been 30 years. Uh and we could still disrupt their effort to change this. They still while they still have the largest navy in the world, they're still not able to send and project, you know, large naval forces like we are. I mean, the idea

that we have that many ships in the Gulf of Oman for the last since what, February 28th, up at 1.3 aircraft carrier strike groups, and maintain that with the both logistics support and the ammunition and the fuel and the aircraft and the personnel, they haven't been They're not there yet. I But, they're coming. That's the point. They're coming.

It's coming fast. And once that shift occurs, we're going to be going back to the days, like you said, of Thomas Jefferson. One of the reasons we built the the navy, the Continental Navy and the first navy, was because we were tired of our commercial ships being stopped by the British Navy and shanghaiing people and saying, "Guess what? You're off your commercial ship and you're now in the Royal Navy and you're get down to the get down below decks and start doing work." I mean, it was slavery. I mean,

it was you know, it was hijacking on the on the high seas. We didn't like that. And we didn't want it. And so, we said, "We're not going to put up with that." And for 250 years, we've been pushing and battling that and saying, "That's not That's not what we're going to allow. We're not going to allow other

nations to bully people on the high seas. First us, and then we said, "Why not everybody else? If we If If they're not going to bully us, then they're not going to bully anybody else, and that'll be great for everybody and we can buy and sell and barter and trade and everybody's boats will float and you know, civilizational get stronger. People live longer lives and have better better things. Uh that's what we've brought, but it's at always at a risk. It's always at a

risk that we could fall back into the pre-American mindset of this idea that might makes right and we're going to just control you with our might. >> Yeah, well, you know what ships we don't have to protect is the cargo ships coming out of China with the export goods that prop up their economy. So, if if those were to, I don't know, accidentally not be protected and, you know, get hijacked by whatever pirates just happen to be there, uh >> Are you suggesting a life of >> if something happened to these Chinese cargo ships. >> Matt, Matt, are you suggesting we turn to a life of piracy and start attacking Chinese ships? >> No, no, no. I'm suggesting we just don't

protect them. >> Well, I mean, who's going to >> Somebody needs to uh hijack those ships. >> Look, I I'm not I'm not suggesting that Somali pirates hijack those ships. I'm just saying it's a thing that could happen. >> want something done right, you got to do it yourself, Matt. I'm looking forward

to our lives on the high seas. >> Uh really? >> Yeah. We had a great time going to Scarborough Shoal. >> N- None [clears throat] of the three of us know how to sail.

>> How hard could it be? >> Yeah. Jim, how hard could it be? >> Well, it's not that easy. >> Thank you for watching this clip.

There's a lot more. So, I invite you to visit our website chinancensored.tv, where you can watch the full hour-long interview, plus get MP3 downloads of all of our podcasts. And more importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.