---
video_title: "The DSA Wants to DESTROY America"
video_id: RfVXyo2OFxM
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RfVXyo2OFxM
video_date: 2026-06-30T17:58:20+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-342
  The Democratic Socialists of America (DSA) have a plan for America that looks a lot like taking down America as we know it. In this episode, we talk about how the DSA’s platform mimics the talking points of the CCP, why the CCP needs the triads (Chinese criminal gangs), and why socialists love ranked-choice voting.
---
I make that up. Yeah, yeah. We did an episode on them, like maybe a year ago where there was like this panel of DSA members, like talking about what they actually believed. And like, there was this one crazy part where they're like comparing the institution of marriage to prostitution, just like longer term and less paid. And then I'm like, oh, so they think like marriage is as bad as prostitution. But then they started talking about how great sex work was. And so the problem is now with prostitution. It's just with marriage. So marriage is as good as prostitution. What is there, like what is their thing? No marriage is bad. prostitution is good. I see. It's, you know, in the future, you'll own nothing and be happy. You're just, you know, renting the sex. I'm somewhat afraid that people watching this aren't clear where my dream ends and where the reality of the DSA begins. Well, actually, I was thinking we should probably do an episode that's just breaking down the DSA platform, like their actual platform without exaggerating it or anything because it's like, it's, it's very interesting. The comedy will write itself. It's kind of like when, it's like when you started China Uncensored Chris, it was, and there was also like an era where the CCP wasn't, didn't have as good PR. So they weren't covering things up well. And like the episodes just write themselves because everything that happened was just like, it was a parody of itself. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, well, like what's your name? Daria Les, Javali Hayes, which I do love to say it rolls off the tongue. But yeah, she's like prison abolitionist, doesn't believe in prisons and she was asked by the New York editorial board in an interview, like four times. So what happens about murderers? And she just wouldn't answer it. And this is interesting because if you actually like look back at the history of like socialism communism, what Mao, Len and all these guys did it, they open up the prisons because they want the most violent, horrible people out there on the street terrorizing law-abiding citizens because it's basically a mafia. It's basically like what Mao had to term something like unalumpating proletariat, like unleashing the scum of society or something like that. And what, and it actually continues today in China because like, but firstly, if you're going to kill landlords and take their stuff, we're talking about China now. Like you need people who are willing to actually straight up murder people and take their stuff. And most Chinese people at that time in the, you know, 30s, 40s were just totally unwilling to commit murder. But if you get the worst of the worst and you have them take the lead, then you can actually get a lot done as a communist. And that Mao realized that these people, these criminals, the scum of society were like the best people for supporting the communist party's aims because they would do whatever the communist party like, whatever the communist party said were the correct moral standards, they would just do it because they wanted their own personal gain. And it didn't matter at all how terrible it was and how much it hurt people. And it continues because what is the new lump in proletariat today? It's like the triads, right? And the triads are like, there is a branch of the United Front work department of the Communist Party that oversees the triads. Like they're not fully independent gangs. They are overseen by the CCP because the CCP uses them for things like drug warfare. Right. Or money laundering. Yeah. Money laundering. I'm just thinking about Canada. Yeah. Yeah. Full of Chinese triads, making drugs, especially in British Columbia, making drugs, you know, laundering their money in Canadian casinos. New meaning to Chinese laundry. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was for you, Shelley. Thanks. You're welcome. Did we talk about that on the podcast? I feel like we did talk. Maybe that was the live stream. That was the live stream. Where were we talked about? Which you've all watched. Yes. What are you trying to look up, Shelley? Well, I was trying to look up the DSA platform, but I actually got distracted by when I said it was 7% of people who voted. It was actually 7% of voters. So it's not even 7% of 8 million people in New York City. It's 7% of how many registered voters there are in New York City. Wait, so that's worse? Oh, yes, because that's like even smaller percentage of people. Right. So you have like 8 million people and then only a percentage of them are registered to vote. And then 7% of the people who are registered to vote voted in this primary election. Well, don't you know voting doesn't matter, Shelley? Well, yeah. Well, not apparently it only matters when it's like these very small closed primaries. Yeah. But I mean, this is a real risk because it's shifting the overt and window. I hate that guy in his window. But yeah, this more extreme branch is now being viewed as the future of the Democratic Party. Well, I mean, it's because there is no message coming from the more liberal and not progressive wing of the Democratic Party besides we hate Trump. Yeah. And that's not really. It's not a hopeful message. Yeah. Like for whatever you think about Trump, though, it is like a hopeful message, but it's changed. But it's something different. It is like it is very popular. I think it's hopeful. I think it's like you're going to get free stuff. We're going to make things affordable. We're going to make sure that we're better. One of the people Claire Valdez won the primary in her district and will probably be in Congress. One of her big things is she wants to eliminate TSA pre-check and nationalize all airlines. Oh my gosh. That's horrible. Which first of all, nationalizing all airlines sounds like a terrible idea. Yeah. But also, someone pointed out that like half of Americans never fly, like don't even fly once a year. Like so like the specific like things that are on the agendas of the people are for. Not for working class people, even though they keep talking about the workers. Yeah. Even though they were not voted in by the work. No. Like over and over again, you saw in these districts where the TSA people won. It was all like young, mostly white, highly educated people like that. There are Lisa person. She'll call you a Columbia University is in that district. Yeah. So she's a seven year sociology PhD student. Oh my gosh. Seven years. That's a long time. Lost a lot of money. Well, I don't think she's going to finish that PhD. Instead, she got elected to Congress, which is a. Somehow even more worthless. Except that one, you actually get a very good return on investment. Well, yes. You get paid. You get a lot of money in other ways. It's not just being paid. No. Is this what you were trying to look up, Shelley? Or did you just found it? You just scrolled to it. Yeah. So this is. DSA platform proper. Yeah. I mean, this is a summary of the platform, but they want to abolish the Senate because they don't like that it's not like the US Senate. The US Senate because it's they think it's unfair. Unlike the House, because the House is proportional voting. Right. Like two per so you give more power to smaller states, less populations. Right. So, but that's because we're a nation of states that have voluntarily come together. That's like literally the origin of this country. Well, I mean, a big picture to all of what you're going to hear is these are platforms that benefit specifically the DSA and they basically do not like America and want to destroy the US government. So they openly talk about this. So abolishing the Senate, so ranked choice voting and proportional representation in all elections and abolish the Senate. And that matters because ranked choice voting is another way in which like you could get elected with a very small minority of people voting for you. Yeah. Thank you for watching. That was just one little clip of an hour long podcast. You can watch if you subscribe at chinainsensor.tv. This is how you can support the show and join the Chinainsensor 50 cent army to stand up to the CCP and the socialist before they take over for good.