---
video_title: "28 Year Olds Are Disappearing in China"
video_id: aonoITLzSSc
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aonoITLzSSc
video_date: 2026-03-23T17:01:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-329
  Around twenty eight or twenty nine years old is the golden age for many people. And the reason so many people this age are disappearing from Chinese streets could be for that reason. We spoke with Ethan Gutmann, author of The Xinjiang Procedure, about why this is happening. 
  Order your copy of The Xinjiang Procedure now:
  https://www.amazon.com/Xinjiang-Procedure-Ethan-Gutmann/dp/1968919201
  Ethan Gutmann is an award winning author, journalist, and all around interesting guy.
---
I think it really comes down to, and I don't know how much of the last couple of years, how much this has just been about just pure distraction. I mean, you know, you serve a fall of Afghanistan, then fall of Bahia, Ukraine, fall of Gaza, fall of Bahia. Now, the war with Tehran, and, you know, I don't know how much of that has sort of played into people just losing the thread. I think there's a fair amount of that, and I'd like to talk to Congress and Chris Smith about that, because he's the one who's been pushing the top-transplant stuff transplants up. And I think he stuck with it. We're going to see. I mean, there's some talk now, even about potential hearing fairly soon. I'd like to get D.D. Corson Pat, whether that hearing is possible, because she was the one New York Times reporter, probably the best China reporter they ever had in their history, who understood this issue because her Chinese was lost, and because the doctors were constantly saying, what are we supposed to say about this? This is the front of her, assuming she couldn't possibly understand this stuff. And her editors told her, and don't cover this. Yes, they said that. They said, you can cover it, but don't cover it using any evidence. Okay, so covering something without evidence is actually her specialty. She's very good color writer. You know, she's known for this. You can do this sort of atmosphere, or things where you just bring up the issue and kind of leave it on the table. And she did a very good job with that, but nonetheless, when the Vatican, it was very influential, and the Vatican was trying to get ratified that China had performed in their transplant engagement. And they said, well, if we're going to make a deal with China over the bishops, we need to have that clear. And so they originally gave a very public conference in the Vatican. We're horns, they threw the master ceremonies of China's transplant program, and was escorted there by Bishop Sarando, the evil Bishop Sarando, he really is. And the guardian and the independent and a bunch of papers and other papers in Europe were all going, others in very nice places, coming up in the Vatican. About how China has really become the envy of the world, because of their wonderful transplant system. And D.D. Kersentat Lo did the one thing that she could do, which is she just wrote the gazing piece, asking questions. Why is Huang Jifu, what he is he doing in Vatican City? Why would you invite a man like that? It's actually been party who's actually participated in the removal of organ. In one case, three organs in a single day to get the right kidney. Why would you have him there? And immediately, like a school of fish, where you throw the flashlight into their stupid tank, you know, all the guardian and everybody else clipped around and started going, yeah, why is that? You see how good this is, this is the elements of a black comedy. And by the way, I tried to do that in my book. My second chapter is pure black comedy, which is... It is very funny. Yeah. We could do a whole podcast just on like the second chapter and all the stuff that's in there. The comedy, Cohen, Jay. Yeah. Well, that's, that's fascinating because it is like an old testament story of the collapse of an evil game. He just... Anyways, that's the point. So where is this going? Yeah. We've been perhaps maybe there's an opening because maybe we're taking a little break from the rest of the world being in complete tumult and without the Jewish question dominating everything and so forth, people will start searching around for genuine human rights issues again. That's possible. That would be beautiful. One of the things that's dependent on... And I've seen some very good times coming from a fallen-grown community about this, is that they don't just say, oh, that's a weaker problem. It's not our problem. You know, the reason the weavers didn't embrace the organ harvesting issue was because they thought it was a fallen-grown problem. Okay. Are they associated as a problem? Oh, well, that's one of their... All that has to change. Okay. The weavers have been getting governments all over the world to use this word genocide to describe what's happening in Xinjiang. It's not genocide. The organ harvesting is genocide. The other things are fun along the way. Okay. I hate to say it, but they are... They're elements of genocide, but they are not the real thing. This is the real thing. 25 to 50,000 of your most... You know, 28-year-olds, I mean, this is your activist age, okay, where you're beginning to have some wisdom. Man, your body is perfectly as strong as it's ever going to be. And that's what they're killing. That's what the CCP is doing. So I think it's really important that fallen-grown say, look, if the weavers are being harvested right now, and I have some evidence that fallen-grown is still being harvested as well, this is good. It displays the... You know, but we have a historical legacy here. And we're the ones who cracked the case. You think me and David Mages read all those Chinese documents? Are you crazy? We read all these hospital websites and the original Chinese and just used Google Translate. Of course not. Okay. We had some of the hardest working... Ladies and gentlemen, some of them aren't even alive anymore, but they were great and they were hardworking, and what they did was almost a super-suman effort to uncover this stuff. Okay. And there were a lot of job and there were a lot of footnotes. And this stuff is vetted and real. And it was actually the moment where the Vatican was pushing against them for the transplantation society was pushing against us. And the rest of it, they were actually giving interviews to CCTV as they toured around Chinese hospitals and went a bunch of liars to fall and gone worried. And that anybody who's talking about the organ harvesting issue is just a, you know, malcontents and a right wing nut, but they're just purely political. They were doing this on Chinese television. And the only thing that stopped them and made them all shut up was that report, the 2016 report, which said, uh-uh, transplant volume in China is not 10,000 per year. It's 60 to 100,000 per year. That was the moment when the momentum briefly went back to our side. And I think it's very important for Fall and going to defend not only that moment, but many moments like it. They're the ones who broke this story. And they, I'm really happy that so far they've shown a lot of support for my work and other work. They continue that in that area. We just have to follow it where it goes, but they've shown a lot of maturity about that because there's a tendency between human rights groups or victim groups to jostle and squabble a little bit. And, you know, and the leaders aren't blameless there either. All right. And they're starting to show some maturity about this as well. So I'm saying something like a big daddy coming on your show here about that stuff. I mean, but I am old. I mean, believe it or not, there's no other here. I'm doing crazy great. Okay. So I'm just going to ask. Should we call you big daddy? No, no, no. Thank you for watching this clip. The book is called the Shinjiyang Procedure. Order it now and get 20% off your next Chinese organ transplant. And if you support, extreme the conference, your episodes like this and want to get more. Join our 50 cent army at ChinaNcensored.tv.