---
video_title: "Why Communists Love Gulags"
video_id: saowpQi3Ang
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=saowpQi3Ang
video_date: 2026-07-02T14:48:26+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-342
  Communists have always developed a system to punish their enemies (and perceived enemies) once they got into power. In this episode we talk about Democratic Socialists of America’s plan to eliminate prisons, why communists always need an enemy, and the problem with eliminating borders.
---
Another DSA, the huge part of their platform is Free Palestine. Like that's what they really ran on in a lot of places, which is interesting because Americans don't usually run on foreign policy. But the DSA has made the Free Palestine, like anti-Israelian, anti-Zionism, anti-APAC things, such a fundamental part of the platform. That is like a huge thing that was motivating people to vote for them. And that's also only been possible because of all of the Free Palestine movements and whenever they've been going on in college campuses. And the weird thing about that is you have ProCC billionaire, Neuroeus Singham funding those kinds of things. And you also have this group of influencers and podcasters like Candace Owens, Nick Fuentes, Tucker Carlson, also promoting these talking points as well. And it's very curious. I'm just asking questions. So just notice it. If their platform is Free Palestine, does it actually specify like Free Palestine? And Jerusalem as the capital of Free Palestine. But that's not in Palestine. Well, so you're seeing where this is going, right? No, I literally see people and news reports from certain far out there groups of talking about Israeli occupation of Jerusalem. The Israeli's living in Jerusalem are settlers, they're occupiers. I mean, the goal is the destruction of Israel. Yeah, you have to get rid of Israel essentially. These are not two state solution people. Yeah, it's their one state. And all military and economic aid to Israel prosecute US and Israeli leaders responsible for the genocide in Gaza. Yeah, the thing is so that Israeli people are probably never going to let that happen. Someone pointed out that Israel has nukes. Well, but also Israeli, unless you're Orthodox, like every Israeli citizen, men and women have gone through two to three years of mandatory military training. They know how to use weapons. They have historically shown a very strong willingness to fight to defend what they view as their homeland. It's a six day war, right? Yeah. Oh, I just realized that's actually very interesting that it was a six day war, considering the religious significant of six days. The point is to create the UN with the creation of something new. You've got the new state of Israel. It's very interesting. Yeah. I mean, at any rate, like I don't think that's what people are thinking is they want to do is going to be possible. But that's actually good for them, right? Which is no, no, think about this. Like when socialists and communists have an enemy, they need to have the end. Like the enemy needs to exist in order for the struggle to work. So they need to, you know, have someone to struggle again. So as long as they can't actually. Right. They just need a big baddie to always call the oppressor so they can claim victimhood. And then they use the big baddie's reaction as they're like excuse to do increasingly terrible things. Wait, so how does this actually hurt the DSA? No, he's saying it helps. No, it helps the DSA. Oh, it's good for them because they, they will be. Israel will continually be right. And if you read Karl Marx, like he talks about that you need to be in a perpetual state of struggle. And also the whole idea is having Israel connected to the US, right? Because like it's not in this particular summary that I'm reading, but there's something about essentially Israel because Israel is so connected to the US in order to have solidarity with the Palestinians and to, you know, have a free Palestine. You need to destroy the American empire. Yep. Yeah. So you need to destroy the US, yeah, which is crazy because the biggest threats in the world right now, I think if you objectively look at it, are the Chinese Communist Party and Islamism and the two biggest forces fighting that are the United States and the biggest touch to whom? What? I don't think the DSA feels that those things are threats to them. Yeah. Well, yeah. Just to, I guess they have a point then. Yeah. So also they want to abolish the carceral state redirect what does carceral mean? You know, incarceration like, okay. So basically the state is the one putting people in prisons. Right. And if this you just abolished prison, then the DSA could choose who to put in their own prisons. No, no, no, maybe they'll just call them re education, education, yeah, gulags, you know, oh, I saw something like there was this crazy threat on X where people were trying to argue that gulags were good actually. Oh, really? That's going to use that in my spoken word, Jeff. Like that gulags were not as bad as American prisons because like they had all of these, you know, people could have spousal visitation and they could live, you know, in like little huts on the, like there were all these reasons that this person, the gulags were good. Yeah. They're bad. You see your wife. Yeah. There's a bunch of, because she was also in the gulag. Redirect, so this is abolished the carceral state to women, one bullet. Redirect police in prison funding to public services as steps toward abolishing the carceral forces of the capitalist state. So that's one of those things where it sounds good. It's like, oh, well, you want to put as much money in prison. You want to public services, you know, abolish ice and grant amnesty for all. So essentially eliminating borders. Yeah. That chevalier woman is like completely no borders person. Yeah. And ice detention and deportations and punish federal agents brutality legalize migration, grant amnesty for all immigrants, regardless of status, provide a path to citizenship for all permanent residents and envies the caps and quotas. No, basically no functional immigration system. I wonder what Joseph McCarthy would think of all of this. I mean, I don't try and censored sayons where we channel the disembodied spirit of Joseph McCarthy. No, no. No. But this, the thing about try to think about, about this platform. So the immigration thing, like one of the, one of the things that people say is like, oh, well, like we didn't use to have all these restrictions on immigration. And that is true. Like for example, when my great grandparents came because they landed on Ellis Island, like they could, they could just immigrate. But the difference is that neither the New York City government nor the New York state government nor the federal government gave them anything. Like there were no social programs. There was no welfare. There was no social security. There was no free medical care. And it was still viewed as the land of opportunity. Yeah. And they came and, you know, succeeded if they could and if they failed, then they failed. And some people went back, although a lot of people were, you know, lived in poverty. But the thing is the people who were already citizens of the United States, like there were, there were definitely anti-immigration ideas back then. For sure. Right. As a Chinese person, there were no, there was no Chinese immigration for basically almost 100 years. And they were using you to build the railroads. Well, no, after that, like until almost the 1970s, there was no Chinese immigration. Like not, no, but very, very, very slow. The Chinese exclusion act. Yeah. So anyway, I'm not saying that like, which by the way was voted in by Democrats. Ooh, like things. Well, the party flipped. Yeah. It's now this, even though we did it, it would now be them that did it. Yeah. So, yeah. But anyway, the point is that like now we have a lot of social programs and you can argue about these are great things for American citizens or not depending on whether you like them or not. But like if you have unlimited people coming from around the world, like imagine a, there's say 8 billion people on the planet. There's probably at least half a billion or a billion people that would come here if they could. But a lot of them are poor. And they would naturally be recipients of a lot of these programs and it would be totally, our country would be bankrupt almost to a meeting. No, Matt, you just print more money. And then you have more money. Oh, you're right. There's absolutely no downside to money, printer goes. They'll especially have lots of money when they have public ownership of major corporations. Thank you for watching. That was just one little clip of an hour long podcast. You can watch if you subscribe at chinainsensor.tv. This is how you can support the show and join the Chinainsensor 50 Cent Army to stand up to the CCP and the Socialists before they take over for good.