---
video_title: "10% of Taiwan DEAD"
video_id: o68TjqMk6LU
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o68TjqMk6LU
video_date: 2026-03-21T16:49:30+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-329
  China has been rattling its saber about Taiwan ever since the nationalists fled to Taiwan in 1949. If China were to take over Taiwan, about 10% of its population could be targeted for elimination. We spoke with Ethan Gutmann, author of The Xinjiang Procedure, about why 10% of Taiwan’s population is in China’s crosshairs. 
  
  Order your copy of The Xinjiang Procedure now:
  https://www.amazon.com/Xinjiang-Procedure-Ethan-Gutmann/dp/1968919201
  Ethan Gutmann is an award winning author, journalist, and all around interesting guy.
---
Well, I know last time we had you on, you mentioned that you think Taiwan might be a future organ bank. There's no question that what we know is the Chinese within the party, and this is serious, because serious people say it even to Americans who work at the embassy in Beijing. There is a Chinese Communist Party believe that 10% of the population of Taiwan is actually is partially Japanese. And that is the whole problem. That's why they're not accepting the candy and the flowers and just joining them on the left. Okay. They're the whole problem. So what they've done, I think you guys will appreciate this. What they've done is basically given you the total number for the invasion of Taiwan, the 10% of Taiwan population, so approximately. What is it now? Is it 28 million in Taiwan? Oh, I don't know. Something like that. It's in the ballpark on 30 million. Yeah, so I think it's like 2 million or something that might be incarcerated, not necessarily all killed. But that happens to be a number that yes, you could replace and turn into an organ harvesting number using 18 to 20, you know, 25 to 30 year olds very easily, very easily, and they're very healthy. Well, in Taiwan, they don't smoke. So far. I'm starting smoking as soon as this box is done. So, I mean, look, I mean, that's clean living. I'll get you killed. And I'm even going to get into that stuff in the book because it's kind of, I mean, I do in the footnotes. The footnotes are really interesting in the book, but often I sort of don't make those the main point because there's a lot of uncertainty. I'm just trying to track this thing as a longstanding program, the Chinese Transplant Industry. Right? So I don't really get into the fact that they do sometimes kill kids and use their organ. They do. But we don't know the numbers on that at all. Okay. We do know that there's a lot of disappearances among the major population, a lot of kids disappeared. But that could be for sexual slavery. So relax. No, I mean, yeah. Okay. Oh, thank God. It's still better already, don't you? This whole podcast started off on a positive note and you just kept it going all the way through. I'm sorry about that. I'm fairly sure that your aim, Chris, from the very get-go is to drag it down into the dark. I didn't have to. I'm sorry about that. I'm pretty sure. I mean, we didn't fight a guest on to talk about his book. That is literally about killing the Shinjong strain. So, just. Yeah. Well, I guess the question is what happens next, either from the CCP's perspective or from the international perspective where it seemed like the medical community, as you say, is beginning to actually take this seriously. What happens next? Well, I guess the question is how long does the COVID affect last in the medical community? Right? I mean, if they're still going back to you, all is forgiven with the WHO. You know, no. I mean, if they suddenly go back to being good citizens, we have a problem. Jacob Lovie, who was part of the Transplantation Society, which is absolutely the ones that were gunned hurried about compromising with the Chinese and teaching them best practices and engaging with them in all costs and with the biggest impediment to any kind of real reform of the Chinese transplant system, they've gone pretty quiet. And somebody like Jacob Lovie, who was part of the Transplantation Society, initially was defeated. Okay. He said, if the Chinese are going to claim that they were forming, he said, we have to really be able to go into the hospitals and unannounced. Okay. Drop in. We don't do this stuff of, you know, here, set up the scientific knowledge for us because we're going to be coming down this part of the Volga. Don't do it that way. And even though he's the son of our Holocaust survivor, he was ignored in that. This has really changed. He has, when it comes to heart and lung transplantation, transplant doctors, he's part of that steering group and he is very influential and they have not stopped. There's been a couple of years now. They continue the academic boycott. So I think that's a significant, that the medical world does want some kind of resolution. Now, it's not in the medical world. They're not political people, really, you know? So you can't blame them for not sort of raising me along. I think it really comes down to, and I don't know how much of the last couple of years, how much this has just been about just pure distraction. You know, you sort of follow that canister and follow by Ukraine, follow by Gaza, follow by now, the war with Tehran. And I don't know how much of that has played into people just losing the thread. I think there's a fair amount of that. And I'd like to talk to Congressman Smith about that because he's the one who's been pushing the stock transplant stuff transplants up. I think he stuck with it. We're going to see. I mean, there's some talk now, even about potential hearing fairly soon. I'd like to get D.D. person tapped over that hearing, if possible, because she was the one New York Times reporter, probably the best China reporter they ever had in their history, who understood this issue because her Chinese was lost. And because the doctors were constantly saying, why don't we suppose to say about this? We have fun of her, assuming she couldn't possibly understand this stuff. And her editors told her, don't cover this. Yes, they said that. They said, you can cover it, but don't cover it using any evidence. Okay, so covering something without evidence is actually her specialty. She's very good color writer, you know, who's known for it. You can do this sort of atmosphere or things where you just bring up the issue and kind of leave it on the table. And she did a very good job with that, but nonetheless, when the Vatican, it was very influential. And the Vatican was trying to get ratified that China had reformed their transplant engagement. They said, well, if we're going to make a deal with China over the bishops, we need to have that clear. And so they originally gave a very public conference in the Vatican. There are horns, they threw the master of ceremonies of China's trust, web program, pain. And was escorted there by Bishop Solando, the evil bishop, Sorrendo, he really is. And the guardian and the independent and a bunch of papers and a bunch of other papers in Europe were all going, others and very nice concerts coming up in the Vatican about how China has really become the envy of the world, you know, because of their wonderful transplant system. And the eddy person tatlo did the one thing that she could do, which is just wrote the gazing piece, just asking questions. Why is Huang Jifu, what he is he doing in Vatican City? Why would you invite a man like that? He's actually been party who's actually participated in the removal of organ. You know, in one case, three organs in a single day to get the right kidney. Why would you have him there? And immediately, like a bunch of school of fish were thrown a flashlight into their stupid tank, you know, all the guardian and everybody else clipped around and started going, yeah, why is that? You see how this is an eligible black comedy. And by the way, I tried to do that in my book. My second chapter is pure black comedy, which is very funny. Thank you for watching this clip. The book is called the Xinjiang Procedure. Order it now and get 20% off your next Chinese organ transplant. And if you support extremely controversial episodes like this and want to get more, join our 50 cent army at ChinaNcensored.tv.