---
video_title: "China’s Plan to Farm Humans"
video_id: yz6oezNtDJM
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yz6oezNtDJM
video_date: 2026-03-17T13:53:45+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-328
  Order your copy now of Killed to Order to push it to the Bestseller list! http://www.killedtoorder.com
  
  It’s been clear to anyone paying attention to CCP’s human rights violations that it doesn’t care about the sanctity of life or the wellbeing of its people. But even if you knew about its previous crimes, you might not believe this next-level evil. 
  
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
I mean, it's not even limited to just inside of China's work. Last time we had even government on, he was mentioning that the way the CCP is talking about Taiwan, that since Taiwan was a former Japanese colony, they've been saying, you know, the problem is there's too much Japanese blood in Taiwan. And so if they successfully conquer Taiwan, I would imagine a lot of the Taiwanese people might become volunteers for the system. And then you have to extrapolate it. It's volunteer to have catastrophic accidents on demand. Yeah, exactly. Well, on that point, if I may, right, we have a report, a credible report that they have the Chinese military has the intention of using, you know, essentially Taiwanese POW soldiers for this purpose in the event of an invasion. And again, that's, of course, not shocking to think because the machinery exists to do this. I was actually on a panel recently with Sir Jeffrey Nice, who prosecuted Slobodan Molosevic back in the day chaired this China Tribunal, which assessed all of the evidence, right, around forced organ harvesting. And we were asked this question, and this is going to sound horrible to you and your audience, unless you're already familiar with it. But we got, there was a report that was published about, you know, the farming of children for organs, okay, and in communist China. And you know, when I first saw this report, I'll tell you, when I first found out about this normal forced organ harvesting, I experienced a lot of revulsion would be the term, like I couldn't, it was hard for me to deal with, frankly, and it might be hard for some of the viewers here to deal with, right? You guys have known about this for a while. I know I have, it's become kind of, you know, normalized in our mind and our ability to deal with it. That's what I mean. But this may brought me back to those days when I was first sort of trying to struggle with the reality of this, right? Took me three days to read this report. But as I read it, I would, I thought, you know, the incentive structures are all here. This is what I was thinking, right? And so they asked us, we're on this panel. And the question is posed. So there's these reports of pediatric, you know, farming, organ transplantation. What do you think, right? And I basically said, well, I don't know the evidence yet. I, you know, I saw something in this report. I think we need to get more evidence. But the incentive structures are all in the same direction. Like the moment I read it, I feel it almost certainly is happening because, you know, imagine, right? That one of the problems you have, right, is that organs get rejected. That's why it's so you have to kind of find the perfect match. That's why it takes so long in an ethical situation to find the right donor, right? For the person, they have to have a catastrophic accident. They have to match in all these different ways. Well, here, I mean, this sounds horrible, right? Just, I, I just, it makes me ill thinking about it. But, you know, you can, you know, through surrogacy have a child that is 50% genetically or match to be used for organs, right? And, you know, again, if you have no moral boundary, imagine, right? There's not, you, you, you just view other human beings as material to, to, to be used, instrumentalized, right? I mean, that, that, that has a weird kind of logic to it. It does make sense. Like, why kill some rando fallen gong or weager for the organs when you can kill your own biological child? Well, I mean, the question with that though is, like, I'm sure there'd be a will. But, like, yeah, they, you have to let them grow up or like, because otherwise, like a child's organ would not successfully work with an adult body. Well, the really interesting thing is, and again, this is all macabre stuff, right? But actually, using pediatric organs will, will actually grow into, uh, so if you transplant a small organ, I know enough about this case. I don't want to say, I don't want to say too much about it. But I, from, from the beginnings of, I find this very difficult, okay, to be perfectly honest, to, to, to, to deal with. Because, um, yes, it, it seems like, it seems like unlike adult organs that there's this sort of, there's the, the, the, the pediatric organs can be kind of grown into position, uh, in some way, um, that I don't fully understand at this point. You're a biologist, right? Yeah. So, I mean, I imagine that you would know that this is possible. It, it's possible. The problem is that I kind of feel just talking to you about it right now makes me feel a little ill. I know it shows, maybe, and I just, I, I, I haven't sort of dug into that part, especially since I've learned about it while I was writing this book. And I didn't have enough evidence to, to, to kind of, I'm kind of giving you excuses here because I, I really wish I did know the answer. But I just, I truly find it incredibly difficult to, to deal with the thought of it. Um, and even now as, as we're talking, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, and by the way, Sir Jeffrey Nees, the way he responded to this was fascinating, right? Because he wanted to comment it right after me. And he said, you know, basically, I mean, I'll summarize. He said, well, the machinery has built, been built to do this terrible thing to people. Is it really difficult to imagine that they would just use another group for the same purpose? No, it's not at all. Right? And it's, it's so disturbing to me because hearing you say this because I, I've been calling him Jeffrey nice, all these years. That's, that's why it's okay. It's quite possible that I'm the one that's got it wrong. I don't know. But, uh, yeah. You know what all this reminds me of? Do you ever watch, did you ever watch that show on Netflix, Altered Carbon? I, I did actually. So there's, there's kind of two seasons. First season is way better. Yeah. Second one sucks. But the premise of the first season, can you explain what that is to people who haven't seen it? Sure. Because it's irrelevant to the thing. I don't, I don't actually think it's more like never let me go. But you should grow the book in the movie like where they grow clones to essentially. But that's what I don't know what about the island, the movie. Well, so, so the island movie came out right before we discovered that this organ harvesting was real. I think in 2005. And so, you know, everybody was saying the island. There was another film years ago in the 70s that gave me nightmares as a kid called coma. They were putting people into coma so they could harvest their organs, right? Well, so I, this is the point because I think this is the, this has been the challenge with exposing organ harvesting in China. It sounds like a Hollywood movie. It sounds like science. It sounds like a movie. It sounds like science. I think that's why it was dismissed pretty early on. And then just over time, so much evidence has come out about it. And so this is a, this is some more issue with what you're talking about with potentially having like a clone or a child of yourself. It sounds like, I don't know about it. Well, you know what I, I'm sorry to dwell on this, yeah, on a topic that I know is hard for you. But I was just, I had just like maybe like two months ago read this really long story. And I think the New York Times about this Chinese surrogacy brokers, how they're bringing women from like Southeast Asian, poor women from Southeast Asian countries like Thailand and Vietnam and putting them in Eastern Europe, Central Asian countries and like using them for surrogacy for Chinese surrogates like for Chinese babies. But in some cases these women never actually got pregnant, but they had the suspicion that their, their eggs were being harvested without their, because they were told that they were given shots, they were like done all this medical stuff, but they never had pregnancies. And then in retrospect, some of them thought that they were having their eggs harvested. And you know, God knows what they were doing with those. You know, like this huge black market surrogacy thing is, is it exists? And it's a, you know, that's, that could be part of this machinery. A hundred percent. And you know, I'm aware, this is anecdotally, I didn't put this into the book because I think this area of research is new. And you know, I, like I, I want us to be really, you know, not try to put stuff out that, you know, is basically like a lot of people are looking to undermine the, the, the veracity of all of this, right? So I want to be very careful about what we publish and make sure we have really rock solid evidence like the stuff that I, that I compiled in, in, killed to order. But there's a, there's, I was made aware of a surrogacy operation. And you know, I'm in contact with a number of rescue organizations that actually, you know, that are countering human trafficking. And you know, one in particular, I'm thinking of this is the one where they, they do, they run rescue operations. They, you know, kind of hire special operators and other people that were former special operators, other people who know how to handle themselves in difficult situations and rescue, you know, people who are being trafficked out of cartel situations and so forth. And they, they documented to me this one case where it was clearly a Chinese operation that was in Uganda, that was a Chinese surrogacy operation in Uganda that was trafficking, you know, basically children being birthed there. Um, and, you know, again, not, I didn't have a ton more information than that, but saying, no, this is really, we encountered this in one of our rescue operations. Thank you for watching this clip. The book is killed to order China's organ harvesting industry and the true nature of America's biggest adversary. And if you pre-order it now, you can help get it on the best seller list. So use the link below and for more of this interview, check out our website, ChinaNcensored.tv.