---
video_title: "China’s Navy Has America’s Beat"
video_id: qSgU5VXVWmc
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qSgU5VXVWmc
video_date: 2026-01-31T14:51:13+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-324
  The US Navy has been having problems for decades building ships. The ones they have built have some serious problems, including toilets that constantly break down. 
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
I wonder about this. So your concept for the decade of concern, basically this decade where China is incentivized to take Taiwan. That's kind of, if I remember correctly, that's kind of based on the CCP looking at the Tiananmen Square Massacre, how they were internationally condemned, and then not too far on the future, everyone was coming to Beijing for the 2008 Olympics and praising them. They know they invade Taiwan, they're going to take a hit internationally, but they want everyone coming to Beijing in 2049 to celebrate their hundred anniversary. We've seen, especially with everything that happened with Greenland, a massive, well, I mean, you just said, pay attention to what people do now, what they say. People are saying, lots of European countries, Canada are saying they're now moving towards China. They always have been basically, but I saw a poll from Politico recently that now, just a few years after COVID, they view China more positively than the US. Could the calculus be changing where the CCP sees that there is so much hatred for Trump and the US that they can kind of get away with anything and maybe Canada, Europe, they won't really come to the US as aid if they try to stand up to the CCP. It'd just be more saber-addling from the Trump administration. I think there's something to be said with that, Chris. I think there's, you know, Prime Minister Karni's visit to Beijing and his speech and his, you know, New World Order. New World Order. That goes alarming to me. And now you've got German Chancellor Murr's going in the first week of February, the finish, Prime Minister's going. Thank you, Starmer's going to from the UK. Right. Maybe this next week. Yep. Macron just did his thing. So you have a lot of European leaders that seem like all of a sudden they're more inclined to align themselves with China than the United States. I think that's true, as you said, Chris, they've been heading down that road for a long time. I mean, they're already aligned economically. I mean, the dependencies that France and Germany and the UK have on Chinese manufacturing and sales and things of that nature's, you know, we do too, but we're trying to get away from that. We're trying to decouple. We may not say that, but that's what we're trying to do. That's what President Trump's trying to do. But the China, the Europeans seem to be rushing there. So in this larger strategic issue, as I said a few minutes ago, if the Chinese Communist Party, if they don't have to go to war, they don't want to. So if there's all of a sudden a realignment in these European nations saying that they're going to get close to China, then that could be a way for them to somehow put some kind of pressure on Taiwan to come to some kind of political negotiated settlement. If that happens, then they'll get Taiwan. But I don't think that's necessarily that easy to achieve, because China has excess production, and they've already flooded the markets of Europe. So I'm not sure how much more they can flood. You know, I go to stores here in Switzerland and everything I walk into a store, retail store, it's all made in China. So I'm not sure how they can make it anymore. You know, they've already been successful into that degree. So the real question is, is China's future depends on getting foreign money. They need foreign direct investment. And they've got a lot of it from Europe. America's trying to divest from that. And so to the extent that we're successful in divesting from that, it's going to make it that much harder for China to be able to really satisfy Europe's requirements. And then when it comes from a defense standpoint, they still hate Russia. They still have fear Russia. So and they have to know, they do know that China is supporting Russia by buying all that oil. So Russia is able to do what they're doing to bring this threat to Europe because of the Chinese Communist Party. And so there are still people that recognize that. So I don't think we've exhausted their goodwill. I think they just like like many things they like to squawk of it and wine. But I do I am concerned that guys like Karni are trying to because there is a belief and I've heard it even in Washington over the years, there's this belief of, well, it's better to engage with China than to have them employed and collapse on themselves. The world would be much worse off if they collapse if the Chinese Communist Party collapsed. And there was an internal revolution. They said that about the Soviet Union too. Correct. They say about every one of these dictatorships. So there's these naive people that say that. So I get the feeling that Karni and Macron and Starmer, they kind of have this kind of do-go-to-review of what we're really more at least superior, we're going to save the world. And they don't realize that once China gets their global governance, they're not going to be safe. They're not going to be special relationships. China develops and talks about every nation that they have a bilateral relationship. It's always called a special relationship or there's some kind of vernacular so that the people of country, X, Y, or Z, they'll quote unquote special. But the reality is there won't be anything. And so I think at this point, they're upset with Trump. Okay, that's fine. But the reality is they know they need the US military and the US economy to still keep them backed up. I mean, I live here in Switzerland. All of Switzerland's economy is basically with the United States and America, not all of it, but the large, large percentage of it is. And if we were to cut off economic involvement with Switzerland, this country would have a serious problem, could collapse. That's why the tariffs that Trump put on this last year were so devastating to Switzerland. They couldn't believe it. So he's serious about reordering things and not allowing the United States to be taken advantage of. But as I think the vice president said, yesterday in Davos, or I'm not sure it was in Davos, but he made a speech and he said, you know, we do love Europe and we don't want them to be cut off. But we can't allow, you know, the existing system where you just basically take advantage of our good graces and our military. And for me, you know, somebody that was in the military, I think of all the Americans that died here defending Europe's interests and then to see this reaction has been more than interesting to be disappointing. Now they feel the same way. They say, we're allies. How dare you would treat us this way? And China's watching all this and taking in, they're going to try to use it and manipulate it to get to a point where they can have the kind of political pressure that they could hopefully maybe even get some kind of pressure on Taiwan. But I don't think that's necessarily going to work. I mean, you have seen NATO over the last several years, even the Biden administration, they were getting NATO to say, hey, we have an interest in the Pacific and we have an interest in making sure China doesn't aggressively expand. So I think it's going to be a hard sell for the Europeans. But giving them the Chinese Communist Party, that economic breathing room, for me, that's the one that I'm most disappointed. So currently China has the biggest Navy in the world. They have, I think it's from 2023, but the estimate is 232 times the production shipbuilding capacity of the US most ships are being made in China. The US, I don't even think is making, I think in 2025, they made zero ships, maybe just commissioned to. This is something, you know, the Trump administration knows, and now there's the, he created the office of shipbuilding. Where is that right now? Is the US even remotely beginning to turn the tide? Because it's been a year since the office of shipbuilding. Yeah, right. Yeah. Right. Is there half a shipbuild? Well, first of all, that, well, yes, the office of shipbuilding was created by President Trump when he gave his first speech to Congress. It wasn't technically called the State of the Union, but it was his speech to Congress after he assumed office and he announced it. And it was, you know, great rejoicing by people like me that said, this is great. And then a few months later, he announced, it was announced that the office of shipbuilding would be moved out of the White House, not out of the White House, but under the direct control of President over to the office of management and budget, OMB. And some people were, oh, this is, this is another indicator that shipbuilding is not serious for this administration. And I took the exact opposite because if you know the director of OMB is, just a rust vote, those, he has been working for decades on identifying the areas where the United States government needed to trim excess, you know, waste in the government. And what programs needed to be killed and what needed to be plused up. And so having OMB linked with the office of shipbuilding to me was a signal that there was a serious approach to this effort to build ships, because in order to build ships, you got to have the finances. And so the idea that OMB is directly involved with shipbuilding is a good sign. And then you had the announcement of the golden fleet in October. You've had this battleship announcement. So the shipbuilding, office of shipbuilding is working Dr. Jerry Hendricks is one of the leaders of the office of shipbuilding. I know Jerry, retired Navy camp and PhD, they've got a team of experts that are involved with this. So what really is required is, as you mentioned, Chris, is our shipbuilding capacity as a nation. That 2023 report from the Austin Naval Intelligence was referring to naval ship construction. The China had 232 times by an unclassified estimate more capacity in the US. And year on year over the last decade, China's basically produced four or five worships to every one that we produce. It varies by year. COVID had an impact on the Chinese. But basically four or five, some year, seven or eight or nine, I think this last year, 2025, almost nine times as many ships as we produced. So we have to get back to, in this office of shipbuilding, as part of this, and the secretary of Navy, they just had in this week before Davos, there was the Surface Navy Association meetings on the East Coast. And you had the secretary of Navy there, you had the secretary of war there, and you had a lot of speeches and talk. And one of the things that came up with the secretary of the Navy said, hey, we need another quarter of a million more Americans working in shipyards today. That's how depleted we are. So we need a quarter of a million people to do work. And it's not just going to be pipe fitters and welders and things of that nature. When you start adding in these concepts at this Mr. Palmer Lucky in his Andrial Company and Artificial Intelligence and Drone Making, we're going to need people that are pretty high skilled people that know how to run these big robotic machines and systems that can develop the parts and pieces rapidly without a lot of human intervention, that we can start doing mass production again on shipbuilding. And we can do it in a way that's maybe unconventional to what we did in World War II where we had big shipyards. We're now able to, with the technology, we can produce parts in different places. You're still, we are still massively below the number of shipyards that we had, even when I joined the Navy, but certainly from World War II. So we need to expand the number of military and commercial shipyards. Well, you can't just do that by government edict. It's a commercial endeavor. So getting the commercial sector incentivized to do that is part of this process. So it's going to require even more pressure from the president and his team on the Congress to make incentivization tools for the shipyards for rich people to say, I'll invest in this. This is worth it or investment funds and things of that nature. So I think that work is actually going on and we're going to start seeing that, but it's going to take time to get up to speed. But the process of going after this and the recognition that we are, we've been gutted in this industry is important. The other thing I'd say is we have a system, an arcane system of rules and regulations and safety requirements and things that go into producing ships. And those have all been, not only a phrase, they have been based upon at one time or another legitimate concerns for safety. For instance, when you build a nuclear submarine or a nuclear air craft carrier, you don't want to cut corners, right? You don't want to have a submarine out at sea and you're like, oh, I wish we would have engineered that piece of this nuclear plant a little bit better. Now those guys are all radiated and dead in the ship silk or something like that. We haven't done that in those areas. But the pendulum's gone so far over to layer upon layer upon layer of bureaucracy where we've had all these monumental failures with shipbuilding programs like the Littoral Combat Ship, like the Zomal Class Cruiser that was built without a functioning gun, without a gun that had a wet, an ammunition that could go into it. Is that important for a navy ship? Yeah, you think so. The aircraft carrier Gerald R. Ford, you know, they said they're 10 years behind schedule to get to the fleet. And they had problems with this new electromagnetic aircraft launch system. The elevators run on these electromagnetic systems, problems there. And now we just turned, if you probably saw on my red star, RISM list, there's even problems with the CHT, the toilets. The toilets, even on the Ford, are new engineering designed. They don't use seawater. Every ship I've ever been on my life, and I've been on some of the oldest thing in the navy, but even commercial ships and even ferries all over the world and sailboats. And these kind of vessel you go on, saltwater is used to flush the toilets. Well, they decided in the brilliance of the navy and the naval sea systems command that runs the navy's acquisition and building of ships. They engineered in the electromagnetic aircraft launch systems and elevators, and they also engineered a whole new kind of waste system that's containerized and runs on some kind of chemicals. And in order to essentially empty the toilets, the porta-potties on the ships, you have to go into port and it costs incredible amounts of money. So you have to come off the line, you come off the battle line to go flush your toilets. Who designed that? What admiral and what senior executive service expert approved that? And I guarantee you somebody did and there was layer upon layer of bureaucrats that said, oh, this is going to work. Here's all the studies we did on it. We paid millions for these studies to tell us it was going to work. And now we're hearing stories from the fleet that this ship's having problems and that their systems are backing up in certain sections of the ships. And now if you're working on the ship in one area, you're you're ready room and you're a pilot, you you're in ready one, which is up in the battle of the ship. And all the toilets and ready one area of the battle, the ship, are down because of this malfunction. You got to go, you know, high-yakuant down another two, three hundred yards to find a functioning toilet. That could have an impact, literally could have an impact in combat. When people are not able to go to the restroom on the times when they need to. Sounds funny, sounds crazy. But this is the kind of you know, arterial sclerosis that's is set into the Navy and the Department of the Navy and the shipbuilding programs. And I know it'll offend those people that work there and there's a lot of good people. They're all patriotic, but they don't recognize that we've encountered ourselves with so much bureaucracy that it slowed us down. And I've heard this Mr. Apollo Lucky talk about it and I think he's right. We need to get we need to cut through that. President obviously has said that with this shipbuilding program of the Golden Fleet and his reorganization or his direction to the defense agents, defense companies that hey, you're not going to be able to invest in your company. There's no more of this stock investment and inflating your stock prices so you can make more more money. You're going to invest that money into making ships faster. You're going to get more money if you make ships faster. So it's we're working there. I think it's the most progress I've seen in my lifetime. But it's not an easy problem. And it gets compounded as we just started this discussion with the notion that you know China's on the timeline. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more so I invite you to visit our website ChinaUncensored.tv where you can watch the full hour long interview plus get MP3 downloads of our podcast. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.