---
video_title: "Trump is Being Trump and China is Freaking Out"
video_id: D7-0fXyfBNk
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D7-0fXyfBNk
video_date: 2026-05-27T18:59:43+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-337
  Donald Trump is like a rorschach test - if you think he’s tough on China, you will see lots of evidence he’s tough on China. And conversely, if you think he’s soft on China, you’ll find evidence of that too. But Trump is just being Trump, and that means he’s likely in neither box. In this episode, Chris, Matt and Shelley discuss Trump speaking to Taiwan’s president William Lai Ching-te, China’s narrative warfare on Taiwan, and the Trump distortion field, among other things.
---
Well, so a lot has been happening. You want to start with the potential, the potentially history changing call that maybe might happen between Trump and Taiwanese president, will you mind? Yeah, I mean, I don't know if it'll happen. I kind of, like, 50-50. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I mean, I just don't, I'm not going to predict what Trump is or isn't going to do. That's a bad. Yeah. But like, I think it's what strikes me as really funny about the, because this came in the wake of the Trump, she's summit. Yeah. And I just feel like it's really funny how like people will freak out about like specific things Trump says. And then other things he says, they're just like, oh, he didn't mean it. Yeah. Like this one is like, oh, he said twice. Now, at least when talking to reporters that he was going to talk to the Taiwanese president, like, he didn't call him a president. Yeah, he was just kind of like, you know that guy. You know who I'm talking about. Yeah. And so he said that twice. And people are like, I mean, well, it was because after the Trump sheet meeting, he said some things about like again with the, like, uh, Taiwan's not spending enough on defense. Like all the stuff that made seem like he was not that like after this meeting with Xi Jinping, he's now not defending. He didn't say that. Like saying Taiwan is not spending enough on defense. Maybe that's just yeah, that's thought out actually supporting once Taiwan to spend more in defense. He was just like, oh, you know, like it's a, it's an issue. It's a problem. See, see, to ask me about it, I refuse to answer him on whether I would, I would defend Taiwan or not. I'm not going to answer you. Only one person knows that and it's me, you know, yeah. And then just talking about how he talked to Xi about the arms sales because people ask and people are like, oh, you like, but it's since the 1982, yeah, no one has talked to you're not supposed to talk to China about arms sales for Taiwan. He was like, well, that was a long time. You know what I mean? Yeah. So like he's norm, he's norm breaking on something. So people are like, oh, well, that's a bad norm break. But then if he's like, oh, yeah, I'll talk to the president of Taiwan, which would be a huge norm break. Yeah, because that hasn't happened since Nixon. Yes, since we switched recognition, right? Yeah. So when he's like, oh, yes, I might do this thing that is like hugely norm breaking. But in a way that's positive towards supporting Taiwan, people are like, he's stupid. He doesn't mean it. He mispoke. There's no way he would, you know. Yeah. And yeah, there was this energy of like, you see, he is and he is an evil bastard. He's going to abandon Taiwan when he said that first thing. And I'm just like, he says stuff. Who knows what he's going to say the next day. And the next day it was like this phone call thing. And it's like, you see, no, he said the phone call thing for the first time in the same scrum. Oh, it was in the same exact. On Air Force one, like, because he was like, oh, yeah, we'll talk. He's like, I talked to see about it. I talked to the I will, I'll talk, you know, because they were like, are you going to sell more arms to him? And he's like, we got to talk to I got to talk to the other guy. Like it was in the same. Yeah. There's like that. That's it. And more shock because it was framed initially as just like Trump is abandoning Taiwan. Not not even a question like he like he is. He's awful. He's sold out to she. I think this is an example of a CCP narrative warfare sion that they have been working on for a long time. Oh, you're sounding like me, show. Well, like here's the thing. I also think that there are legitimately trying to persuade Trump or pressure him into abandoning Taiwan. Like if he actually did that, that would be great for them. But I think from the beginning of Trump's like, when being elected for this time, there've been, you know, stories and like other things coming out about how the CCP like Xi Jinping, they're trying to pressure Taiwan to another Wall Street journal had this story. Last year about how what she really wants to do is to change Trump's stance on Taiwan, the official US stance on Taiwan from not supporting independence, which is the official US stance on Taiwanese independence is that we do not support independence. We support the status quo. And change that to Trump saying he opposes Taiwanese independence. So there was this entire Wall Street journal article about like how like all the traits of everything. This is like what the CCP most wants is what Xi Jinping wants from Trump. And I think that was like the poison pill that like now every time this comes up with Taiwan and Xi and Trump people are like, oh, is he going to cave to what she wants? Yeah. You know what I mean? So it's like and because the media is primed to try to frame whichever story involves Trump in as negative way as possible. The Trump distortion field. Yeah. Well, I call this Trump distortion field because it works in the other direction too. People are like, oh, everything Trump does. Everything's already chess. But when it comes to mainstream media, it's like the Trump derangement center upside of the distortion field where it's like, can't tell what's going on because it's always tried to like frame Trump in as negative a light as possible. So you have that exacerbating this idea of like. And I mean, he under the Trump administration first and this, they've sold more weapons to Taiwan than I believe in the entirety of the Obama and Biden administration. So six years versus 12 years. So it's not like he's been wishy washy on Taiwan. But there's this narrative. Yeah. Maybe he'll abandon Taiwan. And I think this is like it's everything the CCP wants, right? Regardless of whether the US changes its Taiwan policy. It's like, can we freak Taiwan out? Well, I made an I I x about this. You x it just doesn't work. You still have to say tweet, which is like absurd to think that tweet is what makes sense. Posted about this on x. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That like all the CCP needs to do is create enough confusion about the US stance that it affects Taiwanese voters. And if they start to believe, oh, the US is going to abandon us. Then the whole KMT like let's make nice with the CCP. The leader, I can forget her name, who just met Xi Jinping. Yeah. They're definitely. Yeah. So it's they'll be like, oh, this is this is our only hope. It's either get invaded and get crushed or vote in KMT people and make nice with the CCP. Yes. Very dangerous. And and I made the point in my expost that that's the invasion is not going to be the bloody part about China taking over Taiwan. Like if China takes over Taiwan, it's going to be a bloodbath because we spoke to Ethan Gutman how he's making the point that the CCP is talking about how the reason Taiwan has not already re-unified with the motherland, you know, we share the same where the same people. She has the same blood, same culture is because it was a Japanese colony. And so about 10% of the population, there's too much Japanese blood in there. And Taiwan would go from America's unsinkable aircraft carrier to China's floating organ bank. Amazing how this like racial purity crap doesn't make it into, you know, the conversation about the CCP. Yeah. Well, I mean, you know, communism and Nazism. It's totally different things. Oh, you really made a lot of people mad. I was so surprised by that. Yeah. Yeah. Well, because I think a lot of people identify as socialists or at least have some kind of fondness for some of the ideas and promises of socialism. And so when you make the point that like, hey, all of these Nazi policies, they're socialist policies. Like going beyond like, oh, it's got socialist in the name. Like, I mean, names can lie. But if you look at the actual policy. It's the credit Republic of Korea. Exactly. It's not it's not a democracy. Yeah. But yeah, if you actually look at like all the ballsy that's it's socialism. Yeah. And so, so people are like, wow, I wouldn't support the Nazis. So this post must be wrong. Yeah. Yeah. We'll see if the call happens. It would be pretty crazy. I know Trump did make history right before his first term where he did take a call then Taiwanese president, uh, saying one. Yes. Um, and that was also like twisted in the media. That was actually when I first realized there was a lot of twisting in the media. Oh, because we were in, were we in Hong Kong at the time? I think we were in Hong Kong at that point. Or we were in Macau or Hong Kong. We were in Hong Kong. Yeah. Okay. And yeah, like, like, so like I just heard the news. Like somebody told me Trump had this call. And I'm like, oh, okay, that's cool. And then I, when we got back to the hotel, I saw how it was being reported. Oh, that he was, this was so dangerous for him to do. This is obviously Western media essentially repeating Chinese Communist party propaganda. Yeah. Like he's just so dumb and naive that he took this call, which is going to totally piss the CCP off. You know, the could start a war. Yeah. And I was like, huh, this is weird. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, ChinaNcensored.tv, where you can watch the entire discussion. Plus get MP3 downloads of all of our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.