---
video_title: "Universities in Crisis: China’s Infiltration Exposed"
video_id: iCUbqLnVSgk
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iCUbqLnVSgk
video_date: 2026-05-05T23:56:26+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-335
  Universities are a frontline for Chinese infiltration. Not only are they where the next generation of citizens and thought leaders are educated, but they produce cutting edge research that is key to America’s technological prowess. In this episode we talk to Michael Lucci, the founder of the company State Armor about how to rid American high education from Chinese interference. You can follow him on X at @Michael7ucci and State Armor at https://statearmor.org
---
I was going to say, what would you say is the number one thing resilience wise that states you address? That's a really good question. The number one thing, so if you ask me number one legislation, I would say this geopolitical conflict stress test, specific stress test because we look at all the resilience issues that we can for a one off, if I could give you two critical infrastructure, high education. China is so deeply embedded in our critical infrastructure in ways that we need federal solutions for, but we also need state solutions for. We have to have them out of our critical infrastructure. It can no longer be the case that they could just turn off the lights, shut down the communications, disrupt our airports, and so on. We have to get them out of our critical infrastructure. The other resilience test that really states truly are on the front lines of is higher education. They have spies embedded in our universities to an extent that Americans are going to have a hard time believing when the full thing comes out. Those two areas, I think of critical infrastructure, is kind of a resilience issue in kinetic conflict. We're trying to shutting things off here. I think of higher education as an issue of political warfare, of infiltration, intellectual property theft, and broader subversion of university culture. Inverchy culture should be free and open and academic. That's exactly the opposite with the Chinese Communist Party wants. That's why they have Chinese students and scholars associations there to suppress, repress, and punish Chinese nationals on campus. They do other things to get at Chinese nationals on campus, some of which I could talk about, some of which I can't talk about. They want to make sure that a Chinese student who comes here has the experience of being in communist China. They're being watched. They're being surveilled. They're being punished. If they ever step out of line. It should be the absolute progative of the state of Texas, of other states of the United States more generally, to say, if you come to university here, it's an American experience. We don't want your Chinese Communist Party culture infiltrating our campuses. Unfortunately, what that means today is we need a rollback of gains that they've already made on our campuses. When it comes to universities, a lot of people understand that a lot of these Chinese students are under surveillance, they're part of the CSSAs. But for American citizens who are going to these universities, what does it matter? There's a number of ways in which it matters. One, when you have an entire national student population, Chinese student population, that is abiding by kind of the communist way of doing things. And I'm saying like, by hooker, by crook, whether it's a perfect person or just an outright communist spy, you have an entire large student population that is not allowed to talk freely. That automatically impacts campus culture because not only are they not allowed to talk freely, they don't want Taiwanese kids or Hong Kong kids or we're kids or Korean kids or Japanese kids on campus talking freely about the threat of communist China. So now you're going to have them spreading their tentacles to try to impact other Asian and other Asian American students. And so you're talking about disrupting the entire culture of an institution that should be seeking truth. That's what our university should be doing is seeking truth. And you have a large concentrate student population that spreads to control other student populations and then professors and so on to disrupt the process of free inquiry. But furthermore, they're extracting value through intellectual property theft. They're quite open that they intend to do this. They do do this. And so if you're an American student or wherever you come from on an American campus, when you do research there, you're doing it under the premise that it's not going to go out the back door to arm, let's say, genocide over a regime that is preparing for war in the Pacific. And so your research should be protected. So should your free speech. These are the two basics that the campuses need to get right. That China obviously wants to corrupt. They want to corrupt the campus culture of free speech. They want to corrupt the campus culture of research security because they want to suppress speech and they want to extract intellectual property out of the universities. I mean, I guess I've, you know, we've seen cases where I remember when the Dalai Lama tried to speak at UCSD. This was at some point during COVID, like 2021 or 2022. And the Chinese students associations there were able to kind of weaponize the language of the universities to try to block him from being on campus. Right? They were saying, OK, you know, this is offensive to us. You know, this college is supposed to be a safe space from, you know, this is, you know, he's a separatist, like all this kind of stuff. And, you know, we've seen individual cases of them doing similar things with, you know, Taiwanese students and different, when there becomes a conflict on a specific China-related incident. But you're saying that it's not just that, but the wider issue with research at universities, intellectual property theft, how do you counter this without, I mean, does it have to explicitly be no Chinese students come to the US? I think it needs to explicitly be, it's an American experience for all students no matter where you come from. Students from across the world come to our universities because they are the best in the world. They are the best in the world because they are built upon American and Western values. Of open inquiry, searching for truth and research security, let's say those three principles in general. And so no matter where you come from, if you come from China, if you come from Japan, if you come from the United States, those principles cannot be infringed without, you know, beginning to destroy the higher education system writ large. If you're coming from China, I think you ought to be educated. And perhaps this is something that should happen is, you need to be educated on Communists. Here in Texas, we have mandatory education in K through 12 about Communism in the horse it has wrought upon the world. No where has Communism killed more people than in China. There are no people of the world who are greater victims of Communism than China. And so wherever we bring in students from, they should have an American experience. And what that includes is understanding the horse of alternative systems, systems that are not democratic, specifically communist systems. And it's not exactly a news flash for a Chinese national that their government has been butchering their people for a couple decades here. Now, I know a lot that is suppressed in China. You might show, I've seen the experience of showing a Chinese student the picture of tank man from Tiananmen Square, you know, that iconic picture of one brave Chinese man standing in front of the tank. And the students said, what is that? Because the student had never seen that photo before. And so that is the role of American education institution is to make clear this is a Western and specifically an American institution. And we need to educate firmly on the liberal arts where it is a Western institution that it's Western values that we should be teaching on these campuses. Science is science, right? So on the science side, you know, you're protecting against intellectual property theft. But in the liberal arts, we need to be promoting Western values on campus. If the Chinese Communist Party doesn't want their students learning Western values, then don't send them to American universities. But the American universities should explicitly assert that we are a Western institution. We promote Western values. And if you're coming, even from a communist country, that's how you're going to learn here. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, ChinaUncensored.tv, where you can watch the full hour long interview. Plus, get MP3 downloads of all of our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.