---
video_title: "We’re Joining TikTok!"
video_id: BbFIw0csq8w
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BbFIw0csq8w
video_date: 2026-03-27T16:32:49+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-330
  So now that TikTok is under new ownership, we thought we would give it a try.
---
And why have we, did we not bandage? Because that is one of the main vectors. I'm really frustrated with the way that the TikTok thing ended up, which is that it's owned by like a group of US companies, but by dance still owns 19.999999. And they also still, it's still their algorithm. It's honestly like, Trump did not ask my advice on this, but I would have advised him if I'd had the chance to just like sign the law that what he did sign the law, but like to not. No, Biden signed the law. The law came under Biden. But anyway, to follow it and not give them time to come up with this stupid work around that's that's all it's it's such an advantage to the CCP. And also like these companies like Oracle, like they're not exactly anti working with China. Yeah, it's very odd to that it's very unclear what the actual setup of the algorithm. Like it's there's a lot of a fussed up suspicion over what is actually happening. Just do what India did in 2020 and just ban Chinese apps or like the big ones that are influential. Speaking of psychological propaganda campaigns like the whole anti Indian thing that swept X. Oh, yeah, that was like that came in it kind of past. I mean, it's still there in the background. I think Trump's neutering of the H1B visas by making them $100,000 each. Uh-huh. Each somewhat like quieted that down because then people like that was like one of the main like flames fanning. Yeah, I think also the X like saying like displaying your country of origin. And then everyone was kind of like, Oh, you're like a Pakistani account. Yeah. That also kind of helped nip that in the butt a bit. Yeah, like I mean, I love the rest of history podcasts, but I hate how like at the beginning of every one every episode, it's like this episode is brought to you by TikTok. Uh, yeah. I've seen there was Michael Sobelich who we've had on the podcast was tweeting about how NRO national review online has decided to join, which is a very like old school conservative media has decided to join TikTok. And they kind of justified it by saying like four years we didn't because it was controlled by China. And now, you know, it's been so newest investor. So we made the decision to join TikTok. And he was like, this is stupid because, you know, listening a bunch of the things we just talked about. I do kind of wonder though, like if we should get a burner phone and like put, make some TikTok videos. See if we could, yeah, I'm not putting it on my phone. Yeah, yeah, definitely not on like it, like definitely a burner phone, maybe resurrect an old Nokia. Yes, your TikToks filled on your note. Well, we could, we could film it normally and then just use the old stupid phone to upload it. Can't be that stupid of a phone. Yeah, I was like, but you're not going to use your burner phone. From the we don't use for anything else. Yeah. Well, anyway, yeah, it's a, the narrative warfare thing is going to be very, I mean, you're already seeing that. Yeah, it's going to get scarier. It's going to get worse. Yeah, I mean, Drew Pavlo, like did this debate with some, some grouper and like you was like TSMC that sends Jewish. What? Yeah, it's it's Chris, Chris texted us this, Shelley. Yeah, it's, I mean, I must have missed it. Ah, let's let's not go there. Why does TSMC sound Jewish? Ah, it's when everything is secretly a Jewish conspiracy. It literally stands for Taiwan semiconductor Corp. Sounds like it's something from the town, but something. Uh, the point is, the point is the aliens have subverted our necessary discussions. That was a callback. Yeah. There's some weird thing going on on the far left right now where this, oh, woman who's like an influencer tried to run for in the Democratic Congressional primary in Illinois. And then she got dragged by progressives because she said that she would support Taiwan or she wanted, basically her position was actually kind of nuanced. And I think I disagree with her position, but she's thought about this, which is her position is that she wants Congress to actually codify what the US response to would be to well, if the China invaded Taiwan. Basically get rid of strategic ambiguity. So like her solution is that we say we would do passive support. So we would sell Taiwan weapons and we would use the US Navy to like stop like to kind of like intercede, but like not actually get into not actually shoots. Yeah, not actually get into a war with China over Taiwan. Like that we would say that we would help Taiwan, but not get involved in a certain way. And so then she started getting dragged on the far left as a pro war candidate who was saber rattling with China. And that's like so now she lost the primary. There are a bunch of people running like the top three kind of was like the top guy one with like 30%. She got 25% then the third person who is the moderate the top two they were both progressive and then the third person was like a moderate. And so people were like, oh, you know, she lost because she supported war over Taiwan. That's not the she lost because she was nuanced. And the lesson is when you're running for office, nuance is your end. No, I don't think simplistic statements. I don't know that that's why she lost. She also kind of carpet bagged into the district like she specifically the guy who won was a local politician who was the mayor of ever. Here comes Shelley derailing Matt Grant with logic and facts. I don't think her losing had anything to do with what she said about Taiwan. Oh, I'm eating this up. But yeah, that is that is a problem. There is like this absurd like anti war attitude of like like are you do you really think there's never a need for military force? And I think this goes back to a lot of people do not understand over the past 100 years how the US military has been used. They think of it as like, oh, Vietnam, that looms over everyone's imagination. But the reality is most of what the US military has done is insured open international trade on the seas. Or at least for the Navy. Yeah. You know, we we were allowing the kind of prosperity that's we've had. There have been other wars that we've been in the first Iraq war, right? Desert storm like in our lifetimes, Bosnia in the 90s. Like there have been other military conflicts. But I think just the 2004 Iraq war has just like taken over the popular consciousness of what it means for the US to go to war. Yeah. And this whole idea of like regime change wars. Yeah. That there cannot be that there is no difference between Iraq and Afghanistan and Iran. Right. But every war is a regime change war. So there can be no wars. Mm hmm. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, chiaminsensor.tv, where you can watch the full hour long podcast. Plus get MP3 downloads of our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. Link is below.