---
video_title: "Of Course China Would Be Crazy Enough To Try This..."
video_id: 2D6bbFn7E6Q
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2D6bbFn7E6Q
video_date: 2026-03-24T23:28:57+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-330
  China's territorial claims just seem to have a way of growing....
---
By the way, interesting digression. I saw on my sister sent me this thing where on the academic subreddit somebody was saying that they were trying to submit an article to a journal and the journal wanted them to change the map that was in their article to include China's 10-line. Really? Yes. And they were just like, is this, has this happened to anybody else? Is this usual? Is this just something we have to do now? Real quick, just so people watching maybe don't think you misspoke. It's now a 10-dash line. It is. Well, actually, interestingly, then someone in the comments said that they think Chinese geo researchers like people doing like geology geography, whatever, that kind of in that space have had to include what they said was the 11-dash line in their like academic submission. So what is the 11-dash line? I don't know. I don't know if I'm going to look this up now because I don't know if it's now an 11-dash line. Yeah. So this is something that has been going on for a really long time. It's another type of narrative warfare that I call map warfare. And the idea is that if the CCP can control how other people print and use maps for a long enough period of time, then that will become the official map. I see. Well, especially because all the maps are pretty much printed in China and by law they're required to print the official state version. Right. Interestingly, the 11-dash line was something from the ROC, the Republic of Taiwan because they included the Gulf of Tonkin. And so China took that off, the PRC took that off because of Vietnam. So China's is just the 10-dash line. So I don't know if the guy mispoked, but the new dash on the 10-dash line from the 9-dash line is like another dash up by Taiwan. It just clearly say Taiwan is part of it. But to get back to one of Matt's points, especially because, you know, war over Taiwan is obviously in China's backyard, one of the things the CCP has been working very hard at is what's called denial of access area of denial. I forget the specific term for it. It's I'm looking this up. But like specifically- Anti-access area denial. Yeah, yeah, that's it. Basically the idea that they can blockade Taiwan. And this is something like recently, like over the past couple of months, we have seen the maritime militia. China's totally civilian fishing fleet, essentially performing military maneuvers where they're able to like create like these large lines in the ocean. Yeah, they've been doing that off the sea of Japan since January. Yeah. Like doing these formations. And I also think it's not clear whether that's strictly the maritime militia only. Yeah. Or if it's like in general Chinese fishing boats in the area as well. That's right. There's the fishing fleet, the maritime militia, very, very blurry line between all of these and China's military. Yeah. Do you remember the guy we had on who was talking about how, hey, if we get into a war with China, there's no reason they wouldn't start, you know, loading missiles on cargo ships. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Like I don't, I don't mean like being able to launch them from cargo ships, but using cargo ships who be a supply line. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, also the advantage of that is like if you have civilian ships up in front, what's the US going to do? Blow up civilian ships and the CCP is like, oh, the US is filling in a sense of civilian. Well, look what happened like two weeks ago when the US, the US submarine launched torpedoes at an Iranian military vessel, right? But the military vessel was coming back from exercises in Indian Navy in the Indian Ocean. So the X was just blowing up with people claiming that this was a war crime. Yeah. Yeah. So I think that the big difference between what we're going to see if we have a war with China like a, like a kinetic war versus say World War One and World War Two is it's going to be wildly asymmetric in a way that like if we think of World War One as being especially the European front, right? We're like both sides had similar types of machine guns, similar trench trenches, similar warfare tactics. World War Two, you know, the, the English and the Americans had tanks and the Germans had tanks. So different design, but they were roughly similar in some ways. Right. Germany was superior. Yeah. A lot of that light technology. Right. But my point is that it was roughly symmetrical. I mean, what was going on at the castle of Wolfenstein? I was just feeling like I was, this is becoming a dad World War Two podcast. You know what I mean? I didn't take it there. I know, but I guess I don't know. I don't know enough about World War Two history. And then you guys just both start talking about capabilities. Right. Oh, that reminds me years ago there was something printed in Iranian state-run media that aliens had supported the Nazis, but then switched sides to the US. And that was a secret history of World War One. And then like the CCP, one, no, no, World War Two. Sorry. You did an episode about that. I did an episode about that. Like Chinese, like some Chinese state-run media reprinted that. And it's funny because here we are now with Iran. I was in a hotel room. So what people aren't telling you that the aliens are using Israel as a smoke screen to cover up with the real reason we're attacking Iran. It's actually because of the aliens because they expose the truth. So I don't even know if this sounds crazy anymore. The internet has gone this crazy. I was in a hotel room recently in scrolling through the cable channels. And there was some channel. I don't know if it was called the American Heroes channel. And this was late at night. It was like almost midnight. Their entire programming block was stuff about the Nazis. So those show that was on was called Nazi Magic Killers. And then after that it was something about like Nazis, Hitler's. Some like the Magical Girl anime. Something about Nazis, Hitler's zombie army. Oh, awesome. And then there was a Nazi aliens one. And I was like, I can't believe that this channel is just sustained on all Nazi supernatural content. That's brilliant. I did watch a few minutes of Nazi magic killers. And it was the part I saw was about how the Nazis tried to use astrologers for propaganda, how they hired this one guy to fake no-ster-damas prophecies. Like to do a translation of no-ster-damas into German that made it seem like his prophecies were predicting that the Nazis were going to win like in conquer the world. I mean, that's that is an interesting strategy because I think particularly like in the 19th century and still into the early 20th century, there was like this kind of during stream of mysticism, particularly in the United States, that like would have eaten that kind of stuff up. I mean, there was also in Germany. Yeah, yeah. And they were also talking about how Hitler believed there was this one German guy who had this really weird theory. And now I totally forget what it was. Oh, darn it. It was some... Damn it. Oh, well. But also Hitler, as we know, sent his soldiers to Egypt to try to find the arc of the covenant. Yes, that part. And because he believed it had mystical powers, but ultimately upon finding it, it really backfired and basically melted everyone's skin off. Yes, yes. There was some comic book, Star Wars comic book where Harrison... Well, Han Solo and Chewbacca crash land on Earth and he dies. And then his corpse is later discovered by Indiana Jones. Oh, I remember that. That was a weird one. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, Chinainsensor.tv, where you can watch the full hour-long podcast. Plus, get MP3 downloads of our podcasts, and most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. Link is below.