---
video_title: "Canada Is Putting The Entire US At Risk"
video_id: fu4-F4INwsY
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fu4-F4INwsY
video_date: 2026-02-04T16:03:07+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-325
  Canada has agreed to the framework of a trade deal with Canada that would trade lower tariffs on Canadian Canola oil for reducing tariffs on Chinese EV’s.
  
  Joining us today is Dennis Molinaro, author of the new book Under Assault: Interference and Espionage in China's Secret War Against Canada.
  https://www.amazon.com/Under-Assault-Interference-Espionage-Against/dp/1039011705
---
So Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney recently made a trip to China. It was a great trip. It made a lot of deals with China, particularly about Chinese EVs. Tell us about some of this deal, and if you think it's going to be good for Canada. So I don't think it's going to be good for Canada. I think this is premature in terms of having a deal with China at this point. I mean, we've had not so good relationship going back to 2017-2018. So Canada didn't really have. I feel like we didn't put up any type of real guardrails or ability to safeguard against BRC interference, BRC activities against us, trade sanctions against us. And so this deals premature. I mean, offering, we basically were allowing PRCE EVs to come into North America, which I think is a disastrous mistake to do for a whole lot of reasons. We could talk about that. But it was in exchange for a lifting of tariffs that China put on a big industry of Canada's Canola. But they've done that before. So if anything, I feel like this will basically reward coercion. The rape-seed oil of Canada. Yes. So, well, okay, let's maybe start with some of the EVs. Why is that a problem? Don't we want to, you know, more green energy, right? We can have more green energy if you want, but not with these cars. I mean, the problem is that these cars are equipped with lots of technology that can be used for surveillance, spying purposes. I mean, the PRCE can get with these cars. I mean, you're going to have your phones dialed into them. You're going to have GPS tracking and abilities. You're going to have sensors. They're going to plug into your infrastructure. They're going to collect all manner of data. And, you know, with other PRCE companies, sometimes we're always debating what happens to the data. Where does it go? Or if it's an American subsidy or some city area. Where does it go? But in this case, we know it will go straight back to China. And so that's a huge problem. And I don't think they're going to be allowed in the United States either to cross the border. I seriously doubt that. That would be interesting if we somehow had to stop cars coming from Canada into the US, given the border control. We're going to build a wall across the North and Canada is going to pay for it. Canada doesn't have the money to pay for it. No, we probably don't. Okay. Well, I wanted to ask about the, is there a recognition in Canada by intelligence or military that these cars are dangerous? Because, you know, they're countries like this last week, I think Poland just banned Chinese DVs from being on military sites and Poland. Israel did it like last month. Yeah, Israel did it a while ago. So is there any recognition in Canada that this is a concern? I haven't heard anything yet. Actually, in terms of coming from security services, I haven't seen anything on this at the moment. I mean, you're right. And we've started, started in the UK as well. There, you know, those cars aren't permitted to drive to a number of government sites. You have to, you know, drive them, take two miles, like drive, park them a two miles from your work. They're suggesting you don't plug your phones into them. So, what we haven't heard anything yet in terms of what precautions we're going to be taking. I mean, the problem for me is that if you have to take all these precautions for a car that you're buying, why are you buying this car? Well, it's slightly cheaper. Yeah, but I mean, at what, at what long-term cost, right? I mean, because that's the problem, you bring in a cheaper car like this. You integrate it into the North American, what's going to happen is it's people saying, well, okay, you bring the car over, but it's just a car. What's the problem? The problem is it's got to be serviced. You're going to need parts. You're going to need all kinds of things that are going to come along with that vehicle. And that's going to get integrated into the supply chains in North America. And that's going to undercut manufacturing here. So, why, why, I mean, this sounds like a terrible idea on many levels. Why did Carney go to China and think this is what we need to do? Yeah, that's a good question. So, I think there's an element that people are saying here that, well, an element of that is because of Trump's threat of Trump's tariffs and because of the potential loss of the free trade agreement with the United States. I don't see that as a reason to go and do this, though. Mainly because I feel like the focus should be on working with the administration to try to fight a solution. I think that's the proactive and sensible thing to do. To run to an authoritarian regime to claim you're going to engage in a strategic partnership, I see as actually hurting the chances of a productive agreement being made. Well, what is what is the sense inside of Canada about this? It is strange. Like, I can definitely understand why Canadians might not like the talk of the 51st state. But then again, to go to communist China for an objectively bad deal that threatens Canadian and U.S. national security. What's wrong with like Japan? That's a good question. I mean, nothing's wrong with Japan. I like Japan. I think Japan is a viable option for something like that. But I think that the problem that comes with China and Canada is that there's... And I talk about this in my book in under a salt that the history is kind of predicated on this idea that China can offer wealth. There's this idea that you go to China and the United States was vulnerable for this too, especially back in the 90s. The idea that you could go and trade with China and it's going to invest and it's going to produce all kinds of wealth and trade opportunities for your country. And Canada bought into that quite wholesale and basically believed what it wanted to believe about China for a very long time. And I think still does. So I think there's that nostalgia that going back to that kind of attitude that we really haven't learned from over the last few years. So I have a question about the actual technology in these EVs that Canada is so keen on. Like surely Canadian intelligence services understands this. Like they're not the Canadian stupid service. Like how was... That was good, Matt. Was it? Was it? It was among my worst. However, there's a point to be made here. He was working. He was preparing that question like all of us. Yeah. I had written it down just like that in my notes. He worked down. It did well in the workshop. It was only me. I have a question in there, which is what is how stupid? Why stupid? I'd like to apologize on behalf of China and scripted. Sorry. To my audience and to you. It's hard. We can't evaluate. That's the problem. There's nothing's been said. So I mean, if somebody came out and said something, then we could maybe... We could judge it and try to figure out what's the rationale, but there's been nothing. Which I'm actually kind of surprised about. I would have thought that there would be something, but again, maybe the concern is nobody wants to go against what the government has in mind here. When it comes to this trade agreement or this arrangement, and so everyone's kind of keeping quiet for now, I don't know. I can only speculate really. Thank you for watching this clip, but there's a lot more we couldn't put here on YouTube. So visit our website, ChinaNcensored.tv, so you can watch the entire hour-long interview, plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.