---
video_title: "Why All of Iran’s Past Protests Failed"
video_id: X7jVPieM_Zk
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X7jVPieM_Zk
video_date: 2026-01-25T14:27:22+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-323 
  We’re now seeing the fourth nationwide protest in Iran in two decades. Iranian authorities have crushed them all in the past. Will this time be different? Why? Joining us is former Marine Intelligence Officer Grant Newsham.
---
Does the regime get away with this? They've been their behavior really since they were founded. It's nothing new. But you think of the effect this has on the people who want something different and who want to get rid of the corrupt thugs that run the country and have for 47 years now. They go out, they take their chances and a lot of them get shot and more of them get arrested. When you get arrested, you get into the clutches of the Iranian secret police, the IRGC. It is really bad and particularly for women. To suddenly have the people who encourage you to do that, to go out and rise up, to have them say, well, we're making progress. The regime didn't hang that guy the other day. You got to be wondering, well, didn't you tell us that we were supposed to go do something and what we did, where are you? And at that point, if you've got to explain yourself, you've lost. Hopefully by the time this comes out Monday, this whole thing will be like very pastiche, something big will have happened. A lot of the killing is being done thanks to Chinese equipment, isn't that correct? At least a lot of these surveillance. Oh, yeah. They've got a very strong, long-standing relationship with the Chinese. And the Chinese have been providing weaponry, everything from small arms to ballistic missiles to shoulder fired anti-aircraft missiles. You name it, the Chinese have been providing it to Iran for years. And the surveillance technology, of course, is something that the regime uses very effectively and the Chinese are involved in all of that. And that's one of the problems that the Iranian freedom fighters have is this digital surveillance, digital crackdown on them, that it makes it hard for them to cooperate, to coordinate, to get some synergies between themselves, particularly given the geographic distance between the cities in Iran or just to know what's being done. That sort of coordination is essential for an opposition movement, for resistance movement. It's just very hard for them to operate in this regard. The incredible words do after the 2009 Green Revolution, when the Iranians rose up over just a completely rigged election and really had the regime tottering. And they were waiting for some word of encouragement from the Obama administration, and they got none at all. And that, just a word of encouragement just might have been enough to tip things over. But afterwards, the Iranian regime realized that they had to get the internet under control because it had been used to organize. So the people who really helped them with that was a very well-known Swedish telecommunications company. I was glad to make some money to help the regime do what was necessary to make it very difficult for Iranians to talk about being free without getting collared and dragged into prison and being shot. So I guess this is the big question. There have been several major protests over the years, 2009. As you mentioned, 2019, 2022. Does this look like this might be different or is it just going to be more of the same? I think the scale of it was different. This was bigger in more places. Lasted a bit longer. Well, it's still going on. But these things do tend to burn out, unfortunately. Not always, but for example, Polish dot-workers seem to have a pretty good state power back in the Soviet Union days. But the momentum sort of dissipates. But the scale of this was bigger than it's ever been. Also the economic difficulties in Iran, where the money is basically worthless, that affects all parts of society. And when one real is worth more than half a million, it's vice versa. But suddenly all your wealth is not worth anything. And say that affects everyone. And I've heard some figures that maybe 10, 15% of the population actually like the regime. The regime's corruption has been well-known for a long time. It's just thoroughgoing corruption. There was talk the other day that the top dog, his family moved one and a half billion dollars into a Gulf state. And there is money flowing out of Taiwan. That's people who have access to foreign currency. So that's a pretty good sign of concern on the part of the regime, but also just how bad things have gotten for the average Iranian. And the economic sanctions, financial sanctions that have been put on by the Americans and some others have had a real effect. Unfortunately, in the Biden administration just relaxed all of them. And that gave the regime some breathing room. So if we had done things a little differently and kept the pressure applied, this time might have worked. And still not over yet, make no mistake. It's easy to say, well, it's finished or we're going to have to wait another few years to the next chance. You never quite know. And one wonders if the bubbling is still there. And it just might blow up a little bit sooner than we think. But this is different than I've ever seen in the years that I've been following this. And this was the one time I thought that with a little foreign support to go after that coercive infrastructure of the regime, and I'm talking about the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps IRGC, the militias and the police, the secret police, and also at the same time hit the oil export terminals, which is really the source of, it's the only thing the Iranians have, really, that gives them enough money to keep afloat. But if you go after the coercive part of the regime, humiliated them, hammered them, killed them, that the people who rose up, but then not have to face that kind of a barrier. And that's always part of the equation. But if a regime is ruthless enough and its security services remain intact and loyal, that it can last longer than it's otherwise should. Yes, sort of our analysis was that if there were just some targeted strikes on the Revolutionary Guard, that could encourage the Iranian regular army to maybe side with the protesters destabilize the regime. But you mentioned economic pressure. One of the things Trump has done is he said there would be a 25% tariff on any country that does the trades with Iran. Obviously, that's mainly China. Do you think that is an effective tactic? I would rather see some IRCD bombed, but that's me. I mean, is that going to stop China from trading with Iran? Yeah. I don't think that will be enough. It's a nice tactic. If you put yourself in the other guy's shoes, you'd rather that Trump wasn't putting this tariff on any trade with Iran. So that would push tariffs on Chinese goods somewhere around 70% or fairly high. So it's a good move. But by itself, it's unlikely to have much effect at all. If you were to actually crack down and enforce sanctions on the export of Iranian oil, and China buys about 90% of Iran's oil exports, if you were to crack down on that, that would have more of an effect, actually, finally, in forced sanctions. But by itself, I don't know that it's going to have a decisive effect in this case. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, ChinaNcensor.tv, where you can watch the full hour-long interview plus get MP3 downloads of our podcast. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. Link is below.