---
video_title: "China’s Military Is Here"
video_id: IqvwdrTdRPI
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqvwdrTdRPI
video_date: 2026-04-17T00:08:54+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-332
  China doesn’t need to invade if it can buy up the right land around the U.S. military sites.
---
You've argued that food security is national security. I mean, a lot of people kind of think of agriculture as just food production. Why is it a national security issue? Well, it is just food production in a way, but that's what we eat. At least three times a day. Hopefully, if you're being healthy, we may be a lot of snacking in between, but those calories is what keeps us alive. It's not just me saying that there's a USDA plan called the Farm Security Action Plan. That was launched by Secretary Brooke Rollins back in July of last year, 2025. A seven-point plan. The top of that plan is what I mainly dealt with. That's protecting agricultural land from foreign adversary acquisition and also improving the way that we record foreign acquisition of land, whether adversary or not we track that. Other features on there is food supply chain security, research security because USDA and other organs of the federal government are researching bioterrorism defenses or in some cases offensive, but also protecting our crops. I'm sure that your viewers remember back last summer as well in June. There was the fungus that was imported into Michigan via the Detroit airport by some Chinese researchers. Also developing defenses to that sort of situation. Also, unfortunately, two of our top agricultural related companies are owned by Chinese interests. That's number one, Syngenta. That is a seed and crop protection company, one of the top in the world. That was bought from a Swiss company back in 2016 by Ken China, which is a state-affiliated company, which is listed by our Pentagon as a state, rather as a PLA-tied, so military tied organization in China and Smithfield Foods, which is the top pork producer in the country, has control of a quarter of the pork. So you're bacon, your pork chops, a huge amount of the protein that goes into our country. Those are just two examples. I mean, you really would think letting China have control over so much of our food supply chain and medical supply chain seems short-sighted. I mean, how much control do they have over the food supply chain? You know, well, as I mentioned, these are top, you know, in this case, in Syngenta, there are only three or four companies that actually deal in this space at scale. And, you know, as someone like me, and I'm like the majority of your audience, I'm sure who are not farmers who don't understand this space, there's something called seed-trade technologies. And now, you know, farming, you don't just throw a bunch of seeds into the ground and hope that that works out. You have to optimize these seeds for the environment that you're growing in. You know, some soil is more sandy, some is more clay, and you need to optimize depending on where you're growing in the country, the crop that you're growing. And so, what's more important in soybean are the biggest stable crops that we're talking about in this situation. Another thing you need is big data, just like in every industry now. So you need AI. So, you know, you have AI attached to your tractor. It is mapping your field. You have drones, which, unfortunately, many of our Chinese may. But even if they're not, this big data can lock into those drones. So, imagine you're, you know, flying these drones around your property, you know, delivering pesticides to your crops or your tractor, which is actually laying the seeds. This goes into a big data system. And in the case of Xinjiang, apparently, there is quite good. And of course, ultimately, this is all accessible to the Chinese Communist Party. So, give us like a Doomsday scenario. Like, what could the Chinese Communist Party do to the US food supply? Give us the Doomsday scenario. Well, here's the Doomsday scenario, Chris, which is that, you know, our agricultural land is not only for producing crops. It's also spread across our country in some rural areas. Some of those rural areas happen to a butt, military bases and sensitive infrastructure. That's why, you know, legal, there's been interest both in the states and at the federal level in this question. Because not only is agricultural land a food issue, it's also a national security issue in the sense of proximity to critical infrastructure. That's a more traditional national security issue. So, let's take a case in 2019, a Chinese billionaire bought 15,000 acres of agricultural land on the border of Texas and Mexico. Now, he was going to use this for a wind farm. Actually, a lot of people don't know that agricultural land today. A lot of the huge purchases are actually to be used for wind farms. That would have also connected him to the Texas electricity grid to give him access to that. But it was also nearby, Lockland Air Force Base and some of its training flight paths. So, this gives a permanent platform for surveillance and sabotage of military bases. Number two, 2022, further up north in our country. Brand Forks Air Force Base in North Dakota, which houses a third of our B1 bomber fleet. A company called Fufeng Group bought a corn mill within nine miles of that installation. Unfortunately, our federal government fell down in that situation. There's something unfortunately I'm going to have to introduce some acronyms. There's a very important committee called CIFIAS, the committee on foreign investment in the United States. And that committee is supposed to govern these incoming corporate purchases, which may affect the national security of the United States. Back in 2022, CIFIAS reviewed that purchase that's near that Brand Forks Air Force Base and they allowed it. And that's basically through a failure of government bureaucracy. That base was not listed on the list of sensitive sites on CIFIAS's list. So, that purchase went through. It took pressure on the state and local level in order to get that company Fufeng Group out. Now, imagine in a hot war scenario with China over Taiwan in the South China Sea, wherever it may happen. And you have those permanent platforms for surveillance or sabotage near those two military bases. And there may be more that we don't know because the system for recording those purchases is very flawed, which we can talk about as well. But you could activate drones. This happened in Russia. Ukraine was able to activate drones across multiple Air Force bases, destroy their strategic bomber fleet almost in one fell swoop. Israel did a similar thing in Iran. It pre-placed drones next to Air Force bases. This is a proven method and this could be employed in the United States. If you don't properly record and counteract this phenomenon. So what you're saying is this farmland or wind farm could have just a warehouse of drones. And they just launched them whenever they want to attack a military base. Right. It could have a warehouse full of drones. It could have surveillance apparatus there, which is reporting back to the PLA in China. Reporting on these planes taking off for their bombing runs. We have these B2 bombers, which are deployed from the continental United States, fly around the entire world in order to drop their payloads on Iran. This happened last summer. It's happening in the military conflict right now. So yes, surveillance itself is a huge threat and makes these pilots vulnerable, makes our weapons systems vulnerable as far as carrying out their needed missions in a war scenario. And this would apply even more so, probably even more time sensitive in a Taiwan contingency. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, ChinaNcensor.tv, where you can watch the full hour long interview plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.