---
video_title: "We Almost Died from Taiwan’s Beef Hotpot"
video_id: Ld2W5ccJxhs
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ld2W5ccJxhs
video_date: 2026-04-14T14:44:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-331
  Chris once joked that Trump should save Taiwan just for its beef hotpot. But there’s a downside to how good it is - it can kill you. Joining us to discuss this and much more serious topics is Ethan Gutmann, the author of The Xinjiang Procedure, a book about Chinese transplant doctors taking out Uyghur organs while their hearts are still beating. You can order it at https://www.amazon.com/Xinjiang-Procedure-Ethan-Gutmann/dp/1968919201
---
You know what I will say though, is time when these political culture is fantastic. There's nothing like in the world. You know they do those wonderful things when they put the AI figures? Oh yeah. They're going to stop out. Oh my gosh, they did so many with me and Cod and were punching each other. Oh, I would say that specifically. But yeah, we were there for the election in 2020 and like we were just amazed. They're like, wow, this is such a vibrant, amazing civic life thing. This makes me very glad, Chris, that the most controversy you got into was the beef hot pot thing. Oh, in Taiwan. Where you said that Trump should save Taiwan just for the beef hot pot. And then the the legislative we were interviewing gave an interview to like the media about how you had said that their local beef hot pot was so good that Trump should taste it. So he would save Taiwan. And then he yeah, I still stand by that. Yeah, you know, ask Lee Shy, I almost died in Taiwan because of the hot pot. Yes. Really? Yes, because it was all you could eat. It was one of us places King Mala King Mala. So you're saying hold on, let me finish. Okay, okay, okay, you can eat and you can eat and you can eat and they don't even have time with it back then. So you can then go help yourself to ice cream as well. And but I just ate the hot pot and it was just me and Lee Shy and he's a vegetarian, he didn't mind the broth. It's too much. And we just ate me and then finally I got out of there because my whole shoulder was starting going on. Well, when we were there last time, we did find we wanted to like a really good hot pot place. We found a place all you can eat, but they were only open for another like 30 minutes. And so we had to like cram the food in and we all felt horrible. We maybe almost died because of hot pot in Taiwan as well. Yeah, there's not time. Taiwan's deadly. They should put a dangerous place. I nearly died of hot pot. It would have been a really interesting way, you know, to your human rights activist or your human rights guy goes out and just feel like he has a hot pot. Was this so if you done if you had died of hot pot, who in Jim, I'd be president of Taiwan right now or president of Taipei. Chinese Taipei. You know, I have no way of knowing that because who knows what the control Iran would have gone fully after him. We just don't know. I do know one thing, the doctor who revealed that he'd been doing the ECMO experiments. I know him quite well, Dr. Sue. And he told me last time I was in Taiwan, he said, when you stood up, I stood up. Okay, so it's true that there is that effect. And he did not like Cohen, you had been very disrespectful to him. He was an army doctor in Cohen, Joe, it's just like your army doctor, you're nothing. You know, I don't care what surgery to him. And so he had a grudge, but he also knew this information. And so it is true that these things have an effect. I mean, one person stands up and the more happens. I don't ever want to go back to doing that again. It was literally like, I mean, everybody in Taiwan recognized me at that time. People would stop on the street. Waitress looked like she was going to poison my food. It was just very kind of tense. It was very over the top. And again, my wife was very helpful in sort of holding everything together. But it was an interesting experience. And I do love Taiwan. I must say, I love Taipei. It's the last time I was back, I was there for six months, nobody seemed to recognize me. I mean, I knew some people there, but nobody put stop in the street or anything. There's also a very short attention span. It's not a 24 hour new cycle. It's a four hour new cycle. I mean, it's amazing. The dynamism of that place. And you know, they are the richest stations in the world now. Per capita. I mean, that happened while I was there. That's an incredible thing. And of course, what my main concern is if Taiwan can hold out, it's like Constantinople. It's like if Constantinople can just hold out long enough, maybe we can maybe China will change. I don't know. We need to give them cannons, lots of cannons. Cannons? Yeah. Oh, you mean you're a Constantinople style. Yeah. So in general, I had a very good feeling. But I am looking forward to the reception of this now. It's not going to be the same because he's not a viable political figure anymore. But I have tried to get that air of both black comedy and the sun tragedy in there. And also the fact that he, and just the misuse of everything. I mean, we all made mistakes there. Okay. A good investigator would have been like the CIA. They would have known everything about him the time he sit down. Right? I didn't do that. Then I refused to do it. You're saying that it should refuse to do it. So that the truth is must be just the opposite, right? No, exactly. Yes, I worked with the Chinese. Well, there is one more interesting little thing about the ECMO. And you were talking about how they, he was selling metronik like the US company ECMO. And then China started buying ECMO machines from a German company until. Have a month. Yes. It was mobile. There's, it's metronik became an Irish company. Anyways, they did it. Oh, they did that. They did that. Yeah. So they're not, they don't have to sue me. You really don't have to. There's nothing bad said about metronik. They needed to do stuff in Xinjiang. They needed mobile ECMO machines. Much smaller. These ones were huge. They metronik. Yeah. And then the weirdest thing happens. Suddenly, all the top transplant hospitals that were buying these ECMO mobile, they were doing an auction. They were buying them on mass. And these are the most notorious transplant hospitals. All of a sudden in June, 2018, 2018, 2019, 2019, yeah, June 2019, they suddenly switched to ventilators. Well, that kind of predates COVID by about five months. Huh. Now, that just happened. They never went back to buying them. Now it is true that the Chinese were already starting to imitate them. And a company did eventually emerge, which sold them even legally. They're knockoffs of the Germans, but they do work. And they're obviously much cheaper. So there may be an explanation there except why the sudden rush to ventilators. And it's really overwhelming. It's like a complete shift. Now it turned out, the ultimate irony is that of course it turned out that ventilators kill people with COVID-19. And ECMO doesn't. They're really good. They're excellent transfer. They say ECMO saved a lot of lives in China and other places too because it's a very efficient way to keep the body going under great stress. But I don't know what to do with that information. I just put it in. I put it in the footnote. It's very good of you to notice it. But this business with the... I've always suspected that Epic Times did some very interesting stuff. Maybe it was New Town Dynasty. Where they just photographed, they just took the satellites, photos of the hospitals. And suddenly in June, jam packed. For no reason at all. Suddenly mid-June, early-June, some jam packed parking lots. And then it recedes after a while. And then we go later with real COVID, it really hits the jam packed again. And everybody said, well, you know, that's not proof of anything. Well, well, well, well, well, no, it isn't. But it makes you think. It does make you think. I'm just asking questions here. That's what we're just asking questions.