---
video_title: "Why Europe Cannot Defend Greenland Anymore"
video_id: 0uehKAEPFzU
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0uehKAEPFzU
video_date: 2026-01-22T19:45:42+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-323 
  Everything Donald Trump does is controversial—including trying to buy Greenland. Europe has reacted by sending 34 “Special Forces” to protect Greenland. Wait, only 34? This has got to be a joke, right? Joining us is former Marine Intelligence Officer Grant Newsham.
---
What do you think about going on with Greenland and it's being framed in a lot of the media as the EU is sending troops to Greenland in the face of Trump's threats to take Greenland? I think except for the aircraft, you could probably squeeze most of the troops that have been sent into the studio where I'm sitting. It's not huge numbers. 30 elite European troops. Well, they'll let you fit in here easily. It's, I would have to, you know, you don't want to be too glib about it, but if any other president in American history had suggested the same thing, nobody would have said a word. I'm talking about Mr. Trump saying we're going to want to buy Greenland and we're going to get it. It's Trump deranged syndrome that is manifesting itself to arrangement syndrome, excuse me. But there is that aspect too, which is, it's a distraction to put it mildly. And if the Europeans had taken their defenses and taken Greenland's defense seriously, we wouldn't even be talking about this. But this reflects really just how European defenses have lapsed and eroded to the point where they're pretty much inconsequential in a larger sense. And now the Americans and President Trump is trying to do something about that. Greenland is strategic terrain if there ever was. You know, dominates the North Pacific, the roots up to the Arctic and over to Asia. I think the minerals that it has in abundance, that's a secondary issue. It's the geographies. They can real estate, it's location, location, location. Something Trump knows about. No, he, the real estate man from Queen certainly does. And the Russians and the Chinese know this very well too, that if you get some sort of presence in Greenland, the ability to operate from there, that it's a huge advantage. And if your main enemy is the United States, which they say it is. And they're sniffing around. And if you look at how the Chinese, for example, who go on all in in the Arctic, despite they call themselves a neorectic state, even though that term does not exist in international law or anywhere else. And I think they're about as close to the Arctic as Baghdad or Iraqis, that they know the importance of it. And that's the Arctic. They've been very active here. And is there some force field in Greenland, which would say that the, well, the Chinese aren't going to go anywhere near it? Well, they are. And they recognize it. Just like everywhere else, they would like to have a presence, would like to dominate if not control it. The US recognizes it. At least some people do. And it's saying, look, we've got to do something about this. Whether or not the America actually buys it. I don't know whether, not American fades it. I doubt that very much. But there has to be some sort of control that the United States has over Greenland. And the Europeans, as I said, they've got to get their defense act together. And they haven't done that. Even their political act is sort of spotty. But the fact that it's Mr. Trump who's saying, let's resolve this, that's where people's hair gets on fire. But that's what we deal with. So I'm not, you know, I don't think we're going to invade. I don't think there's going to be war sort of war with the European's over this. But it is funny to hear, say, French generals talking about having to fight the America against, well, with what? The issue of Greenland, it's one that has never gotten much attention. But it should have. And now it is. And it's just one more thing that the Trump administration is dealing with. And they've had some successes. And we'll see how this one plays out. So. Do you think the Trump administration is seeing something that, you know, other people aren't seeing like they have some information? Because I feel like what's happened is that Trump has pretty much come out and said that he wants Greenland because of Russia and China. And people are either ignoring that completely. Or there's like a lot of downplaying I've seen about any issues with Russia and China. People like, oh, well, China hasn't really made any big plays for Greenland. They have a minimal presence, that kind of thing. Do you think this is just the Trump administration forward thinking or they're seeing something? Maybe that we don't have access to. Maybe that's classified. That would make them more concerned about what's happening in the Arctic. The Kaiju's living under the surface of the ice. That must be it. I believe that's it. But they, besides that, they, I think, is some of each. Mr. Trump has access to the intelligence. The Chinese and the Russians are there going by it, for example. You see this actually around Alaska as well. So they're sniffing around, not there in force. But if you look back, say, 15 years and say, consider China and the Arctic, well, nobody's there. There's no Chinese up there. Yeah, they talk. They've sort of been Chinese journals. There's been talk up to the Arctic being of interest, but they're not there. Therefore, there's nothing to worry about. But if someone had said, well, let's maybe not look focus only on the immediate present, but let's look into the future and look at Chinese behavior. Look at what they're saying and maybe give them some credit for being smart enough, clever enough, industrious enough to be able to actually do what they say at some point. Well, now look at them. You can see how that presence has shifted into the Arctic and it's substantial. And Antarctica as well. So Greenland, you have something similar. So you could say, well, there's not many Chinese there. We don't see Chinese restaurants there. Or whatever it is. But we play it out five, ten years. And Greenland will be very much in play. And what the Americans are doing is getting ahead of this. But there is a, when President Trump says there's something to worry about in terms of an immediate presence, he knows what he's talking about. And you know, he switched to Venezuela. That something similar is going on there. It's not, they didn't grab Maduro just because he's a thug and a drug dealer and his wife is the brains behind it all. But it's Venezuela being used for a long time now by China, by Russia, Iran, Cuba as a base from which to really to destabilize the entire region. And it's also over time they will have the ability to directly attack the United States. So that is, I think, a good bit of the reason why the Americans moved on on Venezuela. And Greenland, it's not in that, not the Venezuela yet, but play it out. But you have to, if you're establishing a foreign policy and national security policy, it is helpful to look beyond the next week and to think of how things could be in ten to fifteen years and what the, our opponents actually are saying they're going to do. And that's what we're saying on display in with Greenland is some forward, some forward thinking. And as has been reported, you know, Harry Truman tried to buy Greenland from the days. In 1910, the Americans tried to do it. Abraham Lincoln Secretary of State made an offer for Greenland. But the real estate man from Queens comes along and talks about this and suddenly, you're in a European hair and sort of lights. So, you know, let some context is helpful here. But it's good to see some forward thought from an administration. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, ChinaNcensored.tv, where you can watch the full hour long interview plus get MP3 downloads of our podcast. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. Link is below.