---
video_title: "Taiwan is Becoming a High Tech Military Fortress"
video_id: 5unlOoQIUzg
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5unlOoQIUzg
video_date: 2026-06-11T14:36:39+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-339
  Taiwan is increasing its defense spending to make sure any attack from the CCP is met with strong resistance. It has taken advantage of the US’s Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 to buy up some of the United States’ most advanced weapons systems, turning the island into a high-tech military fortress. Taiwan Ambassador Alexander Yui Tah-ray joins us.
---
Well, on the topic of the threat of a Chinese invasion, there has been criticism that Taiwan isn't taking itself to fence seriously enough. How would you respond to that? Yes. I've been getting a lot of suggestions from friends here in the United States in DC and capital saying that, you know, we support Taiwan, we're friends and they'll do anything, but their concern for Taiwan cannot be more than the concern that we ourselves have on our defense and our well-being, of being attacked or degradation from outside. And actually, you know, we are doing what we can and we're strengthening our defense capabilities. Actually, our defense budget has almost doubled in the last 10 years. And as many people know, President Leye also late last year proposed an additional 40-billion dollars worth of defense budget to increase our asymmetric defense capabilities by buying more arms and having better communications and self-defense and civil defense capabilities, etc. So, so, and our defense will be 3% of our GDP by this year and 5% by the year 2030. So actually, you know, it's much in line with what many other countries are doing right now to increase their share, the burden of defending ourselves against, you know, again, we subscribe to that. You know, Taiwan and other countries, we after World War II, we've recovered from the war. We have become more prosperous economically, so sharing the burden of defense, I think it's just, you know, I think it's very logical, reasonable. And we are doing actually quite a lot in improving. The United States just announced a late last year, 11 billion dollars worth of arms sales. And there's another, you know, widely publicized pending 14 billion dollar sales. So, so again, and we, the 40-billion dollar budget that was put forth to consideration by our, to our legislature, they passed two thirds of it, around 25 billion. And actually, that covers the purchase of the 11 billion plus the, the, the, the upcoming or the pending 14 billion dollars worth of equipment that we need to, to acquire to, in order to be better at our defense capabilities. So we, we're doing a lot and, and, and also not only on the military side, but also on the whole society aspect, our civil defense, we're doing better for our reserve, military reserve system. We're doing more serious training and preparations, and also, you know, have a much more resilient energy supply, medical supply, food stock supply, etc. So we're, you know, doing more actively to prepare for this scenario that hopefully will never come, but nevertheless, be prepared for that. And we're looking, taking a lot of cues from what's happening in Ukraine. How does a society function on their duress during wartime situations? How, how do other countries, particularly countries in, in, in, in, in borrowing with Russia? How, how do they prepare for this, you know, situations, etc.? There's dual use of many installations. And we learned quite a bit from, from, from these countries that we're taking a heat and doing actually, doing preparations. So, so, there's being many, uh, friends, senators, congressmen who visited Taiwan a few years ago and come back as well. I'm a little concerned, like, like you said, I, I think you're not, you guys are not doing enough, but now that, when they go back now to Taiwan, take a look, and they come back and they say, well, Alex, congratulations, you guys are doing exactly what we thought. We think we need, you, you need to be doing it. And actually, we are doing what we, what it takes. So again, we, we subscribe to peace of strength. And also, we want peace. We want to have, you know, good dialogue with the other side with Beijing. They won't talk to us, but, but we also know that if you want to talk about peace, you have to talk from the position of strength. And that's to be well defended. Right. So, what's your sense among the younger people, like 18 to 30 fighting age, men especially, do you get the sense that, that by and large, this group is ready to put their lives on the line to defend Taiwan? Or they kind of like, we just prefer to kind of like have good economic ties and not worry about war. Yeah. Well, if you go to Taiwan today, you know, well, by the way, there are a lot, a lot more new direct fights between the United States and Taiwan and June 26th to look commercial. June 26th, there'll be direct fights between DC and DC and Taipei, and that's from Taipei, direct fights. So if you go to Taiwan today, you just now, you know, you walk around, you won't feel any, you know, sense of tension, nervousness, people running around, you know, preparing for war. Why? Because we've been like this for the last 77 years, you know, since PRC became a people's republic, they've been trying to get to Taiwan. As you remember, in the early 50s, there was a Kenman battle, the artillery, they're trying to land on Kenman, which they, which they failed, been trying to get Taiwan ever since, and they've been there. But that doesn't mean that because you don't see nervousness in our eyes and our, you know, daily life that we are not aware of the situation. So you're crane invasion by Russia actually also changed a lot of these perspectives that people thought, well, again, when I was born, you know, many years ago, we were already under threat from the Chinese, possible Chinese invasion, but that was just a way of life and sort of allow, well, this is just life as it is, so it's normal. So there was some kind of an awareness of this possible danger that would come up, loom out on Taiwan. But the Ukraine invasion changed quite a bit of our perception of our citizens towards what war means. When they saw their images of Kiev being bombed, you know, people being displaced and losing their houses and military actually invading their lines occupying, that brought a different perspective. So there's more and more active organizations, NGOs who are actually also organizing themselves to teach civilian population on being more resilient in terms of, you know, civilian defense and what to do in terms of war. If you call the youth, they will more than, I mean, obviously there are people who say, well, we shouldn't go to war if there's a war I'll leave. But if you call the people in Taiwan, I think probably 67 percent will say, I will stay and do something about Taiwan, different country, et cetera. Because again, we're in Ireland, there's no place for us to go. You know, Ukraine has many borders, but we don't, we have to see. So there is also the notion about, you know, whether you're Chinese or Taiwanese, you know. Maybe 10 years ago, if you ask people in Taiwan, they say, I'm Chinese. And then five years ago, I said, well, yes, I'm Chinese and Taiwanese. But now you ask people in Taiwan, they'll say I'm Taiwanese. This identity of being Taiwanese is also very strong after 77 years, particularly because of the constant pressing and isolation that the Chinese Communist Party is trying to, you know, put on Taiwan. So there's this feeling of, okay, you know, the more you want to press us, the more we want to say, well, we are, we are, and we will not let anyone, you know, step on our, step on our step on us and we will defend it. So I think the notion of the feeling of Taiwan is actually very strong in Taiwan. But again, we don't need friends, we don't, we don't need to acquire, you know, the, the arms needed arms to different ourselves. And that's why we still hope that the 14 billion pending arms cells from the United States will, we'll, we'll, we'll go through. Although I also might point out that President Trump has been, the president has done the most to, to, to arm, you know, to sell Taiwan the required arms doing his first term as president, he sold Taiwan about $18 billion worth of arms. And his current presidency, as I mentioned, last, last year he announced the $11 billion worth of arms sales to Taiwan. We're buying, we're not, you know, we're not getting it for free. We're buying. And there's this pending $18 billion. But again, it's, it is necessary. We want to modernize our, our armed forces want to have the equipment that are interoperable with our neighbors and with US, you know, military so that if there's any conflict, at least we are able to connect and communicate with each other or at least share information with each other to face the same. Again, the, the conflict, the, the, what happens, not just on Taiwan, it's, it's, it's the whole island, you know, first island change, Japan and the Philippines. And as you well know, if you've also, in your program, you've, you've made many mentions about what's happening in the Philippines, you know, all this skirmishes on, on the sea and with Japan and this reefs coral reefs have become, you know, huge bases for, for the Chinese military, you know, which they claim at the beginning that was many for humanitarian reasons, search and rescue spots and not becoming full-fledged military bases with, you know, bombers and missiles and that. So their ambitions are very clear. They're, they're very aggressive and they have, you know, they're being engaged in the largest peacetime military buildup and probably human history. You know, they have no threats. And while, why, why are they building up because Xi Jinping wants to realize his Chinese dream of being, you know, the, the most powerful country in the world. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more so I invite you to visit our website, ChinaNcensor.tv, where you can watch the full hour long interview, plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.