---
video_title: "Xi Jinping Is Purposefully Sabotaging China’s Economy"
video_id: j_EKMhb-eY4
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j_EKMhb-eY4
video_date: 2026-04-30T13:21:53+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-334
  It’s no secret that China sees itself as being at war with the West. It turns out that the architect of China’s stealth warfare against its enemies is spelled out in a book written 30 years ago called America Against America. We discuss that and more with our guest Zhang Tianliang, an author, historian, and a professor at Fei Tian College. He’s also the producer of the new documentary “China’s Stealth Invasion” which you can find at https://youtu.be/uIveniHhOnM
---
I think like that he has some advisors, one of them is Wang Huning. He was also featured in my documentary. He was the mastermind of street generations of CCP leaders, so from Jiang Zemin to Hu Jinthao to Xi Jinping. I guess a lot of Xi Jinping's ideas are from Wang Huning. And Wang Huning is the head of the CCP, which is the branch of the CCP that has all the business elites and the celebrities and all that. But it's unusual because he's been in power since Jiang Zemin, Jiang Zemin, who is in town now Xi Jinping, he stayed continuously in power. And you brought up something really interesting in your documentary about him, which is that he wrote this book. He studied in the US in the 80s. He observed democracy and he wrote this book, America against America. Tell us a bit about that book. Yeah, that's kind of scary actually. I didn't know that until like three years ago when I read an article from Washington Post, they labeled him as the most dangerous man in the world. The reason was like Wang Huning was here in 1989. He probably stayed here only for half a year, but he observed the society. And he found like we are open society, right? America is an open society. And people can do whatever they want. And people have freedom of speech. So if you have freedom of speech, certainly like you can use this freedom to treat CCP or like to convey the CCP message. And then because you have democracy and then you have different parties and they fight for power, of the compete for power. And then this is somewhere like you can so division there. And because it's capitalism and really the founders of entrepreneurs they care about the profit, they care about, you know, they want to make as much money as they want. And then of course they probably will also force the manufacturing power to other countries. And then this industry, the whole industry in these countries hollowed out. And then people will lose their job. And then the middle class will shrink and then there will be social chaos. So that's everything, you know, so that is everything in his view. I'm glad that sounds completely unfamiliar. Yeah, I think a lot of people, they really feel like they are living, so like in my documentary I make an analogy. I said it's like the night before September 11. And then you feel okay, you're living in a peaceful world. And then tomorrow will be the same as today. The sun will rise and then you are doing the same job and you will meet your family. But no, but actually something, you know, very catastrophic may happen. So like in his book, he was basically writing about how to use America's freedoms and openness to for the CCP to use those to destroy America. Right. Yeah, it's very systematic. Pretty terrifying. Yeah, very systematic. And also this guy is like he's a really top level person. Yeah. And he's going to implement. And he's never been purged in all these years that he's been in that position. Right. So he has like three decades, like from the time he published the book, that was 1989 until now he's like 37 years. And he has an opportunity and opportunity to implement his plan, you know, step by step. Yeah. So, you know, Xi Jinping has purged all these people, but he's never purged Wang Huning. Wang Huning, I guess because he is like a person of ideology, so which means like he doesn't have his allies, he doesn't have real power. He only has his ideas in his mind. So therefore, you know, it doesn't threaten Xi Jinping anyway. So you brought up, you know, Wang Huning is ideological. Xi Jinping, as you said, is very smart when it comes to political infighting, but he's not that smart when it comes to like policy in terms of how to run an economy. And you know, he says kind of more ideologically like Mao wants more, you know, state run industry. The problem is that it is human nature that in a free market, there's more productivity and more economic growth than in a market where essential bureaucracy controls everything because there's so many inefficiencies. Of course. Right. And so, but Xi Jinping is going more and more towards that model of the bureaucracy controlling every aspect of the economy. And we've seen it, you know, gradually, but pretty steadily since 2013, when Xi Jinping, you know, took office as the president, that the economy has kind of gotten more and more under control. Right. And now China is facing more economic problems than I've seen in the decades that I've been watching China. You've got massive real estate crisis that's been, I mean, it sort of popped five years ago with ever granted. It's like it has not recovered. No. You've got a lot of huge unemployment. So high that they stopped counting youth unemployment because they just didn't want to show what the figures were. You've got graduates who have these four year degrees that are useless because they can't get jobs. They have to do food delivery on scooters. It's like it seems really, really bad. And if the economy keeps going in that direction, Xi Jinping must know that this is a bad direction, right? Like, yeah, from economic perspective, it is, but from political perspective, it's not necessarily so. Why is that? I think Xi Jinping feels that, as I said, when people have liberty and then people will ask for more liberty. So like, for example, if you build up your personal assets, your apartment and your job, your enterprise, and then probably you hope that your money, your assets, can be protected by whom, by law, right? And then you will ask for rule of law. And then when you have the rule of law, then probably you want to use the rule of law to bring CCP, you know, you cannot cross the line. But that is Xi Jinping. What Xi Jinping cannot accept? Except. So he's maybe looking to like their 1980s, right? When things were opening up after Geigah Kaifeng, which is the reform in opening up from the Dengsheng Ping did in 78, things got more and more open. There were more and more people starting businesses, even the newspapers by the mid-80s, like some of them were criticizing different policies. Like it was more open than it is now. Of course. And maybe Xi Jinping is looking at this and is trying to learn what is he learning from this? I think what he learned is, I guess in 1989, we saw the Tiananmen massacre, right? Even people have more freedom and people really want to have even more. And then they may want to change the whole political system. So I remember that in 2021, the year before the so-called Party Congress in 2022, Xi Jinping passed a so-called CCP resolution of like a hundred years, a hundred anniversary of CCP establishment. So basically, he vaguely criticized Dengsheng Ping and Jiang Zemin and Hu Jingjing. He felt like the opening and reform weakened the Party's leadership, like weakened the control of the society. And he felt like he was really rescuing the Party, you know, from that crisis he bringing the Party back to the fundamentalist, the fundamentalism. The Party was very shocked by the fall of the Soviet Union and learned a lot of lessons from that. I think Xi Jinping in particular, don't be a Gorbachev. Yeah, right. Yeah. Well, I mean, I think this is interesting because recently the CCP has been putting forward some statements that I think Western business people are looking at and they're hoping that they're going to try to transition to a more consumption based economy from the industrial like production based economy because of what's happening with the economy and the factories aren't able to really sustain it the same way even with all the massive government subsidies. So, you know, people have been saying for ages that China needs to move towards a consumption model, but that would give people more freedom. Yeah, that's right. Because, you know, in order to be able to buy more things, you know, in order to feel like your money is safe, like you would need to kind of loosen the reins in a political way. So it seems like from what you're saying that Xi Jinping would never go for this kind of thing. Xi Jinping doesn't like this idea, I guess, for two reasons. The first reason is he feels like when people have, you know, abundance of these products and when they have very life, they won't fight, you know, because, you know, when people have very little money and then you give them just a little money, then you can manipulate them. You can tell them to do this or that. But when people are wealthy and then you give them a little money, they don't care. So they want to live in their own way. So this is the first thing that Xi Jinping doesn't like to control the people if people are poor and then you can easily control them. It's why so many businesses use unpaid interns. And also, on the other hand, when people are poor and then their labor is, their labor is very, very cheap. And that's a way for the competitiveness of the meeting China. And because they can use like a half or third price, like the EV cars and other products, like solar panels, it's just like a half price of what we can make here. And then to flood, to saturate other countries, market and then bankrupt all those industries. And then in that case, Xi Jinping has control of the total world, the whole world. So I guess that's his plan. So his plan, the poverty there is planned. It's not Xi Jinping just like had some bad idea and then suddenly, you know, just ruin the economy. I guess somehow it's also a competitive plan. Disgruppenizing poverty and famine, I've never heard of such a thing. Thank you for watching this clip. The full episode and MP3 download is on our website, Chinaincensored.tv. And to watch the film, China's stealth invasion, click the link below.