---
video_title: "How to Spot a Chinese Spy"
video_id: L-rrfrvGuyA
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L-rrfrvGuyA
video_date: 2026-07-13T16:51:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-341
  If you’re not aware of how Chinese agents lure their targets in and you think you might be their target, this video is for you. In this episode we talked to Elsa Johnson, the editor-in-chief of the Stanford Review who has exposed how a Chinese agent tried to lure her in.
---
Well, before we get into all that, you know, there's a thing tank at Stanford called the Hoover Institute. You've done some work for them. What was that like? What were you doing with the Hoover Institute? Yeah, so I started doing research at the Hoover Institution at the end of my freshman year. I reached out to a couple fellows there who, you know, were doing work on China. I had a great experience, you know, it was a good summer experience for me. I was working from home doing, you know, working as a research assistant. One of the Hoover fellows that I worked for ended up introducing me to the idea of, you know, Chinese espionage and their recruitment tactics at university. So I am very grateful to them in a lot of ways. Well, first, I guess, how did this background you had in this Chinese immersion school fit into what you wanted to do at Stanford? Yeah, so I knew, you know, when applying to Stanford that I wanted to continue studying China, Hoover was really exciting for me too because I knew, you know, I'd be able to do research there and help sort of continue my journey into potentially a career in national security or, you know, working at the State Department. Well, I guess the thing, the story takes a turn when in freshman year, you were approached by a guy calling himself Charles Chen. That's a very, it's definitely not an alias. What did he, what did he want? It definitely seems like the kind of somebody could name themselves Charles Chen. Yeah, I guess. Very inconspicuous. Yeah, so this, you know, man reached out to me on Instagram and we had like 100 mutual followers. So I didn't really think anything of it. This is, you know, how Stanford students reach out to each other and he sort of said, hey, have we met on campus before? And I was like, no. And then about how old was he? He was claiming to be, I think, a junior. Okay. And he had, you know, photos of Stanford, him at Stanford on his profile. And yeah, I didn't really think it was strange. But then a couple exchanges into our conversation, he asked, he asked me in Chinese, if I speak Chinese. And I was like, hmm, how do you know that? And he said, you know, also in Mandarin, I guessed. You know, I thought it was a little weird. But then as, you know, I just decided to continue the conversation. I'm, you know, very curious. And he started saying that I really should go to China. He sent me, you know, like a screenshot of his bank account to prove that he could pay for me to go to China. So this, this kid who's saying he's just a student at, you know, Stanford is saying he could bankroll you to go to China. I'm, I'm imagining a very much like hello fellow kids kind of. And it was kind of like that. And I was like, I don't really think I can go the summer, you know, I obviously wasn't going to take him up on the offer, but you know, I was kind of playing along. And then he also sent me information about other Stanford students who are in China at the time. And that was really creepy to me. So that's when things were getting a lot more concerning. And then he began almost harassing me to move the conversation to WeChat. He kept sending his WeChat. And then the conversation sort of ended when he commented on one of my Instagram posts in Mandarin and asked me to delete screenshots of our conversations. And I had no idea how he would know, you know, I had screenshoted things, but nothing that would have notified him. So that was the breaking point for me. And I ended up going to the Hoover Fellows. And they were like, oh, you know, this is 110% MSS connected me with the Hoover FBI contact because this kind of thing happened so often. And that was, you know, when I learned how common this is and how unimportant you have, you can be to, you know, get contacted by somebody who may be acting as an agent of the CCP. So yeah, I think that was a crazy thing to experience. But so you never heard from him again? No, he, so he ended up blocking me and deleting everything. Thankfully, I'd already, you know, screenshoted everything. Then I ended up reaching out to some of the people who he mentioned to me. And they said he's, he did this to them, you know, like two years ago. So he had actually been doing this for years to other Stanford students who, as in young women who were studying China or, you know, interested in US-China relations, which is just kind of random. I don't know. It, I don't, it seems like he did a really bad job and he was really creepy and off putting to a lot of people. But he'd been claiming to be a Stanford student to a lot of people for a lot of, you know, for a long time. But you, he never like wanted to meet in person, right? No. So you don't even know whether he was actually in the vicinity or like on campus or just like he could be in China, right? Right. I think he was in China. And I actually did a lot of, you know, slew thing. And I found that he actually went to high school in Los Angeles. And I got in contact with, you know, some people who went to school with him. And they said, yeah, like he was my classmate in, you know, high school. And then he went back to China. So I think, you know, maybe the time he spent in the US made him more valuable or made him see more approachable. But yeah, very, very bizarre. How did Stanford respond to, you know, this Chinese agent frequently reaching out to Stanford students? They did not, they never said anything. They never said anything to me. I obviously had a lot of conversations with people about this. And you know, thankfully the people at Hoover were pretty helpful. But I mean, they just do not want to touch these things like they have no willingness to, you know, address the issue. So why is that, do you think? I think when it comes to a lot of these issues, especially when it comes to China, they would rather not say anything. And you know, sort of hide behind the, hide behind the, like, this is an open knowledge institution and we're just collaborating. Yeah, but there's like this creepy Chinese guy harassing young students, female students. That's, that seems to cross into like we have to deal with this now. I know, it's, I think maybe, I don't know, maybe they thought the Hoover, the help I got from Hoover was enough. And I actually ended up connecting a lot of the other women with, you know, people at the FBI as well. Because a lot of them had also documented their conversations with them because they're just so bizarre. I'm guessing no one took him up on his, I'll pay for your trip to China. Yeah, definitely not. I don't think you'd come back with all your organs. Well, no, I don't think, I mean, I think if the point is to make you an asset, they're not going to go, they're not going to like go torture you or maybe they want to harvest organs too. Who knows? Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, Chinainsensor.tv, where you can watch the full hour long interview plus get MP3 downloads of our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.