---
video_title: "China Has Kill Switch in the US Power Grid"
video_id: qxHRGxmsscw
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qxHRGxmsscw
video_date: 2026-05-11T18:10:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-335
  China’s military isn’t nearly as good as America’s military, and China knows that. To give it leverage over the U.S., China has figured out how to control the U.S. power grid so that when China needs it to go down, all it has to do is flip a switch. We are joined by Michael Lucci, the founder of the company State Armor, which helps U.S. states defend against Chinese interference. You can follow him on X at @Michael7ucci and State Armor at https://statearmor.org
---
I guess this kind of goes into almost what you were talking about before with COVID, which is the general issue of supply chain resilience, right? Like the need to get some manufacturing of some of these critical technologies out of China and be able to like if we got into a conflict with China where they were able to, you know, shut down exports to the US that we would be okay. I mean, every time I go to my doctor's office, I'm looking around at all of the stuff that's made in China, you know, from gloves to band-aids to, you know, syringes, things that, you know, you're like, okay, these seem small in a certain way, but also, you know, can we still make syringes in the US? I don't really know the answer to that question. Are there specific things that state armors looking at in terms of supply chain resilience? Like certain, you know, industries or what do you think we need to do? So what state armor does with state governments is where the state is the purchaser? You can prohibit Chinese technology, state local governments that purchaser, and when it's in a highly regulated industry, a highly state regulated industry, you could prohibit certain technologies. So I'll give you a couple examples. A number of states have passed laws saying we're just not going to buy Chinese technologies, whether they're computers, cameras, routers. And so the state government say, Utah in 2024 said, we're not going to buy Chinese technologies. It's all of a sudden they're not buying, I believe, like Lenovo computers any longer. And so the supply chain begins to shift. As you get that solution broadly, then the supply chain begins to shift. And so there are also state regulated industries such as healthcare, highly regulated by the state government. Here in the state of Texas, and you know, 10 other states did this. They said, we're not going to have Beijing genomics equipment, software, technology servers back in in our state system. So HB 130 here in Texas, sponsored by a brain surgeon, as should be the case, Dr. Bonan said, Beijing genomics is not going to have any equipment in any of our state regulated research institutes or medical facilities. And so going forward, no more Beijing genomics. We could keep doing the same genetic sequencing. We're just not going to give the genetic materials and data to the Chinese Communist Party or the PLA. So the state can get at these problems in those direct ways where the state's the buyer indirect way, where the state is the regulator. Now we need, I mean, frankly, the federal government should just say if it's connecting to the internet, it can't come from China. How many backdoors do we need to find before we just say default, the verdict is your guilty until you're proven innocent, because the alternative is where we're at now, where we have their Huawei equipment came in. We're ripping that out, then they're putting routers in here. Now we're going to probably ripping out their routers. They're going to put in some other vector robots, you know, drones, whatever it is. And so the default for network connected technology is just should be no, just say no to Chinese technologies. And when you do that, then alternative supply chains will build out. Another great example in the energy industry, which is regulated by states, solar inverters, there was a great publication by a Strider intelligence. They do these technological breakdowns where the inverter that is used for almost all solar power plants is controlled by China and they can remotely access, shut it down, throw things onto the grid. So you got to look where the state regulates the industry and just start saying no Chinese technology. Maybe do a face out over time, you know, over the next couple of years, it has to be faced out, but then you let an alternative supply chain build up. Some of these sound impossible. Like what about solar panels themselves? Like China has taken almost the entire market of solar panels and wind farms as well. Wind turbines, they got from what American semiconductor, I think they stole that technology about 15 years ago. So these are big and renewable energy. I think most people feel that this is an important step to take to have renewables. And yet our solar panels and wind turbines are almost entirely manufactured in China by Chinese companies. Where do you go to deal with that? The starting premise needs to be we cannot be putting infrastructure and technologies into our grid. That mean we automatically lose a war with China if and when that day comes. So that's the first principle is we're not going to buy things that mean we lose a war. If we accept the premise that we have to get these technologies from China or they will be the only producer of drones or you know name the alternative technology. If we accept that premise, we're accepting the premise that if we go to war we lose. And so that's the starting premise. We're not going to do things any longer that mean we just lose a war with China because they could shut down our power here in the state of Texas. If they shut down Texas, then where are you going to get energy and natural gas from for United States economy, United States military and so on. And so we just need to start with a different beginning principle which is you know the panels themselves is their way to mitigate a threat from that. Okay let's do that investigation. The inverters, I don't think that could be mitigated. I think that if you're getting a Chinese inverter, you're basically just saying that when the PLA sales for Taiwan, we're accepting that they're going to turn off the power here in Texas. So if you can't mitigate it, then you just shouldn't have that technology any longer. We need the federal government to move on these things more quickly. State governments can move on these things as well. But the starting, I think we just start the conversation wrong by saying, look, green technologies are important and so we're going to buy those. That's not where we should start the conversation. We start the conversation as Chinese Communist Party is in political war with us now. They're in chemical war with us right now. They're killing our people with fentanyl. They're in economic war. They weaponize the supply chains, the rare earths. They steal everything they can from us. This war might someday go kinetic. We're not going to keep using stuff that means we lose on that day. And so that's the starting premise. I you know there ought to be solar uses. Even the current Department of Energy says there are real uses for solar right now. And then Elon Musk is proposing that we send solar out into space to power AI in space. That sounds wonderful. That sounds like a great idea. We're not going to have gas powered turbine to out in space. Let's have solar powered panels in space. It just can't be done in a way that China beats us in the event of a war. And so if you change that starting principle, the supply chains will start moving with it. What have you guys done in Texas with the wind turbines? Well, before we were doing anything in Texas, the state of Texas rightly passed in 2021 the Lone Star Creek Womestracher Protection Act. This law needs to be replicated in all 50 states. The state of Texas did this because Laughlin Air Force based down the border was having a general of the Chinese Communist Party was buying up land. He bought up around 140,000 acres around Laughlin. And he was erecting wind turbines on this land. Why might someone build up a bunch of wind turbines around Laughlin? You know, you could only imagine his property had 10,000 foot runway and so on. So Texas said, hey, Chinese Communist Party can't plug into the grid. And that includes wind turbines to shut down that particular problem. But it also shut down other problems related. That type of legislation needs to be expanded to say what they say is a foreign adversary principle. In this case, this general cannot be connecting directly contracting for critical infrastructure. We also need to expand that to say foreign adversary technologies that allow for remote access and control cannot be connected to critical infrastructure. And so you get their companies and individuals out, but then you get out their technologies that could be used to sabotage the grid. That type of thing is happening here in Texas. 2021, they started it. 23, they expanded it. That type of thing needs to be expanded to other states and really the federal government ought to come in and start saying some of the same thing. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, ChinaUncensored.tv, where you can watch the full hour long interview. Plus get MP3 downloads of all of our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.