---
video_title: "Musk Is In Trouble…"
video_id: pE9EbBP-XGg
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pE9EbBP-XGg
video_date: 2026-08-19
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-347
  China was once the land of milk and honey for multinationals that wanted a hardworking and low-paid labor force with all the infrastructure (and lack of environmental regulations) to manufacture their products. That’s changing for various reasons, but for the ones who are still in China, such as Tesla, they’re in one big Chinese trap. 
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
I do think that there's something that a lot of Western economists who are looking at the situation in China they look at it and they go, you see these articles appear all the time in like Financial Times or something like that or The Economist where they're like, "Oh, well, why don't they just stimulate consumption?" >> Mhm. >> Uh you know, and I think that's maybe a kind of misreading of the CCP system, but what do you think, David? >> Well, it it is number one, it's a misreading, but remember over the past year, Shelly, the party has tried uh some types of modest consumer stimulus. And it hasn't worked.

Um and it hasn't worked because there are too many other uh too many other issues that cut against reversing the consumer sentiment. And I mean I mean we have to remember that when we're talking about the Chinese economy, the real economy, it's less than 500 million people. Uh forget this 1.4 billion. Those those folks that are not in the the the 500 million that I'm talking about, they're not really in a situation to be consumers of any Western goods or services. They don't make enough money.

That's the $5 a day crowd. So, the actual um market that's available for Western Western goods and Western services is about you know, 500 million. >> Which is huge. >> It is It is huge, but you then have um several things that the party has done to effectively block the Western firms from coming in and being able to compete. So, you know, a good example of this is uh Nvidia.

And so their situation is basically they're out of the Chinese market. And um uh Mr. Huang has basically admitted as such. And why is this? And that's because they've got to deal with export controls out of the US on their chips.

And then once they solve that problem, they've got to deal with domestic Chinese controls on their chips, which are designed to protect the local local companies like Huawei. And the reason I mention this is that this is the system that they have been creating the last several years to to build up their local champions like Huawei. And in so doing, they're basically crushing the ability of foreign firms to operate in China. So, you know, you a good example of this is look what's happened to Tesla. Tesla gets this new factory, gets all set up, a lot of fanfare in Shanghai.

And they start producing in China. And following the the the discussion on the business model that that we've had back and forth with particularly our discussion with you with you, Shelly. Um what's happened? Well, the technology that Tesla brought into Shanghai uh was spread to a whole host of Chinese startup firms in the EV sector. And they just went at it.

And now one of those firms, BYD, is just crushing Tesla. Not only in the Chinese market, but internationally. So you you can see that that's with that type of road map I don't I don't see that we're going to see the Western firms um really being able to succeed or play in that market unless there is a real turnaround in the way that the party is is operating their economy. >> Yeah, right before the podcast we were reading an article about how China and Russia are working together to potentially shoot down SpaceX satellites. If it comes to war.

>> Uh yeah, it's Starlink. >> Right. >> Um Well, so this is a good question because well >> Sorry, Matt. >> Yeah, well, I mean the the question about um you know, Western companies, you know, finding it harder to compete cuz they've been like your view, David, is that that uh you know, Western companies go in, they they get their their products knocked off, their IP stolen. Hard to compete, right? But Western

firms have been going into China for decades despite all these risks. So like by and large are Western companies like is there a real shift among these these uh big corporations that they're not trying to go to China anymore or are they still trying to go in because they still think they can sell widgets to a billion Chinese people? >> Um okay, so there's a split here uh Matt. Um part of the the China fury in terms of in terms of doing business in China was fueled by Wall Street. And doing all kind of investments and so forth.

And so that foreign direct investment issue as I mentioned earlier has just collapsed. I mean, I don't have the graph in front of me, but you look at it for 2026, 2025, the foreign direct investment into China has just fallen through the roof. And and that's tied to this pariah stat- stat- or near pariah stature that China has built for herself. And that's going to be very difficult to repair. The other issue is for a lot of our large multinational firms, they're still doing business in China.

And they're trying to make it happen. And they've got a situation where they've got um Basically, if you can view a multinational and like one of their legs, if you will, is standing on Chinese soil, the problem with the that investment or that standing is they're basically got they basically have their foot in a bear trap. It's very difficult for them to get out. And they are reluctant to admit um that maybe they haven't returned the profits that investors were promised. So, the specter looming over the shoulder of a number of our large multinationals is the potential it hasn't really started yet for shareholder lawsuits for misrepresentations to investors about the profitability, the desirability of going into the Chinese market.

And and we're going to see those shareholder lawsuits eventually. And that's going to further tame the excitement or interest in of the large multinationals in doing business in China. In response to your question, Matt, I would say that they're not going into China in terms of new investment. What they are doing is trying to survive to find ways to to uh um continue to make some money out of the whole prospect. But it's becoming increasingly dim.

And um as China builds up its local champions and and builds fences around to protect them like Huawei, um we're going to see this situation exacerbate itself rather than improve. >> Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more that we couldn't put here on YouTube, so visit our website chinainsight.tv so you can watch the entire hour-long interview plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The

link is below.