---
video_title: "The Dark Story Behind Chinese Wigs"
video_id: Qy4186HOs4I
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qy4186HOs4I
video_date: 2026-03-19T14:11:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-329
  Like a lot of things made in China, it’s easier to buy them when you don’t know the backstory. That’s the case for Chinese wigs, which come in all various shades and colors that are not what most Chinese hair would look like. We spoke with Ethan Gutmann, author of The Xinjiang Procedure, about where these wigs are coming from. 
  Order your copy of The Xinjiang Procedure now:
  https://www.amazon.com/Xinjiang-Procedure-Ethan-Gutmann/dp/1968919201
  Ethan Gutmann is an award winning author, journalist, and all around interesting guy.
---
Before I forget to bring this back to China, why do you think they are, the CCP is reaching out for Uyghurs outside of China's own borders? Because that's obviously not like to fight separatism, is that they need more organs, and they're having a hard time to meet demand. Well, that's an interesting theory. I mean, I actually didn't really explore it that way in terms of, you know, I'd be looking for 28-year-olds being sort of shipped back to the motherland. And the golden age for. Yeah, the golden age for organ harvesting, apparently. 28-29, Dr. Charles Lease, it's 29. That's basically 28, doesn't matter. They're not. They're never. So I did not see a distinct pattern on that. I believe it's twofold. One is that they've learned, again, going back to Prowing Park. They learned something from that. A lot of Follangang got out of China. That's surprising amount. A lot of them were already in place in American society as students. And that kind of thing, yeah. The Follangang, you know, this was, they let a lot of people out. And Follangang created not only do they talk to people like me and other investigators, but they also created media and on a vast scale. And all the way from publishing houses, we didn't work out so well, but there's some lot of things did. Sound of hope for radio is very successful in some way, especially in reaching into China. The new time get us day, epic times, a lot of different functions. And I think they really wanted to prevent that. That's part of it. Secondly, I think there is a kind of, this is a slightly different persecution than Follangang explains. I've always compared Follangang, the Follangang persecution to Spain, really, to the Spanish Inquisition, because you have a chance, just like somebody who was Muslim or Jew in Spain could give themselves to Christ, and to not sell their friends while they were doing it and so forth, and forced conversion of their whole family. But they could get out of the, they could get through without dying out of the Spanish Inquisition. It's very similar with Follangang. I mean, if they really seem to be embracing the Chinese Communist Party, and they were willing to damage, make sure that their family was rejecting the Follangang, and they were willing to, and if they were, the final thing, I think, is really if they were willing to grant and all their friends, they could get free. It was kind of an ideological battle. Yes, right. This is a little different. It's a racial battle. The weekers are not disliked because they are so separate. As Ember taught to you often points out, they're pretty pathetic as separatists in terms of culture. It's a critical trouble for China. And in fact, I believe that several of the incidents that we've seen in China, they must, Tiananmen Square, they'll take the Tiananmen Square incident where the car drives in, Xinjiang plates, most of which people don't, it explodes. How did a car with Xinjiang plates get from Xinjiang to Tiananmen Square? That's impossible. They don't allow that kind of freedom of movement in China. No, they haven't for years. It would have been stopped a hundred times. And that's how these things work. And so I think it's very important to, you know, separate out a little bit of that from, that this is kind of a performative quality to the Xinjiang separatism. But it is racial. I mean, these are people who do not really speak Chinese. Most of them don't actually. And if they speak Chinese, it's very badly. They are considered to be Caucasian, ultimately. You know, they're more of a... Somebody, some similarities to Mongolians. That should feel the West with great hope for the future of China West relations. Well, I mean, think about the fact that the wig market coming out of China is dominated by weaver hair. Okay, now, it's not just that they cut women's hair when they come in. That's the first thing that happens. When you come into the camp, you have to stick your head through a hole. You don't even see the person. They just save off all that hair. That hair becomes wigs, which is sold all over the world. And they advertise the fact that it's... They say it's Mongolian, but this unusual hair. A lot, there's a lot of red hair in the weaker community. And even in the Caucasian community, it's on the stand. So you see this in the hair that's being delivered out there. There are red streaks. There are all kinds of funny aspects. Now, see brown hair. I mean, I don't know all the expressions. Maybe you want to jump into it. Well, do you know of the species? I don't know all the expressions, but this is a fact. And of course, the communities which buy it, which are usually African-American, Hispanic or Orthodox Jews, they don't really look into it. It is really good bandit. And in America, the FBI started stopping shipments, and actually held three containers full of wigs, even hair wigs from China at one point. But they couldn't do a DNA test on them. So they couldn't... It was two process. So they couldn't trace it back to Xinjiang and Dessert, but there's no question. This is not my going here. But certainly not Chinese here. The racial aspect is something very significant. I know when I was living in Beijing, if you had a Chinese friend or something from the year from, and they wanted to show you a good time, you got to a weave or a restaurant. Because they had dancing. The girls were very beautiful. They kind of pressed and turned. And the food was considered crude, but fun. OK. Are you getting the feeling here? You feel a little 20s, 1920s in America? I think there's a touch of like going on here. Yeah, it wasn't there. OK. Well, I remember many years ago, reading your book, Losing the New China, which came out like 2004 or something. Yeah. Although the part I mainly remember was the Sex Clubs. Oh, that was... Yeah. Yeah, no. I mean, the sex is an issue. But again, there's a kind of a belief that the Wiggers are... The way they're sold is sort of like we have to help these poor people sometimes, or these... They're responsible people who don't know how to run their lives. Two... Kind of like the Yellow Man's burden. There's a bit of that, too. I mean, there's a lot of these qualities. Have you asked the average Chinese? And this has shown up in these reports. It's also in some surveys, however biased, and ridiculous there. It's usually people sort of... average Chinese people say, well, we have to help these people. You know, and it's costing us a lot of money, but we're willing to do it, and we sort of have to civilize them. Thank you for watching this clip. The book is called The Xinjiang Procedure. Order it now and get 20% off your next Chinese organ transplant. And if you support extremely controversial episodes like this and want to get more, join our 50-cent army at ChinaNcensored.tv.