---
video_title: "Why Time Travel is Banned in China"
video_id: h1DZaHmbWk4
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h1DZaHmbWk4
video_date: 2026-06-23T14:10:42+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-339
  There are certain themes that movies in China can’t have, and one of them is time travel. In this clip we discuss China’s ban on time travel, how the CCP got Tesla and Elon Musk to heel, and why the CCP no longer needs Hollywood.  Our guest is Chris Fenton, the producer of Bad Counselors, which comes to theaters July 22-27, 2026.  https://www.badcounselors.com
---
Well, this is very interesting because I know you were responsible for sort of getting Hollywood to work with China. For example, in Loper, it's based on a book in the book, it was the future was set in France as a great place. Now it got changed to Shanghai, correct? Correct. Yeah. When we looked at the script, we thought it had a lot of the ingredients that would work in China, but it had time travel. And as you all know, and it might be something that a lot of people aren't aware of, but Beijing hates time travel, right? Like because the problem with time travel in a story is that the creatives involved with that story can depict the future or the past and whatever sort of narrative they're looking for. It is very, very reticent to allow anybody to create any sort of narrative about the past or the future without their 100% input and oversight. So when we saw this movie, we thought, hey, why don't we work with the Chinese government to create what they want as the future? So not only do they say, hey, we're not going to do this thing in France, we're going to do it in China because Joseph Gordon Levin, who's the young mobster, wanted to retire into a utopian society. So Beijing wanted the utopian society 40 years in the future to be China. But then on top of it, we had to create all kinds of gleaming skyscrapers and backdrops and everything else that China was wanting us to depict as their future 40 years ahead of time. And that included working with the Shanghai municipal government to actually create buildings that they had on these 50-year plans with our VFX supervisors. It was unbelievable and those models still exist in the Shanghai municipal government. Yes. So this is just a wild story because you were heavily responsible for this and you were also one of the first voices to start raising the alarm bells about how this is a big, big problem. And now many years later, the fact that you have to kind of go out of the main Hollywood studios to make this made an America movie, I'm guessing the warning was not entirely absorbed by Hollywood. Well, the problem was that once we actually became successful, for instance, Lupra was a top 10 hit in that market in 2012 and then in the Chinese market. In the Chinese market, yeah. And then Iron Man 3 was broke every record of anything in that market in 2013. So once Hollywood started to realize, wait a minute, we can do this over and over again, IE Transformers is like a big one that really's tried to play Kate China and make as much money there as possible, fast and furious, another one. That's where it got sort of out of hand because we really pre-sensored, we had pre-meditated censorship on any story that we developed as far as a film community. We actually sort of purposely implemented things over, did it in terms of putting China relevancy in these films. We actually even tried to make sort of these morphed US China stories like you think of the Great Wall or Mulan. And it just got completely out of hand to the point where a lot of pundits here in the US were like, what are we doing? Hollywood was like, we're just trying to get this golden goose to give us as many golden eggs as possible. And then on the China side, people were starting to go, hey, I'm getting more sophisticated in terms of movie going. And this is sort of feeling like it's pandering to me. So like all these storms collapsed on Hollywood to the point today where we are, which is very few movies actually get to $100 million in US dollars in box office in China, if any. I think we've had Zootopia in the last avatar as far as the only ones. I mean, we had 2018, for instance, had nine movies that hit 100 million in China. And then the other big, startling statistic is that back when like, say, Luber Iron Man three came out, we were averaging on like many weeks of the year, 80 cents of every dollar was coming in from Hollywood. The Hollywood productions that were in China in those in the box office in the theaters, now we're down to less than 5%. So we've lost the whole market. Why did that happen? Well, the biggest thing is, and you guys know this better than anyone, like Beijing doesn't want any foreign influence whatsoever. So when you look at why they let companies, services from the West get into that market, and the most part they're using it to learn from it. They want to learn the process. They want to steal the IP, the tech, and they create these 50, 50 joint ventures where China has the controlling vote. And eventually they learn everything they need to about that product and service that that company has taught them or that industry has taught them. And then they use it to build their own domestic industry. So we've seen this rinston repeated over and over. I mean, Nike's a perfect example on how they've lost so much market share to say, Anta and Leaning. And that's because they've studied the process of what Nike does in order to make sports apparel and shoes and so many other things. The same thing has happened in Hollywood. I mean, they used us to mentor them in best-in-class type of expertise and process. They learned how to develop scripts. I mean, in fact, when I was originally starting to work on the movie making side of DMG, the company I was working with at the time, we were developing scripts on the US side. There were very sort of typical 110 pages, 3X structure, etc. I would look at the domestic stuff we were doing and they would show me a script translated. And it would be like literally two pages. Somehow they were just improvving everything. There was no 3X structure, etc. So we were teaching them how to do it. So the biggest reason that this has occurred is that the market share decrease is that Beijing's going, hey, wait a minute, we don't need Hollywood anymore. They taught us everything. We're making best in the world type of our best-in-class type of movies for our own audience, whether it's NUJAH or Wolf Warriors or Wondering Earth. And we don't need the Hollywood expertise anymore. We don't need the Hollywood movies influencing our people with the aspirational quality of democracy or whatever in a subtle way or in a very forceful way. So let's push them out. So that's essentially where we got to today, where we have barely any part of that market. Well, it's almost exactly the same thing China has done with literally everything else. Like who could have predicted? Well, the slight difference is they have stolen the know-how to make something rather than just stealing, like making a move. But I mean, look at... But you steal a know-how to make. Like EVs, for example, right? China's dominating the global EV market because they took the know-how. I mean, Elon Musk made a lot of those patents for Tesla like open, right? But you still have to learn the actual process of making those, the electronics, the motors, the components, it's very complex. So I guess this is the same with movies, right, Chris? I mean, it's like... They knocked it off just like they'd knock off any other product. Well, the crazy thing is you brought up EVs, right? And the Tesla story is really interesting because I have emails with Elon back in like, oh, wait, we're like, hey, we want to help you get your EVs into China. And he's like, nah, I'm focusing on Europe or whatever it was. But when the time came and he wanted to get in there, he didn't utilize our help. In fact, by that point, he had so much momentum he could do whatever. But he mandated, hey, China, if you want my stuff in there, I'm running my factories. I'm not doing these force javies. I'm not doing any of the tech swaps or any of the other stuff that you do with everybody else. But I'll come in there, right? So he goes in there on his terms. I think it's the first time ever a company's been able to do that. And what they did was fascinating in order to get the process and the designs and all the other stuff, the real access to all that ability to research and understand how he does what he does. They staged all these high-speed crashes in major cities with all kinds of CCTV cameras, which you know are everywhere. But definitely in places where you could get all the different angles. And those high-speed crashes were blasted on CCTV news non-stop. So to the point where everybody was freaking out that Tesla's like, took over and would go 110 miles an hour into an overpass, you know, Pylon or whatever and kill you. And I, you know, I wasn't in to side Tesla's head or in Alon's head. But my guess is they looked at that and go, oh my gosh, we're going to lose this market if we don't do something quick. And at the same time, Beijing was saying, hey, if you want to stay in this market, we got to study what is going on with these cars and why they're crashing. We need to know everything about your design and your tech and all that. And he literally had the hand everything over. Thank you for watching this clip. Bad counselors, hits theaters July 22nd and tickets are on sale now. And if you want to watch this entire interview and get MP3 downloads of all of our more than 300 podcasts, join us at ChinaNcensored.tv. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.