---
video_title: "You Thought The Covid Coverup Was Bad? It Gets SO MUCH WORSE"
video_id: pHWjQaJ0VOc
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pHWjQaJ0VOc
video_date: 2026-03-11T15:02:49+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-328
  Order your copy now of Killed to Order to push it to the Bestseller list! http://www.killedtoorder.com
  Join Jan Jekeliek live in Washington DC on March 16, 2026! http://killedtoorderevent.com/ 
  
  After the World Health Organization (WHO)  covered up for China during the COVID-19 pandemic, a lot of people lost trust in it. The WHO has proved again with another scandal that it can’t be trusted when it comes to China. 
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
Let's say I'm a wealthy foreigner and prior to 2006 I'm seeing ads online that are telling me for 200 grand. Let's say I can get a new heart in two weeks schedule. Okay. And that sounds like a great deal because it takes like years and years if you're waiting for a donor in the U.S. 100%. Exactly. You have to in an ethical situation, you need to match blood type, you need to match histology, tissue type. The size kind of has to be approximately the same. And someone has to have a catastrophic accident to be able to provide that because you don't kill people to order it, right? Someone has to really not be coming back from that accident. So it's a rare and that's why you have to wait for a long time. But here, these people are stored. Which in China, you can schedule a catastrophic accident. Well, no, so exactly. And that's actually that's the reason my book is called Kill to Order because these people are blood type, tissue type, and organs can't ahead of time put into a database. And when this, whether it's a Chinese super elite or someone from Taiwan or South Korea where we know a number of people have gone or from the West, right? And they've already been pre-matched to someone in the very large population of people. So it's very easy to find a match and that person can be shipped and killed to order. So this is like, oh, this is a whole different level of organ trafficking that is really, for years, was even hard for people to basically comprehend. And this grew, by the way, right? When the Falongong first started being persecuted, there was just a low level of organ transplantation in China. Between 2000 and 2005, it grows geometrically. Hundreds, thousands of hospitals are built. Transplantation just explodes, right? And of course, the profits associated with the transplants. So you're talking about this organ tourism. Do you have a sense that have American elites gone to China for organs on demand? We're aware of examples from most Western countries. Now remember that people are not ready to admit this too readily, because there's especially in recent years, there's more of a knowledge of where these organs are really coming from, even though it's so hard for people to believe. But I know of one anecdote that I use, I'm not going to tell you the whole details, it's really macabre. A German woman basically ends up getting multiple transplants in China in a very short order. And people ask, how did she even find out about this? Well, the theory from the ex-plant surgeon that verified this story is that basically she wasn't able to get help in the local center so that they provided her with some sort of information about where she could get it done in China. So again, it's kind of shocking that people would do this, but I think one of the biggest problems now to answer your question directly, Chris, complicity, right? One of the biggest areas of complicity is just simply that some of the big organizations that are supposed to protect against these things, like the World Health Organization or the Transplantation Society, TTS, right, have in effect, I don't like to badmouth people, but in effect, they brand cover for this because it's very clear this industry is very real. The Chinese regime has never been able to provide an alternative explanation as to how they are able to deliver these mass amounts of organs. We're talking 60 to 90,000 a year since the late 2000s. It's certainly not through legitimate donors. And no one is really done much about it. Not these institutions that are supposed to do the work of basically being the moral heart of this transplantation industry, which itself is fraught, right? There's a lot of moral questions, even an ethical transplantation that have to be dealt with. I'm surprised that the World Health Organization, a bastion of morality and diligence, didn't go and investigate China. Could that be? Is the rhetorical question or? Well, that's doing a good job today. That's opt to math. Well, at any rate. I mean, I think this is the question I think we all kind of know the answer to, but why is the WHO in the Transplantation Society not saying things about this? Well, the WHO, I think when we see how they treated China credulously at the beginning of the pandemic, they said, oh, you don't see transmission? OK, I guess there's no transmission. Obviously, that's an insane position to take with the only time honest information comes out of Communist China is certified accident. I think would be the way to describe it, right? Only when it's convenient or when it's convenient to the official narrative, but it's hard for them to even know what the real information is because propaganda plays such a central role in all information that they disseminated, all has a political purpose, right? So in many cases, one of the problems having a Communist society actually is that it's hard to know what the truth is because everyone is just pushing different kinds of information, warfare, propaganda against each other and outside. So the WHO, as you think we're trying to point out earlier, I'm not, is just kind of prone to being very credulous, has been unfortunately heavily infiltrated by the CCP, which is expert at doing things like that, infiltrating free institutions. I actually talk a lot about that in the book, but with TTS, I'm not even, I don't even really know the answer to this question because I haven't had a chance to talk to the leaders, right? You could say part of it could be because they didn't want to believe it. Like I was saying earlier, right? People just don't want to believe it. Part of it, you know, they were, I think they were, you know, maybe they wanted to be the heroes and get them to change, right? And the Chinese are very good with the Chinese Communists. They're very good at, you know, sort of telling you this narrative that, oh, well, so we're actually reforming, but then there's these hardliners over here that are going to subvert stuff. So just don't be too loud. Don't say anything too negative because then the hardliners will win. We want the reformers to win. But there's like a kind of a standard recycled line that got, you know, so many Western governments and institutions to just kind of stay silent while they kept doing the hardliner thing, right? So they're very good at propaganda, very good at, you know, kind of, you know, subverting the will even of and, and as you pointed out again, making, I have a whole chapter dedicated to how they are able to make both people within China and outside complicit in various ways. Well, we'll, we'll go quick. When, when you were writing this book, did you reach out to anybody from the Transplantation Society? I did not. I've tried in the past when I was doing, you know, reporting, I've been reporting on this issue for about 20 years. Perhaps, perhaps I'd given up on it. I think that's an interesting, interesting question. In the past, when I reached out to them, I was never able to get anyone to respond to me on these questions. I mean, that's, it's pretty shocking to me. I mean, my gut feeling is that if an organization has been complicit and then maybe they didn't realize it at first, right? But like, they've already gone too far. They've already had their surgeons train Chinese doctors and transplantation techniques. Or published papers. Yeah. So just like the, like all that history shows their complicity. And so it's like, it's embarrassing to the point of, it would be destructive to the whole organization to acknowledge that this was a thing that they did in the past. Because like, they kind of should have known. There was a point at which they should have known and they still did it. So yeah, why would they talk with you? They're not American thought leaders. Yeah. Thank you for shouting out the show. I appreciate that. Thank you for watching this clip. The book is killed to order China's organ harvesting industry and the true nature of America's biggest adversary. And if you pre-order it now, you can help get it on the best seller list. So use the link below and for more of this interview, check out our website, ChinaNcensored.tv.