---
video_title: "What Did Nvidia’s CEO Just Say?"
video_id: Ku7mfwErmLY
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ku7mfwErmLY
video_date: 2026-05-23T14:32:49+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-333
  Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang did an interview with Dwarkesh Patel, and one of the things he was asked about was China and whether selling advanced microchips to China could enable it to attack the U.S. His answer will leave you speechless.
---
why hasn't there been a security alert about deep seek that seems i don't know their work there definitely have been democratic governments that have issued alerts within uh... government to say don't have this on your government phone right like they've done for like tiktok and stuff like that i don't know i mean i think part of it again this is where uh... maybe it's still pretty new where there are people in silicon valley who are also telling policy makers oh it's okay we can retrain it and i think that's where again some of the recent research and there's probably more investigation needs to be done to show this even more thoroughly it's really not as simple some eighty year old senator might not really understand the threat of uh... china but but then again there's the political thing like i can't imagine trump uh... you know posting on truth social that you know don't use deep seek it to security threat and also like half the country wouldn't listen to him and also he wouldn't do it because he wants to have to be like i will use deep seek all in check it right into my veins and then also like you know he's trying to have his good relationship with she ging ping were what is the thing he said the other day about she ging pings going to give him a big hug oh yeah well that he should give him a big fat hug for re-opening the straight of form is yeah anyway so there's there's so much stupid that happens in politics in every country would related to like oh i want to maintain this relationship with china even though it's really your relationship with the ccp uh... so yeah i guess maybe my my ideas totally unrealistic like the idea that you that you should issue a real security alert for something that's actually a security threat it like runs into the reality of there's politics involved and i can't imagine any country except maybe a stonia well i mean i think that's the question well that's also a political strategy question right is it she'll be having an um-actually for mat no no i was actually it's it's kind of a supporting thing oh really you're gonna support something i say well knocking it down thank you no no it's something uh... jensen Huang didn't interview on a podcast in video yeah the cio and video right and uh... i think jensen Huang has been pretty uh... vocal and and trying to influence trump and the trump administration to like let and video sell chips china like what's you know will give a more stuff yeah fine it is a stuff like that and then so this uh... he was on the podcast with the sky dorkish who was like okay let me ask you a bunch of questions about china like if china trains a mythos level model in your chips isn't that a threat to us national security like if they use your tips to power up this like insanely powered ai that can find and exploit like these vulnerabilities right uh... in all of our like security in our software like isn't that a threat to national security and then he was just like we should not treat china as enemies and and just a bunch of stuff about how okay you know what about like uh... okay if if china ships a cyber offensive model running on your hard wire to the rest of the world how's that good and then he's like okay what what what why you fixated on this layer of the stack and he was like what don't compare ai to weapons that's like comparing a lot of weapons is lunacy you know isn't there some evidence that uh... iran used uh... like chinese ai to help target u.s. bases every every country's military is using ai to some degree to improve their defense okay so then i'm gonna start calling jensen wrong so another question this guy has to say once the chips are over there how do we control what they train and then jensen on was like to leave that market to concede that market for the u.s. technology industry is a disservice to our country and then the other guys like just acknowledge there's some cost to selling them compute and he said that's a loser mindset jensen wrong is a little so i don't know how much of like jensen wrong represents just in video interest or if this is like a wider perspective on people are still a confound there's a lot of it's it's really like it comes down to money in politics and i guess yeah there's it's it's so hard to get people who have business interest in china to like they're not going to suddenly say oh i guess you're right the ccp is a threat and i'm going to say it publicly and i'm going to issue the security alert well this that is a good point and i think what needs to happen is there needs to be financial reasons why these companies would avoid china and i don't know if that's a sticker carrot it's kind of like how trump is talking about uh... you know the mineral deal in you crane because you know there's all this talk about like supporting you know freedom but but but no one ever does when money's on the line but like if there's like actual vested interests there like if the u.s. has a mineral deal in you crane and there's like americans there that that that we're going to ensure a stable you crane yeah without it that's not being invaded because we need those minerals yeah and so like i mean we consider and talk about how you know jensen wrong is wrong but uh... yeah i mean they're not going to be like well i i won't make money well that's really exactly where it's short-sighted and it's also kind of history repeating itself if you look back at like the google and the you know the face books and all of those very calm you know and again i think what's disappointing is that there's just so much evidence that the ccp is such a nefarious player that it does use whatever technology can to do these things including both western and chinese l alams so like there was a recent report by just it's telling which elixin made me think of this um... open-a-i was looks at like who's misusing chat you be t and they actually found some guy who was like apparently linked to chinese law enforcement and so it was using chat you be t to try to a create influence operations and different this information also reporting back to his bosses in Beijing well apparently there was one example where you try to use chat here she tried to use chat you be t uh... to design a whole like influence operation to smear the japan who the woman who's now the japanese prime minister and chat you be t refused it had some kind of safeguard that refused well i guess fast forward a few months and then this person comes back and it's now using chat you be t to report back to the superiors and will all of the whole it's reporting that they actually did try to do that and actually manage to get some content up and had used the chinese l alams to do that so that's like a clear example of yes actually chinese law enforcement are using chinese l alam models maybe built on in video chips right to um... uh... to create uh... foreign influence campaign targeting a u.s. l.i. and a democracy right so this isn't hypothetical could they do it like they're actually doing that there's evidence of it so that's what's always a disappointing because that's where you really see that it really is just the money talking and they don't want to quote a fend who ever they're trying to cut a deal with in Beijing because these are just hypotheticals these are things that we actually see already have to be sure to listen to the lot it's i do think it's kind of funny how uh... uh... i'm just like picturing somebody and like the chinese state security like trying to use chat gpt to props to the design and influence operat give me a six point plan to suppress fallen gong in united states well but that you you joke but actually some of the content that they put in for this was like give me sick these six strategies are i want to use these strategies to create this content into like that it's exactly the smear the japanese prime minister but what why don't they just use deep seek instead of chat gpt that's a really good question because basically chat gpt said no and that's where this question of like what are safeguards it doesn't always have to be all you know black or white blana completely or not it's just a question of like let's be realistic about the risks and one of the safeguards that you need that then it did go so maybe that's chinese you know law enforcement admitting that actually deep seek isn't as good as chat gpt right well probably isn't it built on a lot of that stuff i mean it's like you know it wasn't doesn't the report that that deep seek used uh... like trained partly on open a i yeah and so yeah it's like it's just like a derivative of that but also like plus censorship thank you for watching this clip there's a lot more so i invite you to visit our website china and censored dot tv where you can watch the full hour long interview plus get mp3 downloads of all our podcasts and most importantly you'll be supporting the work we do link is below