---
video_title: "Is Taiwan Considering Getting Nukes?"
video_id: sJbYDGaVu8g
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sJbYDGaVu8g
video_date: 2026-06-13T15:34:08+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-339
  We asked Taiwan’s ambassador to the US, Alexander Yui, if Taiwan was considering getting nuclear weapons to defend itself against the threat of China. His answer may surprise you.
---
Do you think that, you know, everything that Taiwan does to build up its military, anger's China, right? So there's no way to avoid that. One of the controversial proposals has been to have American tactical nukes in Taiwan as part of Taiwan's defense. Is that a reasonable option? Well, actually I haven't heard that. And the nuclear option is always a very scary option. But I think the fact that I don't think nuclear arms need to be in place in Taiwan in order to have that deterrent effect. Because the very fact that there are nuclear arsenals in both sides and itself, it's a good deterrence. And I think the best part of being having nuclear arsenals is that, you know, that if I use it, you will use it too. And that it's not going to end well, you know, in any scenario, it doesn't end well. So I think nuclear weapons, I think, is a good way of deterrence, but doesn't have to be in Taiwan. But that's the sort of like the doom, doom, doom state scenario that nobody wants to happen. But again, the nuclear option is not just for Taiwan, but actually from both fronts, you know, the like-minded democratic front and the other side, which is North Korea, Russia, China, Iran, etc. So that's why there's so important not to let Iran have the capability of getting their own nuclear weapons because again, it will be devastating if it does. You could just throw stinky tofu at them. Have you tried it? Yes. Yes. I love it. And these guys are not on board. I guess that would be a crime against humanity. No, no, no. The fried and the steam are both wonderful tofu, yeah. But anyways. What we really like is China and all beef hot pot. That's very true. Actually, Taiwan was ranked, well, I mean, obviously many ranks, but we got the number one ranking recently about food and nature. And Taiwan was ranked number one. I think for a good reason. We're melting pot of many different. It's not just Chinese cuisine, but also some Japanese, a little bit of everything. And that makes it, you know, Jensen Huang from Enbedeo was just in Taiwan. And he loves to go to Nai Marcus every time he's in Taiwan. And also when he invites all these titans of industries from Taiwan and other countries, I think he hosted some Korean, you know, big CEOs yesterday in Taiwan. If they go to these small restaurants, you know, that we go to, you know, very accessible. But the food is, again, it's food is great. So take a look. But I just wanted to also just point out that Taiwan, as you mentioned at the beginning, is a threat to the PRC because not only because they want to get Taiwan for historical reasons, though Taiwan's been part of China for thousands of years. Well, that's not the reason why, you know, you should get Taiwan because, again, if that is the case, that there'll be very complicated issues in Europe and in other places, based on historical, you know, claims. But Taiwan is a threat to the PRC because we are a successful democracy and it shows so that people of China that there is an alternative, a good alternative to what they're going through with the Chinese Communist regime in China. Tiananmen, you know, 1989 was a little ray of hope that there will be change in China. And obviously it was murderously squashed by the PLA. But I think as long as Taiwan is vibrant democracy, it always be a little, you know, a threat to the Chinese Communist regime. And I think that's one of the reasons why they want Taiwan so bad. Look at what happened to Hong Kong. Hong Kong was a colony that had no choice. Unfortunately, it was turned to the Chinese PRC in 1997. And you know, again, Hong Kong was a vibrant, you know, pearl of the Orient, it's a financial center of Asia. And now it's just any other Chinese city, you know, them and under just very, you know, draconian laws. And I mean, I just really feel sorry for people in Hong Kong that there's, and there was nothing people could do because it was, it became part of China. And imagine what happened to Taiwan if we become part of China again. They will say, well, whatever I do in Taiwan is my own business. So if I want to, if jail people send it to concentration camps, this is my own city. You know, you shouldn't, you shouldn't, shouldn't concern you because this is domestic issues. That's precisely what China is trying to do. And you mentioned a very, you know, mad, you mentioned about that's another analogy that I made in the CBS interview with Margaret Brennan, you know, like us trying to have a stronger defense is actually in raging China. It's the same analogy as there's, there's intruders trying to get into my house and trying to have a better alarm system. And the intruder complains that he's making his job more difficult. Well, it's my house. You're not supposed to pay my house. You know, and that's the whole problem about that. But again, we will do whatever it takes to different, different assets, the message I want to give to American people into the world is that Taiwan, we are who we are, we are democracy. We're not, we're not, you know, the official name of my country is called the Republic of China. And where there's nothing, nothing to do with the people of Republic of China. We are, we're not, you know, part of them. They're not part of us. Historically, we were, you know, boundless is a territory, but it would be separate from each other for the last seven, seven years. And they should let us live as we are as democracy. And we're willing to talk to them, you know, have a, have a thought as long as they treat us as equals, they're treating us as a, as a rebel province. But we're not actually, again, also made analogy who is first, we, we, we were the Republic of China in 1912 and they became people of China in 1949. So who's first, who's second, it's very clear. But at the same time of CCP will only talk to KMT. And that's a problem for them. Taiwan is still a KMT, a whole lot of KMT losers. And that's why the only topic came to be is for them is still a conflict between KMP and CCP. It's where they started, you know, also to Ngan Chang Kai-shik. So, so they only talk to CCP because they still think in their minds is, it's a, it's a KMP holdout. And they can accept the fact that we have the democracy in Taiwan that we have elections. And now that the ruling party is called the Democratic people in the DPP. And they should talk to also whoever's in power in government. If they really want to have some peace and stability in the region, we were not the aggressors. They are, they're the ones putting all the military out of this attack on Taiwan. And we just want some peace and stability in the area. It will continue whatever it takes to also maintain the region in a peaceful, in a peaceful way. But we can search peace at all costs, you know, as you know, a peace man never ends well. Never. Yeah. Yeah. You can't to peas the board. No, but exactly the federation, the federation eventually wins. Right. That's the message. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, Chinainsensor.tv, where you can watch the full hour long interview, plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.