---
video_title: "He Told the Taipei Mayor He’s Not CIA  The Mayor Confessed Anyways"
video_id: _PGLNx9Rnx8
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_PGLNx9Rnx8
video_date: 2026-04-02T17:02:42+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-331
  Former Taipei Mayor Ko Wen-je spoke with human rights researcher and author Ethan Gutmann for a book he was writing about organ harvesting prisoners of conscience in China. Gutmann said he wasn’t with the CIA but Ko confessed anyways.  Gutmann is out with a new book called The Xinjiang Procedure that delves into Ko Wen-je’s connection to organ harvesting in China. You can order it at https://www.amazon.com/Xinjiang-Procedure-Ethan-Gutmann/dp/1968919201
---
How I get to the point, the Shenjong procedure outlines what was really going on in this campaign. How do I know? Because I interviewed his campaign manager several times. And apparently he was absolutely convinced I was from the CIA right from the beginning. Would you told him you were not from the CIA? Uh-huh. Which is what a CIA agent wouldn't do. And especially with the Chinese principal of opposites to say, I'm not from the CIA out of the blue is to say, I'm CIA. Watch your ass, you know, I can do anything I want to you. Well, that's, it seems like that would explain why he suddenly like gave up and just told you everything's like, oh, I guess he knows everything. The jig is up. It's, yes, sort of the jig is up, but he told a half truth with him in a leading position as somebody who wanted to help. And just had gotten caught up with the sort of the sweep of this thing. That was not true. Okay. So I understood now from the manager what apparently he was obsessed with me. He even looked at see me on TV and he'd start yelling and, you know, and I mean, that's how I treat you. Okay. Okay. I feel the same back. Sometimes, uh, myself seeing myself on TV. What are you doing? What are you doing on this show? I'm sorry. So don't worry. This is going to be the last time you're on the show, right? So this is very interesting. Like you as like a normal human being thought, like, oh, this is this is this guy's kind of confession trying to put things right. But really it was him talking to the CIA and trying to cover his ass. That's right. And by the way, I'm not, you know, who's fault this all is. Lee Shies. Have you ever had Lee Shie in your show? We interviewed him, uh, 2019 or something. It was, it was me who did the interview. Yeah. You were like not there that day. Um, did he blink? Did he ever blink? No. No, he was very intense. Like extremely smart, extremely intense. It's like talking to a cat. Okay. Do you talk to cats often? Well, sometimes. He did not scratch my face. Okay. So he was very polite, actually. No, he's very polite, but he's got those blue eyes and he just the stare. You know, nothing moves just the stare. And, uh, so I think possibly that was, that was part of the effect. But the real thing was that I'd said, carelessly, you know, I'm not CIA. I'm not FBI too. I said that as well. Uh, okay. However, and that should have been the end of the story. Okay. Except for one thing. And he was running for mayor again. And then I got a call. Uh, I got an email from someone and someone who'd worked with him. And they said, look, um, you have to look at this website. And I said, okay. So I went on a completely different computer that I didn't care about and looked at the website. I was going to say if a stranger says, look at this website. It's, it's not fake. It's quite real. It just was a leftover of a Wushie people's conference on trans. Plants and every name, you know, there's a scene. Maybe you guys are too young for this or something. But then Lawrence of Arabia, where he shows up. This isn't like the last half of the movie where everything's going on the decline. And he shows up with this surrounded by these guys on their camels. And Omar Sharif comes up to him and says, who are these people? Every one of them has a price on their heads. And he says, they're mine. Hot, hot. And you know, they all watch for it. That's what it was like. It was like, oh my god, every single name, every single one of them was writing a camel. No, every single one of them had been, well, not every single one, but about a third of them, the names I instantly recognized and recognized them by their photographs as well as surgeons who performed the most transplants and host extractions in all of China. I mean, there's a thing that they're like, one of them has performed 10,000 extractions. Or at least he claims this. I mean, he's a man, which is not a normal statistic. Right. A thousand in somebody's 10-year career. Yeah. Well, there would not be that many transplants done, like in the entirety of all hospitals in most countries. In that. Not even here. This is bizarre. I mean, and you have Mr. Wushie. People's Hospital, Dr. Chen, who's there with, you know, with the lungs and all the rest of them and the hospitals. Were all the famous ones, if you had Matt Robertson, he would be able to list them all off, even quicker than me, perhaps. So it made us as well. But, you know, we knew that these hospitals would change in, change in central hospital, also known as the Oriental, Oriental Transplant Center. The Beijing 309, every one of them was represented there. It was spectacular. And he was the only foreigner. And he had the conference was co-named for the product he was trying to push. It was metronic, which makes ECMO. ECMO just means it's an oxygenation process. It's used for all kinds of great things. It saved a lot of people's lives during COVID. Okay. It's fine. It's like you can't blame ventilators for people dying from COVID, you know, that kind of thing. Same thing. Good technology. In this case, he'd come up with the use for it. ECMO was using it to live organ harvest, to be harvest, fallen gone probably, was his creation. Actually, he used it first in Taiwan, with the families didn't know. The person was about to die. They were old. And he'd strapped them up with the ECMO machines. He'd strapped up the organs. So they're kind of living off this oxygenation system. And then he would remove the organs, wanted at a time, leaving the heart to last. Okay. So the patient is alive the whole time. And then he actually wrote a guide in English, where he said, if the medical examiner is coming by, you can inject so much sodium, whatever it is. I don't even remember them, whatever. It stops you. It stops everything. And, you know, so there won't be any problems. So, I mean, so this sounds illegal. Grey area. At that time, when he wrote this, and when he was doing this research, it was grey area. And fallen gone was just a gleam in the PSB's eye at this time. Okay. They weren't harvesting fallen gone in 1998, 1999. But later on, that's where all the organs will come from fallen gone. And he was the only one doctor in the world who knew this with certainty, other than, of course, countless surgeons in China. But the only foreigner, and here he was, headlining this conference, and teaching everybody how to use ECMO. Now, what he was doing, ECMO is the reason you use it is because normally organs die after about 48 hours. You know, approximately somewhere in that range. They might last four hours in some cases, some past the last eight, sometimes 12. Cornia's the last 30 days, that's because they're tissue not an organ. This ECMO doubles or triples. The amount of time you have to work with an organ. It's a godsend. If you're taking a human being apart, okay, me instead of you, all right. If you're taking a human being apart, and you're taking my organs out, you might get tired. You might get exhausted. Maybe it's really late, two in the morning. You know what, why don't we all break and come back at eight? You could do that with ECMO, no problem. Because the ECMO is keeping the organs going. Yeah, it's keeping them healthy, keeping them fresh. And you can even move the organs. Right, so if you need to transport them from, say, Xinjiang to Wushi People's Hospital. Ah, you've got me there. I don't know if they can do it that way. Just the organs. In other words, it may be that some kind of human form has to be still attached. Now, I've always assumed, I've always thought that'd be a breakthrough. If I could show that, then it was sort of like, what's that horrible horror movie? You could severed heads and all that. That's future trauma. It's a lot. Okay. I would head. It has to come back to life and so on. I mean, No, it's future trauma. You know, the head's in the jar, or anything. Yeah, I have to know. I see. So, good catch that. I don't know. I was not able to pin that down. That's a failing of the book. It's one of the only ones. Thank you for watching this clip. The book is called the Xinjiang Procedure. Order it now and get 20% off your next Chinese organ transplant. And if you support extremely controversial episodes like this and want to get more, join our 50 cent army at Chinainsensor.tv.