---
video_title: "Why Socialism “Done Right” Still Failed in Venezuela"
video_id: EWF1RrBHwdA
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EWF1RrBHwdA
video_date: 2026-01-14T23:22:50+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-322
  Venezuela may have “done socialism right,” but it still led to total economic collapse. Why? Venezuelan expert Jorge Jraissati explains. Follow him on X @jraissatijorge
---
Venezuela basically implemented the most I would say vivid example of socialism. They implemented all the recipes that socialists believe. They implemented price controls throughout the economy. So every business had to follow what the bureaucrats told them to do when it comes to pricing. So all supermarkets, all stores, everybody had to follow the prices of the what the government told them. There was production quotas. So

basically the factories could only produce the amount that the government told them to produce or the items that the government told them to produce. There was massive expropriation basically businesses, land, factories that were taken away from entrepreneurs to and they were given away to the government. This happened in virtually all sectors from traditional oil and gas through farming through small businesses and even bitcoin mining. So if you combine all these elements on top of that I can mention currency and exchange controls. So since 2013 Venezuelans cannot access dollars without the approval of the government bureaucracy.

So that create huge corruption in the trade sector in Venezuela. It create huge corruption for people that wanted to save money on dollars. So if you combine all these policies, they really took away all the economic freedoms of Venezuelans. They took away all the market mechanisms and they replace that with government decision making with central planning with bureaucrats making the decisions for everybody. On top of that, something I also want to emphasize is that this government was extremely responsible fiscally in the depth in Venezuela is gigantic and other problems as well.

>> So, is this an example of of uh some people say, well, you know, if the they had implemented the same policies but weren't corrupt, it would have been fine. What do you think about that? No, that's the that that's incorrect is because the problem is the policies per se. If you start dictating to businesses what they have to produce, at what price they have to produce, if you start mandating people what to do, that's not the right way to build an economy. Nobody will be entrepreneurial. Nobody

will open businesses. It is deeply unfair. So, it's not about corruption. Corruption is an issue. But the reality is that all the countries that implement these policies end up in economic crisis, end up in economic collapse.

I really when I talk to people that are born in the US or in Western Europe, I think they cannot understand sometimes the magnitude of poverty in places like Venezuela because we are not talking about poverty of somebody that I don't know cannot buy the latest iPhone or any other normal poverty. We are talking about people that cannot have enough food on the table every day and it's because they destroy the whole economy. In Venezuela, there was one point in which you could not buy meat, you could not buy milk, you could not buy bread because all businesses were closed. So, it was a totally zombie economy. >> Not to mention all the political repression that has to go along with that with those economic policies.

>> Yes. Exactly. Because the only way to maintain this kind of system is through repression. Because people naturally want a change when they see that they cannot buy anything. So they want a change but when they want to vote for somebody else this regime for example start stealing elections and they make people life impossible also politically.

Well, so currently, you know, the US does not have the best reputation for regime change. How do you think uh it's going to go with the US supposedly running the transition? I think that the US and the Trump administration has to learn from previous mistakes or previous failures. It seems to be at least from the announcement they have made and based on the strategy that they have set. Marco Rubio has been very clear about the strategy that at least they have in their minds which is a threepoint strategy [clears throat] is first to stabilize the country and they said that they will use the oil revenues to do so.

So they will use the oil revenues to then bring a stability into on the ground in Venezuela. Then they said that they will open up some parts of the economy and the third part will be a political liberalization or a transition in Venezuela. I know about the reputation of the US when it comes to a regime change or a state rebuilding. But the reality is that Venezuela is way different than Libya or Syria or Iraq for several reasons. Iraq is a place in which there was never a transition of power that was peaceful in Iraq. When I speak with my friends from

the region, they tell me this. But Venezuela was a country that used to be a democracy. Venezuela is also a country that is western. So it's western society. It's a western style of civilization.

And when it comes to the national security approach, it's way different to go to a place where you need to fly for 24 hours to be there than Venezuela, which is a couple of hours from the US. Thank you for watching this clip. A link to the full hour-long interview is below. It's available exclusively on our website, chinaunensored.tv, for our supporters, the Chinaensored 50 C army. Do you want to learn more? Click

the link below.