---
video_title: "We Were Inches Away from World War 3 | David Day"
video_id: gMKz_H_gWFY
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gMKz_H_gWFY
video_date: 2026-07-16T15:29:51+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-343
  One aggressive incident by China put us literally inches from the start of a war, which could soon escalate to involve half the planet. We are still one small Chinese “mistake” from a World War size conflict. We are joined by David Day, Chairman of the Global Risk Mitigation Foundation
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
So there's something I've been very curious about lately. You know, we've been watching China's actions in the South China Sea for a long time, and usually they use their coast guard. But lately I've noticed that there's been this transition to using more and more of the Chinese navy or the maritime militia. Why do you think that has happened? Well, the coast guard has been used in the West Philippine Sea, the South China Sea, because that bolsters the narrative that they have been operating in basically in internal waters. So it's a lit, they have been using the White Holes under the guise of law enforcement. And we'll get into this later in the program. I'm sure discussion having to do with the Bashi Channel breakout of the China coast guard heading into the Philippine Sea to the east of Taiwan. But in the South China Sea, they have used the coast guard and the Chinese militia. Also a White Holes ship designation. The use of the navy, Chris, I think really comes from a matter of just frustration and you know, people aren't buying this law enforcement narrative. So they just use whatever they've got that's available and the navy is brought into project a far more aggressive stance than simply a law enforcement action. So that's when you see the gray hole. There were that incidents I think last year where there was like a coast guard ship and a navy ship from China that were both following a Filipino boat and then they crashed into each other the two Chinese ships. Like they were operating in the same jurisdiction essentially. And they I guess very few journalists really appreciate how close we came to World War 3 in that situation because the Philippine coast guard ship was the Sula one, which is a very small vessel. I have seen the Sula one and the stern of that vessel has a flagpole and that the Chinese vessel came so close trying to ram the Sula one that it broke the flagpole off the back of the stern of the Sula one. So and then of course we believe that there were several Chinese coast guard sailors that were crushed to death in that collision and killed. And if you look at the video of that very carefully you can see a very red tint that looks like smashing a blood and it's of course speculation but in the burials the Chinese were very careful to they haven't accounted for all the bodies. Let me just put it that way. So why was that almost World War 3 do you think? Because you have a massive Chinese vessel trying to ram a much smaller vessel of the Philippine coast guard and had that maneuver taken place successfully and it's likely that you would lose loss of lives on the Philippine coast guard which falls under the essentially the protection or jurisdiction of the 1954 mutual defense treaty between the United States and the Philippines. So the agreement basically is you know if the Philippines loses one of their government officials in an act like that that allows the Philippines to trigger the 1954 mutual defense treaty. So then basically the US would be under political pressure to be involved and then send you know the US Navy. I mean that could be a whole mess but like we've been we the United States military has been preparing for this a lot over the last you know years especially right in terms of doing these Balakatan exercises with the Philippines. Let's start with that like what's going on with the US Philippines joint naval and military exercises and then we can talk about what the Philippines is doing with other countries as well. Well okay so basically what has happened with the new or relative mid mid mid term now Marcos administration is the United States basically has military exercises effectively running year round in the Philippines. So there are foreign troops in the Philippines along with the US constantly and this ties in with the new nine Edka sites throughout the country where these are Philippine bases that have been open to US troops coming in and using the base for exercises or joint training and the interesting big picture here is Matt that if you take all of these exercises on a year round basis and you add in various military non exercise engagements the number is like 500 so the the engagement between the US military and the Philippine military is unbelievable. I mean it's I was on Fort Mags Isai a couple times last year and earlier this year and you see US there it's an army base you see US army soldiers there and they have a whole section of the base where they have their equipment and tents and so there are a number of exercises and they include other countries Australia, New Zealand participating and now in this most recent Balakatan Japan move from simply being an observer to providing actual troops and participating on an active basis and of course this does not sit too well in Beijing not at all. Thank you for watching this clip and there's a lot more that we couldn't put here on YouTube so visit our website ChinaNcensor.tv so you can watch the entire hour long interview plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts and most importantly you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.