---
video_title: "The CCP's Days Are Numbered…"
video_id: inVm5ev4kMg
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=inVm5ev4kMg
video_date: 2026-08-18
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-347
  CCP leaders seem all powerful in China right now, but they know their days are numbers, and that makes them very insecure. In this episode we discuss what Chinese leaders fear most, why China is desperately seeking sanctions relief from the US, and how the CCP is shooting itself in the foot.
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
Well, I'm curious what this means for the CCP because a few years ago, well, not a few years ago, before COVID at this point, not a few years ago now. I know people were predicting as you say that the Chinese economy is going to surpass the United States. It's going to be the biggest economy in the world. Xi Jinping was talking about the Chinese dream, a moderately prosperous society. Now it's clear real estate collapsed.

It's not going to surpass the US economy. Youth unemployment is insane. Uh it's it's very bleak right now. Do you think this is actually a risk to the power of the CCP or can they pull something out of their hat? >> Well, the answer to your question Matt is yes, cuz it's a huge risk to the leadership and I think that um it's important um for your audience to really uh to really understand and appreciate what is the the the fear that every leader in the in the Communist Party fears as they go to sleep each night.

What do they worry about? What do they what what keeps them awake at night? And it is the fear that they will no longer be in power. And if you drill down on that that paranoia or that fear, uh it's what what I would call a Ceaușescu moment. And their their greatest worry is that they could have sufficient social unrest in China that would flip the control that the party has on the country overnight, very quickly.

And it comes from the historical example of Nicolae and Josephine Ceaușescu who ruled Romania. And Nicolae was a big fan of Mao. Big fan and close to the party leadership in those days. And what happened I guess this was December or something something like a December of um I'm trying to remember '89 back in that period. Maybe I'm off a couple years.

But um the turmoil in Romania happened so fast. Uh and the government flipped and Nicolae and his wife Josephine were brutally executed. And that fear is what the party leadership has each night as they go to sleep. So the social unrest issue is tied to the whole topic that we're talking about here and that is the success of the economy. And that's why on a on the the these areas just like we've been talking about the AI, this is an area of success. And so

the party has to promote this success. Remember that they are an export driven economy. And uh AI like TikTok is an export. And there were certain um countries in the world that have wised up to this situation. So as an example, India I think is one of the countries that has banned TikTok.

And we are not there in our awareness. The United States is yet. So we still have TikTok. So they still get to uh still get the benefit from that so far. >> So you've described these new sectors like AI as like a Potemkin village that it's just for show.

Uh that seems to suggest to me that even though on the surface it looks, you know, very good. China's making, you know, it's deep sea coal, all of the solar panels, all the EVs in the world. But that suggests to me that maybe they aren't actually making enough money off of it, that it's not actually something that's stimulating the economy in a meaningful way. I mean, a an economy a country's economy is not built off of EVs alone. >> Well, you're right and that's why you've seen um you've seen the party in their their last uh leadership conference, they rolled the projections for the GDP back.

Um and so now instead of about 5% we've got a 4.6, which even that is a Those are fake statistics. And if we look back at uh 2025, you know, they they claim they they hit their goal almost. They were a little under five 5%. But if you look at um you look at factors like uh electric power consumption or taxes paid in 2025, I'm not so sure they were really much above zero.

The economy is contracting. And and because they are an export-driven economy, this is why you see this huge push uh to to cram the the um the volume of EVs into the EU into Europe. Because the American market has been closed off to them. So you get a situation now where the EU has permitted this huge onslaught and they're trying to stop it. And the onslaught has caused a collapse in the profitability of Porsche, for instance, dropped something like 90%.

In the last year, Mercedes-Benz has taken a hit down about 50% and Volkswagen has had a a similar hit. So that the the the the superstars of the EU have taken major hits with the EV competition coming in from China. And so that let's let's hope the EU wakes up to this and puts a stop to some of this this flooding of the overcapacity in in China's push to just try to save the economy through exports. And this is why we see the Chinese pushing really hard with the US to get some relief from our tariffs. And they are they they have figured out that they've got their own Strait of Hormuz.

And that is the critical minerals sector. And so they're using that as the choke point in trying to force some type of concession from the United States so they can get back and get access to our large market to save themselves because they're trying to export themselves out of this economic hole that they're in right now. Put it very simply. >> Well, so let's say they are successful. They use a combination of pressure on rare earths.

Perhaps in 2028, let's say Gavin Newsom becomes president, loves green energy, reduces the tariffs, opens up the US for Chinese EVs. Would that be enough to save the Chinese Communist Party? >> Save the party or save the economy? >> Well, let's ask about the economy first, I think. >> Kind of the same, but yeah.

>> Yeah. No, you're right. You're right. Well, I don't think so. I think that you get uh you you might blow out some of the uh American and foreign uh car producers that are the manufacturing in the US.

Um but that's that's still that's just one one little piece of the Chinese economy. And um there isn't there isn't the ability to export themselves out of this hole now. And I think that even if we had a political situation like that in the US, that's not enough because you would need uh a a similar political situation in in Europe so that they because those are the two largest markets. Uh and I just don't see that happening. >> Thank you for watching this clip.

There's a lot more that we couldn't put here on YouTube, so visit our website chinacensored.tv so you can watch the entire hour-long interview, plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.