---
video_title: "How to Stop Communism in America"
video_id: qaylsvCTFHs
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qaylsvCTFHs
video_date: 2026-08-22
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-348
  It may not be dressed like communism as we know it, but if you look at some of the most popular ideas in American politics today, they’re communism in sheep’s clothing, according to our guest Dr. Bradley Thayer, author of the new book AMERICA’S 100 YEARS’ WAR: How to Win Against Communism. https://www.amazon.com/dp/1648212808?
---
A lot of people say, "Well, communism just hasn't been done right, and if we do it right, uh, we'll get the equity that we want." >> Or, I mean, or that it's not communism, right? It's democratic socialism is not the same as communism. I think that's what you've been saying seeing on CNN and things like that that you know there's some recognition that the word communism is negative. So then um people are like well they're not talking about communism but then at the same time you have people in the organization talking about communism.

Certainly I think that's the Leninists are very sensitive to language and the role that it plays uh in control. So certainly folks are not illegal immigrants or they're not illegal aliens. They're undocumented. Uh so we can see how uh we have this influence in reshaping uh how we conceive of political issues like the DSA. To my mind, these are just front organizations, right? that fundamentally

uh there are core Leninists heavily active in the Democratic party who are driving a certain agenda. The DSA serve the role of front organizations and united front tactics that they have traditionally in countries uh around the world. So whatever the DSA is doing or other groups, smaller groups, um I think we want to keep the eye on really a Leninist core which is something I've stressed in the book that that we need uh to do. We need to be able to see through the united front to see the true distribution of power and where power truly lies um in uh among these groups. So are you saying that it's kind of in a way a distraction the DSA?

>> Yes, absolutely. >> So what is what is the Leninist core then? >> Well, Lenin is core would be the donors to the Democratic party, right? Those who are dominant in the Democratic party today who are driving um these ideas ever forward. Um so uh if you will the pilot bureau surrounding George uh uh Joe Biden uh uh for example Anita Dunn the major Democratic donors working in conjunction with Tides Act Blue Soros uh Singum um Steve Jobs widow uh and and many other actors who are if you will a privatized comment turn right the common turn formally doesn't exist anymore but it does exist in a privatized form Singum Sorro jobs uh and others who who help to fund and drive these ideas.

>> I mean, you've got these people who have made their millions or billions through the free markets uh through this open system in the west and now they want to fund what will become communism. I mean, like that it doesn't really make any sense to me like why would they want to do this? Yeah, I I think we have to ask uh it's an empirical question of course and we'd have to ask them. I think Soros and his son have a track record of um being very uh if you will very closely associated with communist ideas and and knowing how to target Western societies uh in particular Singum I see straight up Singham and his wife are are directly u seeking a communist revolution in the United States. uh as you know and have have covered well is is um ties to the CCP are overt uh uh and um quite clear. Others though

might be confused, right? I you know Bill Gates might be funding it what the Bolshevixs would call fellow travelers or Steve Jobs widow Lorine Powell Jobs, right? Similarly, she heavily funds immigration that is NOS's that are supporting immigration into the West. uh and why she's doing that of course is an empirical issue. Uh but I would suggest probably it may be less that she's understanding Leninism but is responding to an environment that the Leninists have created about the need to welcome immigrants uh into uh your your um your country.

>> Yeah. I mean it's just that like the the sort of founding philosophy of communist regimes is kill rich people and take their stuff. And so like I I see someone like Neville Roy Singum uh is like he he would be the first victim of you know a communist government coming in and taking his stuff to you know redistribute it. Um but like somehow there's a disconnect there >> or does he just think it's not going to happen to him or is it about some something else? There have many been there have always been many on the left who supported the Boleviks for example and have historically have supported communists.

Uh in in Cuba we saw this of course in China uh we saw it as well where the CCP had support. Uh in Russia we we saw similarly and we see it in the US. So I think you're right. uh it will end badly for Neville Royce Singum and Jody Evans, but that's cold comfort for us uh if they're uh able to bring about uh uh this revolution. So, um the uh uh I think we want to keep that in mind. Uh,

of course, um folks may be misguided and thinking that they're going to be part of the elite who are going to be running the revolution. It seldom turns out that way uh for uh the billionaires or th for those who are funding um uh communist revolution. >> Um you know in your in your book uh you call progressivism a neobolshevik ideology. Uh why is that? >> It's bullsheism updated. Right. So uh

the language has changed uh certainly to modernize it. We're not looking at uh for example the heavy emphasis on on the peasantry and on the proletariat that Lenin might uh of course uh given the conditions at Russia at the time but the objective is the same uh and so the progressive focus on uh what the leftwing bolevixs identified as being key to unhinging a society educational systems media destroying civil society destroying the family destroying religion. uh the church um are all a boolic ideas uh and so this is why I call it a neobolshevik names change uh but the strategy does not tactics may vary and tactics may change but a lot of the tactic tactics uh remain the same um and again that just underscores my argument that we see you know the influence of Lenin uh is alive and well uh in American polit politics today. >> I mean, you know, we're very different than 100 years ago in Russia where you had a lot of factory workers who were uh not being treated well, for example, or working in tough conditions. Now, it's like, oh, in New York City, you have like white collar workers who are in office jobs and like they may not love it, but like it's not exactly a brutal environment. Do you know what I'm

saying? Like it's pretty hard to get um people to just >> You're saying there's going to be a peasant uprising. >> It's it's pretty hard to do that. Yeah. In America today.

>> Yeah. Uh and so you're you're looking the United Front, right? They're they're not looking for a coup d'etat. Uh I I I think that's very unlikely in the United States today. And they're not looking for the Red Army to show up uh and and bring about the revolution. But it

they're using United Front tactics uh to bring about uh the revolution. So you're right. Um but fundamentally we need to recognize too an appeal of communism is uh at a popular level is true in every age which is there are those who have and those who don't have and those who don't have um want to take from those uh who have. There might be resentments against an established order uh that you're going to have across uh time uh with uh with revolutions. There's going to be a hatred uh that some individuals are going to have towards an established order. Uh and so there uh Leninist party

or the Bolevik approach or uh progressive progressive politics today offers a solution uh for those individuals. It offers an answer uh for those who are hate or seeking radical change uh in the US uh political system. Thank you for watching this clip and there's a lot more that we couldn't put here on YouTube. So visit our website chinaunensored.tv so you can watch the entire hourong interview plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts and most importantly you'll be supporting the work we do. The link

is below.