---
video_title: "Behind Xi Jinping’s Hot Mic Moment"
video_id: TkhPjpbvTOE
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TkhPjpbvTOE
video_date: 2026-03-16T12:54:23+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-328
  Order your copy now of Killed to Order to push it to the Bestseller list! http://www.killedtoorder.com
  Join Jan Jekeliek live in Washington DC on March 16, 2026! http://killedtoorderevent.com/ 
  
  Xi Jinping and Putin were caught on what appeared to be a hot mic in September 2025 discussing humans living to be 150 with the help of continual organ transplants. In this episode, we discuss whether it was really a hot mic or merely an ad for China’s longevity project. 
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
I mean, we got on a hot mic last year at the military parade in Beijing, Putin speaking to Xi Jinping about how they're going to live to be 150. And I'm wondering how they're going to keep their organs so fresh. That was an absolutely astonishing moment to me, okay? I'll tell you why, because I kind of compartmentalized things in my mind, right? I knew that there was an elite longevity project, they called Project 981, that you know, it has the target age of 150 years to allow elites to live longer. And indeed, Chinese elites do live longer than the average person. And you think to yourself, well, maybe they're getting blood transfusions, maybe they're eating better, maybe they have access to the much better healthcare. All this would probably be true. But what I didn't think of is what was revealed in this hot mic moment, which is, you know, maybe I'll summarize, right, what they said. But like Putin, she says to Putin, when we're 70, we're just babies, right? We're just babies. And Putin says to Xi unbelievably, through continual organ transplantation, perhaps we can achieve immortality. And Xi answers, yes, our target is 150 years. I mean, this is a paraphrase of a longer conversation, but that's the gist of it. So, and that's when, for me, you know, maybe a little bit dense, right? The light bulb goes off, oh my god, this organ industry is tied in with the elite longevity project. Of course, obviously it is, right? I just hadn't thought of it because they were kind of two separate things in my mind that I had worked on before. And no, I mean, absolutely astonishing thing to kind of discover. Imagine, right, like the best estimate we have, this comes from David Mades, which is one of these, one of the, again, it's kind of hero researchers of forced organ harvesting over the last 20 years, he estimates it's about a $9 billion annual industry, okay, in terms of these, you know, this murder for organs, kind of crazy, and you think, okay, so there's a strong financial incentive to keep this going. But what about this, right? If you're a Chinese super elite, right, I'll give an example, right, I got this very weird report, which we published about an epoch time. So, I'll go on anecdote about this eulogy that was given to it, one of these elite officials that talked about how amazing it was. And this, this sounds really creepy because why would anyone write this, but they did, right, that they had, isn't it amazing how they had all these organs trans, multiple organs transplanted, right? So anyway, just, I remembered that in the process of this, I thought, my God, like $9 billion a year, okay, but what if you're, what if you have unlimited on-demand organs available to you forever? Like what is that worth? Feels like more than $9 billion to this Chinese super elite. I mean, of course, if you're willing to kill people in significant number for the purpose, well, I mean, my concern was when I heard Putin getting caught on a hot mic that it wasn't just, you know, a little slip up, it was actually an advertisement to elites all over the world. Hey, come to China, we have this thing, you'll live forever. I, this, you know, most Chinese that I've talked to absolutely don't believe that it was by accident. And, you know, perhaps it's because they know how unbelievably controlling the CCP is and how unlikely it would be that a hot mic could be caught. I, I don't know, right? I, I don't know the answer to that question, whether it was intentional, there's a lot of people I've talked to who believe it was absolutely intentional. Either way, I feel like we've gotten a revelation from this moment. Well, so fallen-gone practitioners are not an infinite source of organs. I've heard some states that they might actually be a pretty depleted source for organs at this point. Where does the CCP expect to continue to get its organs from? Well, so this is the kind of the real tragedy. I mean, first of all, that there might be this sort of depletion that you're describing. I don't actually know the answer to that question, even. It's not clear to us if the availability of felongong, what the availability of felongong organs is exactly at this point because they went to incredible lengths to try to, you know, kind of hide that, right? Especially since we started reporting on it in 2006. Like, for example, all those ads that were up online, inviting people for those quick turnaround organs, right? They all disappeared after 2006. The tragedy is that, you know, with these types of atrocities, it's actually not just with forced organ harvesting, atrocities. They actually, if they're not dealt with, if they're not addressed, they spread. And this is what happened in 2014 or 2015. You know, no one's really done anything about this. There's been some resolutions passed here and there. There's been some laws passed. Israel passed a very good law to prevent. You know, basically said no China transplants and with the, you know, state subsidized health care. There's been a few of those that were passed and so forth. Okay. But really, nobody did anything with teeth or called them out in a major way. And so they found another group of people and they dehumanized the uiger people and incarcerated huge amounts of them. Another very vulnerable group, it's smaller than felongong by quite a bit. Isolated and easy to exploit. You know, Ethan Gutman, who's another one of the hero researchers of this whole forced organ harvesting, I believe he's been on your show before he's coming out with a new book called the Xinjiang Procedures, trying to grasp how what the real numbers are around the exploitation of uggers in this kill to order industry and just just how that whole picture looks. But it's very hard to get at these numbers. And, you know, so we know now the Uggers have been added as another group to be exploited for kill to order. And I'm seeing, I'm beginning to see dehumanizing language as just talking with Pastor Bob Foo, who's someone who works, you know, on the bet for the benefit of Christians in communist China, which there's been kind of quite a growth of Christianity and there's been, you know, in response, you know, Zion Church kind of famously or infamously got rolled up some months ago, Catholic clergy are being, are we have been put under control. And I, and I'm seeing the increase in dehumanizing language against Christians. And I asked Bob Foo actually on a show, we're going to publish in a, in a few days, I think, on American thought leaders that he agrees with that. And so my concern is this, whenever this kind of a, this is just with any atrocity, but certainly it's been the case with forced organ harvesting prior to the group being used as a sizable source of organs that dehumanizing language has been pushed out into the population. So I'm worried that, you know, there might be other groups that are added soon, perhaps House Christians, Catholics, Tibetans. I don't know, I, someone wrote to me actually today and I didn't have a good answer because I don't know much about this. So he said, oh, I understand that Tibetans were used as well. And I, I believe that's probably true because I know that they've been both dehumanized and targeted by the regime that Tibetan people, especially after 2008, when they had that big demonstration, that big banner, you know, over the bridge in China during the Olympics, that the Tibetan movement was really crushed by the regime after that. I don't know the answer to, to how much the Tibetans are being used this way, but I would expect they probably are simply because of the way their regime treats them. Thank you for watching this clip. The book is killed to order China's organ harvesting industry and the true nature of America's biggest adversary. And if you pre-order it now, you can help get it on the best seller list. So use the link below and for more of this interview, check out our website, ChinaNcensored.tv.