---
video_title: "#331 Taiwan’s Dark Secret Exposed - Taipei Mayor Goes Down | Ethan Gutmann"
video_id: EdbVxUhX1jI
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EdbVxUhX1jI
video_date: 2026-03-30T17:16:05+00:00
video_description: |
  Former Taipei Mayor Ko Wen-je has been sentenced to 17 years in prison on corruption charges. But his crimes go much deeper, according to our guest Ethan Gutmann. He’s out with a new book called The Xinjiang Procedure that delves into Ko Wen-je’s connection to organ harvesting in China. You can order it at https://www.amazon.com/Xinjiang-Procedure-Ethan-Gutmann/dp/1968919201
---
On the subset of China Unscripted, the CCP's organ harvesting now coming to a free country near you. Well, if I'd China Unscripted, I'm Chris Chappell. I'm Shelley John. And I'm Matt Ganeshda. Who the hell are you? Ethan Gutman. Nice to meet you. Yes, well, an award-winning author, a huge in exposing organ harvesting in now. You have this new book. It should have been in front of you. I don't know why. I guess it is. Well, it's just so hard to put down. We've been fighting for it. It's very heavy. And score 141 pages, I think. That's great. I always judge a book by how much of a weapon it can be. I mean, for a paperback that is like really heavy. It's really heavy. That's why the Bible is the best book. Because it's heavy. Good weapon. And it has historically been used as a weapon. I can't believe we managed to get off track just by talking about books. Like, book. Well, it's easy to get off track. I mean, even for I got off track in this book. I mean, look, I wrote the slaughter. I wanted to write a book about follow and going. Initially, that was 10, 12 years ago, but the slaughter was published. I mean, that was sort of in part about Fallen Gong. Oh, about Fallen Gong parts. It was good to say. Oh, oh, oh, oh, yeah. It was actually good. That was good. Terrible, but good. I don't know how I feel about being on this show. It's just so weird. Okay. It's not my, we're not professionalized to everybody. I'm so sorry. They know what we're like. Okay. So that book, I mean, was supposed to be, I just wanted to write the best history. Nobody had written a really good history of the conflict between the Chinese state and Fallen Gong. That's it. And I, all my interviews in the beginning were just really about that in Canada and America. That's where we started. And very early on, I ran into a very unusual witness who would receive some unusual organs of testing. And I had the proverbial chill when I was smiling. And so I said, my God, that's stuff that Kilgar and made us writing about is real. It's possibly there. I was planning to spend half a chapter on it. Oh, wow. Okay. And then when I got to the end of the book, or was getting close, I talked to Washington Insider. I don't feel like revealing his name. But he sort of said, why do you want to write a book about Fallen Gong? I don't want to trouble publishing it. He said, but you've got Oregon harvesting in the book. Just write it more around that a little bit. Somehow that would be less controversial than talking about Fallen Gong. I don't want to say sex cells or violent cells or whatever, but these things do. They sell. Yeah. I mean, Fallen Gong is pretty sexy. They sit there, they meditate. They get their organs harvested. Come on. Okay. Okay. Okay. See, I'm really sorry. I'm so sorry. I'll never do it again. I promise. I'm just trying to help help me never help me never do it again. Well, so since this is clearly going to be our last podcast with you, we better make the most of it. So the point was I used to have a professor in graduate school. His name was Warner Showing and he had an expression. He said, paint the target around the hole you shot in the barn. That's good. And that's what I did. I said, okay, I've got this. So I ended up being called the slaughter and I added some more stuff about the Oregon harvesting. But really, if you go back and look at that book, mostly it's a history of Fallen Gong. No outsider had done an interesting history of Fallen Gong. I would develop the early spiritual days, all that stuff, that the beginning of the repression of Fallen Gong, which was very much latent. And there's this sort of period of about three years where it's just a lot of plain clothes, policemen showing up at practice sites and kind of pretending to do the exercise and then sneaking a smoke while they're doing it and stuff. I mean, this was true. It was very real. But to me, I treasure that history part. That's kind of why I wrote the book. And the same thing happened here. Okay. This ended up, yes, it's about Oregon harvesting it. Yes, it adds devastating new information to say that Oregon harvesting is not only still going on, but to some extent it's slightly accelerated. Okay. But it's certainly become normalized in Shinjong. But there's also the first chapter almost purely on a woman being raped, a young woman being raped. Okay. Another chapter is about the lobbying world, you know, the fight over this in Washington. Another chapter is about forced labor. Just it's called the road to slavery. In fact, it's, they're incredible witnesses to this stuff. And it does, I think, kind of create a picture of how forced labor has worked among the weekers. How the Chinese Communist Party has implemented it. So I've done all these kind of side pictures, but they're really important to me. Okay. And that's why the book is so bloody wrong. So why are you so into rape, Oregon harvesting? Oh, my God. Oh, boy. Well, these are just facts of life in China. They're real. Right. But I mean, not everybody dedicates their lives to this. I mean, you've been, you've been writing about this stuff for many years now. Look, I'm fascinated by people who've been through, been to the gates of hell and come back. I mean, a, the strength of character it takes to get through this kind of stuff. You'll see the rape chapter is not just about a victim. Oh, I've read the rape chapter. Yes. Okay. So she's a somewhat formidable character. Right. Actually very formidable. And they had a lot of trouble with her. So like it's, I basically, on a previous podcast, the three of us did it again. I just like was talking about that chapter and how, like even just reading through it is like a gauntlet, let alone somebody experiencing. Yeah. And I was, I was making the point because like I had just recently spoken to a boomer on Facebook, which was my own fault, talking about how she went to China and what felt embarrassed as an American because China is so great. It's better than the United States. And then, you know, the rape chapter has got better, better facial recognition than the United States. Oh, yeah. It's got better surveillance than the United States. Far better. If you need an organ in your high level official. It's very good. It's the only place I could get a, I don't have a spleen. Okay. China. Yeah. And they sell them in China. They actually do sell them. The only country in the world. I just thought, I've thought about going to China to get a spleen. It'd be very embarrassing if I was caught. That would be really humiliating. I mean, the Chinese would make the most of it. They make a big issue of it. He humiliated me and what a hypocrite. Well, that would be your main problem going to China. Well, I mean, speaking of some potentially compromising things. We had you on recently to talk about the book in general, but there was, there was one chapter we definitely want to focus on. And this has to do with the former mayor of Taipei, Cohen J. And well, I mean, you know, what, what was his, how did he find himself in your wonderful blood case? And we didn't bring a copy of the slaughter here, but that's where the two books really come together is because he was my, ultimately my star witness in the slaughter. Two select star witnesses. And the most persuasive thing you can get in this field is not a victim. If you don't have a copy of the slaughter on her bookshelf, it's not a victim. It's always from the medical community. If you get one doctor to come out and say, yeah, like, and Bertolti came out and said, I did this with my hands. He didn't use bare hands. He didn't say my bare hands because he's not from, you know, English. Well, she used gloves when you're harvesting organs for sanitary reasons. Yes, I suppose that's true. Well, now I don't think the sanitary mattered very much when he was doing this at gunpoint on a living human being who was going to die anyways. This is an execution ground, right? Yes. Well, actually, as he pointed out, he could have fixed, he's since then, since his first witness saying every time it changes a little bit. But that's not bad, actually, it's because he's thought about it. And recently he's been saying, I could have saved that man. He was not shot in a lethal way. I could have patched him up, but instead I'm removing his organs and then stitching him up for the family, supposedly. Well, because who was it who said it, but basically like the best organs, they kind of have to be still alive. Yeah, absolutely. The best organs and China has dominated the market clearly in this area are so much more advanced in the US. I'm embarrassed. And so I guess it is kind of embarrassing that we don't do that sort of thing here very often. So he's very persuasive. Then there's, you know, there's other doctors and one of them was Ko-Win-ja. Ko-Ka, sorry, it's a pretty goodly pronounced ko-Ka. Oh, yeah. In Chinese it's ko-Ka. It's ko-Win-ja. Ko-Win-ja. It's KP. They call him KP, right? So KP, me and Lee Shai, who was my translator at the time, we're in Taiwan after a long series of trips. We've been in Thailand and we've done some of the lot of interviews in Hong Kong. And they were very successful. We had a lot of material. We got to Taiwan and we were getting many hits. You know, we talked to interesting people. There's some interesting practitioners there. But ultimately we were kind of out of options. We went to talk to a doctor who was having a countryside who was a practitioner. And he said, well, there's this one guy. Dr. Ko-Win-ja, who he's been to the mainland a lot. He's a transplant. He's not a doctor because his hands aren't that good. He's not a surgeon, but he oversees things. And he's in, you know, National Taiwan University Medical Center. Why don't you talk to him? You can use my name. And we got this interview with him. And then the interview went south immediately. I sat down with him. I had this uncanny feeling of like cold, clammy hands on both sides. Okay. Everything was uncomfortable that seats were too small. Like this interview. Like this interview. Like pulling me back. Like pulling me back in. But the thing is, you know, basically he said, I'm sorry to maybe you can trigger warning coming up. I started to say, look, are they doing this in China? Because we're picking up evidence that they're killing falling going for their organs. And he said, initially said, look, you can do anything you want in China. Cut someone's dick off if you like. That's the trigger right there. Okay. Not all of the rape we've talked about. But the problem was that he was looking me right at the eye like he wanted to do that to me at the time. So it was there. He said, look, I'm not, you know, I'm not here to disrupt your business anyway. I'm not from, you know, a government agency. I said, I'm not from the CIA. I'll come back to that because that didn't make it into the book initially. It was just something I said. I'm not from the CIA. Look, this is what we're picking up. And then he admitted it. He said, it's all true. And then he went into a story about how he'd found out. And this is that same interview. Same interview. He collapsed and he collapsed in a chair. I mean, literally he did one of those things where he just got some sloped backwards. And the uncomfortable feeling was gone and it was very confessional in a way. And I thought, man, this is the best interview I've ever done. Too bad it's off the record because that was the agreement. And he said basically that he had gone out and tried, he was trying to get a good price for his clinic. A lot of old people there needed organs. What to, what I now know to be Wushie People's Hospital almost certainly. He didn't identify at the time. What was the significance of that hospital? Well, they're, they do more lung transplants than anybody, I believe, in China. And they have a specific doctor, Chan, who's very famous and has pushed the green lanes. You've seen the green lanes. Okay. I mean, at the airport, yes. Oh, they have them in Xinjiang. Yeah, they have them in Xinjiang. A few other places too. In places where it's coming in. Okay. So the organs are being flown in. The airport has. Yes. Then they have expedited there on that side, but they don't expedite outflow from there. Only in the same is true there. They're not, it's only about export. Okay. Nobody's bringing organs into Xinjiang. It's like carrying calls to Newcastle. You just have to do it, all right. Point is, and it's a tiny population by Chinese standards. These places are country, you know, little bases or something. With massive transplant hospitals. With massive transplant hospitals hidden away in the hills. What we do know is that he, the doctors, he went out with them. And he was arguing for the. Not the foreigner price. He wanted the family price. This is Cohen, Jay, who wanted the Cohen just. Okay. They went out. I said that they went to a karaoke bar. He denied that for a while, but there's no reason he should because that's standard way of doing business in China in my experience. I've been to many karaoke bars just to get the business rolling. And he. The next day they'd all sobered up and they brought him in and said. We consider you a brother. We're going to give you at least close to the family price. In other words, about a tenth of what a foreigner would pay. In this case, it was about fifth. They were giving them a 50% discount on each organ. And they said, you were last night. You were talking about how you were worried about these organs because they're coming from criminals. You know, people with drug addiction. All kinds of terrible things. Tough lives. So don't worry about that. We're getting you the best. It's all the organs will come from Paul and gone. They're healthy. These people that maybe a little strange, but they practice this very healthy, cheek-ong exercise. Really pressed us. This is going to be great. Okay. So he was like, yeah, yeah, that sounds fantastic. This is like talking about like free range, pastured, organic. What am I doing there? Well, it's irrelevant because they are talking about human beings like they are just meat. Yeah. And suddenly he co-was expressing that to me. And then he seemed fairly somewhat ashamed. I mean, you know, sort of he said, something should be done. Something should be done. You get repeating that. And we kind of left it there. And then eventually over time, because I got him to agree to put the interview on the record. And I remember that I have one of two skills, two superpowers. One is that I can drink to excess and you can't always tell. All right. The second one is that I remember conversations when I've drunk to excess as well. But also when I'm sober, I can often remember conversations fairly closely verbatim. And I know this because I wrote the interview on Leisha. I said, yeah, it's all there. Exactly what happened. And he was the only other person. And the conversation was took place mostly in English. Okay. And you weren't taking notes. You was just talking. Oh, no, because it was all off the record. So I basically had this thing. He agreed. Finally said, I'm listening for what I say I can be responsible. He wrote that in an email. And we said, can we have a picture? I was doing Leisha. I was doing this stuff in very warm and fuzzy kind of emails. So do we have a picture for the book? It would really help save lives. And he comes to me, his standard headshot. Into the book he goes. Now I made one, not an error, but a stylistic error. Okay. Well, just real quick, I'm here. Do you have a sense of why he decided to suddenly like put it on the record? That's what that's what the Shinjong procedure gets into because it was always a mystery to me. I thought he was a good man. I mean, that's basically, I thought he felt a bit guilty. He'd done a confessional interview. This was sort of a chance to atone for anything he'd done wrong. And I didn't look, I have a policy of not looking at gift horse in the mouth. And that's probably not very good for an investigative reporter. It's kind of a weakness of mine. Once you got something, you just kind of go, okay, that's great. Let's just take the money and run. And so I really didn't look at him very closely. What happened was that when he decided to run for mayor, he had political ambitions. And he is a kind of a charming guy. Well, charming is not exactly right. He's got a very weird self-effacing quality, kind of very weird and relaxed. Something that very much appeals to young people because he didn't come across as a regular politician. How's that time, that's Shelley? Well, actually, what I was thinking is in like 2017, we were in Taiwan. I was like a Taiwan Oslo Freedom, like the first Oslo Freedom Forum in Taipei. And they had gotten co-ing you as like a guest speaker for the reception or whatever. And before we went to Taiwan, there had been somebody in Taiwan telling us, you really need to interview this guy. Like he's like a hot mayor of Taipei. He's like the young people love him. And then when we saw him, I was like, really? I was really surprised because he just seemed so like subdued. He came across as just very genuine. And he also, I mean, he gave a TED talk where he talks about, you know, he goes to this very fancy restaurant and then examines the toilet the next day, very close. You know, just like this kind of thing, like very much like a doctor describing something. It's very funny. It's genuinely funny. Anybody watching it, sort of, it's earthy, but it's funny. And, you know, he's making an important point. I mean, he's like, don't put on airs. Don't be money crazy. You know, this is, these are good advice for, it's cool for kids. Okay, cool for cats, I should say. The point is, make long story short. Basically, he runs for mayor. One of the following on practitioners in Taiwan, who speaks very good English on attorney, translates that part of the book, discovers she's in America, she sees the book, she starts reading it, there's Koenja, she takes it back, translates it, puts it out, papers, go nuts, frontage, everyone. Okay, Koenja went to selling organs, they say he's an organ brother. Well, I didn't even see it. I mean, what he was doing wasn't exactly illegal at the time. It was kind of gray area. He was helping Taiwanese patients make arrangements with Chinese hospitals to get organ transplants. Did he make money doing that? He never said he did. So I never accused him of being an organ brother. Why would I? I mean, on the other hand, it stands to reason that he probably wanted to make money doing it. He sold a, he had made an attempt supposedly to fix the whole problem by sending over a form that would force doctors to identify where exactly the person came from with their organs. And he was translated into mainland Chinese. I know because he let me play around with that form on his, on his computer. It was also in English and, and traditional characters as well as simplified characters. Well, it turns out he made that form for the Taiwanese government. And he, all he'd really done was run it through a simplified characters program. And he was trying to make serious, some serious money. In fact, he talked to me somewhat bitterly about how he wasn't making money off it. He should be paying him more. So he is interested in money. I mean, there's no, I'm sorry. I'm sorry about this, but he's interested. I said, I'm interested in money. He always has been. I don't know that that's why he ran for mayor. I think he really wanted to be president of Taiwan. I mean, that's the stepping stone. But people were talking about that. Yeah. It's absolutely the classic way to do it. It's like it's even more certain than being vice president in America or something. I'll get a shot at this. In the campaign, it explodes. And at the time, the following going practitioners in Taiwan asked me not to say anything. Why? Well, they had a kind of a deal with, or at least one of them. I'm not going to talk about her right now, but it had a friendship with, or felt they did. It's not me to be a master of anybody's fate here, but the fact is I have always looked at the Taiwanese falling down. Maybe 40,000, maybe more as some of the most vulnerable people in the world. These are people living on the brink. I mean, if China were to invade, no, I know it hasn't happened. You know, blah, blah, blah. So it's not 2027 yet. That's like months away. I guess that's where putting that in perspective. You know, these people, Taiwan's a life raft. Okay. For them. And in the minute the Chinese would come in, they'd all be rounded up. They'd all go to the man with a lot of them would be organ harvested. Maybe all of them. We just don't know. You know, they'd also go after anybody with supposed Japanese blood. That's about 10% of the population according to their belief in the CCP. That's what's holding the whole, you know, come to come to Jesus' moment up with China. So I was sympathetic to that. But it was very hard for me to hold my tongue because Kha started questioning everything about me. He denied the interview. Then he said, yes, there wasn't an interview, but Godman's a serial exaggerator. He said, Godman taped the interview and he's not releasing the tape because it would exonerate me. Actually, I have the tape of the interview as if he was going to like flush me out or something. This happened over a period of weeks where he was making fun of me, attacking me, you know, all my casual way that he does. And, you know, I had a fist in my stomach. Okay. I couldn't do anything with it because to move was to jeopardize potentially. The fate of a lot of people and I'm half Jewish and I'm sensitive to things like that. I mean, this is not Shinler, but you know, that's a lot of people. And he got elected at the very end. I made a statement. I said, I stand by every word of my book. I did save him in the middle of a debate because his opponent was attacking him on these very issues. And I had a lawyer send along a letter saying, we think there's been a mis-translation, you know, et cetera, et cetera. One of the practitioners got a little excited and said, you have to change the book. Communicated that to Lishai and I said, well, I'll think about that. But I don't, you know, I'm not planning to do that. We don't change books in the West very much. You mean, like, after it's been published? Yes, yes, yes. And I said this and that. And then he wrote, started writing me letters saying, change the book. He's legal letters. Change the book, change the book. And I'm not going to change this book. Was there any kind of like translation error where it might be like, it was saying something that the English wasn't? No, there was one thing that's just a very American style, which is I had the picture of Koenja and then I had a caption saying, all the organs will come from Bologna in quotes. Now that's something that's being said to him. That's a very kind of newsweek or time magazine style. Okay. Life magazine used to do it all the time. Something that's being said to somebody and then that caption, Bologna, if you read the actual text, it's all a context, of course. I mean, it was very... But for the subcategory of people who buy a book, open the book. Just look at it. Look only at the picture and read the captions, but don't actually read the book. Yeah. For that subset of people that you've done a terrible thing. I guess, I mean, you could say it was a sort of, look, it wasn't a mistake at all. Okay. I mean, yes, for those people who walk around with their heads up there, whatever. But I think what's interesting is if you had changed the book, it would have drawn a lot more attention to the book, right? Yeah, but you know, there's different... that's a cultural thing too. I mean, in China, people who change things, documents all the time. In fact, I think we've all run into that at some point where somebody just said, well, why don't you just change it? We're sort of like, well, no, it was published this way. That's a very memory-hole type thing, like a... Or willian... It's a different way of thinking about the product. That's... Or truth. Maybe not. I mean, maybe there's... you learn things along the way. I often have had that remark made, well, why can't you just change this? Anyways, it's neither here nor there. I wasn't going to change anything, obviously. And I said that at the very end, and that briefly hit the papers. I said, but I'd learned something. I'd learned the Chinese principal of opposite. Say the opposite of what you mean, and then the real message gets through. So I said, I'm not a political kingmaker. This is the two-three nights before the election. I said, I'm not a political kingmaker. I'm a humble human rights investigator. You know, and basically what I was saying is like, I'm a kingmaker, and I've just spared your head. Okay, and that message came through quite clearly to cut. And he was apparently outraged. Now I get to the point. The Shenjiang procedure outlines what was really going on in his campaign. How do I know? Because I interviewed his campaign manager several times. And apparently, he was absolutely convinced I was from the CIA right from the beginning. Would you told him you were not from the CIA? Which is what a CIA agent wouldn't do. And especially with the Chinese principal of opposites, to say, I'm not from the CIA out of the blue, is to say, I'm CIA. Watch your ass. You know, I can do anything I want to you. Well, it seems like that would explain why he suddenly gave up and just told you everything. He's like, oh, I guess he knows everything. The jig is up. It's, yes, sort of the jig is up. But he told a half-truth with him in a leading position as somebody who wanted to help. And just had gotten caught up with the sort of the sweep of this thing. That was not true. Okay. So I understood now from the manager what apparently even is obsessed with me. He even looked at see me on TV and he'd start yelling and you know, and I mean that's how I treat you. Okay. Okay. I feel the same back sometimes. Myself seeing myself on TV. What are you doing? What are you doing on this show? I'm sorry. So don't worry. This is going to be the last time you're on the show, right? So this is very interesting. Like you as like a normal human being thought like, oh, this is this guy's kind of confession trying to put things right. But really it was him talking to the CIA and trying to cover his ass. That's right. And by the way, I'm not, you know, who's fault this always? Lee Shies. Have you ever had Lee Shies in your show? Uh, Lee Shies in my show. We interviewed him, uh, 2019 or something. It was me who did the interview. Yeah. You were like not there that day. Um, did he blink? Did he ever blink? No. No, he was very intense. Like extremely smart, extremely intense. It's like talking to a cat. Okay. Do you talk to cats often? Well, sometimes. He did not scratch my face. Okay. So he was very polite actually. No, he's very polite, but he's got those blue eyes and he just the stare. You know, nothing moves just the stare. And, uh, so I think possibly that was that was part of the effect. But the real thing was that I'd said, carelessly, you know, I'm not CIA. I'm not FBI too. I said that as well. Uh, however, and that should have been the end of the story. Okay. Except for one thing. And he was running for mayor again. And then I got a call. I got an email from someone. And someone who'd worked with him. And they said, look, you have to look at this website. And I said, okay. So I went on a completely different computer that I didn't care about. And looked at the website. I was going to say if a stranger says, look at this website. It's, it's not fake. It's quite real. It just was a leftover of a Wushie people's conference on transplants. And every name, you know, you guys are too young for this or something. But the Lawrence of Arabia, where he shows up. This isn't like the last half of the movie where everything's going under decline. And he shows up with this surrounded by these guys on their camels. And Omar Sharif comes up to him and says, who are these people? Every one of them has a price on their heads. And he says, they're mine. And you know, they all watch for it. That's what it was like. Oh, my God. Every single name, I, every single one of them was writing a camel. No, every single one of them had been, well, not every single one, but about a third of them, the names, I instantly recognized and recognized them by their photographs as well as surgeons who performed the most transplants and host extractions in all of China. I mean, they're famous. So there's like one of them has performed 10,000 extractions. Or at least he claims this. I mean, he's a man. Which is not a normal statistic, right? A thousand in a somebody's 10 year career. Yeah. Well, there would not be that many transplants done like in the entirety of all hospitals in most countries in that. Not even here. This is bizarre. I mean, and you have Mr. Wushie people's hospital, Dr. Chen, who's there with, you know, with the lungs and all the rest of them and the hospitals were all the famous ones. If you had Matt Robertson, he would be able to list them all off even quicker than me, perhaps. So it would made us as well. But, you know, we knew that these hospitals were the, would, Chengin, Chen Jin, Central Hospital, also known as the Oriental Orient Transplant Center. The Beijing 309, every one of them was represented there. It was spectacular. And he was the only foreigner. And he had the conference was co-named for the product he was trying to push. It was metronic, which makes ECMO. ECMO just means it's an oxygenation process. It's used for all kinds of great things. It saved a lot of people's lives during COVID. Okay. It's fine. It's like you can't blame ventilators for people dying from COVID, you know, that kind of thing. Same thing. Good technology. In this case, he'd come up with the use for it. ECMO was using it to live organ harvest, harvest, fallen gone, probably, was his creation. Actually, he used it first in Taiwan, but the family didn't know. The person was about to die. They were old. And he'd strapped them up with the ECMO machines. He'd strapped up the organs. So they're kind of living off this oxygenation system. And then he would remove the organs one at a time, leaving the heart to last. Okay. So the patient is alive the whole time. And then he actually wrote a guide in English, where he said, if the medical examiner is coming by, you can inject so much sodium, whatever it is. I don't even remember them, whatever. It stops you. It stops everything. And, you know, so there won't be any problems. I mean, so this sounds illegal. Grey area. At that time, when he wrote this, and when he was doing this research, it was grey area. And fallen gone was just a gleam in the PSB's eye at this time. Okay. They weren't harvesting fallen gone in 1998, 1999. But later on, that's where all the organs will come from falling gone. And he was the only one doctor in the world who knew this with certainty, other than, of course, countless surgeons in China. But the only foreigner in here, he was headlining this conference, and teaching everybody how to use ECMO. Now, what he was doing, ECMO is the reason you use it is because normally organs die after about 48 hours. You know, approximately somewhere in that range. They might last four hours in some cases, sometimes the last eight, sometimes 12. Cornia's the last 30 days, that's because they're tissue not an organ. This ECMO doubles or triples. The amount of time you have to work with an organ. It's a godsend. If you're taking a human being apart, okay, me instead of you. All right. If you're taking a human being apart, and you're taking my organs out, you might get tired. You might get exhausted. Maybe it's really late, two in the morning. You know what? Why don't we all break and come back at eight? You could do that with ECMO. No problem. Because the ECMO is keeping the organs going. Yeah. Let's keep in them healthy, keeping them fresh. And you can even move the organs. Right. So if you need to transport them from, say, Xinjiang to Wushi People's Hospital. Ah. You've got me there. I don't know if they can do it that way. Adjust the organs. Okay. In other words, it may be that some kind of human form has to be still attached. Now, I've always assumed. I've always thought that would be a breakthrough if I could show that. That it was sort of like, what's that horrible horror movie? You can severed heads and all that. That's future Rama. That's a lot. Okay. I would head. I would head as they come back to life and so on. I mean, that's future Rama. You know, the heads in the jars. Yeah. Yeah. So, good catch that. I don't know. I was not able to pin that down. That's a failing of the book. It's one of the only ones. So what year was this conference? It's me. 98, you said? No. It was the same year I interviewed him. Oh. Oh, it had happened just three months before. So 2008, you did this? Yeah. So now you're seeing why this was like a shock to me seeing this stuff. And then I turned on Google Translate and my mouth truly fell agape because there it all was. Right. And 2008, the idea that the CCP was killing people for their organs was still like generally considered a conspiracy theory. Yeah. Right. There were people started talking about it maybe a couple years earlier. It's 2006 and whatnot. And it was like, there was no evidence and like, blah, blah, blah. Was 2008 the first Kool-Hermedis report? No, 2006. 2006. It was when, well, that was that first one called bloody harvest. Yeah. Anyway, so, but it was still not considered. I mean, well, Kilgore method did make a breakthrough. Well, what you're saying is that Cohen, yeah, you should check it date on the interview. It's in there. Ethan, what you're saying is that in 2008, when this conference happened in China, Cohen, Joe was there. He was headlining it. At that time, he would have had to have known that the organs were coming from some of them, at least from Fallen Gaul. Right. No, I mean, he'd been explicitly told. I mean, that that parts not fake. There you go. You can read the Chinese. It's very, very small there, but you must have a magnifying glass, which is too small to read. But you can see the date. Oh, yeah, that date is a little too small. Okay. But it's translated in the unsealing pages. Yeah, it doesn't have the year. One believe. I'm sorry, but that's another failing of the book, Ethan. All right. These me and dates are not not a big thing. No, it's this 2008 conference. There it is. So it happened then. Yeah. So this is definitely after bloody harvested, come out the Kilgurman's report that was like the first big expose into. Yeah, but the point was he knew that it wasn't conspiracy. I mean, he's the one guy who could say that. And he'd gone off and done this conference anyways. I mean, this was appalling. And really was like a brother. So at that point, I broke discipline with Teresa Chu, who was kind of a self-appointed leader to some extent. A fellow practitioner in Taiwan. She wanted to stay out of trouble. And by the way, could I come through as mayor? You know, they used to have a stand at what's the big building that one on one and one of one practitioners put out of a stand. They had a lot of news that the mainlanders couldn't see and the mainlanders were coming by his troopers during that period. And they were fascinated by this and they, you know, could read the truth about fall or going and all the rest of it. There was a group. I forget the name, but it's in their concentric something which were basically a Chinese fascist group. And they would come by and smash the posters and like like like like like caustics going to a Jewish village, you know, they just sweep everything off the table. They humiliate the fallen god because they wouldn't fight back. And that happened in flushing in the York city. We saw these people when we were in Taipei in 2016. That's right. I remember we went to Taipei 101 and then like we saw the these people like roll up and they had loud speakers and they were trying to basically Yeah, it was like a turf war. Well, that's a turf war I mean, that's that's legitimate. It's a freedom of expression issue But this was ridiculous. I mean they really were coming to hard and come one of its first acts as may was to go take a walk with the police chief of that 101 101'sville, whatever it's called central And he said you're not gonna have a job unless you fix this immediately So okay, he came to I mean, you know But this this was a real conflict for Falun Gong in Taiwan because on one hand they knew this was important It was Orkin harvesting on the other hand They didn't want to make waves and I understand that too. So as somewhat some again still sympathetic a very vulnerable group Just on the outside of like the mouth of the CCP They have a mayor who is seemingly kind of sympathetic Except for the organ harvesting cart and something else He was the one who was seemingly going to make a deal with China as president He basically came out and said we're all one family just one cross-strait family Okay, nobody else had said this unless you were you know looking at the deep blue KMT Nobody said things like that It was a very unusual statement and the mainland started putting out soft Programs on him like hazel is Christ so cool. He's that's a big warning right there. Yeah It's oriented. They had MTV style music and you know the whole thing was also like the kids love him over there. You should do This guy was being groomed and why and now that I saw this I was like oh I get it. He's completely compromised Wow, you know, we used to make a joke when A friend of mine over there human rights guy used to make a joke. He's he said you know Call doesn't uh win the presidency if he loses the ownership He could always go back to being a doctor in China Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha and we all laugh. I mean we really thought that was funny, but the truth is that wasn't possible They would have killed him he would have fallen out a window in Wushie people's hospital And would have been suicide or whatever you know, he would just would have been one of these countless casualties The epic times is very good to calculate them for a little while Of doctors transplant doctors who killed themselves. Hmm. It's a phenomenon in the country Uh, and I used to say are you sure they'd say, you know, well It's good to know the people at the end of their lives have a conscience and I'd say how do you know they weren't pushed Oh, you know, I mean come on We don't know that but the point is so he had no escape He could only go one direction to the presidency okay, and uh And but first he had to win the mayorship again and that's where I come in because that's when I get a call From Brian Wu who was an opponent of his and a writer Uh, and absolutely despised cuff for various reasons uh, and he said I will publish your book In Chinese which have been a long-standing ambition. Okay, so the whole thing was the slaughter had not been published in Chinese It was only that excerpt that involved co and so okay, okay, and so when we My Agent got involved and created a publishing company in the US where okay man uh He said will you come over to the type and I said sure but I'm not going to speak directly against co This is before the email I've seen I said I'll just if somebody asked me what I think of calls. Yeah, how are the bottles and type a Yeah, that chance that's going to work Of course I came in and then I had this information And I called Brian and said when I come in After a couple of days, I want to have a press conference and he said I don't know if I can control that you're very controversial figure right now I mean, I'm this westerner kind of a being sarcastic in my responses to him He was being sarcastic to me. I was being I was saying he said he's coming over on such and such day I said I'm washing my hair that day Ha ha hi everybody thought that was historical because nobody's bald and type. Taiwan So I come over he does set up the press conference he hires the best bodyguards in Taiwan And it's the second biggest press conference in Taiwanese history. Maybe it's been beaten by now Okay, but it was the second biggest press conference. It was huge Uh And that's I waited I went through the whole history of organ harvesting. I made a terrible mistake at one point Some of the the first question was is dr. Co liar And I said yeah And that's it my friends and just went back to question Now that was seen as truly arrogant, you know some Some westerner coming in and accusing their beloved Mayor of being alive. Of course, he was a liar. He's a politician. Come on. Let's get let's get real here But beyond that. Yes, of course. He lied about my book and I made that clear Because he kept denying that he agreed to the interview Or allowed me to put it in the book and of course I've revealed emails Okay And it showed it exposed him as a liar But that wasn't my point. I wasn't there to say he was a liar. But is there to say he was Was somebody who trained people to kill Okay, something much more serious and I waited till it was finally I got a question from a A young woman who was like a classic cuff fan, all right She's so beautiful. She had such gorgeous face and she stood up there and said I can see That you have changed You have changed you used to like coward now you don't Why is that? It's like So I told me to laugh and how he left if you're out there Uh, that was a good question and it was to me and it was maybe attended to shame me But it didn't come across that way and I said okay put this up on the screen And I put up my standard picture of me sitting around with five fallen-horn practitioners Bangkok And I said this woman was one of them was looked at very closely for her organs, Jing-chang And she's right there in this picture and I said before eckmo She was worth You know maybe about $200,000 US if sold to right foreigners you got the right organs out After eckmo she was worth 600,000 These five women together are way over a million dollars now maybe two million This is what happened He created an incentive to kill fallen-gong and he knew he's the only high who could see knew that they were using fallen-gong or had no question His mind was hard about it Um That part went over really well The press is somewhat controlled and type A It's not directly controlled but you know if you want access You kind of have to play ball Everybody put that on the news the whole country And that did really affect him He did win the mayor He did win a second term But the first time he'd want it by 13 points or something This time he wanted by 3000 votes it was whisperethin Okay in the middle of the night who knows what they really why no no no no We're trying to put this on YouTube don't I mean also type one totally So that's true but what what he did not do paper about what he did not win was the presidency Uh, no and interestingly ended up going in a kind of different direction and that's the endless story is it's I can't take the I cannot take any more credit just that I've made him win in a whisperethin majority I do take some credit for that The rest I can't take any credit for okay But what happened All right, all right, let me be a little more straightforward here Who do you he brought a case against me? He a criminal court case saying because I said he was a liar At what point did he introduce that? Oh right after the press conference He was like aha, he's in my trap Beacuse because of the liar yeah, liar because I said he was a liar. I said yes. He's do you think he's liar? Yes Um And I was brought in front of a judge and the whole thing Middleton night the whole deal Uh, but she was strangely sympathetic and when she realized that he was trying to get me to change my book she blew up In Chinese I don't know what she said. I can't I can understand some Russian. I can't really understand Chinese at all But she really blew up the judge. Yes And she we were there for eight hours Okay, half of that was translation, but still that's a long time The cub people were like oh, this is positive. He's there for eight hours. It's like no It was because I was giving all this evidence on cah Okay, that's why there is something in Taiwan called the control you want And it's sort of traditional to Chinese culture in a sense It's a watchdog agency which just watches corruption in the elected leadership or just the political leadership in case of China which is not elected The control one is very powerful in Taiwan. It's a internal affairs that we have for police, but they have it for the government Yes, but it's specifically about the money thing. It's it's you know It drives something in Chinese culture what really drives them crazy is when people are on the take When the political leadership's on the take that makes them so angry And so this thing evolved over time. It was been there for a long time. It's traditional as I say, but They were very interested in this story And they would after him about it and they would after him about the ECMO the original ECMO operations and he confessed To them I didn't know this because I have access to the closed session which I shouldn't have but I do Uh And they they didn't send it to me somebody else did but that's another story The um He admitted he can you confess to that? Do originally doing those gray zone. Yeah, three gray zone experiments and then with godman He said well godman's a liar, you know blah blah blah. He just called you a liar unbelievable. You should see it He sued me three times and every one of them failed He said he was going to pursue me all the way across the earth. He said I'll pursue him in UK. I'll pursue him in America Okay, he said a lot of things um, but the point was all he was doing That didn't matter because the controlling one was after him and what they have eventually discovered This has nothing to do with me, but this is like the end of the old testament story Of a bad king is they discovered he'd taken about two million dollars from his campaign for mayor not for for president Rather you created a political party Called the people's party in their their colors white And they uh he took about two million dollars in campaign funding. He also made a sweetheart real estate deal Uh, which he gained a lot of money off of we don't know exactly how much the He was put in prison the op the prosecution is trying to get him for 19 years in prison Yeah, yeah, so he's been wearing an ankle bracelet recently No, but that makes sense if I think for any prisoner who who feels uncomfortable in prison that they don't really like it I think you should let them let them go free You just wear an ankle monitor. I took I don't know. I mean, yeah, you're right. I mean I like like I don't know just it sounds a little insane to me that that's a thing that they do If you're in the prison food in Taiwan, there's a guy who does nothing but prison food in different countries. No Oh, there's a YouTube guy. I was a very popular. He looks pretty good actually I have seen people there's a guy who does MREs from different countries. Yeah, yeah, who does prison food I saw some footage that was once like smuggled out of a Chinese prison that showed them like with the food in their dishes That did not look good the mainland Chinese food looked look actually quite unapetizing very bad Well, I mean two more things about the story one is that I think people who are not In Taiwan or Taiwanese will not understand because I didn't really understand till reading the strafter in this book Exactly how big this had gotten For example in Taiwan. I mean like what was it like to go back to type-have during that election? That was insane. I mean the hotel was surrounded by press 24-7 But the only way me and my wife was there too Is she went along for the fun and just to be She just actually just went along for fun She didn't really help me very much. She's happened when I went to see I said oh my god Because you know, he's basically having me arrested with criminal court charges last time the judge tonight And she's like oh, but fun. She's like Ethan. You have all the evidence You have all the documents. It's like would you just relax? It's a road another ride in the roller coaster to be a blast She was right. It was a good attitude to come in with And she I did have all the evidence and she hadn't actually seen all the emails and you know there we go Uh But the truth is that we could not end my agent as well. It could not get outside of the hotel without going through the kitchen, you know like Big jagger or something. Yeah, you're like You know, and then ending up at the trash cans and then nobody was by the trash cans for some reason Whatever you could have a cab drive in to the trash cans and Pick you up and take you away But I was there were certain moments which were kind of scary I mean he had a very big fan base before I left They somehow figured out which plane I was on there was obviously a leaker at the hotel And I was expressing, you know, I okay. I admit something. I've never said this and put in the book But you know, I had an assistant who was there who was sort of my bodyguard. She's about five feet tall with you And she's my bodyguard But she knows, you know, you know And uh she You know, I said listen, I'm sorry to make you do this, but you know, I said We were doing an interview on the way to the airport I said, but could you go into the airport and see if there's people with squashy tomatoes? You know because there have been incidents in the type of airport before they actually throw tomatoes There was one incident where something like that happened. Yeah, they've found stuff and I appreciate the like, you know Call back to the, you know, historical times where people would actually throw rotten fruit. Oh, yeah Like Taipei or something Type-E or whatever that whatever that what is that wonderful movie um You know, look there were the press was all assembled before I got on the plane That they were all assembled there again. I said, you know, I just said the most innocuous things I said, you know, I believe in the Taiwanese legal system you know and uh Wonderful country, you know at a great time He used the country Yes, I did using the seaword all over the place. Yeah, let's get you in trouble Well, that actually should get you points versus in Taiwan. Yeah. Oh, that's good clear I wasn't you know pro-China. I mean there was no question about that It was a very odd Physician to be it because you know, I'm guy as much as I'm very bad with languages and uh I've never been able to learn Chinese. I made some a couple of run-ups and attempts at it I've never been able to climb that mountain Uh, and so for them it was a really difficult position because you have this guy Who's you know coming in and sort of saying you're Your potential president's liar. He's a he's a very dangerous maf in some ways. He was Did he got elected to be president? Yeah, I always thought that who was Was the CCP's backup plan if they couldn't get the KMT back in? I think so I mean I'd go this far. I'd say that He would have put Taiwan into a one country two systems Mode That's what if in his success and we all know how that worked out in Hong Kong Uh, but maybe Hong Kong would have worked out better. Maybe if we just all gotten along You know um, I mean I look in Hong Kong and say the only reason those kids failed kids But I mean actually Millions are failed to get To really break away from China was because of COVID because the college kids Didn't want to break COVID laws and that's what you know got them off the streets I don't know. I mean I the CCP clearly used COVID as an excuse and in Hong Kong which is what's funny is that the when we were there in like October 2019 The last day that we were there there was a protest that was um the government wanted a law to ban face masks And they were protesting in favor of face masks Um But like the I think that the CCP would have figured out some way to do it like the The CCP was not going to let Hong Kong continue down this road like I just I don't see how A protest movement gets to win in the face of the CCP now You know, would they have sent in tanks like Tiananmen Square? I don't think so Because they've When we saw during the white paper protest in late 2022 They had a different method right like people came out they protested and then Like over the next two to three weeks the police because they tracked everybody on the using their cell phones They went around to their houses knocked on the door. We said well, you know, we saw you there We know you were there Just consider this a warning to never do that again. And maybe some of them were invited for tea More friendly, but it became very clear that like they were being watched Yeah, and I mean, I think there was a great awareness of that too This is why what some of the admirable when the students stood up I don't even really think it was for that weger poor weger mother who's lost her kids in herself her own life and because they're There uh, apartment was barricaded. We're talking about the white paper protests. Yeah, yeah, but that was what kind of set it off was right horrible Tate of the screaming fire right right the roachie fire and I don't think the students were particularly sincere about that But on the other hand they were taking a chance which most Students in this country can't even bloody imagine. I mean, this was They were potentially wrecking their academic careers for one moment of standing up there That took a lot of guts. I mean, I think so it's like it in this country like you know People do go to protest all the time, but the the the downside of being at a protest Even if it's for an unpopular thing like it's not it's not a very big downside Right like someone sees it and they don't like it, but the government's not gonna do anything to you not in the United States You also get to meet your neighbors and make your dates and you know all kinds of great stuff can happen to protest Yeah, it's a kind of emotional more yeah, that's more protests all the time. It's kind of like a skating rink or something Free-flowing motion there they look that so that's the bottom line I think yes, I think Taiwan really dodged a bullet with this guy and And I don't even I see him as a tragic figure. I don't see him actually as an evil figure because Well, I mean, I do and I don't but I don't He got in over his head And a lot of people have done that in China Sort of I'm gonna ride the dragon that I'll come back home. It'll be fine. It's a it's a much more um I guess interesting take to look at him as a as a the tragic hero sort of Or because I don't know a hero But like to look at it as a tragic story, right because he's a very smart very talented doctor who Like maybe like I don't know what his intentions were at the very beginning But probably doctors don't go into the field with like oh, I'm gonna kill some people and take their organs Right like that's not that's not where you go into it you go now. I'm gonna save lives of my patients Right, and then you get in a little bit again a little too deep you get a little too deep and then it's it's too late And that that's a story that is common to probably a lot of people In their lives to some degree right? Well, yes, but I mean the I mean the problem was that clearly he didn't know when to Stop I mean we can write Chen this doctor by the way, Chen is one of the key figures with the New York Times with Diddy Kerson Tadlow as well interesting You know the famous case where she's sitting around in the doctors think she can't understand Chinese and they're saying what are we supposed to say about Falling going and all that yeah, we can't use these organs anymore. What yeah, right? Okay, that's Dr. Chen and his chums and he got very manager and that's part of the reason they conversation Because they sort of went into rapid far Chinese which he was capable of understanding unlike every other time reporter. I've ever met in Beijing Now what's interesting about that is Chan wrote Dr. Kha Put it on his the equivalent of Instagram. I figured what that's called in China right? Well, oh, well Yeah, I guess it was way bar or something like that But he put up this quote and he said congratulations to You Coenja, you know for winning the mayor becoming mayor for a second term He said you have been a friend to us like no one has ever been You visited the mainland a doubles the number of times suddenly it's like up to 35 times or something It would before it was believed to be 16 or some number around that figure something it's 35 times and he's saying and you taught us all ECMO you are the you are the teacher of ECMO to China, you know, blah blah blah he goes and Yeah, and he's just like onward towards unification with the mainland It's all there. It's all there and it's it's literally like listening to some I don't know someone's mistress certain saying didn't I bring your love down last night, you know? Didn't I do it? Yeah, there's a quality to the whole thing Of complete blackmail of somebody completely getting corrupted in I don't think karaoke bar if that wasn't That had been the extent of being nothing there be no story to be a big nothing bird This is really serious and what I'm hoping is that this book By actually furnishing the explanation of how really it was a black comedy between me and him Because I thought of him as a great guy and he's thinking me as CIA. I mean the whole thing's like Off were both off right odd couples vibe and uh, did you really only meet him the ones like you only interviewed him once nobody reached out to me after he Was When he was starting to get into trouble and And it was seriously email exchange is at first. I didn't he said this is somebody identified themselves as somebody from the campaign But it became very clear that it was him So he secretly we're passing messages back and forth and I can't reveal everything in the messages But basically communication broke down after well because I basically said look What could I I said you know if you were to come out Against organ harvesting in China and join E-TAC, you know and transplant abuse in China or joined doffo doctors against forced organ harvesting in China and just you know Just be a dues paying members so to speak Well, I had no choice but to publicly embrace you. Okay. I will do that for the cause But and then he came back and said and I said and if you could just you know stop calling my book A you know liar you know stop saying I was lying Uh and confirm that it's the accounts basically correct because you signed off on it I mean you actually signed off that entire account And he came back and said what do I have to confirm exactly And I was just like okay, we're into negotiation And I blew up and said you know there are You know 13 million weggers have been examined With it been given medical examinations and a lot of them You know, it's clear that they're doing DNA and blood tests Which is simultaneously the best way of tissue type would you full well know and they use a lot of American equipment? Yes, I mean, I think that's one of the things or it's like the clear that he's getting in trouble over and over again Because he's just worried about his own skin like that Right, but you actually gave him a shot of redemption Yeah, and because for the cause I mean good to the family fine, you know people people look And Vertutti killed the man and cold blood in some way. So I mean, okay. I mean it was people under orders, but uh you can't He's completely redeemed himself Completely he's been an amazing asset to the investigation Have lots of people do this we need doctors who could do this. That's what my whole problem was here's the best one of the best witnesses I'd ever had and And he's been tainting the whole thing And it got wrapped up with the fallen gong as well who were sort of like attacking me at one point I mean, it's just crazy stuff. I wasn't gonna ask how did like especially you were talking about some My coordinator there. I forget her name is used for like sure. How did they how did they ultimately See you and like, you know when it kind of came out wasn't the usual But it wasn't the usual warm reception that I used to get with forward going around the world But what but what did happen was a rump group Kind of just found the The that website with the conference the Wishi people's conference on it Wishi people's hospital conference on it They found it years instable and they started looking up every name and everything and they fed me tremendous amounts of information on it And that was very helpful Unfortunately the TV show that I was on where I was would have talked about that and what I did talk about in immense detail You know kind of just sort of whoops it ended up on the cutting floor Probably because it was at that time still very powerful Uh, so It's okay. I published that stuff and I even You know To the annoyance of people in Westminster actually took up a testimony in mind on this To their great annoyance because a lot of people believe that you know, it's you shouldn't be attacking a political leader ever You know what I got news for them. Donnie's next. Oh, sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. We are new. It's I said it's No, he's not actually just it is what oh She seems charming So is this book gonna be translated into Chinese? I think so yeah And the first chapters are been translated um, hopefully the rest will I think I don't know if Ryan Wu is in the publishing business anymore So he does have right a first for fusal but uh, I'm sure there's a publishing. I mean just the chapter two Would be very interesting to be clear see clears up a lot. Yeah, that's the point And you know, you know, when I will say that was Taiwanese political culture is fantastic There's nothing like in the world. You know, they do those wonderful things when they they put the AI figures Oh, yeah, oh my gosh, they did so many with me and cut we're punching each other I was just oh But yeah, we were there for the the election in 2020 and like we were just amazed like wow This is this is such a vibrant amazing civic life thing This makes me very glad Chris that the most controversy you got into was the beef hot pot thing Oh, he said that Trump should save Taiwan just for the beef hot pot and then the The legislature we were interviewing gave an interview to like the media about how you had said that their local beef hot pot was so good that Trump Should taste it so he would save Taiwan and then yeah, I still stand by that Yeah, you know, ask Lee shy. I almost died in Taiwan because of the hot pot. Yeah Really? Yes, because it was all you could eat. It was one of us places King Mala King Mala So you're saying hold on let me finish Okay, okay, you can eat and you can eat and you can eat and they're only didn't have time with it back then So you could then go help yourself to ice cream as well and But I just ate the hot pot and it was just me and Lee shy and he's a vegetarian, but you didn't mind the broths too much and And we just ate me and then finally I got out of there because my whole shoulder was starting You know, well when we were there last time we did find we we wanted to like a really good hot pot place We found a place all you can eat, but they were only open for another like 30 minutes And so we had to like cram the food in and we all felt horrible We may be almost died because of hot pot in Taiwan as well. Yeah, there's that hot Taiwan's deadly they should put a dangerous place Dangerous place. I nearly died of hot pot. Mm-hmm. It would have been a really interesting way You know like to your human rights Activist or human rights guy goes out and just feel like Hot pot Was this so if you've done if you had died of hot pot? Kill and Jim hype you president of Taiwan right now or president of Taipei You know, I have no way of knowing that because who knows what the control you want would have gone fully after him We just don't know I do know one thing the doctor who revealed that he'd been doing the echo experiments I know him probably quite well doctor Sue and he told me Last time I was in Taiwan. He said when you stood up I stood up Okay, so it's true that there is that effect And he did not like koanja had been very disrespectful to him Uh, he was an army doctor in koanja was just like your army doctor. You're nothing You know, I don't care what surgery to and um, so he had a grudge But he also knew this information and so it is true that these things have an effect. I mean one person stands up and the more happens uh I don't ever want to go back to doing that again It was literally like I mean everybody in Taiwan recognized me at that time people would stop on the street Uh waitress looked like she was gonna poison my food I mean it was just very kind of It's tense. It's very over the top and again my wife was very helpful in sort of holding everything together Uh, but it was an interesting experience and I love I do love Taiwan. I must say I love Taipei It's the last time I was back I was there for six months. Nobody seemed to recognize me I mean, I knew some people but nobody put stop in the street or anything There's also a very short attention span It's not a 24 hour new cycle. It's a four hour new cycle I mean, it's amazing the dynamism of that place And you know, they are the richest stations in in in the world now per capita. I mean that happened while I was there Uh, that's an incredible thing And of course uh, but my main concern is if Taiwan can hold out it's It's like Constantinople It's like if Constantinople can just hold out long enough Maybe we can maybe China will change. I don't know We need to give them cannons lots of cannons cannons yeah, oh you mean you're constatial to hostile yeah So um in general, I had a very good feeling but I am looking forward to the reception of this now It's not going to be the same because he's not a A viable political figure anymore But I have tried to get that air both black comedy and the sun tragedy in there and also the fact that he And just the misuse of everything. I mean we all made mistakes there Okay, the good investigator would have been like the CIA they would have known everything about him the time he sat down Right I didn't do that And I then I refused to do it you're saying that it should refuse to do it So that the truth is must be just the opposite right? No exactly. Yes, I worked with the Chinese yeah Well, there is one more interesting little thing about the ECMO and the You were talking about how they he was selling metronic like the US company ECMO and then China started buying ECMO Machines from a German company until have a month. Yes, it was mobile So there's it's uh metronic became an Irish company anyways Come and do it. Oh, they did that they did that yeah, so they're not they don't have to sue me You really don't have to there's nothing it's bad set about metronic They needed to do stuff in Xinjiang. They needed mobile ECMO machines much smaller. These ones were huge the metronic Yeah, and then the weirdest thing happens suddenly all the top Transplant hospitals that were buying He is ECMO mobile they were doing in evocations they were buying them on mass and These are the most notorious Transplant hospitals all of a sudden in June 2018 2000 Yeah, 2008 in 2019 2019. Yeah, June 2019. They suddenly switched to ventilators Well, that kind of predates COVID by about five months Now that just happened they never went back to buying them Now it is true that the Japanese were already starting to imitate them and a company did eventually emerge which sold them even legally Uh, they're knockoffs of the Germans, but they do work and they're obviously much cheaper So there may be an explanation there except why the sudden rush to ventilators and it's really Overwhelming It's like a complete shift Now it turned out the ultimate irony is that of course it turned out that ventilators kill people with COVID-19 and ECMO doesn't They're really good excellent transport. They say ECMO saved a lot of lives in China And other places too because it's a very efficient way to keep the The body going under great stress But I don't know what to do with that information. I just put it in I put it in the footnote very good You didn't notice it but uh This business with the I've always suspected that the epic times did some very interesting stuff. Maybe there's new time dynasty Where they just photographed they just took the satellites photos of the hospitals And suddenly in June Jam packed For no reason at all suddenly like mid-June early June suddenly jam packed parking lots And then it recedes after a while and then we go later with real COVID really hits Jam packed again And everybody said well, you know, that's not proof of any big well. Oh, you know, well, no, it isn't But but it makes you think it does They can't think I'm just asking questions here just ask the question. That's what's leader four. We're just asking questions Funny those are the kind of questions people should be asking Well, that's true. Not like how did the Jews do this um You know, I guess you know, that's We got we created you know created to COVID-19, you know, in the lab Well, I guess I just have one last question for you once you guys had something Gun or you CIA I wish I was sometimes He said no, so he means yes Yes, so I'm sorry then why won't you give us money? We're supposed to be funded by the CIA and that's the other thing As I didn't cash in on this thing was a thing I was constantly being accused of online I mean I have this you know back and actually reconstruct something if you actually really want to delve into my Facebook page Which nobody should want to but you go back years and there's this massive attack and some of it was bots Chinese bots some of it was not and most of it was just like you're trying to make all this money. Okay So lucrative it's so lucrative selling books is like oh my god, it's like I know what people It's like yes, if I'm the clown prince or something, you know, yes, I can probably sell some books Okay, if I got a diet book, I can probably sell some books, but not this you don't You know something I mean why don't you find that cartoon? It's a star. Oh, the act moment. Yeah, the act moment That took me forever to get permission like like like name name one like very rich person who got rich by selling non-fiction I like not think of a single name here it is Yeah, well, well, uh Well, we'll put this up on the full screen there. Yeah, I had to actually talk to that it was originally in Chinese Type A times put it in English and I have to go back to the cartoonist. They said no, you can't use that It's such sensitivity still to this day. Hmm. Wow. I mean, but they published it in the first place They did publish in the first place and it was an unusually funny cartoon Anyways, that's the I forgot what the question or what we were talking about. I think we were wrapping up This is exciting. We got this interview out before it was translated into Chinese That's true. So it may be this you know who knows maybe co-op will have a big comeback and that'll really sell bucks That's the point Other people told me on the other side They said you should have gotten two or two million for what you did. I'm like, what are you talking about? They're like, didn't you get did a no? Didn't you get two million dollars for this? I'm like, no, I didn't get anything like that So there's a lot of There's a lot of myths about this and there's not not a lot of money in exposing human rights abuses It's just that's just not where it is Well, it was it was the long con you see because now this is gonna come out It's gonna go viral in Taiwan this video It's gonna make like tens of dollars on YouTube. There you are getting your cut Absolutely Tens of dollars I'm gonna wet my beak Gonna wet my beak That's right and I'm here to collect my fee The pound of flesh That is too apropos Yes, yeah, yes in many ways True was that an accidental it was Well, thank you for watching and thank you for being here Ethan. This was this was an absolutely lovely podcast About rape and organ harvesting Uh, thank you for that comedy the black comedy Yeah