---
video_title: "Did China Get to Marco Rubio?"
video_id: OrMf4DihrDI
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OrMf4DihrDI
video_date: 2026-05-28T14:36:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-337
  The New York Times wrote a story about how Marco Rubio is getting soft on China now that he’s working for President Donald Trump. Is that true though? In this episode, Matt, Chris and Shelley pick apart this narrative, as well as other China theories that turned out not to be true.
---
I think it is interesting that it all just becomes a football based on what is the framing that makes the Trump administration look the worst. And then disregarding everything else that happens. We've talked about actions versus words, right? So Trump is like, oh, I'm not going to say whether I'm going to defend Taiwan or not. And then the national defense strategy comes out. And it's like about how to like a large part of it is about how to essentially deal with China. Yeah. And people are like, oh, Trump didn't mean that. He was upset about it because there was two anti-tri mean. I saw somebody tweet that. Oh, yeah. And I was like, oh, like, Elbridge Colby, who is the undersecretary of defense for strategies and like that. And who's like this strategy comes from essentially from him because it's almost exactly the same as it book he wrote a couple years ago. And he's pretty big China hawk. So somebody was like, oh, yeah, Elbridge Colby, like Trump is very upset at him because he didn't like the national defense strategy because it was too anti-China. And I was like, how do you based on what? Do you make that claim? Yeah. It's just like, or the whole Marco Rubio thing I talked about in the newsletter. Which well, the New York Times writing this article based around the fact that Marco Rubio is softening on China because he's trying to align himself with how Trump views China because he doesn't, he's not as harsh rhetorically as he was as secretary state as he was in the Senate. And like in this article, it lists in the middle a bunch of pretty harsh actions that the state department has taken against China under Rubio. But like in the beginning, it frames this as Rubio's softening his message, you know, and it gives an anecdote about him even admiring the regime that he called a human rights, you know, abuser or whatever. Is that the one where they mentioned he pointed at the ceiling? Yeah. And some like, or he was like, he met she and he didn't smile at she when he shook his hand. But then like, you know, moments later when they walked into the great hall of the people where they're going to have this, you know, meeting, he was like pointing up and like admiring the, you know, like it was like he was admiring the architecture. This is, this is what a diplomat does when he has literally nothing else positive to say about the CCP. He wasn't even admiring it. The curtains are nice. He wasn't admiring it to Chinese leadership or anything. Like it was just like the American delegation walking in and then they caught a video of him kind of like talking to somebody else and he's like pointing up in the ceiling and kind of laughing. Oh, and then so we don't even know if he was admiring the ceiling. I mean, it could be like, oh yeah, it's cool. Like it was like one of those Chinese cloud things and the ceiling. But like, yeah, I was just like, this isn't insane. I mean, also like on the way there, he dressed in like the Maduro jumpsuit. Oh, the track suit. Yeah. I just, anyway, but then it would like quoted him being like, oh, I have a different job now as Secretary of State. I need to be more diplomatic than was. Could you imagine still for eating the New York Times to get there? But imagine if he was acting the same thing as he did as the Senator, people would say, oh, he's not diplomatic enough. Oh, right. People are mad now. Yeah. He's like, oh, how can like the Trump administration is playing with fire? How could they, you know, like it's off our, you know, the, yeah, we're skiing a war, et cetera. And this is, this is, you know, what we struggle so much with like on America and covered. Because we, like with that show, we're really trying to just present the facts and like, you know, not make one side right or wrong. And so people are so used to being told like what to think and who to hate. They're like, we all the time, like someone will be like, oh, you're, you're a lib tard or in the same episode, you're a Trump card. Yeah, less now. But, you know, people say, cuck more. Oh, okay. Yay. Gay discourse. Yes. But yeah, that's the thing. It's like if you start reading it and then you start to realize how you're not getting the actual information, everything it has to be framed in a certain way. Like, this story was not the stories essentially that Marco Rubio doesn't talk about China the same way he used to when he was the senator. And maybe that indicates that the Trump administration and this Rubio are going soft on China. And I was like, this guy, his family's from Cuba. Yeah. But he's literally still sanctioned by the CCP. They just decided to ignore it when he went to China because they had to. They had to. And so like, I'm not worried that he was admiring a ceiling. And that means that he's like suddenly changed his mind about the industry. Yeah. But I feel like that is, that is the level of analysis that we get. Like, there's so much of the analysis from this Trump, she visit that I was just like, are we kidding? Like, it's just like a bunch of freaking out about things that we don't know whether they're true or not, right? Yeah. It reminds me of years ago, there was one of those two sessions or something, one of those things. And the BBC did an article about how Trump had two cups of tea. What does that mean? Oh, Xi Jinping had two cups of tea. Yes. Trump. Trump was at the two sessions of the CCP. Trump had two diet coax. Yeah. What does it mean? Yeah. Yeah, it's just, it's just like, which, I mean, hey, that's why I think China and censor are just so important. So thank you for making it possible because we don't have the New York Times kind of, actually, do they have money anymore? Oh, way more than us. Way more than us. That's right. Way, way, way more than us. But yeah, I mean, I was just thinking about how we've bucked the consensus on a lot of things. Like, remember when Hu Jing-Kao got hustled out of that. Oh, yeah, yeah. And everyone was like, this is a power play. It's starched by Xi Jinping. And like, people we usually agree with more or less, you know, or even saying stuff like that. And we were like, pretty sure he's just like very ill. Yeah. And like, he's not doing well. And they were trying to cover it up by hustling him out of there. Yeah. But yeah, but there are people are like, oh, no, he's definitely, it's like this like power struggle move. You know, people are just primed to see that it's very hard to actually step back and be like, okay, wait, this confirms all of my priors. That doesn't make it true, right? Well, and then Hu Jing-Kao came back for revenge and was behind Xi Jinping getting purged. All right. Yeah. That's another thing that we bucked a lot of the. Yeah. It's funny because like that whole thing was ridiculous, but also then building off like the idea that he was like purged in that thing that we disagree with as well. Like so it was practically wrong. Yeah. So that like, oh, Hu Jing-Kao would only want to get back at Xi for taking him down at that meeting. Yeah. Yeah. Man, Shelley, this is you rusty. I hate to see you as a well oiled machine. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, ChinaNcensored.tv, where you can watch the entire discussion plus get MP3 downloads of all of our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.