---
video_title: "Can the US Military Still Surprise China and Iran?"
video_id: CEA5Km_BgDw
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CEA5Km_BgDw
video_date: 2026-01-21T20:36:16+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-323 
  Did the US use up all its potential for surprise in Venezuela? Can the US even pull off another Caracas? Have Iran and China already prepared for this in the last two weeks? Joining us is former Marine Intelligence Officer Grant Newsham.
---
China wants to take over Taiwan as step one in its global ambitions. From there, they'll project down to the Pacific. In order to kind of cinch the deal on Taiwan, they need, they're not really allies, but like we'll call them their friends. North Korea, Iran, Venezuela, Cuba, there are others you could throw into the mix, but those are some of the big Russia. Thank you, Shelley. That's a pretty big one. So they need these other countries to distract and destabilize the United States. That's what will help them ensure a conquest of Taiwan. But as you say, they're not really in a position to defend any of these other countries. So if the US starts actually taking care of these other problems around the world, China isn't able to stop that from happening, but it also is making a conquest of Taiwan less likely. So China is getting squeezed. You think that's a correct read? I think it is. You look at it from China's perspective. And they had what looked like a pretty solid alignment with Iran, North Korea, Russia, giant Russia, Venezuela, Cuba. You'd have to be a fool to forget that. Russia. It's there on the map. But so they had it. It seemed pretty solid. It seemed like nobody was doing much to bring take that apart. And now suddenly, just in the course of a matter of days, you have Venezuela, certainly waiver. The Americans go in and take Maduro and get away basically unscathed. And that has a huge psychological effect on the Chinese. And also, so on people who sort of thought the Chinese were the hot bet and were inevitably going to take over, they were going to be dominant. And suddenly you start to wonder about that if you're someone who's sort of deciding which side to go with the Chinese. Well, Bernie just decided that he wants to be on the China side. I was actually just new world order. Maybe you don't need Venezuela if you can get Canada. The God Canada. Yeah, that was something. So I think that China would probably trade Venezuela for Canada. But we're sort of half joking, of course. But it's pretty incredible to see what the Canadian leadership is saying. You have their foreign minister who was answering questions who seemed like she was, or not in foreign minister, well, the Jolie. She sounded like she was talking in tongues. You know, I didn't envy her having to answer those questions. But maybe that was the best she could do anyway. But back to China, they thought they had things pretty well stabilized. And these countries, such as they are, they're not, you know, they're all nasty places that don't exactly have illegal immigration problems with people wanting to get into them. But at the same time, it gives you a certain solidity and political support in international organizations and ability to get around sanctions. And if you're looking at going after Taiwan, you want to have as many friends as you can get and to provide cover for you. And now that seems to be breaking up a bit where Venezuela is in play Iran hard to say. But it's certainly not a solid sort of a position as the Chinese did have. The Russians and the North Koreans, well, that's another matter. But the Chinese look at this. It's got a cause of concern. Like, if you go after Taiwan, you want things locked up to have enough support. And now they must wonder. But also it's a sign that the Americans and maybe some other countries actually have grown a backbone and are willing to push back and fight if necessary. And that affects Chinese calculations when it comes to Taiwan. I think they were expecting the Americans in particular and the Japanese to go along with them to sort of roll over if they were faced with the choice of an all-out war or just letting Taiwan go under. So the Chinese thinking has certainly changed for the calculus hats. I think their objectives haven't changed at all though. Grant, I want to go back to something you said at the beginning where you were saying, well, the US surprised people with what happened in Venezuela and maybe those surprised people again with Iran. But do you think it's still possible to surprise people? Because now it seems like everybody's just waiting and watching to see what happens. And there's a lot of speculation where people are like, okay, well, they can't do it because the closest carrier group is in the South China Sea. People are just looking for it now. Do you think it's still possible to next? If you're next, desire on next. Or yeah, but also just like, oh, people are just so focused on Iran. Do you think it's still possible for the US to surprise people? I think it is. It's possible to get what you call tactical surprise. As you noted correctly, everybody knows that something might happen. If you do it right and you just quietly go about your business, you use concealment deception. And you attack from, say, a very long range. Remember the bombing of Iran that took place in June? That was those aircraft took off or the strike aircraft took off from the United States. So it is possible to, if you get things right, to be able to surprise people. But you do have to be very careful about it. And sometimes in these situations, the timing really does matter. Because if you're going to provide support, say, to people who are rioting and protesting in the streets, or actually threatening Iranian regime legitimacy, if you're going to hit your red, you kind of want to do it to complement what is going on in the streets. Of Iran, if you wait two weeks, a month, two months, the dynamic is very different. And the effects may not be the same. So timing does matter. And I'm sure that there's a lot of sweat breaking out on browse in Washington. And the Pentagon's people try to figure this out. But it can be done. We don't have to sort of sail an aircraft carrier off the coast of Iran and then attack. You can sort of hit from different directions. And the timing, if you do it right, it can be very effective. Also with our ability to sort of operate in the dark, so that people can't see us, we've shown we do have some real capability for that. But it is not easy. So it's, and Iran's a big place, of course. But it's, it's a challenge, but we'll see what comes. Well, so I know earlier Trump had threatened that if Iran starts killing protesters, he's going to take actions, it's going to be bad. They're killing protesters. Trump says help is on the way. He also had this true social post earlier this week where he was like basically telling people to keep protests. And yeah, keep protests. That's just the help is on the way, but like keep going, you know, yeah. And yet, you know, the bombing never happened. It's kind of like, okay, well, so what is the US actually doing? And like are people reading this as what if Venezuela was just liking in a bottle? Well, you have to wonder about that. You know, there's a possibility. You know, Mr. Trump, as you said, you know, he said, well, America's locked and loaded. If Iran does anything to the protesters or does something America doesn't like. And then he did encourage just a couple days ago, the protesters to get out and go after sort of regime entities if they could. So this is the Americans, you'd have to say encouraging people to go out and try to bring down the regime. And the implicit part of the statement is that there's going to be American support if you do that. And if it's not forthcoming, you know, if you're one of the Iranians who stuck his neck out, you're going to say, well, I thought you were going to come. And this is not unprecedented in that part of the world. If you remember after the first Gulf War, when Saddam Hussein seemed to be on the ropes, in fact, he did have this jet basically on the runway, you know, the engines warmed, ready to leave. And then the Americans stopped that war, stopped their assault. And they encouraged the marsh Arabs. These were people living down in very southern Iraq and the Kurds up north. They encouraged them to go out into the streets and to rise up. And they did. And then what happened is the Americans did nothing. They stood by, well, Saddam Hussein caught his breath, his military got back in order. And they went out and slaughtered these people by the thousands, if not more, to include using a lot of poison gas up against the Kurds. And one does, if you've been around long enough and you've sort of been aware of things, you do kind of wonder, well, maybe I hope this time that this encouragement to the Iranians is not going to be something similar to what the Kurds and the marsh Arabs got at the end of the Iraq War in 1991. So this is something that I think is in the back of a lot of people's minds. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, ChinaNcensored.tv, where you can watch the full hour long interview plus get MP3 downloads of our podcast. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. Link is below.