---
video_title: "How China Controls American Food"
video_id: jm8mQL9_cnY
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jm8mQL9_cnY
video_date: 2026-04-21T00:05:40+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-332
  China is buying up American farmland, while also embedding itself in the American food supply.
---
So how do we fix this or should we try to fix it? We should. We should. I don't want to move on to a very important but sort of a hobby horse of mine. It's not a hobby or there's an important movement that I want to bring to the fore here. What I'm going to underline is the fact that as you guys know, it's literally what your show is about is that when you plug the CCP in one area, it'll find another way and it'll find a new crack and it'll exploit it and then it'll make it grow and then that's where the water will flow. So on this question of agricultural supply chains, agricultural land of strategic placement of that agricultural land, we need to start in the States. And actually that's where it began this sort of journey because I'm a China general analyst. I, I, I, I, I, I, cultural, I never thought of you talking to you about this, uh, what so ever and my, and my entree into that was, um, you know, late 22, early 23, there was this movement bubbling up in the States against CCP control of agricultural land. Um, and early in that year they started introducing legislation, uh, which, uh, mostly focused on the agricultural land itself, uh, they experimented with different approaches. know, are we banning all foreign adversaries? Are we banning just the CCP? And what kind of land is it agricultural land? Is it also strategic land near military bases and critical infrastructure? Let's get this all knocked out in one because, you know, like I'm saying, the agricultural land also sits next to the infrastructure. And many states have passed laws along these lines that restrict effectively the CCP from owning land. Very notable one Arkansas. They were the first to enforce a law of the nature. That was in 2023 under Governor Puckabee Sanders. And that happened to be Simgenta. Because here's the thing, those two huge companies, Simgenta and Smithfield are also the biggest owners of land, the biggest CCP owners of land in the United States. So Simgenta had two experimental plots where they're working on these sea technologies, where they're working on these inputs, herbicides, pesticides. And Governor Sanders used this new law to expel them from that land to find them $280,000. And there were legal challenges to this, but it has gone through as of last year. They have divested. So listen, that sounds small. It's 160 acres. These weren't huge fields where crops were being harvested. But as we're saying, you know, the Simgenta part of this is the inputs. So these were important experimental fields where they were developing their technologies. And they were pushed out. Do we know how much agriculture land is owned by CCP or CCP, adjacent companies, etc.? Shelley, I'm so glad you asked that question because that's what I did in the USDA, which was tried to reform that recording system. We have a statute that helps to do that. It's called the Afeita Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978. I highlight of 1978 because it's completely outmoded. I'm happy to say that we've made some serious reforms to it. But back then, almost 50 years ago, it was optimized towards tracking economic data, providing transparency that US farmers could be aware of foreign investments. Let's say Italy buys a vineyard and American vineyards want to understand where that is and what's going on with that. Canadians buy some timberland on the border. And in fact, Canada might not be surprised is the largest foreign ownership. Most of these are benign. And this statute and this aspect of USDA was again completely economically facing. The system of reporting therefore was completely outmoded. There literally you fill out a piece of paper declaring where your land was. But it was a government forum that you wrote down on a piece of paper. You gave it to your local farm service agency. The farm services agency sent it to the USDA in Washington DC. It went into a room. So literally there is a storage room that tens of thousands of these pieces of paper. If you can imagine the data loss and the data integrity of these, they would get these papers in and then key them into spreadsheets manually. So there was a study done more than half of this data is simply not usable at this point. So I'm proud to say I was part of the reforms which were delineated in the farm security action plan. One of those and you may or may not be stunned is that there never was a digital form. So we made a digital form and I can't tell you how much bureaucracy was involved in that and what features we could put in there and what data we could draw from the public and what was allowed by the statute and what wasn't. But important things we got in there, a map and actual geospatial ability to put a geospatial marker showing where the crop land is, where the timberland is. If you can imagine on this form, it said something like, my field is five miles west of I 80 stretching from here to this field. So you have the geospatial data. Number two, crucial for the CCP, the Shell companies. Because you had to list ownership but traditionally this wasn't part of the statute apparently but companies only listed three levels up in ownership. Now you must list beneficial ownership to the absolute top. So if you have a CCP company, 15 levels up, you got to list all those 15 levels, map it out, be very clear about what's in there. Penalties was another problem as far as deterrence. You can penalize a company up to 25% of the land value. In effect, it had never gone above one to three percent of the land value. Part of that is the way it accrues. It only accrues about five percent per year. But there's something weird in the formula. I actually can't go into it. Nor do I know 100% what it is. But there's a way that that has been softened where you cannot effectively penalize more than that. And to make clear, the penalty is for not reporting that you bought the foreign land. So if a German company fails to report, they're also penalized. There's no special penalty or special regulations for the CCP or other adversaries. So the CCP, and I know they don't lie very often, but sometimes they do. So they could lie completely and totally covered up. And at most they're going to be paying like one or two percent as a fine, but it still may never be uncovered. That is correct. And so if they're actually state backed, like there's almost no benefit in being honest, right? The incentive is definitely to lie because if they're, if the investment is strategic and not economic from the CCP's perspective, then you know, you lie for a hundred plots of land, you might get caught a few times and still totally worth it. Absolutely. And not only that unit that is for profit, call it a cost to doing business. The find, you know, is barely a pin for companies of this side. You know, Syngenta and Smithfield at times have been fine. And we're talking like $350, like $4,500. I've looked at these numbers. It is not a deterrent. Yes. So they can lie. And fortunately, this is fully based on self reporting completely. So other than that, it's basically tips or by chance, you know, if the USDA is investigating something else or there's a law enforcement investigation that may bring it to the fore. Another thing we did last year was put in a website forum for tips. And as I gather, you know, there haven't been that many tips, but this shows that how, you know, off course, this or basically just how this program again was made 50 years ago for a completely different universe of concerns. And it is not, it's just not optimized for the situation. You know, and thankfully in the past five years, again, I think the states were absolutely crucial in bringing this to the fore. I think it's like a classic American story where the states were starting to say, wait a minute, this, this, this is why can this CCP company buy a plot of agricultural and near my military base? That filtered up, filtered up. And like I said, last year, the comprehensive plan was put into place. And because it's government, these reforms take a long time. And, and, you know, everyone I came across at USDA was, you know, a very dedicated civil servant, both the career and the political pointies, but it, you know, even all working together. There's so much bureaucracy. Like I said, even to go into that forum took legal review and technical review that took months. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website ChinaNcensor.tv where you can watch the full hour long interview plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.