---
video_title: "Venezuelan Explains Why Americans Love Socialism"
video_id: UvbsDRRoFhI
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UvbsDRRoFhI
video_date: 2026-01-21T00:50:09+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-322
  Democratic Socialist Zohran Mamdani won New York City in a landslide. And he did it with a simple method that the other candidates missed. Venezuelan Jorge Jraissati explains how socialism became so popular in New York City. Follow him on X @jraissatijorge
---
Why do you think these policies that destroyed your country are so popular with, I think, I think the numbers are 62% of American young people support socialism, 66% of Democrats support socialism? I mean, these are the policies that destroyed your country. Why do people think in America it will work? I think it's naturally for people that have not lived through socialism to be attracted to it. I think young people naturally are attracted to different ideas from the mainstream and the status quo. So that's one answer. The second answer could be about the fact that people have real economic struggles and right now the housing situation, for example, is extremely problematic. Inflation, especially in groceries, has been extremely high since the pandemic. So people have these issues and they're looking for solutions. And in New York, for example, they found solutions or at least they found an empathic message from Mandani. And then they saw him as a solution. So I think people care less about the real implications of a policy because most people are not all the time reading about economics or reading about policy or most people don't come from countries like mine. Most people just vote for somebody or believe in an idea because they feel represented with the intentions of that idea. So I think that would be an answer. And I think it's a wake up call of finding ways to talk to people in ways that is empathetic to them. If you believe in free markets, if you believe in free trade, property rights, some monetary policy, if you believe in markets, I think it's your responsibility or responsibility to explain this in ways that people feel represented and empathetic and people feel that their economic concerns are being listened to and their economic aspirations are also listened to and taking to consideration. That's why so many people are just going for socialism because they're looking for answers. So I think we need to provide those answers. What were some of the first warning signs in Venezuela that the country was heading towards economic disaster and what should we maybe look out for here in New York? When the mathematics don't make sense in the economy, like in Venezuela, the math starts to not make sense. If you compare the level of debt, it was astronomical. The level of you start noticing signs, for example, you start noticing that the debt is simply too high. It cannot be controlled. It is not sustainable because when you have more debt, countries have two options either they ask for more taxes or they start doing inflation. They start printing money. Interest rates rose extremely high in Venezuela. That's on the macro level. So things start not making sense. On the micro or on the personal level, you really start seeing how doing business become extremely difficult because of inflation or because of suppliers that are going bankrupt or that politicians become start taking more and more from regular people. I think that when the level of this content becomes too high, it comes a point in which you almost need to urgently solve the issue or you will have a full socialist revolution. In Europe, for example, I have seen a lot of businesses closing and people leaving. When you start seeing talented people leave, that's another indicator. In Venezuela, the talented people have to leave because you have two options. You either stay in the country and don't make any money. You cannot build a family. You cannot own a house or you need to leave. So when smart people start leaving, watch out as well. I know Shav has talked a lot about economic justice. As you say, when there are real economic problems, that's a very appealing message. Why do you think people believed it? People believed it because they saw in him a solution to his problems. And initially Hugo Chavez had a normal amount of oil wealth to distribute money to many people. And initially, he was able to borrow a lot of money so that he could also please people. So it's a combination of good marketing, good politics and at the same time having the money to do so. I really think that it's also a matter of language and communication. I really believe that because the concept of economic justice is a very appealing concept. And sometimes you had the people who believe in socialism using very appealing concepts. And you had the people who believe in markets speaking in a much more dry matter. They focus on speaking about balancing budgets or this focus on talking about GDP points. So it's really a branding thing as well. That's why I really try to explain economics in a way that people understand that people feel that what I'm proposing is not just because of economic efficiency, it's not just because of macroeconomic stability, but it will actually make their life in the short run better that they will make their challenges more affordable. So I think it's that is eventually how you communicate your ideas. Could you give us that pitch? I'm just curious what you would say to somebody, you know, New York City, the rents too high, the groceries are high. Potentially economically illiterate. My pitch would be that right now the if I want to talk to somebody who's in America, they really need to understand that the government is making so much more difficult their life. And you can see it in ways that it's very straightforward. Look what happened in Minneapolis and what we saw from a couple of weeks ago, the amount of money that is being wasted on programs that really help nobody. Just imagine how much of your money is just being wasted. And this is the depth that you have that all Americans have. The second thing that is very vivid is the fact that to do anything in business is you need to overcome so much bad regulation. And think about all the sectors in which regulation is there. These are the sectors that are actually way more difficult. So for example, housing. So they say that we want we need more housing, cheaper housing, but they don't allow anybody to build housing. So I'm not an expert on how to communicate these ideas. I haven't thought as much how to communicate, for example, in New York. But I think that what Mandani, for example, did is that he went to the malls. I would say easy to explain. He focuses campaign on affordability while the other candidates were discussing a million different things. So and he did it in a way that people fell empathetic to that. So I think it's a bit of that, of course. Thank you for watching this clip. A link to the full hour long interview is below. It's available exclusively on our website, ChinaNcensored.tv, for our supporters. The ChinaNcensored 50 cent army. Do you want to learn more? Click the link below.