---
video_title: "WE'RE AT WAR WITH CANADA!!!"
video_id: K4O9vjE48bo
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K4O9vjE48bo
video_date: 2026-08-29
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-349
  While Trump wanted Canada to become America’s 51st state, Canada has become closer to becoming a province of China, saying publicly that Canada needs to diversify its trading partners away from the U.S.. That was just one mistake President Trump has made on trade policy and China, argues our guest Andrew Hale, a fellow at the think tank Advancing American Freedom.
---
Yeah, I mean I I obviously you're in Washington and you're talking with different people than we're talking with. What when it comes to uh you know, we sorry, get back to this if you were advising Trump. Like let's say there's one key thing that you think uh he should and is like reasonably practical to try to get out of this meeting that's coming up uh in just you know, 4 weeks. What would that one thing be? What would that one goal uh should be?

>> If I were advising President Trump, I would say remove our dependence upon Chinese critical minerals. Okay? Um we can have there's vast critical minerals in in Canada, but we're not we're in a trade war with Canada, which is ridiculous. Why don't we get our critical minerals here? And the reason for that is if you want to invest in a mine, it's very difficult to get investment for mining operations here in the United States because even if you want to build a factory in the United States you'll have to go through local, state, and federal bodies to get permits. And that

can take several years. And then after you do that you will then invariably be hit with third-party litigation from the Arbor Society to the NIMBYs, not in my backyard, to to the environmentalists who don't believe in any manufacturing believe because they believe it has negative environmental implications. Um and so if it takes 10 years to build a factory, you're not going to build one. And actually new factory um creation in the United States peaked under Biden and it's been serious decline since President Trump came into office and we've lost 85,000 manufacturing jobs since he's been president thanks to the tariffs. Um our industries that exist need inter-cheap intermediate goods. Um Um, not going to

make something like rope. We wouldn't employ people to do that. We would simply have a machine do it and maybe one or two people to turn the machine off and on. Um, so, like I said, there's there are solutions, but if you look at Liberation Day last year, the US declared a trade war against China, our for our serious foreign adversary, as well as uh all of our all of our allies. And since that time, China has won the trade war with the US, especially because as I've said, we're dependent on the critical minerals. When President Xi

last October, he had a day taught with China because we were running out of critical minerals. Indeed, we only had a couple of weeks um left of our um supply of critical magnets. And when I spoke to people in the administration, they were unaware of this. The response I got was, "Why can't we just make them here?" And that's a quote.

I mean, these are not magnets you put on your refrigerator, but they clearly did not know the difference. And when I explained to them we cannot get them here, but we can get them from Canada, they said, "Fine, but um we want them to be processed here in the US." Which is another absurd statement shows utter importance. I mean, I tried to explain it would be absurd to transport huge volumes volumes of Canadian earth to the US to whittle down rock to get us, you know, the size of this desk that I'm sitting at to get this much of a critical mineral and have all that debris deposited here in the United States. So, you know, keep that processing in the vast Canadian Shield, which is sparsely populated and not conducive to farming with a thin layer of soil over rock. The

bottom line is that China is essentially self-sufficient compared to us, and I would rather this country be dependent on Canada than the US. And in the meantime, if we want to make manufacturing great again or make mines here, we have to deregulate. And I'll finish with this. If you want to invest in a mine production here, because of the long time it takes to establish a mine, it can take 30 years. Who's going to invest in something that when you get your first return on your investment, you 30 years from now, you might be dead. I might be dead in 30

years. >> Well, I think it's I think it's pretty interesting that you bring up Canada and the US's need for critical minerals. So, for example, uh one of the largest antimony mines in the world, uh Beaver Brook, is in Newfoundland, Canada. It's owned by a Chinese corporation and they effectively shuttered it right when the US really could use that. Um so, I think the issue, outside of anything the Trump administration has done, many US allies, I think particularly Canada, has been uh in many ways co-opted by the Chinese Communist Party. They have interests there that

predate Trump. And I think it's really challenging for the US to work with allies if we can't even agree on a common threat. >> I I agree with you. Um you know, Trump cannot beat China. So, he's doubled down on Canada, Mexico under USMCA, the EU.

And I was talking to EU trade negotiators and they told me, "Look, we need to get the lowest possible tariff rate from the beast, President Trump." That's what they called him. "We need to placate the beast. And then just find more reliable trading partners. And whilst we're attacking our allies, you know, that's that's sad. They're

saying, "Look, in the longer term, we have to simply not be dependent on the United States for our trade." And that's sad because we're going to lose out. And and whilst we're attacking our allies, China is telling them that they're open for business. Come to us. If the US doesn't want to do business with you, we'll do business with you. And this is counterproductive

because that's what we're seeing in Canada. We saw Mark Carney after Trump's basically bashing Canada, insulting them, calling them the 51st state, calling the Prime Minister of Canada the governor of the state of Canada. And he said, "I'm going to Asia now." This is Mark Carney, to open up trade deals with the Asian tigers. And went to China. You

know, if you want to push our allies into the arms of China, they're doing everything they can to do so. It is going to take us years to repair relations with our allies after Trump and his team leave office. And I think there's a broader issue here. They don't really care. They don't really like you know, dealing with other countries. They

don't you know, it's America first after all. But what they don't realize is if you look at something like just one product, I'm just going to mention one product if I can, apples. There are more apples produced in the state of Washington, let alone Oregon, New York, or New England, or anywhere else. More apples than just that one state that we could not possibly consume here in the United States. We must export them. Whether it's pork in South

Carolina or all sorts of other products we need to export. And I will say this, when I was at the Heritage Foundation in June of before Trump was elected, so it was 2024, I got a call from the soybean farmers association here in the United States asking me if the Heritage Foundation would advocate for a bailout for them. I said I asked my peers, I said, "What should we do this?" And and I I said, "No. Bring the tariffs down to zero."

Well, what's happening since we've had this trade war? Our soybean farmers were were producing their soybeans at below production cost. And they're now getting a bailout from the Trump administration. Every time Trump has met with President Xi, President Xi promises that China will purchase more soybeans and they have not. And they're getting their soybeans from Argentina and Brazil.

So again, there was polling data before Trump took office which showed Americans were willing to take hardship to decouple and de-risk from China. And and and suffer a bit of hardship. Instead, we've had a trade war against everyone. As we learned from Hitler who had a a war on every front, that's stupid. We should have focused on China and and and got our corralled our allies around us to do the same to decouple and re-de-risk from China.

We've not done that. It's been very counterproductive. >> So, you had something? >> So, go ahead. >> I was going to go back to the critical minerals thing, so if you guys want to go.

>> Yeah, well, let me let me ask about the you know, we say you say we're losing the trade war. Um So, with China. >> With China. Yeah, I mean, so this is it's actually >> Canada. And Mexico.

>> It is somewhat easier to bash those countries. Uh when it comes to winning like the this is the thing like there's a lot of different things that winning a trade war could be depending on what your goal with the trade war is, right? Like are you trying to reshore manufacturing? Are you trying to weaken China's economy? Are you trying to lower prices for US consumers?

Uh are you trying to extract political consensus or concessions, I mean? Like we might be winning on, you know, two or three of those things. >> on all the things you just mentioned. And I can go into detail. Now, we've lost on all of those things.

>> If are we are we losing on weakening China's economy? >> Uh no, we're we're And that's the thing. They have huge problems. We could be weakening them on. >> Thank you for watching this clip. Want

to watch our entire 1-hour interview? Join us on chinacentral.tv. Plus, you'll get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And more importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The

link is below.