---
video_title: "China Is Weaponizing US Activism"
video_id: WG4CxGxNw7k
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WG4CxGxNw7k
video_date: 2026-03-09T19:29:18+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-327
  Opposition to U.S. data centers, to the Iran war, to U.S. microchip manufacturing to Shen Yun - what all these have in common is that they align with China’s interests, and now it’s coming out that the CCP is behind at least some of the groups protesting these.
---
Someone pointed out that like these the CCP paid for lawsuits and stuff like that. Someone was mentioning suddenly a lot of opposition to US data centers for AI and someone was like, should look into this, whether any of these groups are being funded by the CCP because they also want to win the AI race. Right. And it would be advantageous of them to be able to stop the US from building rare earth, processing facilities. Yeah, especially like the whole idea about like, you know, the degrowth, you know, the US like imposing all kinds of environmental regulations on itself to make it economically or Europe too, make it economically uncompetitive with China that just, I mean, I think, pollute freely. Is definitely more of a problem in Europe. I mean, especially under the Trump administration, it's not like they described to that. Yeah. I just saw some ex post today from that rapid response account. Oh, yeah. The the White House rapid response account where they were like, the US is now producing more oil than Russia and Iran combined and more natural gas than Russia around and China combined. Like, so this is they're not they're not big and degrowth. Yeah. Well, I mean, they they, I remember I'm the band of the Paris climate agreement and there's a lot of upset about that in some quarters. Yeah. I think that the core of it and I, it is that I think that the Trump administration believes that cheaper energy is basically better for everybody in this country if you can make energy cheaper. Right. Because energy is essentially work, right? So if you make it cheaper to have machines do work for you, then it frees up your work force. It allows your workforce to be more productive and allows individuals to be more productive. It coin mining. Yeah. But I just mean like like it's nice. I think that's now a I data centers like it. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I do think that that a government that cares about its people, especially the most impoverished people in that nation, they should try to make energy as affordable as possible. I mean, there's there are environmental issues, but like there's also real ways to mitigate that without like shutting down your grid or allowing the Chinese comms party to become the dominant superpower. Yeah. So monopolize industries. Right. So you guys know this, but maybe maybe our viewers might find the surprising. I used to work for the Sierra Club. The other countries largest and oldest environmental organization. And the Sierra Club was very anti nuclear. And so I thought at the time and I was like 19 or something, oh, yeah, like nuclear is bad because this group I work with says it's bad. And so what I later learned was that when it comes to emissions, nuclear has zero carbon emissions. It's that's not how it works. And it has basically no pollution of any kind with one big asterisk, which is the disposal of the nuclear waste. So I acknowledge that's a real problem, but it provides so much more energy than anything else, you know, in terms of like how much raw materials consumed. It is the best way to provide abundant and affordable energy in this country. So why was the Sierra Club against it? Well, it turns out that the like oil and gas companies were funding the Sierra Club to be against nuclear because like it's a kind of it seems like a complicated chain. But it's basically like if you if you rely on wind and solar for energy, there's going to be times of day or the year when there's no wind and there's no sunlight. Right. And those times you need oil and natural gas as like these quick energy things because nuclear is like a 24 hour up and down cycle. So you can't use it to like fill in gaps. So actually having renewables on the grid and having the grid be reliant on those also forces the grid to be reliant on fossil fuels. So the fossil fuel companies want the renewables and they don't want nuclear because if you're running nuclear all the time, you have abundant cheap energy. Okay. I get what you're saying. I feel like I've lost the thread a little bit though from are you saying that the Trump administration should support nuclear? Yeah. Well, yes, but as part of the larger point of the Trump administration and any administration should support the creation of affordable abundant energy in this country because that will support the people who need it most, right? Endable support are technology growth and our economic self-reliance and what else that will support what going to war. That's what you want if you think that you might be getting into a war in the next three to five years. Is abundant affordable energy? Yeah. Yes. But for war, gas. About affordable. That oil is really important. That does not that you can produce domestically and you can't be cut off by blocking the Panama Canal. Exactly. That you don't need to rely on being shipped from. Yeah. We do need to import our uranium, which we get from I think Canada and Australia. That's a problem now. Yeah. You can get it from Australia without crossing the Panama Canal and you can get it from Canada without going into the ocean. But obviously, you can't if Canada is compromised, it's a problem. Well, maybe we can talk about Canada, but don't worry, Matt. When I'm supreme leader, I promise I will make abundant use of nuclear. Okay. Anyway, so, yeah, so Canada. So Michael Coverig, one of the two Michaels, the Canadian citizens who were kidnapped, hostage diplomacy by the CCP, gave a testimony where he said Beijing is trying to condition Canada's behavior to defer to Beijing's preferences and establish a new hierarchy of power. And unfortunately, like I think they're very successful. We've been seeing these polls from Canada about more favoritism towards China over the US. The US absolutely crushed Canadian hockey in the Olympics. Another L for Canada, another great win for the US. Hockey. Yeah. But yeah, it's, it's, it's, it's asking this thing happen. And but yeah, it makes me wonder about the 51st state stuff because it recently came out that like kind of collectively Canada is poorer than Alabama. Like other than Alberta, which is like, you know, an oil powerhouse and making a ton of money. Most of the other provinces are, are very, very poor and are making money and they're being subsidized by Alberta. So Canada has actually joined the UK because the UK has lower GDP per capita than Alabama is really. Yeah. It's funny because like Alabama has made fun of like it's its third world country. Oh, and yet. Yes. Yes, I think in the US like the only place people make fun of more than Alabama is possibly Mississippi, which now has higher reading scores than California. Oh, wow. For their kids. Yeah, they did a big turnaround in their education. Yeah, good for them. Yeah. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, chiaminsensor.tv, where you can watch the full hour long podcast. Plus, get MP3 downloads of our podcasts and most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. Link is below.