---
video_title: "Trump Has Some Words For Canada..."
video_id: PPUn38Fw-ds
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PPUn38Fw-ds
video_date: 2026-02-07T15:04:44+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-325
  Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney spoke at Davos about a new world order. Right before that, he went to China where he agreed to a trade deal with China that U.S. President Donald Trump threatened would make Canada a “drop off port” for China.
---
It's interesting when you were talking about the idea that Canada wanted to make a ground breaking foreign policy move because now I'm thinking about Mark Carney going to China and then coming back to Davos and making that speech about... In the world order? Not the new world order thing. That was part of a press conference he did, I think. The idea in his speech was that the liberal order is fake and now we need to move towards this different type of world and that's how he was contextualizing the decision to be a partner with China. I was just thinking he got a lot of praise for that speech. It seems like at least from mainstream media in the US and it seemed that it was well pursued at Davos at times. So how was that playing in Canada? It's mixed. I think he did get a lot of praise initially but I think some people are maybe wish they could take some of that back because as an academic I kind of hold my comment until I have a chance to hear it all and when I think about it, I look at it pretty critically. So I've always got to have it a doing that. It's mixed. Don't get me wrong. There's a lot of people that praise that speech. But to praise that speech you got to ignore some significant things that are in that speech. Not only just the mainly around he's talking about, well one, he's invoking Pavel so that's kind of a strange choice. Mainly because in the same speech he's talking about moving away from these powers that are dominating and what have you. There's inference, obviously, I think he's trying to make to Trump in the United States but at the same time in the same speech he's announcing a partnership with China. So that kind of throws the whole thing into, you know, this doesn't make much sense how you can invoke someone who is against communism so forcefully in history and then talk about a strategic partnership with a communist country. So I mean that's the glaring thing about that speech is talking about realism and what have you but it's not addressing the elephant in the room which is the CCP. Is it possible that Mark Carney does not believe China is communist? Maybe, I don't know. I mean, well to be honest, China isn't really communist. I guess isn't really communist in the, in the, maybe how Mark's would have envisioned communism playing out. I don't think he would have thought of it as playing out in terms of having investments, in corporations and so tightly, you know, the way it plays out in China right now. So it's kind of a strange maybe so maybe he has a different view of China in terms of not being communist in terms of how Mark's would have envisioned it. I don't know. I mean, he comes from the Bank of England, right? I mean, that's, he was the governor of the Bank of England. He looks at things as like, you know, investments, money, finance, right? And so he sees this large country with, you know, a billion people who want canola oil obviously and he looks at the way, you know, China has a banking system and obviously there's things you have to overlook. But it appears to have its own banking system and appears to have private companies that do international investment, right? So maybe he looks at that and he, he misses like he, he skips the part where the Chinese Communist Party is in charge of the government and he skips the part where like, you know, Xi Jinping thought on socialism with Chinese characteristics and the frequent purges and human rights violations. Yeah. So rape is a form of torture. Right. But, but like, you know, maybe he's willing to overlook the ethnic minorities and, you know, concentration camps and see that oh, there's, there's a real trading partner here and I see the money part and the, if, if I look at China as a country that is like any other country, we can do a lot of, a lot of trade. Hmm. Uh, yeah, it's entirely possible. But you know, that's the, a lot of people buy canola. So, I put it that way. So, I mean, canola is sold in a lot of markets around the world. Not RFK Jr., though, he won't buy it. No. Maybe that's why it's pushing butter and tallow. That tallow has been everywhere actually. It's seen a lot on that. But, um, yeah, I just, we should take this podcast in a totally different direction now. Wait. The argument over, over, you know, see the oils versus tallow. Anyway, I'm just kidding. What's you're making? No, it's, it's, it's possible. But I mean, again, that plays into exactly kind of real. It ties in to the thesis of my book, which is continually viewing, continually viewing the PRC in China as, um, as you want them to be, right? Not as they actually are. And when you have that kind of ideology or worldview about the country, then yeah, you do end up overlooking all those things or you justify them in some way or you, you rationalize them to a degree that, well, there's, oh, no country is perfect. Or we see countries as they are when you're not really doing that. Um, you're seeing them as you want. Um, and then when that takes place, yeah, you, you can, you can do those kinds of deals and you can tell yourself that, well, you'll, we'll bring up human rights, um, in a polite way because we don't want to, you know, offend anybody or we don't want to do that in their backyard or what have you. And so you, you make these kinds of, um, trade-offs with yourself and your, your principles and your, your values. Um, and I think that's, that's common to the, to the history of the China relationship and I, and it, and it has ramifications. Well, I think this kind of ties into the CCP's ability to conduct elite capture. Uh, one thing, I'm wondering if you've seen this, but one thing we've seen is that often what the CCP will do is they'll send, you know, moderate officials who will talk to politicians of other countries and be like, you know, we're reasonable. Yeah. Like we're saying all this stuff, but, like, you know, behind the scenes, like I'm telling you the truth. Yeah. And you will have this special unique understanding that makes you better than everyone else. Yeah. I mean, I, I think you can see that quite often. I mean, I was just even speaking about the fact of, of the outspoken ambassador that we have lately and, and he is coming across as, as a moderate. And I think it's a, it's an attempt to have a contrast to the last one that was here because that, that was taking place over the span of the, the whole one, one Joe incident with, with the kidnapping of the Michaels and the detaining. So, uh, and there was a lot of, a lot less amicable comments flying around. So this particular ambassador has been trying to portray that image of being the softer side. And as I said, even the PRC in general seems to be trying to portray that, that image to the world. You know, I have a solution for this. It's, it's a little bit of American history, but, you know, we used to tar and feather politicians like this. Maybe you could try like, you know, maple syrup and poutineing. People see if it sticks. I don't know. I don't know. I think it's kind of, sounds delicious actually. Yeah. Yeah. Is there maple syrup poutine? Yes. The problem is everything poutine, but not all of Canada recognizes poutine. We don't need to get as far as I know. As far as I know, it's kind of a hot button sensitive issues. Thank you for watching this clip, but there's a lot more we couldn't put here on YouTube. So visit our website, ChinaNcensored.tv, so you can watch the entire hour long interview plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.