---
video_title: "TRUMP GOES TO WAR WITH EVERYONE!!!"
video_id: j9VAjm5XP_8
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j9VAjm5XP_8
video_date: 2026-08-30
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-349
  If you voted for Donald Trump because of his hawkish foreign policy stance on China, you might be disappointed by his actions in his second term, argues our guest Andrew Hale, a fellow at the think tank Advancing American Freedom. He says the China “hawks” have been silenced and the “doves” (or China know-nothings) are in charge.
---
So, the big news is in about a month, Xi Jinping will be visiting Trump at the White House. If you were Trump's advisor, if you had his ear, what would you tell him America needs to get out of that meeting? >> We need to start decoupling and de-risking from China as we thought we were going to do before Trump took office. There was a broad cross-party consensus um between Democrats and Republicans on that. Uh and that's not what we've had. Um the

hawks in the in the Trump administration as well as in Congress, the China Select Committee, have all been I'm going to be very harsh on this, thrown under the bus because we were expecting Trump 2.0 to be about decoupling and de-risking uh from the People's Republic of China. And there's actually like I said, there was this broad uh cross-party consensus between Democrats and Republicans on that. And that's not what we've had. Instead, we've had a tariff war against our allies and friends as well as a relative détente with China.

And de-risking is um from the PRC is just not a a priority for Trump and his family has business there. Uh President Trump uh the the President Donald Trump's backed World Liberty Financial is collaborating with a Hong Kong-based venture offering artificial intelligence models developed uh by Chinese companies uh and and the US administration has actually flagged those companies for national security concerns. The Trump family also has hotels in China. So, also um you may look at the Trump's removal earlier this year of the export bans on high-end chips going to China and I feel that that's yet more proof uh that China hawks are not driving trade policy. And I'll finish with this. I'd also

advise President Trump very strongly on Taiwan. Uh you may recall that the Trump administration has hit the pause button on arms sales to Taiwan. Uh they never talk about the importance of democracy about Taiwan. And they indeed I had a senior Trump admin official say to me, "Well, it's good that Taiwan is a democracy, but that's not vital to US interests. They don't believe in spreading democracy and America's values.

And that's a shift. There is a shift in this administration. It's focused on China. After Trump won the election, senior transition people who now serve in the administration said that concerns about China were third tier down his list of priorities. I I appreciate that's not the public messaging, but that's what they say off the record. And ambiguity

has increased in Trump 2.0 where as under Biden, there was no ambiguity. I appreciate Biden wasn't meant to present, but he did have handlers. President Biden made a series of four public statements affirming US support for China, obviously written by his handlers. Um And and basically instead of that, we this administration under Trump, we've actually hit Taiwan with tariffs.

Indeed, Trump said Taiwan should pay the US for its defense because they took our chip business. So, it's a very different approach than what we were expecting. There was lots of If you read Ambassador Robert Lighthouse's book No Trade Is Free, Changing Course, Taking on China, we haven't really been taking on China. Last October, there was a relative detente. Trump respects you know, powerful leaders like Putin, Xi, the leader of North Korea.

And and quite frankly, he prefers to bash our neighbor and ally Canada and Mark Carney instead. So, I'm afraid I've been relatively to as someone who voted for President Trump, I I'm I'm I'm very disappointed. >> I think early on the decision to not carry on with the ban of TikTok was definitely disappointing. >> Yes. Yeah.

>> Well, when you said that Trump's the administration told you that China was a third tier. >> Yeah. >> What are the first and second tier priorities? >> Well, the first tier here is this hemisphere, first of all. Basically, they they they're very much concerned about this hemisphere as a priority.

They're also not concerned as much about Ukraine because they see that as Europe's war. Trump also quite frankly doesn't see the benefit of having US paying for bases abroad, whether they be in Japan or or elsewhere. With regards to obviously there's the national security priorities, which are the official messaging. But look, if you look at for example, Trump is not an ideologue. He's a New York City property developer. When he sees

Greenland, which is an autonomous region of the Kingdom of Denmark, he sees a property deal. He doesn't see NATO territory and all that's talk about China getting a foothold there, that's not his real concern. You could you know you know people in his first term like ambassador John Bolton tried to convey to him you can't just take Greenland, it's NATO territory. The NATO treaty is is is is passed by the US Congress, it's enshrined in US law. US servicemen and women could not adhere to an order follow an order that said invade Greenland. We cannot legally invade NATO

territory. And like I said, he's not an ideologue. He spent most of his life as a registered Democrat for purely expedient reasons because that's what most people are in New York City. He's a New York City social liberal. He gave money to Senator Hillary Clinton's campaign.

I think that basically where there is actually an ideology and within Maga, it's not coming it's not as strict as say on the JD Vance side. Let's look at Trump's preferred think tank. Trump's preferred think tank is the America First AFPI, America First Pol America First Institute, AFPI. That was founded by Brooke Rollins. And they basically provided 1/3 of the cabinet. They provided 84 of the most

senior level appointments. And they have provided hundreds to mid to lower level appointments. And I know people have gone into the admin and have already gone back to AFPI. They write the policies and they do so discreetly, under the radar, with no fanfare. And then you have organizations like the Heritage Foundation, who basically put out great big banners on the side of the building. I used to work there. I was

there during the whole Project 2025 debacle. They launched that with Governor Ron DeSantis of Florida. And as soon as he lost the primary, they re-jacked everything. They said, "Oh, this has always been for President Trump." And Kevin Roberts took his anti-Trump ex-posts off his his his ex account about Trump's adultery and January the 6th and said this was for Trump. And Trump had never read that

900-page mandate for leader leadership book. And and AFPI, his think tank, was not one of the over 100 organizations under the the Project 2025 umbrella. So, there's been some sort of the prevailing narrative in the press was that Heritage was behind Trump and this Project 2025 is this bogeyman in a deep state. It's not. AFPI are his think tank. And the China hawks, whom I know,

at AFPI have been told to hide their their their hawkishness under a bushel. They like I said, because they just the administration doesn't want to hear that. Trump has never ever raised Jimmy Lai and human rights in China, the Uyghurs, the Falun Gong, the persecution of Christians in China. He's not raised those issues in his meeting with President Xi. Because he doesn't really care about that. If you look at these

301 tariffs under the auspices of under the excuse of forced labor, that's just an excuse to re-implement what they lost under using IEPA, misusing emergency legislation to impose tariffs. So, again, I just find that that's messaging, that's an excuse, but I don't find they don't believe in spreading America's values. So, that's the Trump side of thing. And the the other >> let me ask for a second be- because you mentioned Trump hasn't mentioned human rights. After Trump's meeting with Xi Jinping in May, officials who were there said that he brought up Ezra Jin, and then shortly after that Ezra Jin, the pastor, the Christian pastor, was released uh and then came to the United States.

>> I mean, they Trump says he brought up Jimmy Lai, too. >> Yeah. [clears throat] Jimmy Lai may be harder because of there's more political sensitivity around him. But uh I I'm not I'm not clear that's true that that Trump has not brought up human rights. It's just that he doesn't message that in the main political messaging, the main public messaging.

>> Public messaging, yes, but I'm I'm afraid that when when push comes to shove, when he's in meetings, I just don't feel that that is a priority for him. And he does not not forcefully put that forward. I I do not believe that that's the center of his discussions uh with with President Xi. Uh quite frankly, he respects strong leaders. Um and he's and as I've said, they don't believe in as as I've been told by people in the administration, it's nice Taiwan's a democracy, but that's not at the forefront of their concerns, and they've been quite harsh on on Taiwan.

Uh whereas other administrations, Democrats and Republicans, have shown their total support. Even Nancy Pelosi, uh the former speaker of the house, you know, went there to the huge anxiety of of of of the People's Republic of China. And I've just not seen that here, and I've just talking to China hawks in the White House, uh in other parts of the administration, as well as those working on the China Select Committee, and at AFPI, they're all pretty down about the situation. I mean, they just they realize they're not in the driving seat when it comes to China policy, and that's what they've all told me. So, my my experience of being here in Washington and talking to these people has been very different from the sort of public. there's always that

robust public messaging for public consumption for his base. But, I mean, we could talk for a long time about these sort of so-called trade deals which we've had. If you read them, these framework documents, the myriad of them, there's very little to them. There's lots of nice platitudes. They're going to do this, invest more. Um and then

they you get you skip to the second page at the very end it says, this uh um trade framework documents uh is not legally binding. Both parties can walk away. It doesn't affect the current legislation. These are not treaties passed by the US Congress. Free trade agreements need to be like the USMCA was a treaty passed by the US Congress. So,

I find that there's a lot of messaging going on. We've just seen this right now with Canada. Oh, um the the the the the negotiations on the pertinent trade issues weren't really moving very in a particular direction very much. So, they say, "Oh, now we're going to get the Keystone XL pipeline." Well, that'll take years to achieve and years after President Trump leaves office. So, I found that

more messaging just sort of shift the dial and and and the attention onto something positive for his base. I see a lot of very good messaging from the administration. I'm concerned about what's actually been happening in practice. >> Thank you for watching this clip. Want to watch our entire 1-hour interview?

Join us on ChinaUncensored.tv. Plus, you'll get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And more importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.