---
video_title: "China’s Underground Great Wall"
video_id: ywP8zdAmsfU
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ywP8zdAmsfU
video_date: 2026-07-28T21:46:42+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-344
  China has been working underground for decades preparing for nuclear disaster, which includes miles of tunnels that have been dubbed China’s underground Great Wall.
---
That's a great point. I mean, Mao talked [music] about how they could totally take a nuclear hit. It would just kill a bunch of Chinese people, but they have a bunch more. And uh more recently, like we've seen these flooding problems in China and the CCP is fine with diverting opening up dams and diverting floodwater away from Beijing to flood other parts of China. So, the idea that you know, they must have this this they don't want Chinese people to die is is just sheer projection.

>> It's It's also ludicrous when you see the number of people that are being killed like right now in you know, organ harvesting or labor camps. >> they don't have a democracy. It doesn't matter what the Chinese people think. >> Right. >> Unlike the US.

>> Yeah, I think I I think we need to be very circumspect when we assign these attributes uh to the Chinese Communist Party without really looking at it and understanding uh what they've done. Another fact, uh remember the analysis from Dr. Phil Karber in 2012 about the great under uh underground wall. This, you know, 3,000 mi of underground tunnels that the Chinese have built to house nuclear their nuclear arsenal and their government. And they have many underground facilities that we know like Purple Mountain where they their leadership is maybe expecting, "Okay, we'll get into it. If it gets If it gets

to that, we don't want it." I don't think I'm not saying the Chinese want to go to nuclear war at a drop of a hat, but I'm not The other hand is that doesn't mean that they would never do it. And so, they've they've planned for, you know, what happens after. >> So, practically speaking, how do you think China would use its nuclear arsenal? Do you think they would just launch a first strike at the US out of nowhere? Would they use it as a threat

to get the US to maybe not come to the defense of Taiwan if the CCP were to invade? >> I think I think that the blackmail part is the most likely right now. That that once they develop the you know, build out more of this arsenal, they're going to be able to say, "Hey, you if you try to interfere with us you know, dealing with our internal affairs, then we'll we'll deal with you. And let me show you how." Uh and so that's my my concern is that in that process of showing us and demonstrating you know, things can potentially spiral out of control. It's

the same same concern that we've had, I guess, and it's kept us kind of in a way moderate in our actions in Ukraine. We just don't know what Putin's going to do and he has an arsenal. He has an arsenal of capability and actually his arsenal, he's got a lot of tactical nuclear weapons that we don't actually have today. Now, we've drawn down our tactical nuclear force, whereas China or Russia hasn't. And I think China's building up both a strategic ICBMs, SLBMs and these shorter range uh capabilities.

>> These tactical nukes that you're talking about, these are like like small deton- like more targeted detonations, right? >> Right. Smaller yields, shorter ranges, uh smaller to detect, harder to detect, proliferated, you know, and that was the concern after Soviets fell is, "Okay, where is all this stuff?" And I think arguably that's what the Clinton administration argued with Ukraine in '94 around that time and they came up with the Minsk Accord, which is to say, "Hey, uh there's a whole bunch of small tactical nuclear weapons out there and you've got them in Ukraine. How about you turn them all in and we'll we'll be your protector."

Uh that's another show, another >> bad idea. >> Yeah. >> So, to make it clear for the audience to understand, it's like how the first Death Star could blow up a planet, but the second Death Star could blow up a planet, but also blow up individual starships. That's the difference between big yield nuclear weapons and these tactical nukes. They can also blow up just smaller things.

I think that was a valuable contribution. >> Thank you, Chris. >> You're welcome. So, what can the US do about that? Like they're they they've got their nuclear triad going. They

threaten the US with a nuclear strike if if we get involved in Taiwan. >> Well, they haven't technically done that, have they? >> Well, they're almost there. And so >> Implicit threat. >> Yeah, and so how does the US deal with that? Like how do we defend Taiwan if it

does come to the threat of a nuclear strike? >> Well, I think first we have to, you know, put some of this in perspective. While they have nuclear weapons and they have, you know, there's some debate on how many warheads they have, we still have a a very significant arsenal and we have a lot of ballistic missile submarines and strategic bombers and ICBM silos. And uh each one of our boomers, you know, carries dozen or more missiles, so we have a lot we have a strong capability. The question is or not the question, but the action that should be is how are we going to refurbish it, restore it, make it so that there's no uh that that Xi and the party would not be inclined to say, "Well, let's test this." We want We want him to

always when he hears the word nuke, say, "I'm not going there, guys." to his team. It We that's what the we want to put in USA. We're not going to go there, guys. We got to do something else. We'll

have to go conventional. And so in order to make him think like that, we have to have a very strong, big arsenal. And we have to demonstrate to him that it's in his backyard and is is is uh credible. So >> Well, doesn't that just go back to the problem with MAD that as long as he doesn't actually care about absorbing some nuclear strikes, doesn't that make it kind of irrelevant? We have to demonstrate to him that it's not going to be his people that we're going to go after, but it's him.

So, we have to be able to tell him, "Hey, you you think you're safe in Purple Mountain, well, guess what? We have these kind of megatons, we have this kind of yield, we have this kind of pene- penetration, and the second you launch something, you're done. You're you you cease to be a human. You're you're off the face of the earth. That can be done. There's ways to do that.

But but right now, we don't really have that kind of credibility because our arsenal has been so aging and hasn't been updated and modernized. And we're fighting continually about every every little thing instead of just getting after it, you know, we we When I joined the Navy, I was on carriers, aircraft carriers, and they had marine detachments. And we had nuclear weapons on our aircraft carriers. The marines were there to guard those weapons. And >> Did anyone ever like climb up and sit on one?

>> No. In fact, let me tell you how it was. The way the security was so tight that you know, you have a 5,000 plus people on an aircraft carrier, you have the admiral in charge, you have the captain of the ship, you have the captain who runs the air wing, the CAG, you have squadron commanders who are O-5s, commanders in rank. And they if they called away a drill, and the marines had to run from one section of the carrier to where these weapons were to secure them and make sure they were safe, if you were in the we call it a passageway, if you were in the P-way, which is, you know, where you walk hallway, but in the navy we call it a P-way. If you're in the P-way, and the marines are running down the P-way, it doesn't matter what your rank was. If

you get in their way, they're going to jack you up and put you on the deck and put a a rifle muzzle in your nose. That's how serious we were in terms of guarding and having safety for nuclear weapons. Just like we have a lot of safeguards for our nuclear submarines and nuclear aircraft carriers. So, we treat this stuff very securely. Um but we got away from that and we kind of took it all away and and we gave up a capability. And so, there's some of us

have been calling for uh and I think of Rick Fisher who cuz he thinks he's been the the clearest voice on this, submarine launched uh cruise missiles with nuclear capability. We should have uh SLCMs. We should have those at sea again. Which adds another layer of nuclear consideration to Xi and the PLA. If we have submarines, our submarine force is still very stealthy. We put a bunch of

submarine launched cruise missiles with nuclear capable tips, uh warheads. China's got to worry about that. That should constrain some of their activities, even if it's just from a military standpoint. >> Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So, I invite you to

visit our website chinainsider.tv, where you can watch the full hour-long interview, plus get MP3 downloads of all of our podcasts. And more importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.