---
video_title: "CHINA TROLLED PUTIN"
video_id: tabbIwV7nXg
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tabbIwV7nXg
video_date: 2026-05-30T14:17:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-337
  When Russian President Vladimir Putin visited China, his hosts played a part of the Russian ballet “Swan Lake” for him, which would be perfectly OK except that it’s become a Putin resistance song that has political connotations tied to the fall of the Soviet Union. Was China trying to send a message? Or was this just an error? Matt, Chris and Shelley get into that and more in this episode.
---
What's the significance of Swan Lake? I don't know how widely this association is because I had never heard of it before this, but with the fall of the Soviet Union. Because I forget what specifically was happening. It was like, Swan Lake was playing on... I don't remember if it was like playing at a venue or on state TV or something when the Soviet Union actually collapsed, but yeah. Right. I mean, a few things could be happening. One is it could be a message, but it could be potentially interpreted in more than one way. It's also possible that they already decided to do like a Russian ballet. And because of incompetence, they decided on Swan Lake not fully understanding the political significance. I feel like that's less likely, but it is a possibility because people do make mistakes. So, it's like, how do we know what the meaning is? It's like, it's kind of us just guessing at it, right? Yeah. I mean, this is the weird thing when you see people say, oh, you know, the solution is a multi-polar war daughter where the US has its backyard and so does China and Russia. And it's really weird that they treat Russia like a Chinese partner. Or like it's China and Russia together. Yeah. Because China and Russia do not get along. Russia is definitely in the subservient position right now. Oh, definitely. But I do think that on a personal level that Putin and she have at least in the past like to each other. No, the Crapes, friendship medals, ice cream. Yeah. But it's, so I kind of feel like this is one of those situations where the Swan Lake thing might be a signal, but it also might be people looking for that, you know, I know people being like, oh, the CCP is nagging, like she is nagging Putin or something like that where like you're looking for the division. And it might be there and it might not because some people are like, oh, we can definitely split Russia off from China, like do a reverse Nixon. Yeah. And some people are like, nope, they are in it to win it together, you know? Can I just say like doing a reverse Nixon, it might sound good at the like in the moment. But what happened with that Nixon is that we basically, yeah, we achieved our goal of sort of creating a division between communist China and the Soviet Union. And what is the result? We screwed over Taiwan and we did business with an evil authoritarian regime that uses rape as a form of torture, puts millions of, you know, ethnic weagers in labor camps and harvest them for their organs. They didn't do that back then. That, I mean, but it was through the funding and technology transfer and that partnership created. So let's start with the Nixon visit. Well, I will say that is what led to the CCP's rise as a technological and economic power. I will say there are things that happened after that that if those things hadn't happened in hindsight, then like maybe the Nixon thing wouldn't be so bad. Like, you know, we didn't, like just because of what Nixon did, we didn't have to make China the most favorite nation. It's a trade status. We didn't have to. We didn't have to. Yes, we didn't have to send like a, you know, after the Tiananmen mass grave, we like don't worry. That was definitely Bush Clinton Bush senior clarity. Yeah, we didn't have to stop focusing on China after 9, 11. So yeah, I actually think that if the, there are lots of reasons why the Tiananmen massacre couldn't have happened later. But if somehow you would have had that same thing happen, but like two years later, when the Soviet Union was, you know, in the process of collapse, then I think it would have had a very different impact on China. And if the US wanted to, they could have exacerbated that and caused the Communist, the Chinese Communist Party to collapse along with the Soviet Union. In 89, there was already a lot of stuff happening in Eastern Europe. Like the, right. The curtain was coming down, but the, but the, yeah, but the, the Berlin Wall hadn't didn't fall till November that year. Right. So this is June. Yeah. But like, so it was like a precursor to things. The Berlin Wall didn't fall until, but there was November, but there was already a lot of, if you look back at historical, like reports and whatever about the Tiananmen massacre, a lot of them are, or not the massacre, but the protests leading onto it, the lot of it is framed in a way where it's like comparing this protest movement in China to what is going on in Eastern Europe at the time, with communism, communism starting to disintegrate. So I think it's like, it's not like people were like, oh, well, you know, there aren't signs that it's already, you know, starting to collapse here. Yeah. And I mean, you know, if the Persians had wiped out Athens, democracy would have been stillborn. Platonic philosophy wouldn't have been around. How would that have affected the Tiananmen Square massacre? That's a really good point, Chris. It would have taken place in space. Man, yeah, it's like those like alternate universe type novels, where what's the one that you read where it's like, oh, it's the years of rights of all. Yeah, with the plague just wipes out all of Europe. And then so everything becomes very different. So you recommended that book and I read like, I got like halfway through and it was so like depressing. I mean, not more depressing than actual history. Yeah, but like so it was very depressing. Yeah, I was really interesting, though. Like, I think I learned, I learned a lot about historical context, even though the whole story is fictional. Yeah. Yeah. The Renaissance happens in Samarkand. Yeah. Yeah. You don't really think about the Renaissance happening in Uzbekistan. Yeah. Chris, I've book recommendation, years of rice insults. Shelley, what's your book recommendation? I just finished reading the Dungeon Crawler Carl series, which I suppose it's also an alternate universe in a way where aliens come down. It's a lit RPG book. You might actually enjoy this Chris because it's kind of like reading a video game. Okay, I could just play a video game. Yeah. So it's a it's called it's a genre called lit RPG that is this, but essentially the premise is that aliens have come to earth and like wiped out most of humanity. And then the the surviving humans are given the plot of battlefield earth to go into the dungeon. Okay. So it's like a dungeon crawl RPG. So like they're given an opportunity to go into the dungeon and essentially like play this game for their lives where they have to literally go through each level of the dungeon. It's a maze runner with like monsters and you know, and they get it is like an RPG like they get like power up items and they get stats and they get whatever. Okay. So this is how it starts you know, the story starts with this guy who's just like an average guy living in the Pacific Northwest and he ends up like surviving the initial destruction. It's like if you were in any kind of building or structure, you're just dead. But if you're outside when this happened that you're still alive and you get to the opportunity to go into the dungeon. So he goes into the dungeon with his ex-girlfriends Persian cat named donut. Okay. Persian show cat named donut. And then essentially in the initial like level of the dungeon, she she becomes sentient. Okay. So she is now like a character. She is also a crawler. She's a playable. She's a playable character. So you you kind of follow them as they go through the dungeon. But essentially it starts to become about not just like surviving a dungeon because there are eight books so far in the series and it becomes I think he's got one or two more. Okay. But like it becomes like it goes from a lit RPG into it's still a lit RPG and it's kind of horror like it's really gory. Some of the stuff that happens. But it essentially becomes almost about he starts to kind of like break all the rules and like the AI that runs the game starts to become crazy and like so it starts to be essentially but I think it's going to basically destroy the structure of the galaxy is where they're going now. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website ChinaNcensored.tv where you can watch the entire discussion. Plus get MP3 downloads of all of our podcasts and most importantly you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.