---
video_title: "Why China Loves “Asian Hate”"
video_id: 70ZH72DLCxY
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=70ZH72DLCxY
video_date: 2026-06-20T17:52:21+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-340
  Remember when talking about Covid-19 coming from China was smeared as “Asian hate”? Well that’s become a favorite label to slap on whatever the CCP doesn’t like.  Our guest is Chris Fenton, the producer of Bad Counselors, which comes to theaters July 22-27, 2026.  https://www.badcounselors.com
---
It has got to be like a Chinese spy movie. That would people would eat that up. I bet they're not going to do it. But we need to put this outside the system. But this is what you can do now if this made in America template really works. And you can, I mean, it's going to take time to really disconnect all the parts from China because I'm sure there's still some parts that are, you know, the fact that all these people need jobs. Right. And you probably have more power than you think or than most people working on the production thing because if you can, if you can make a profitable movie in America and people realize they have so much more creative freedom and they can tell a real story that they otherwise could never tell for a lot of, for a lot of writers, a lot of producers it's worth it. Yeah, it's, I would be curious because like the one thing that is unbelievable to me is how whatever the influence is, the bot influence, whatever the 50 cent army does, I have no idea. But whenever you sort of tread into that, like say you did bad counselors too in China, there would be this massive like it's promoting Asian hate, you know, like I never understood that whole craziness of like how, I mean, I got, you know, my book, which had zero Asian hate or anti Asian stuff in there, it talked about like challenges we had with Beijing, but that was it. But it was incredible how I sort of fell into that, that sort of, I think it's, yeah, it's gotten worse on social media. It is totally gone away. But there is the counter reaction to that. Like I think people would like take note of, oh, this is a movie about China. I actually have a way to mitigate the Asian hate thing. Okay. Instead of sending them to Xinjiang, you send them to Taiwan and show like what a fun, free democracy and independent country Taiwan is, that's good idea. Accused of Asian hate because you are showing a positive, don't show China's bad show. Taiwan is great. And it would piss off the CCP so much. That is a great idea. They wouldn't be able to kind of articulate why without basically being like, well, we hate this because we're going to take over this country and crush them under the heel of our boot. That is a great idea. A very, very, very, very, very, very good. Well, by the way, even the word Asian hate makes zero sense because it has, I mean, has nothing to do with people in chip. I mean, if you actually India, yeah, it has nothing to do with India. Has nothing to do with the Philippines or Southeast Asia or Japan or South Korea or any of that, right? It's a crazy thing. And I actually feel like even when we criticize Putin for all the things that we don't like about him or Moscow, it's not like Russians walking down the street in New York City. You have to worry about getting punched in the face. Like, it has nothing to do with Russian hate. It has to do with, you have a problem with the government and the people leading the government. It's not the people of the country. So, and we all know 1.4 billion people in China simply don't have the freedom to put whoever they want and charge their leadership. They have the exact opposite of that. Honestly, the biggest perpetrators of Asian hate is probably the CCP. Yeah. Yeah. I just have to say, I don't approve of Russian hate. I like to take my time with hate. Oh, that's weird. Yeah. I see. You need the return of Vodville. Yeah, that's what I need. Now, let me ask you guys this. What did you think of the summit? Is there a sort of, do the three of you agree on sort of the constructiveness of it or the, what the heck was that? Or, yeah, where do you sit on that? We're going to have to see. My take is like, we're going to just have to wait a couple of months because there's all the talk and then there's what actually happens. I'm, yeah, I feel like I was worried that they were going to announce some new trade deal or in like Chinese investment in the US, which I think would be a terrible idea in terms of like the dependency issue. So I'm kind of like, okay, well, none of that happened. There was like a lot of like hype and worry about that. I was like, well, none of that happened. So at least it's like kind of a draw there. I don't really know. I think this is an attempt at some kind of detente, but I don't think, I think like structurally like the CCP is just going to keep doing what it's doing. They're going to keep building up their military. They're going to keep, you know, I mean, the military thing, there was zero conversation about nuclear, their, their expansion of nuclear capability and. Oh, yeah, because they won't, they, they refuse to engage on the nuclear stuff because they don't want to sign any non proliferation stuff. So yeah, so I think it's like, okay, the military, they're going to keep, you know, offloading their excess industrial capacity on the rest of the world and trying to drown the rest of the world in cheap Chinese exports. They're like, they're all the things they're going to keep trying to take Taiwan. Like all the things they're going to keep building in the South China saying they're not going to stop it. Right. So like the, and I don't think anybody thought the summit was going to stop any of those things. So I think like on a structural level, we're still. Well, I would, well, hold on that. I think I think more importantly, we could probably talk more after if you want to hear some of our thoughts. Our audience knows our thoughts. So I want to make sure we get back to something you did because this was very interesting. In January, you were invited to the Pentagon to speak about competition with China in Africa, which sounds completely out of left field. So what is that about? Yeah. Well, actually, so I've spoken at the Pentagon before, which is a complete thrill about, you know, they understand the, the soft, the importance of soft power initiatives in terms of military capabilities and the ability essentially art of war to win a war without ever firing a bullet. The CIA was masterful at that back in the 50s and 60s in attempting to pull Africa towards us rather than going towards the old. Soviet Union in January, I was invited to Africa, which is in Stuttgart, Germany. And that is the part of the Department of War that oversees all of their Africa initiatives. Now, their Africa initiatives are interesting because they don't have quite the war chest financially and resource wise to handle that whole continent that they would like. So they're trying to find other ways to combat China influence in the continent. You know, as you know, there's massive belt and road initiatives there and infrastructure and a lot of Chinese influence. So they hadn't speak about the ways I saw Beijing control their populace inside the market. And also what they do to spread China's narrative outside of China through various other conduits. You know, and that included everything from what we were doing and movies and television to say, you know, airlines and hotels not being able to showcase Taiwan as a separate country to, you know, clamping down on, clamping down on, say, JP Morgan or Mid-Scrup or various other investment banks that are trying to, you know, persuade people to avoid certain risky assets as investments inside of China. All that kind of stuff just adds up to a really strong spirit influence in terms of soft power by Beijing. So they're looking at ways of how can we do that in Africa to win people over to thinking the American system of government is a better system of government rather than what China's system of government is. And I do think there's a combination of two things that are happening. Number one is if we actually, you know, proactively get out there and start to really cultivate culturally Africa again, whether it's, you know, through our celebrities or, you know, any sort of other, you know, celebrities or other influencers or whatever it is, that's a great sort of situation in terms of trying to get win the hearts and minds over. But then the second thing that's happening is China is becoming really strong at being the banker infrastructure builder of the continent, you know, and that's a problem for them because they're now looking like overbearing landlords that are taking back infrastructure that they built for the people there and now are saying, oh, you can't pay the high interest rate on that, we're taking it back and now we're in control of it. So those two influences can help us. Thank you for watching this clip. Bad counselors, hits theaters, July 22nd and tickets are on sale now. And if you want to watch this entire interview and get MP3 downloads of all of our more than 300 podcasts, join us at ChinaNcensored.tv. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.