---
video_title: "Why Venezuelans Demanded a Socialist Revolution"
video_id: JR9LktShDkg
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JR9LktShDkg
video_date: 2026-01-17T02:03:34+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-322
  
  When Venezuelans elected socialist Hugo Chavez in 1998, it seemed like a good idea. In fact, it seemed like the only way to fix their country. Economics and banking expert Jorge Jraissati explains how Venezuela got to that point, and what Americans can learn from it. Follow him on X @jraissatijorge
---
There was a time when Venezuela was prosperous, uh, middle class, well educated, people had jobs, but there was American companies coming in. There was American companies involved in the oil business. And like what was the what were the problems created there that led to people democratically electing the socialist leader Hugo Chavez? That is a very good question actually and I will try to answer it in two ways. On the one hand or in two phases to be precise, the first phase of Venezuela's development which was from 1920 to 1980 was a period in which Venezuela grew a lot. In fact, it was the highest growing

country of any country when it comes to GDP per capita. We grew at 6.4% per year. We grew a lot oil production. We were growing a lot of manufacturer also in Venezuela. Venezuela was attracting a

lot of migrants coming from World War II and Venezuela became a very dynamic country in partnership with a lot of these relationships that you mentioned with EU businesses, US oil firms. So Venezuela became really strategic and at the same time in those years Venezuela became a democracy. The problem was then in the 1980s and 1990s. These two decades in Venezuela were decades of complete estagnation. So our GDP didn't grow for two decades despite having this good trajectory that the coming was the country was coming from.

So in these two decades people start becoming more disappointed, resentful, abandoned by their institutions. They start to believe that they start to question why their economic situation was not getting better despite the fact that we were told to be the richest countries in the world when it comes to oil. After these two decades of a lot of dissatisfaction, you naturally have people who start blaming the system and want to rebuild a new system. And at this moment is when the former president Hugo Chavez uh rose in popularity. He first tried to make a coup d'eta. He actually failed. He went

to prison and he was released and he then run for office in 1998. And people voted for him believing that he could bring change that he could actually stop corruption in Venezuela. But the reality was the opposite. So I really think the Venezuelan example shows how if your economic perspective is too different than your economic expectation and reality, if you are extremely dissatisfied with the economic system, then the almost inevitable outcome is that you will have a political revolution. And I think this is a very important lesson that other democratic countries can have because you cannot have a country in which your people are extremely dissatisfied with their economic life.

>> What was the cause of that stagnation in the 80s and 90s? >> There was two causes in the 80s and 90s. The first one I believe was a change in economic policym towards a way more staterun economy. So for example in the late 1970s we nationalized oil. In 1975 we nationalized mining.

A lot of import substitution industrialization took place in Venezuela. meaning that the government was the one encouraging or stimulating specific sectors of the economy. So Venezuela during the 1980s and 1990s became way more state-run especially during the 1980s and at the same time natural resources and oil prices were extremely low especially in the '9s. So in the 90s we have the lowest price of oil that you can imagine. So if you combine these two characteristics with the fact that during the 90s we have also a lot of political instability. We had several

ketas in Venezuela. We have huge protest in Venezuela and the reforms did not have popular support more free market reforms in Venezuela. It's a perfect cocktail for having low levels of investment. And these I believe are the two factors that led to the rise of Hugo Chavez at the time. >> Well, I know Hugo Chavez and and Maduro their regimes were large largely dependent on being propped up by uh aid and military and security equipment from China, Iran, Russia, Cuba.

what why were what was their interest in uh supporting these uh this this dictatorship? >> It's a huge economic interest, you know, because Venezuela is a very rich country when it comes to natural resources in particularly. So when countries saw an opportunity to become really involved, really tight with Maduro and before Chavez in Venezuela, it's almost like a no-brainer. In fact, it is said that Castro in Cuba for many years, he wanted to somehow have some control over Venezuela. So Venezuela was and is very rich country in natural resources. So all

these countries then will benefit from the geopolitical standpoint. Venezuela is a country at the middle of the Americas very close to the US. It is a very strategic place for people who disagree with US foreign policy for example because it can become a source of instability. At the same time, I really think that Venezuela as can also become a source of political unity because or strategic resources and location became a magnet for bad actors, but at the same time it can become a magnet for good actors, which is what we want because imagine a Venezuela in which the Iranians, the Chinese, the Russians are not controlling the show, but a Venezuela that welcomes and becomes a pinpoint of connection between the Americas, the North America, South America and Europeans. It can really become an extremely important geopolitical point of unity of this transatlantic alliance that I believe is forming in this new geopolitical context.

Thank you for watching this clip. A link to the full hour-long interview is below. It's available exclusively on our website, chinaunensored.tv, for our supporters, the Chinaensored 50 C army. Do you want to learn more? Click

the link below.