---
video_title: "Is Trump Insane? Or Is He On To Something?"
video_id: yuglJ5eCldw
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yuglJ5eCldw
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-350
  Canadians thought they were voting for Canada’s Liberal Party in the last election, but that’s not what they got, according to our guest, Canadian investigative journalist Sam Cooper. He says the party is Liberal on its face, but behind the scenes it’s working for outside interests—directly opposite to Canadian’s.
---
Uh hey, so uh we are at as as [music] as Prime Minister Mark Carney says, we are at war. Economic war. Uh run us down why you think the the trade talks broke down. And what this means. >> Well, well, I think we're we're on the right podcast here because there's there's no question in my mind that China is the elephant in the room. I

don't think you have to be experts like the four of us. >> [laughter] >> We're going to pat I'll pat you guys on the back. I'll pat myself on the back as well. You know, China specialists understand that China gets into governments around the world. You know from reading my book Willful Blindness that my uh thesis that no one has disproven is that China is very deep into Canada's systems and I've done a number of stories for my outlet The Bureau showing how China was involved in Canada's election with propaganda from the very top saying Mark Carney, the rockstar central banker, will be the best candidate to be a strong fighter against Donald Trump and his tariffs. So, this is top-line

Chinese intelligence messages and from my perspective, it filtered down into the Liberal Party, which sometimes it's hard for me to separate where the Liberal Party of Canada starts and the Chinese Communist Party has entered. They cross over quite a bit, not just in politicians. So, >> [clears throat] >> uh I I I'm I know for a fact that, you know, of course, Washington has a concern that China is transshipping its slave labor goods through ports around the world, repackaging them, and then sending them to the the greatest consumer market in the world where you guys are living in the United States. And so, China absolutely is the the silent third party at the table in these very Mark Carney's words war-like trade negotiations with what I would say from a Canadian perspective and probably a lot of people in the world a very rhetorically aggressive American president. But my position is um look uh China has very silently uh taken over a lot of uh Canada's infrastructure and institutions for 50 years. I'm not

the only author saying that anymore. There's other books out now. And so China very clearly wants Canada to fight back against President Donald Trump. And I say it's not President Donald Trump. This is the position of the American government that China controlling supply chains is a very bad thing, right? Uh and with you know, so

there's an ongoing sort of uh let's call it a trade war between Washington and Beijing and a lot of complex and yeah, we could say that proxy well, let me not get too deep into theory here. Canada and China are the only countries in the world that have taken a retaliatory position against the Trump tariffs. So I don't think it's a big leap of imagination to to say that you don't want to be the only one in the world with China that that is sort of uh fighting the the freedom the the leader of the free world, which is the United States. >> And the China-Canada troubles predate Trump. >> Absolutely. They uh

I've Again, at the bureau, if people come to my website, I I report many stories. One of the key ones that I point to is when Secretary of State Anthony Blinken, so we'll go into recent history. In 2023, he traveled up to Canada and met with one of the only mayors in in North America that's really taken a strong stance on countering fentanyl. His name's Mayor Brad West in the Vancouver area. And Secretary of State Blinken was saying, we need Canada work with the American government on countering fentanyl. And you know, my

deep reporting has shown how Vancouver and Canada's legal system are very much being abused by the CCP and Mexican cartels to use Canada as a fentanyl production and transshipment point. And hey, what do you know? Fentanyl, it's a product for China. And they've got a lot of other products that are coming into Vancouver and that's a part of the trade negotiations currently. And you're right, my reporting has shown that look, China has been uh trying to get into Canada's elections for decades now, very successfully in the last few elections.

And there's great reporting that says all the way back to Pierre Elliott Trudeau, China was looking at Canada as their best friend in the world and sitting on America's doorstep. This is solid historically proven reporting. >> Well, okay, so the China thing aside, do you think that you know, Trump's whole rhetoric about the 51st state like America, that that this aggressive stance, don't you think Canada has to stand up for itself in some way? >> Absolutely. I mean, there's a grand bargain here where Canada and the United States are you know, as I read at the Peace Arch Bridge out in Vancouver where I used to work, come from a common mother, right?

So, the British British Isles, we are natural natural brothers and sisters and allies. And now in North America, as the world lurches towards a possible World War III scenario, some think it's already started, you know, the Western Hemisphere, the North North America will be threatened by our real enemies, China, Russia, Iran, which I talked to you about the the last time you had me about how the those those countries are working together in criminal and hostile state ways already in Canada. So, yes, Canada needs to get a good a good trade deal and a good security deal with United States and we can be, you know, shoulder to shoulder, the the leaders of the free world together. Where it gets difficult is I would say that President Trump's rhetoric sometimes it's very strategic and sometimes I think, frankly speaking, he's shooting the leader of the free world in the foot by by making people that aren't so geopolitically intelligent around the world. Not everyone like us spends their days trying to understand what's going on in complex ways around the world. That's my

job. It's your guys' job. But, you know, President Trump's rhetoric in Greenland or calling Canadian leaders governors or >> [laughter] >> or basically treating them like subordinates to the the leader of the free world, President Donald Trump, is counterproductive to to bringing people that don't quite get it on side. That's my view of the thing. >> Do you think Carney would be amenable to doing some of those things to get on side with the US if Trump was toning his rhetoric down?

>> So, this is a complex topic and I had to start with the last election. It'll lead back to my my last answer. We were set to have a change of government. We've talked about Justin Trudeau and the Liberals before, who I would call sort of a lost decade in Canada of, you know, not only, you know, uh Chinese state capture running wild, bad economic policies, horrible immigration policies. Canada has just gone downhill in many ways. We were

going to have a Conservative government, which would be absolutely, I believe, a stronger partner and geopolitically, economically, security-wise with the Trump administration and probably with any Democratic administration. But, in our election, again, President Trump went with the 51st state trolling and Mark Carney and, as I say, Chinese intelligence and propaganda uh overtook a 20% deficit for the Liberal Party and Mark Carney shot to the top with the some new misguided Canadian nationalism. So, that's the starting point. Like, our our whole last election just went wonky and I think President Trump, you know, confused and bewildered a lot of Canadians and made them feel threatened. So, we would have had a better prime minister. We would

have had a deal in place by now. We wouldn't be here. Uh I think that needs to be looked at in Washington. But, here's where it gets really complex. My reporting shows Mark Carney as a a global banker for the Bank of Canada and the Bank of England way back in 2012 for the Bank of England, he's on the record saying that uh England should be working together with the Bank of China to help China extend its global renminbi yuan trading system. And this was a good I'm not

making this up. There's a press release saying something like, "In a globalist world, this is a good having China So, Mark Carney's whole philosophy is that United States is in decline, China is rising, we need a new multilateral world. And you don't have to put on your tinfoil hat about, you know, Davos, Mark Carney, you know, Larry Summers, all these Western bankers and treasury, you know, experts that see the rise of China as a good thing. Mark Carney would be one of the the world's leaders in that philosophy. So, I think, you know, when we look at the past year or two, Mark Carney and his Canadian, what I call, industrialist backers have been in business with the elite rather, Mark Carney's industrialist backers in Eastern Canada have been in direct business relationships with the CCP elite families for three generations. Like, this is on

the record and we can get into the weeds on that one, but I think Mark Carney is a product of uh an elite of Canadian business people, a very small elite, like, a few families that are directly in business with the, you know, the leaders of the Politburo. So, the theory suggests itself, especially in my work, that Mark Carney wants to benefit, you know, his business friends. He wants China to if not equal, overtake the United States in a multilateral world. And so, that then raises a fair question. It's not very easy for Mark Carney to come to terms with President Trump or, you know, President Newsom, President Obama, President Biden, whoever it is, the US government will have, I believe, a concern with a globalist central banker that wants China to be the world's hegemon. And Carney, the way he's his

policy suggests that's what he wants. >> If you want to follow more of Sam Cooper's work, check out The Bureau on Substack. The link is below. And watch his entire 1-hour interview, plus hundreds of others, and get MP3 downloads of our podcasts, join us on chinauncensored.tv.