---
video_title: "Why Trump Actually Wants Greenland"
video_id: X2WSBjkBYt8
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X2WSBjkBYt8
video_date: 2026-02-01T14:29:06+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-324
  President Trump has created a firestorm by saying the US plans to take Greenland, and will do it by force if necessary. There are a lot of theories out there about why he really wants the arctic country. In this episode we discuss Greenland’s geostrategic importance in a US-China war.
  
  Joining us once again is Captain Jim Fanell. He’s the former Director of Intelligence and Information Operations for the US Pacific Fleet. He’s also co-author of the book Embracing Communist China: America’s Greatest Strategic Failure 
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
So this was kind of my question. Do you think that like the culture chains that you talked about needing from going to fighting land-based wars to fighting a naval war, even the culture change of things like, okay, well, we need to look at what's practical in terms of building these ships and not just what's the, you know, the newest technology or bureaucracy. Do you see that shift happening in the Navy? I am not so convinced of that. I, this, this arterial arterial sclerosis has been around for 40, 50, 60 years now. And so it is really hard to get people to change the way they think. So that's going to be the biggest problem that the president has is having the people below him and the Department of the Navy, the Department of War, his appointees that are going to go in and have to drive that change. And they're going to have to do it not just through, you know, brow-beating people. They're going to have to do it through an economic incentive, promotion incentive. If you can't produce, and you're a naval officer, and your job is to produce ships, well, then you don't get promoted anymore. We promoted a lot of people that just went along to go along. And so there's going to have to be some shape, shapeups in that regard. But I still see this idea of we want to over, you know, engineer things. And we want to make, you know, the gold, you know, the gold and Swiss army knife, if you will. And so that kind of mindset has to change. One of the reasons we were successful in World War II, and why we defeated, I think, the Japanese, in police aircraft carrier war in combat, was that the Japanese had the really great planes and really great pilots. And they put a lot of attention into training their pilots. And it was kind of an extension of Bushido and the Sam Reich spirit. We're going to have these great warriors in the air. And they really trained them, and they put a lot of effort and attention, and they were given, you know, anything that needed, but they were unappetizable, if you will. Whereas the American approach was, hey, this is about mass, and so we're going to take a bunch of farmboys from across America and whoever they are. And we're going to teach anybody that wants to fly. We're going to, unless they're really bad, just about anybody's going to be able to learn how to fly. And we're going to put lots and lots and lots of aircraft in the air. And that's what eventually happened is that after the battle of Midway, we defeated a lot of those special Japanese aircraft carrier pilots. And they started running out of good qualified pilots while we still had masses of people that were just coming off the training pipeline in America to be able to send over to Europe or to America. So that kind of thinking has been part of our mindset since the Cold War, since the end, certainly since the end of the Cold War. And this operation in Venezuela is kind of an homage to that. It's everything was perfect. Everything was perfect. Drilled down to the, the if degree and they did an excellent job and they should be praised for it. But if we get into a conflict with China, we're not going to be able to have this everything go perfectly. When you're fighting somebody for your life, things don't go perfectly. When you're fighting somebody that's weaker than you, and you know that you're going to fight them and you know what their weaknesses are, then you can go to town on them. But if you're fighting somebody that's the same size or bigger than you and has a longer reach than you and hates you and has you know a couple of more punches than you, then you've got to be able to say I can't, I can't, I don't have time or energy to devote to this perfection of this weapon system so that it checks every block that we've developed for, you know, review and regulation for the last 40 years. One of the things that happened when I was a younger officer in the late 90s was the chief of naval operations, Admiral Jay Johnson. He came in and he said there's way too much paperwork at your Navy, way too much. And he said I want to have a review board for the Pacific Fleet and the Atlantic Fleet. And I want, I want you to get your best captains on both coasts, get together and go through all the regulations that people are having to do, all the paperwork drills, all the reports that are issued and have to be sent up change up the chain of command. And I want to see a 25% reduction in, you know, such and such a time. And they did that in 1999 or 2000, they, we cut 25% of the paperwork. Well, I was over a quarter of a century ago. I guarantee you, I can guarantee you that all those reductions were fought, some of them were fought at the time. The system didn't want to give them up. We were told no, you can't, you still have to do that, even though we were told the CNOS said no, somebody from the Secretary of Defense's office would say no, you still have to do this or that report. So there's the, the system has been encrested with these kinds of arcane requirements, some for good reasons initially, but they've, they've made us less flexible, less adaptable. And certainly it's not going to help us in dealing with a pure competitor or even a superior competitor in a timeline in the next four or five years, three or four years. One year. So there's the problem of all this internal calcification that you've been talking about. Trump has been trying to change a lot of it, but he only has three years left. Do any of his changes last beyond his presidency? Only to the extent that he demonstrates to people in government and to the military that these are good changes and that they'll result in our national security being improved in enhanced. The problem is is that the incenodization today, and I think I heard the Secretary of the Army talk about this several months ago, the system is incentivized to make people not risk change. So that is what Trump is upending. He's incentivizing people to risk or to make the risk to change without fear of retribution, fear of losing their careers. What what goes on today is you, you will lose your career if you make a step out and say something. I know this from personal experience. The people that are safe, the people that get promoted are the ones that just stay under the radar and don't make massive changes. And Trump is changing that by coming in and saying, hey, we don't have time for this anymore. We cannot afford to allow this. So you're here, the Secretary of War talk about the war fighting ethos. And most of his speeches, I've listened to almost all of them. It's inspiring, but it's inspiring for folks that are ground pounders, in my opinion. So one of the things I've been asking and saying is it would be really nice to see the Secretary of War talk about what the war fighting ethos means for the US Navy. I'd really like to hear him say that. Now, he may need some naval personnel to help him write that speech, but it would be something that would get to your question, Shelley, which is to say, how do we change the culture? How do we ensure that this survives? And I think it can, but it's only a few years, and that it's really hard. At previous administrations, if you recall back in the GW Bush's first term, and then, you know, Rumsfeld, the Secretary of Defense came in and was going to redo the defense department, the Pentagon. If you remember that from January, we had the April 1st EP3 crisis. That took away some energy from that, and then you had 9-11, and that sucked all the oxygen out of the room in terms of his ability to restructure the Department of Defense. And remember, Rumsfeld was doing a second tour of duty as a Secretary of Defense, separated by, you know, many, many years. So he, of anybody, understood that the Department needed that change 25 years ago, and Trump's doing it now in a rapid way, and I don't think he's going to be deterred from it. So to the extent that he continues this, the longer it will last, in my opinion. Well, thank you. Once again, for joining us, Jim, always horrifying. Actually, I think there was some cause for optimism. Well, your glasses have full, and I'm happy for you, Shelley. I say there is. I normally, as you said, I work for one boss out in the Pacific, and he used to, when I'd come in and give him the morning intel brief, at seven in the morning, you know, he'd say, hey, sunshine, how you doing? Essentially, it was mocking me saying I was a dark cloud. But I think, you know, things are looking up, in terms of our acknowledging, not just acknowledging that there's a problem in terms of our naval and maritime powers and nation, but actual plans and actions that are trying to rectify that. So for once, I'm a little bit optimistic, which is unusual. I'll take that then. Hey, your landlock now. Does the sea ever call to you? Yes, routinely. So I try to stay in some kind of water every day. I swim in the morning. So I swim every morning in the winter in an indoor pool, in the summer in an outdoor pool, and then every once in a while, we'll try to get down to the Mediterranean. But I miss my Hawaii, Hawaii, still home, and someday I'll get back. Maybe someday, when the CCP collapses, we can all have a luau in Hawaii, like the proper kind, the kind that ends in divorce. Thanks for being here, Jim. Well, thank you, Gaul. I really appreciate it. It's my honor to be on here. You guys are doing phenomenal work and helping to change America's perspective and the world's perspective of what the Chinese Communist Party is about, the threat, and that we need to stand up and take action. So thank you, Walter, that you're doing. And I wish I could have been in New York. I think it was in 2024 when I was there with you in person. So someday we'll get to now again. So, Shelley, you're the one full of sunshine and optimism. Well, I'm just saying that usually the podcast star, you know, incredibly depressing. And this one, it was like, oh, we're actually starting to turn the ship around, so to speak. Turn the ship around. Very, very good. Yeah. The math stuff is happening with Greenland, that seems interesting. I mean, my solution was just like, if we can't have the whole thing, nobody can have it. Just Newk Greenland. Just blow up the whole island. Until it's already in Newk and Greenland. But no, like nice. There we go. Wait, I don't get it. The capital is Newk and UK. Oh, is that like how I think in Iceland, there's like the airport is like in a place called Hell. So it's like, there's signs. It's like, welcome to Hell. Oh, I don't remember that. I was in Iceland, but it was maybe it's not nice on something, but there is a place. Yeah, that was 2015. So it's been a while. 2015. Well, that was like, what, five, six years ago. Oh, my gosh. Anyway, yeah, I also feel optimistic about this. And, you know, I do want to say something about this whole like, so this decapitation exercise that we did when we took Maduro, like, I don't think the CCP understands the fundamental difference between that and them trying to take William Lai. I was thinking this too. If you try to take the, if you successfully take the president of a, in a democratic country, there is a structure in place already to handle leadership transitions. And so like, yes, it would be bad and it would be awful and there'd be chaos. But like, there, there's a vice president, there's presumably they have a list of like, at least a dozen people who are next in line to take over in a system that generally will respect the next person to take over in that crisis. It would have no change. Right. The difference when you take the leader of a communist nation because that leader is a dictator who controls everything through their own like personal power. And so that's all about loyalty to that person. And if you take Maduro, it shakes the entire system. If you were to take Xi Jinping, it would shake the entire system in a fundamentally different way. So yeah, CCP, like, I'm not saying they should do it, but like, good luck. Because if you do do it, it's not going to do the thing you think. I'm glad you brought that up. I was thinking that too. Democracy, yeah. Somehow that reminds me of that video that you were the, the Nvidia F. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We're like, somehow there's like a, in all of these other internet references, there's a scene of the Mariana puppet versions of you and the China show guys. Yeah. Winston and Matt and we're pointing at Taiwan. Yeah. That was, that was fun. There's been a lot of fun things that have happened over the years. Fun things on the internet. Yeah. And lots of fun things we've done in person together. I'm glad China and censored exists. And I think maybe we have helped shape people's views of China. I think especially like with everything that's been going on with like, especially this year, like Venezuela, Greenland, Europe and Canada being, I'll try to be polite, not making the best decisions with China. There's a lot of propaganda and information warfare going on. And I think for our audience, we've really like helped a lot of people kind of understand the information and place what's actually happening. Yeah. I mean, do you understand why Trump was going on about Greenland? Or do you think he was just completely nuts? Or like he looked at a map and because of the projection, it seems really, really big. And so he just wants a big piece of land because he's just really dumb. Did somebody say that? Yes. I've seen that. Wow. Yeah. I also saw some speculation that like, oh, he reached a deal with NATO because the NATO chief just showed him a treaty, the copy of the treaty from 1951 between Denmark and the US. And it's the first time Trump had seen the treaty. And I was like, really? Do you really think that's what happened? Like, it just kind of blows my mind that people basically believe, do you remember during front Trump's first term? I mean, this is not about whether you like Trump or hate him or whatever. But like, during the first, his first term there was that parody, someone wrote that about Trump in the guerrilla channel. And I don't remember this. Where it was basically this person was like, oh, made a, like, I think it was almost like a fake news article where it was talking about how Trump is obsessed with the guerrilla channel. And he always asks his staff to put on the guerrilla channel. But there is no actual guerrilla channel. So what the staff have been doing is just like compiling clips of guerrillas from different nature documentaries and showing them to Trump because he likes to watch the guerrilla channel. Okay. So someone made this up. Someone made this up. And then people are like, oh, yeah, I believe that people believed it. And it spread on Twitter. Like, people were like, this is real. This must be actual because it was written now. So if it was like, you know, sources close to the White House said that, but like, like, as if, you know, that Trump is so dumb that the staff members are just recycling you to clips of guerrillas to show him. And he calls it the guerrilla channel. And ultimately, this is very good for China. Because if so much of what he's doing is geared towards countering the CCP. And it's just all dismissed as everything he's doing is actually because he's retarded. Then like, at first chance, you know, another leader would do would sweep all that away. Yeah. It's like I was looking at watching some CSPAN thing last week or something where Trump explained very clearly that he thinks that US needs to have sovereign to over Greenland because of Russia and China. And I was like, I bet people are going to come up with all different reasons for this that are not going to mention Russia and China. Even though there's multiple clips of saying him saying it's because of Russia. There's been talk about the Golden Dome. I saw a daily show clip with John Stewart making fun of Trump saying just that, right? Like, he's like, we're already neighbors with Russia and then showed a picture of Alaska and like the far, far east of Russia. And it's like, so yes, we are neighbors with Russia. And yes, it's only like a very short distance there. But that is like, it is both true and narratively wrong, right? Because the issue is that the part of Russia that has like all the weapons and all the missiles is the part that's near like on the West Coast, or not coast, the western part of Russia near Moscow and St. Petersburg, that area. And when they launch those missiles, those ICBMs go over the North Pole, over Greenland. Greenland is halfway between that and the conflict. Yeah, it's like it's what Jim is saying people like look at the flat map. Right. In many ways, I guess a lot of people are flat earthers. Well, not because the when you look at a flat earth or map of the earth, I've seen, because you know, you ask a flat earth, what it's looked like? And they show a polar projection map, which is usually centered at the North Pole with Antarctica, like the ice wall, you know, all the way around. But actually, in a way, that's the most helpful map for this is the flat earth or map, because it shows you actually how Greenland is like right in the middle between Russia and the continental United States that we need to protect. Yeah. So thank you. Thank you, flat earthers. I didn't expect this to go there. That's I love that so much. I think that is a wonderful place to end. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website ChinaUncensored.tv where you can watch the full hour long interview plus get MP3 downloads of our podcast. And most importantly, you'll be sporting the work we do. The link is below.