---
video_title: "Iran's Collapse Would Be China's WORST Nightmare"
video_id: nuKY_wjF5Ag
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nuKY_wjF5Ag
video_date: 2026-01-27T17:11:06+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-323 
  If protests topple the Islamic Republic of Iran, this is bad news for the CCP. And in more ways than you might think. Joining us is former Marine Intelligence Officer Grant Newsham.
---
What do you think it means for China if over the next coming days the Iranian regime collapses versus if it stays the same, the Iranian regime pulls through once again? Well if Iran goes under, it would be a huge humiliation for the Chinese because the Chinese have been the, maybe the principal backer of that regime almost since the time of its founding, it means support to it. And what's the message that sends? Well it's that China's not able to prop up, not able to support one of its allies that gets in trouble when the Americans and well Americans do something to them but even worse when the people in the streets, when the actually radians actually rise up and say well we don't want it, we don't want you. It kind of suggests that the Chinese inflow, its Chinese support is not, well isn't very strong or when it push comes to shove. And that is a, maybe a political defeat for the Chinese and they've been on a good run for a long time and suddenly Venezuela, Iran and maybe Cuba's next. This is something that is striking, these are some very solid political blows against the PRC and it's not just its reputation, even its self-confidence. And then there's of course the physical sort of outcomes where you potentially, you lose access to this very heavily discounted Iranian oil and it is heavily discounted or you're going to have to pay, assuming Mr. Trump lets them sell it or listen by it, they're going to have to pay a lot more for it. That's a problem for the Chinese in particular but also losing potentially that platform right in the heart of the Middle East that allows you to influence throughout the region. And you've already lost, this Hamas has ball of these two forces that really just allowed China to really turn up and turn off the pressure on the countries in the region. That's a huge change. And if you go down the list of how many, say the last 10 years and ask yourself how often has that happened in places where China has gotten, has been seen as a really a major player, not very often. And I can't think of anywhere else. So there's a psychological blow and it's not as if the Chinese people themselves are unaware of foreign affairs and what goes on overseas. Then it does chip away at this idea that the Communist Party, it knows all, is really, really can't be defeated. And that is something that has to cause the leaders in China a lot of concern. At the same time as we mentioned earlier, China still has a lot of active, a lot of presence, influence, economic advantages in the countries all around Iran. They've even got their one overseas military base up in Djibouti. And that's, so that it's not as if they're suddenly out of the region. And if after a certain period of time, they may even be able to get back into Iran or at least continue their economic activities with the intent of political work that comes along with that. So the big thing would be, well, China's key allies are dropping like flies. And that is something the guys that run the PRC don't want to see. But if it doesn't collapse? Well, if it stays afloat, and that is a real possibility that works to China's advantage. It allows them to sort of postpone a problem they would otherwise have to deal with. But if the Iranian regime does continue, say, China avoids a sort of a sharp blow to its prestige and its self-image. But it's still going to have to deal with the problem of a really isolated Iran where I think the Americans are probably going to tighten sanctions. They may even enforce them more. And they're going to force other countries to go along with it. The concern on China's part is that the Americans might actually start cutting off the flow of oil from Iran and giving China a choice. So you're going to come and challenge the US and perhaps pay for it elsewhere. Or you're going to just sort of let this happen. And that's not a sort of a choice the Chinese want to face. But also it would be once again, it'd be a blow to I think some of the people in countries in the region who would like to be done with the Iranian regime, which has really done nothing but cause trouble for its entire existence. But also the think of the Iranians themselves, which is not a popular regime, little popular support. And once again, they stuck their necks out. They thought they had the backing of the United States principally. And it turns out, well, they didn't. And you're one of these families that goes to I pick up and identify your son or daughter's, pick up their body. That has got to be depressing. And it's at that point. I think that if that happens, then I think given what has been said that in terms of encouraging the Iranians and implicitly offering some support, now that's got to embarrass a lot of people. If you remember the Marsh Arabs and the Kurds, that embarrassed a lot of us as it happened. So I hope we don't do that again. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website ChinaNcensored.tv where you can watch the full hour long interview plus get MP3 downloads of our podcast. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. Link is below.