---
video_title: "China Won’t Leave Venezuela Quietly"
video_id: R0pbC7dPVoI
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R0pbC7dPVoI
video_date: 2026-01-19T17:21:20+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-322
  
  The CCP has sunk more than $100 Billion into Venezuela. Now, with Trump in charge, the CCP fears it could lose everything. So they’re going to fight back, and Trump needs to watch out. We’re joined by Venezuelan expert Jorge Jraissati. Follow him on X @jraissatijorge
---
One of the things that Trump said about Venezuela is that, you know, essentially for the U.S. to work with Venezuela, the Venezuela has to sell the oil to the U.S. The Russia and Iran, like China, these countries have to get out. How do you think that will work? Like right now I imagine there's still a lot of interests from these countries. I know the Chinese foreign ministry has been repeatedly putting up a bunch of propaganda about how the U.S. is violating international law and China's investments, you know, hundreds of billions of dollars in investments in Venezuela must be protected. It doesn't sound like they're going to just be like, oh well, you know, we sank $180 billion in Venezuela and we're going to walk away. So is the Venezuelan government can they get rid of these influences? The Venezuelan government by itself cannot. This is the difficult part of a transition. It will require cooperation or a partnership between the Venezuelan people, first of all, an eventual transition government that is also composed by specialists and people that are not with the regime and the Americans. If you make this partnership, then you can start freeing the country from these bad actors. But of course, it's very difficult. When it comes to the logistics of how this oil will be protected or safeguard, this is why also the U.S. has this incredible naval praise presence in the Caribbean. They said that they will control the logistics of this new, I would say, commercial arrangement. But let's see, the question that you make about whether China will simply just walk away from Venezuela, I think is a very good question. And I would actually love to know your own perspective because I'm still thinking about it. I'm going to be the response that these countries will do. My own thesis is that we live in one of these periods in history in which that we only live maybe once every 60 years or every 100 years in which the geopolitical landscape totally shifters and changes. And the same way that after World War II, we have a break. Then in the 1990s, we had another geopolitical break. We are right now living another one. And my thesis is that right now the world is being divided and it always becoming more divided. And that the U.S. part of this new configuration is that it will exercise total control over its own hemisphere. And that will be the focus of the U.S. foreign policy. And at the same time, other powers will understand that and will adjust to that. So that's at least my own preliminary thinking of all the issue. And that's a very interesting take because especially with the post-war consensus, there was the idea that division is a bad thing that we should all be more united. And even if that means like, hey, doing business with dictatorships and authoritarian regimes, that's good because we should all be more united. And that did not work out. Well, I think that's why we're seeing the divide. A somewhat backward way of looking at it where the economic, like there's some kind of idea that economic freedom would naturally make the authoritarian liberal. Yeah, which we can see did not happen in China, did not happen in a lot of places. But I mean, Jorge, what you said about what China will do, I think what the Chinese Communist Party would like to do is, I think ideologically, of course, they were more aligned with the Maduro regime and they would have liked to keep that partnership up because here's somebody who's dependent on them financially and they can use that to their advantage. But they are not ideological in the sense that they often try to play both sides in a country politically. And I think that what they would ideally love to do is Venezuela has a transition of power, if Venezuela has a transition of power to a new government. They will try to get in with the new government too. They will try to say, well, we are willing to invest in Venezuela. You've been a good partner on the Belt and Road. We want to make sure that you don't just rely on the Americans. Well, narrative warfare of like, don't forget how bad the United States has been in Latin America. We just like a lot of things where they would just try to keep that like, foothold in Venezuela no matter who's in power and try to make Venezuela essentially more economically dependent on them, which would lead to more political dependencies. We see in even places like Europe where European countries, they have a lot of trade with China so they do not want to criticize China when it comes to certain things like human rights issues or even economically, they cannot deal with, they cannot protect themselves from things like China flooding their markets with cheap electric vehicles or something like that. So I think that's the way the CCP would like to play it if there wasn't any kind of geopolitical realignment angle. Like if it's just kind of that, you know, consensus that you were talking about Chris where like everybody's doing business, like that's the best, like that, like we that, like global, you know, globalization and doing businesses the way that countries relate to each other and there's not that geopolitical angle, that's what they would love to do. I don't know that they're going to be able to, but I do think that's something that Venezuela should be on guard again. Yes. It makes sense, honestly, it makes sense what you are saying. Also makes sense what you said before about the fact that economic interdependence does not bring political liberalization or political freedom. I think it was a wrong perception or understanding of things and it led to many mistakes. It also led Europe to be extremely interconnected with Russia in many ways, especially energy. I think Europe is really the embodiment of this perspective because Europe became extremely interconnected from an energy perspective with Russia and extremely interconnected from a manufacturer and real economy perspective with China. And they thought that this improvement in economic relations may result to democratization at the end and I think that's not the case, actually. Thank you for watching this clip. A link to the full hour long interview is below. It's available exclusively on our website, ChinaNcensored.tv for our supporters. The ChinaNcensored 50 cent army. Do you want to learn more? Click the link below.