---
video_title: "Watch This And You'll Never Look At China The Same Again"
video_id: s2n6X-unNDw
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s2n6X-unNDw
video_date: 2026-03-29T13:57:25+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-330
  Most Americans don’t think their lives would change much if China were to become the dominant force in the world. We talk about what China does to its own people and how that could be everyone’s future if China becomes the world’s dominant superpower.
---
But like if China took over the role of world police, we'll just look at Chinese police. It would be, yeah, like you would get, like, yeah, the world would get what Chinese citizens get from Chinese police, right, which is massive corruption, unfair arrest and beatings. And yeah, I know you can argue that U.S. has problems or that's policing too. Yes, but the scale of what the Chinese police do, that's abusive to citizens. It's categorically different. Oh, it is so different. I, I, so I'm reading Ethan Gutman's book right now, the Xinjiang procedure, who we had on from our last podcast. And let me tell you, I have read over the years, many, many horrible accounts of torture that the Chinese police have done in China. And what is in the first chapter of that book is so horrifying. He talked a little bit about it on the podcast where he just briefly mentioned, you passed. He barely touched on it. That this woman watched two children that she had taught, killed and like beaten to death in front of her. Two. And then there was just like the, like the systemic rape of both men and women. And this was before 2014. Before it got real. So this is before like a million people were put into these camps. This was like she was imprisoned because her family was seen as, you know, like separatists to interiors. Like so she, she and her family, like she's the only surviving member of her family. She watched her two brothers get executed in front of her. Like her father was killed before they were even taken to prison. Her mother was like, it's just the things that the, like you cannot, at one point they talk, he describes that like, and she just wouldn't give in to what they wanted her to do. So they kept like, they made her watch other people being raped for like two years before she was finally like raped herself. And then just like they put her in a prison where like every day she was put in this, it was called water torture, which is like they would be dunked in, she would be dunked in a tank that was like filled with like dirty water, like fecal water or whatever. And then she'd have to like swim to keep her head above water for four hours a day. And this is something that Ethan said that fallen guln practitioners had also described him as like a form of like, it's like a form of torture where like eventually you can't sustain this and like you'll start, you'll start to get infections from the dirty water, whatever. And then like you're being dunked in this cold water every day. So it like breaks down your immune system basically. And it's kind of like a way of slowly killing somebody without like beating them to death or what like it's very slow. And it doesn't leave a mark, right? But like it turns people into like he said they all talked about how people's bodies get like puffy and swollen and weird from. We get so there's a point here that you're saying. Well, I'm just saying that like the horrors are unimaginable to most people. I think we need to clip this, maybe put it on TikTok, because I'm just thinking of this boomer I was talking to on Facebook the other day was like, oh, I think China is much better than the US. I went there. I'm a rich privileged boomer and Molly, I had a great time in China. They're so better. It's embarrassing to be in America. The only reason she survived is because her aunt managed to gather enough money to like bribe the when she was like almost dead, like bribe them to like let her get her out of jail, because they kind of tend to release them after a certain amount of this water torture because they're like she's going to die. Yeah. Like in jail or out of jail, she's going to die and then she was basically in a coma for two months. But like eventually started to recover and then her aunt started to get nervous that she would get taken back to prison. So she kept moving her around to different like medical clinics and then finally basically got enough money together to bribe somebody to get new identity papers for her. So she could leave the country. And so she's one of the few survivors of this kind of thing. Literally she's the only surviving member of her, her three older brothers are dead, her parents are both dead. She's the only surviving person who came out of this prison that could talk about any of this stuff. So wow. How great would be if China led a multipolar world or? I mean, like I have to tell you that like that like I've read so many terrible stories of torture in China and like this is haunting and revolting and this is happening. Like it's not like something that happened during the cultural revolution or like under Mao or whatever. Like this is like there are police in China that their job is to go rape people every day. So that like this is not to the people who say China is living in the future. It's like, yeah, but this is the Chinese future that they're let you're living in. Yeah, I mean, not everybody in the country gets raped, right? No, just ethnic minorities and you know, political prisoners and religious people. Yeah, but like you can't tell who the next group is going to be. No, what is going to what is going to happen to Taiwanese people? Right, they've already determined that a certain percentage of Taiwanese are just die hard separatists because of their Japanese blood. And so like this is their future. Yeah, if China takes over Taiwan, there will be massive genocide. This reminds me of like the anti-rightist campaign where like the villages were given a quota. There's something like 10% of you know, it's always 10%. You have to like submit the 10% of people that are rightists. It's like, it's like the lottery. Basically, well, it's like whoever has the worst guanxi gets selected as a rightist to meet the quota and then they get, you know, whatever punishment is just, yeah, absolute insanity. So that's, that is a reason to protect Taiwan. It's also a reason like just, let me just because you know, you care about free people in a democracy, but also because that's only the beginning of the CCP's global expansion in the 21st century. Like if it takes Taiwan by 2030, you know, over the next decades, it's just going to be empowered. It's going to have more access to the Pacific. It's going to have better and better technology to be the world police. Like you've got to stop it now before it's much, much harder to stop. I mean, I'm now kind of also wondering about this like moral decay or like moral degradation of society where the only reason to go to war is if essentially like, oh, is America directly being attacked. You know, when we talk about, when people like Iranians try to talk about like how terrible is under the regime and how like the regime just like murdered upwards of, you know, tens of thousands of people for protesting back in January, right? And then people start kind of doing this like twisty dance of like, oh, well, you know, defending the regime in some way or being like, oh, that's just probably the bugs aren't actually the bad guys. Right. So it's the kind of thing where, you know, if I were to save this thing that we just talked about, then someone could be like, oh, well, that's just propaganda. Like there are ways that you could basically try to numb people out to like the terrible things that are happening in the world and be like, okay, well, there is no truth. There is no justice. There's no, you know, reason to fight, right? Yeah. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. Also I invite you to visit our website, chiminsensor.tv, where you can watch the full hour long podcast. Plus get MP3 downloads of our podcasts and most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.