---
video_title: "China’s Poverty is Planned"
video_id: 6BBF4Sl0Mzk
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6BBF4Sl0Mzk
video_date: 2026-05-02T18:43:44+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-334
  Xi Jinping claimed back in 2021 that the CCP had succeeded in eliminating extreme poverty. While that wasn’t true, what’s true is that Xi has no intention of eliminating poverty of any kind because it’s all part of the CCP’s plan to maintain dominance. We discuss that and more with our guest Zhang Tianliang, an author, historian, and a professor at Fei Tian College. He’s also the producer of the new documentary “China’s Stealth Invasion” which you can find at https://youtu.be/uIveniHhOnM
---
Is that a little bit of a gamble though? Because then you're basically gambling that there won't be any unrest. If you try to keep people at a certain poverty level or if people have already started to, you know, wages have gone up in the last 30 years since trying to start it being the world's factory and whatever. And there's been a huge increase in protests. In fact, worker protests over unpaid wages are the number one type of protest happening in China. So he has to be willing to gamble that he can continue the control, right? That's right. Yeah. Exactly. So that's a stability control. So CCP, for every year, for the so-called two sessions in March, so they need to pass the budget. So then in the budget, because the social stability maintenance cost is even higher than their military cost. It's like they are waging wars towards its own people every year. So I think like one important thing for this system to sustain is that other countries are buying, you know, buying products from China. And therefore, the government will have the money, they have the resource, and they just give the little to people and the more to the social stability maintenance force. And then like even a larger person is for their corrupted life. So I guess that's the model that they're running on. I guess a big question though is, you know, after so many Stalinist purges, are people giving Xi Jinping good information or has he become sort of coistered with Yes, man. Of course, you know, the people around him are Yes, man. So I mean, they don't dare to tell him that he was wrong. I don't know if you pay attention to his recent visit to Xin one. That was like a city. He built from scratch. He spent maybe a trillion yuan RMB a year more there, and to build a ghost city. You know, nobody was living there. Although he's sitting there for like years. And she went there, he was still praising that, you know, this is mega accomplishment. And people around him was also praising him for that. I guess the people just don't dare to say anything. He doesn't like to hear. So that's the problem. This reminds me of during the Great Famine, Mao was taking a train down to the countryside. And then the local officials had the people like replant all of the grain like next to the railroad tracks. So that Mao would look out and he'd see all this grain. But actually, like everybody outside of that radius was starving. Right. Yeah. This is very typical. So we call it a, I don't know how to translate it in English in China. We call it a face project. The project. It means it's a project to save the leaders, super leaders, supreme leaders face. It's like, it's like during the Olympics, when they spray painted the grass green. Yeah. Or when they had winter Olympics in Beijing, where there is no snow. God, what a bad system. It's at odds with itself. And like, that's actually very galley and kind of idea. That's true. I guess like the Westerners, or your audience may not understand the logic, you know, how CCP rule this country. For example, like if you're in charge of public security and probably your goal is like there is no crime. And then you can sit outside in the sun with your kids, you know, and that's you can say, oh, I have accomplished a lot. But in China, it's different. So their idea is like, I need to create problems. And then I become the only person who can solve the problem. It's brilliant. Yeah. If there is a problem, then I can ask for money. I can ask for other resources. And I can ask for power. And then the bigger the problem is the more powerful I become. Right. And then so that's their idea. So they really don't want people to leave. It makes so much sense. I was going to say, examining my life choices. Well, actually, I mean, this is a real tangent. But it reminds me of the Southern property law center. I was just thinking about that. Yeah. Yeah. The one I mean, if you need the problem, you want to see the change for I mean, people have accused like other organ, like nonprofits of doing this kind of thing too. But they just got indicted for setting fraud, essentially, for setting up fake organizations to funnel money to white supremacist groups so that they could then, you know, fight the white supremacist groups. I mean, they claim that they were paying informants. But that's a lot of money to pay informants. And there's a bunch of dodgy things that they're doing. Like, why is so much of their money offshore? It's kind of a crazy system. But, you know, what you're saying reminds me of that because it's like, well, if you, if you keep the problem going, then you'll always have drop security. Right. Like people will donate to you. Yeah. Like people will donate to you if you're fighting, you know, racism and you might just have to keep the racism going. But yeah. Yeah. That's it's really right. And actually, you know, this, this would apply then to the Uighurs too in Xinjiang, right, which is like, in order to justify the existence of all these prison camps that they've built now, they have to basically manufacture this idea that the Uighurs are a continuous threat. Right. And everyone whose jobs and powers tied up in that system they've built. Right. Has to make sure the Uighurs are forever a threat. They can never actually solve that problem if they want to keep their own little fiefdoms going. Yeah. That's their way of thinking. Yeah. So also not like a great place to live, not a great environment in which to live, unless, unless you like struggle. I mean, maybe some people just like struggle and they want to struggle a very dangerous. So I mean, if you lose, then you lose everything. Right. So well, and that's what we've seen, right? I mean, Xi Jinping is purged over a million officials, including a lot of high level people. And when you get purged from the party, you lose everything. And your family loses, like your life is basically over. Yes. I mean, I think one of the things that happens when you know, you start talking about how corrupt and inefficient and like messed up the CCP system is, is that people in our audience will go, well, I mean, well, then we don't have anything to worry about, right? Because they're going to, they're, they're so bad, like they're going to like, it collapse internally by themselves. And then, you know, we don't have to worry about the PLA. We don't have to worry about any of the stuff. So because it's all made in China crap, right? No, it's, I guess like just the opposite. I guess like we have a lot to worry about. So think about this. And Xi Jinping has an idea. His vision is to build up the so-called shared future of humanity. Because you know, let's take Hong Kong as an example. So you know, why Xi Jinping crushed Hong Kong, you know, totally abandoned Deng Xiaoping is like one country to systems. Because the election there, you know, the freedom of speech and this like independent judicial system, when people see that, people say, oh, that's good. I really want it. So that's really challenge Xi Jinping's legitimacy. And also Xi Jinping really hates Taiwan, you know, because people speaking the same language and people have the same culture background and people, these people, they can have election. You know, they have freedom. And that's really an existential threat to Xi Jinping. So, and then, but America again is really the beacon, right? And people around the world are looking at America for democracy and freedom and also like the system. So if, as long as America is there, Xi Jinping will see it as a threat to his regime. And so since he likes problems to be the solution for, he might not be opposed to a invasion that then is very damaging to the US and the rest of the world. I think like, that's why my documentary is called a stealth invasion. I don't feel like he has the military power to beat America. Not even, I mean, he even, from my perspective, he doesn't even have the power to beat Taiwan. And the problem is, okay, so here's the problem. Xi Jinping is now consolidating power, control all the power in his own hands. And then if he wants to invade Taiwan, he must authorize the generals, must give them bullets, give them weapons. Who knows who they turn against, you know, when they grab the guns? You know, this is like a Caesar, right? He can cross the Rubicon after he became so respected, he has so much power. So Xi Jinping worried about that. So from my perspective, no matter how loud the voice you hear or the noise you hear from CCP, say, we will go into beat Taiwan. We will have an armed invasion on Taiwan. They will not do that. Because Xi Jinping has to distribute the power, has to distribute the weapons. He feels like his life will be very, very insecure. Thank you for watching this clip. The full episode and MP3 download is on our website, ChinaNcensored.tv. And to watch the film, China's stealth invasion, click the link below.