---
video_title: "Shanghai Street Disappears"
video_id: niMwh7auOCY
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=niMwh7auOCY
video_date: 2026-02-19T16:24:18+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-326
  Workers on a street in Shanghai watch as a street collapses near a construction site. LIttle did they know where they were standing wasn’t safe ground…
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
So I'll transition to this next thing. It makes me think because there was like this video that just came out, we'll play it right now of this massive sinkhole opening up in Shanghai. And you know, this is something that happens pretty frequently in China. You can see these people kind of standing around it. This is what always makes me, this interests me about like disasters like this. You can see people kind of looking and not really like panicking or running away. And it's like, oh, surely the ground we're standing on is an also about to open up from underneath us. And then it like starts to get closer to them. And then people like, oh, we better run. It's like if you suddenly found yourself in the middle of a disaster movie or something, you just be like, what? Like this can't be real. So there could be that moment of shock. Well, there was there was this recent thing a couple of weeks ago now. There was where it wasn't maybe Germany. There was like some club where like the fire is looking at the ceiling and people are just like looking up and filming. Oh my god. And like a bunch of people ended up dying in the fire because they were filming the fire instead of actually getting out. Although in a situation like that, when you have like close quarters like too many people could turn into a stampede, you know, well, lots of a stampede if people had started to orderly file or file out. Yeah. I mean, I guess this was Germany, right? Well, I think so. I kind of remember now. This was a few weeks ago and like a million things have happened since then. But I saw someone make the point that like we are also critically online now that like there's this disconnection from like this physical reality around. So it's just like, oh, this thing that is happening, let me film it and put it on social media. And I realize I'm like, you're a flesh and blood creature in the world. Yeah. Get away from fire. Get away from fire. Get away from the mass of sinkhole. Though to be fair, you know, China is rising. It's better than the US as this editor told us. That's right. And I mean, he spends paragraphs like talking about how great Xiaomi cars are like you went to like in a sprawling facility, almost devoid of humans, hulking mechanical creatures that look like robotic dinosaurs effortlessly nudged aluminum panels into place as cars bacon gay. You know, oh, it looked like a Porsche. You know, I went to a robotics company. Oh, God. Like, yeah, the surface, the surface might look like a Porsche, but what's under the hood is not a Porsche. Now it's surpassing the China surpassing the United States and the number of pharmaceutical clinical trials. I have to say that I would not trust a Chinese pharmaceutical clinical trial. Yeah. Anyway, so with all of the news over so many years about how many, you know, there was a period of time about a decade ago when China, like trying to start to really push research publishing in international journals and all the stuff, or like they started doing more of their own journals and publishing a bunch of research academic journals. And then it people started to realize that a lot of this was fake. Yeah. They were just making up studies or making up data or whatever. I think we really started uncovering this a lot, learning like COVID time because it also showed like the amount of publishing they were doing was also affecting China's ability to control these publishing things like Springer. And they were able to like get them to like censor other stuff. Yes. So so bad. And redditors like this. The new redditors like the New York Times opinion section. Okay. So here's this paragraph where he's like, of course, China still faces challenges. The consequences of a still deflating property bubble continued to ripple partly as a result consumers have yet to open their wallets with slowing growth. Youth unemployment searched in nearly 20% and has backed off only slightly. Investment has fallen. Fallen. Like, people aren't not like I think this is a mistake that people make when an analyzing why China has low consumption. It's not just that consumers. The part of it is that people don't feel safe. So that's why they hoard money. Yeah. It's a panic survival mechanism. But also the entire makeup of China's like domestic like the way that the CCP, he calls this state, he calls this state directed capitalism, but it is not state directed. This is like the way a communist system is. It's not just state directed. It's like a lot of the most of the major industries are state owned. Like it's not just capitalism that's nudged or directed by the state. Just gently guided by the gentle hand of the state. Yeah. That's not what's happening. They have specifically set up the system so that the money is in the state. And so you can't like all the consumption, like it's kind of like all of the consumption power that the Chinese people have has been diverted by the CCP into the state industries in order to subsidize cheap electricity from coal so that they can have all this amazing AI, you know, things that this guy talks about like the China's AI compute ability is going to far outpace the US because they have so much energy available. It's all subsidized by the state. And running off debt. We just had that episode that came out from the perspective this last week about how yeah, China is basically cannibalizing itself. Or like on the local level, they're selling off future revenue for like short-term games now. Yeah, I mean, I think we've talked about this before a long time about how like there's like a state directive to oh, we need to stimulate the economy. So you need to loan more like you make make more loans like these state banks, local banks need to make more loans and nobody wants to take out a loan. So then they're paying people. This was in a Bloomberg article a few months ago. Like they were literally paying people to put to take out fake loans. So they could you know, report the numbers back as like, oh, look, we've got here. We're low. That's what this redditor is investing in. But you know better dead than red it better dead than red it her. It's just like all of the stuff and he's like, oh, but the cars are so nice. Yeah, I'm in the slowest whatever. But yeah, so this is then he goes on to say like, oh, we we should have more state directed capitalism in the US or like our equivalent always comes back to yeah, we should learn and take this. Yeah, I mean, he doesn't quite say that we should actually like have the government directly, but he's like, oh, we need to you know subsidize. We need to encourage and he brings up the chips act. And then it's like, oh, it's not just spending, but like, oh, we need to develop my like some of the stuff he says is reasonable. But then you know, he's like a then trash, trashing the Trump administration, which by the way the Trump administration has done a lot in terms of trying to like give a shot in an arm to like rare earth mining and processing in the US and other countries that are allies. But like, so I think it's not that everything in this is wrong, but I think it's like a lot of like he doesn't really see everything that's happening in China, but he thinks he does. And like the parts that he's like stunned by are exactly what the CCP wants people to think of, right? It's like the single video made me think of another video. Did you see the one about a building and nenging and young so okay, province? There's this huge three tower skyscraper. It's like an iconic landmark. It looks great from the outside. So this is what it looks like. We will show this on screen. No. Look at all those LED lights. Yeah, lots of hearts. It's nice. We don't have that in America. Yeah. What happened is this blogger went into this tower and found out that not only are most of the offices empty, but there are some parts of the building that are just unfinished on the inside. My gosh. Like it's not just empty. It's just concrete pillars and there's no ceiling. You can see all the ductwork like oh my gosh. It's so fake. Everything is fake in China. But yeah, so this is I'm kind of astonished that they let him go inside and then he was able to like sneak onto other floors and film this. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website ChinaUncensored.tv where you can watch the full hour-long podcast plus get MP3 downloads. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.