---
video_title: "This Asian Military Will “Go It Alone” Against China"
video_id: KFaxryUmSz0
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KFaxryUmSz0
video_date: 2026-07-17T22:13:32+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-343
  The CCP’s threats cause some countries to back down. But others are standing up. And one in particular is training so aggressively that they are ready to fight China at any moment. We are joined by David Day, Chairman of the Global Risk Mitigation Foundation. 
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
I was in an area near Subik and Clark and was at a restaurant and there were Japanese self-defense forces, soldiers there in uniform eating and being welcomed warmly by Filipinos in the restaurant and Americans in the restaurant and so this is very worrisome to Beijing. Why is Japan more of a worry than Australia? Because Japan has a much bigger economy, they have more technology, they have defense, industrial capability and there of course a lot closer to China and Japan has the ability to walk down the first island chain with the Philippines to prevent both the Navy and the Coast Guard from doing things out of China around Taiwan and I guess the other piece is the Japan situation continues to fuel the leadership's paranoia and going back to their constant beating on Japan for the atrocities in World War II. So you set all that aside and then you have a new first lady prime minister in Japan who was a protégé of former prime minister Abe and prime minister Takaiichi is she's very anti-China and she's a realist and she's spoken out that if there's an invasion of Taiwan or a military move against Taiwan that impacts Japan as well and the Chinese just went furious over this because she stated publicly what everybody has said privately that you know if you invade Taiwan it's going to impact Japan and we may have to get involved and Beijing did not like that at all and they tried as best they could through their various cognitive warfare campaigns to take her down and it backfired on them and it backfired so badly that she called for a snap election and got a stronger majority in the in the diet and I don't know that she's in a position to do change in the constitution in terms of the participation of and growth of the Japanese military but it's a whole new ballgame now. Didn't someone in the Philippines recently also say that the Taiwan invasion would affect the Philippines as well? Yes that was the secretary of national defense Gilberto Tiodoro and also the chief of staff Romano Braunner. Braunner also Shelley last year was doing a troop review at one of the bases in the northern part of Luzon and he made this statement something along the lines of look folks if there's a if there's a crisis in Taiwan we're going to be involved and you have got to get prepared and get ready and the Chinese did not like that at all because they assumed that Philippines was just going to sit there while they they did whatever they wanted to do with Taiwan and in fact General Braunner just within the last several days has has made another series statement something the messaging coming out of the Philippine military leadership is very very consistent and very strong and Braunner said that the Philippines must be prepared to go it alone against China if necessary and while we would like to have our allies with us we have got to to modernize and build up our military such that if necessary to protect our sovereignty we will go it alone and that is a very different statement than what China has been expecting out of the Philippines. And and funny enough that sentiment actually makes it more likely that the U.S. at least under the Trump administration will get involved to help the Philippines right because ever the Trump and Ruby are like their whole message is we will help those who help themselves. Absolutely. But don't expect us to fight and die for you if you're not going to do this yourself but if you are we will be there for you and here you go. So so Matt on that specific point let me address that in terms of this defense deal with Japan which is you know reciprocal access agreement plus some other defense deals including the acquisition of a series of warships and so forth. What you have to understand is that the condition of the Japanese self-defense forces despite all this alliance and training with the United States is they have been demoralized difficult to recruit and not given a whole lot of status in the Japanese culture and the first time that they were really even recognized as a as a helpful organization was during Operation Tomodachi having to do with the Fukushima nuclear disaster in which they were there providing supplies and disaster relief. The second time that that really comes to mind when they started to improve with with some important training and development from the US Marines was they did a lot of assistance when there was this big terrible typhoon that hit Takloban on the island of Leite a few years back. But generally as a military fighting force while they have the technology and the equipment they don't have the mindset. Now here's where this becomes really fascinating. When you take the economic firepower that Japan has it's technology and defense production. You take that and then you marry it with the Philippine war fighter mentality. This is going to be just tremendous for both countries. They're each going to get something out of this marriage. And I think that the Japanese self-defense forces just being around the Philippine military will work wonders for their war fighting mindset. And this is something that I've seen observed in the Japanese self-defense forces that I've been around in the Philippines as well as the Philippine military. We always have to remember that in a combat or war situation it's not always the guy that has the fanciest equipment that wins. It's the one that has the spirit, the innovation and the war fighter mentality. And that's what we've seen with the Ukrainians. And so I think that this defense arrangement between the Philippines and Japan is going to be tremendous for both countries, but it's panicking the Chinese leadership. Thank you for watching this clip. And there's a lot more that we couldn't put here on YouTube. So visit our website ChinaNcensor.tv so you can watch the entire hour long interview plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.