---
video_title: "Xi Jinping Is in a Trap"
video_id: AZ45bkicbIg
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AZ45bkicbIg
video_date: 2026-08-25
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-348
  Xi Jinping has doubled down on communism since taking power in 2013, and while that’s a dead end road, it doesn’t look like he’s turning back. Joining us in this episode is Dr. Bradley Thayer, a fellow at the American Freedom Alliance and the author of the new book AMERICA’S 100 YEARS’ WAR: How to Win Against Communism. https://www.amazon.com/dp/1648212808?
---
Yeah, so so far we've been talking a lot about um the facets [music] of in in your book you talk about America's internal fight against communism. Let's talk about the external. How does the CCP fit into this picture of um this 100-years war uh and the Leninist connection? >> Well, certainly. So, the CCP's created by the the by Lenin, right? By the

Bolsheviks. Uh through the Comintern. Um directed has been by some major figures um Maring uh Bolsheviks who an individual went by the the code name Maring and and by Borodin, for example, and other um agents of the Comintern were present at creating and nurturing the CCP and directing the CCP. Um so, when we understand uh that origin, we can see that there's nothing legitimate about the Chinese Communist Party uh at all. It's always existed under the heavy hand of the Comintern or of Stalin uh and his influence. When we look at

the history of the CCP, there are some facts. Obviously, the CCP does not want attention uh paid to a to them. For example, Stalin picks Mao, right? September of 1938, it's Stalin who chooses Mao to basically run the CCP over one of Mao's uh rivals. Mao looks to Stalin, of course, as uh the model, as essentially the template uh for his rule uh and for his megalomanian, of course, of all of the abuses uh that uh are incurred. So, the history of the CCP is

one of being a knockoff uh of uh the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. And heavily influenced by the Bolsheviks at first and then later Stalin once he's charged, even Mao's thought is a product of left-wing Bolshevik thought. Thought of Lunacharsky and the thought of um Bogdanov when he was a Bolshevik, of course very left-wing Bolshevik. The ideas of Proletkult, the ideas that you're going to proletarian culture, the ideas that Mao is going to advance are driven by left-wing Bolsheviks uh ideas. So, we see Mao is not an original thinker at all, right? Maoism is

essentially a form of Bolshevism. >> Yeah, it's interesting that you you point out that like even the Cultural Revolution is not an original idea. Could you talk a little bit about that? >> Yes. Well, the Bolsheviks did the first Cultural Revolution, right? Which is uh

left-wing Bolsheviks to get rid of everything. All right, we we need to understand how radical the Bolsheviks were and their intent was to eliminate everything uh from the society. Not just the politics, not just to change the economics, to change the culture, to change the language, to change the history uh of Russia and then more broadly of the West uh and of uh China. So, um and the Bolsheviks did that assiduously uh and profoundly uh while they were taking seizing control of uh of uh Russia and remade Russian society. Well, Mao emulated that of course with his Cultural Revolution.

Stalin did the first Great Leap Forward, right? With his modernization, the first five-year plan uh really 1928-1929, where his idea explicitly Stalin is saying that we're going to catch up to the capitalist West, to Britain and even to the United States. Well, Mao adopts that language uh of course um when he's talking about we're going to we'll meet Britain and then we're going to surpass Britain and the the Great Leap Forward will allow us to even rival the United States leading to disaster of course uh for the Chinese people and mass starvation of course within China. So Great Leap Forward, the Cultural Revolution, these are Bolshevik ideas that Mao was essentially uh plagiarizing and applying uh to um uh to China. Uh so when we look at that, we see Mao is not an original thinker uh in in terms of he's not a theorist.

He's certainly not a great theorist. He's a thug uh who was uh essentially Stalin's chosen uh uh figure and who emulated Stalin with the inevitable consequences that come from uh emulating uh Stalin. So we need to see the CCP in the light uh that in in terms of the light of accurate history. Uh additionally of course, communism is illegitimate. It's not a legitimate political system because it does not derive consent from anyone other than the elite uh who are forcing it, right? There's there are

no elections. Uh there's no consent uh from a popular uh bought true consent from a popular body. So we should not treat the CCP the basis of its history, the basis of its ideology as a legitimate government. >> I think it's it's funny that you kind of frame the CCP as being founded essentially as a knockoff. Right? And that kind of explains a lot

of what we see in terms of China's uh manufacturing technological progress. It's kind of like you start with a knockoff of Western ideas and it and it keeps going to the manufacturing level. We're seeing it now with AI. >> Yeah. >> Um >> [clears throat] >> And Deng Xiaoping's new economic policy, I mean, he's lifting that from Lenin.

>> Right. >> All right, when when when communists get into acute economic trouble, not just the typical economic trouble they're inevitably in, but acute, right? They look to a new economic policy, which Lenin advanced despite some serious objection among Bolsheviks, a return to capitalism after the failure of war communism uh in um Bolshevik Russia. Well, Deng Xiaoping recognizes that, too, that by opening up to the West uh he's going to be able to save communism as Lenin was able to save communism in the Soviet Union. So, um uh just that just underscores the point.

>> Yeah, although what we're now seeing in China, I mean, Deng Xiaoping in in '78 launched his reform and opening up what you're talking about here and um letting people um you know, be more entrepreneurial make money, get direct foreign investment and we're seeing a change uh over the last few years now with Xi Jinping trying to rein a lot of that back in, putting more controls on the successful domestic Chinese companies um making it >> more state-owned enterprises coming to the fore again. >> And increasing restrictions on foreign companies, which actually makes a lot of foreigners wary of of putting too much more into China. >> Yes. >> Uh like, why do you think he he would be doing that? If it's it seems like it's it's going to it's closing off their economy.

>> Because he he's a neo-Stalinist in in my mind. In the book I argue he's a neo-Stalinist. Uh so, he's he's ending the NEP as Stalin did. Uh Xi also with his emphasis on ideology, right? His ideology is everything for him.

Uh and it's used as Stalin used it as a way of breaking opposition, of monitoring folks, but also because in Stalin's case, I think in Xi's, he really believed it. He believes this ideology. So, um it's I see very strong historical parallels with between Stalin and Xi Jinping. >> So, you're saying that Xi Jinping thought on socialism with Chinese characteristics for a new era is actually a knockoff of a Soviet idea. >> Yeah, I I think exactly. I I think what

what Xi is doing is is taking a page out of Stalin's playbook, which is if you keep going down this path, you're going to lose communism uh in um in China. As uh Stalin was unwilling to tolerate the success of the NEP despite the great benefits of the of the NEP. So, Stalin as you know, of course, very ruthlessly uh brought about very significant changes to hyper-industrialize the Soviet Union. And part of that was a cult of personality that built upon Lenin's cult of personality. Stalin's not the originator of that, but strong emphasis on that and on ideology.

So, I think there those are parallels I see with Xi Jinping today. >> Thank you for watching this clip. And there's a lot more that we couldn't put here on YouTube. So, visit our website chinauncensored.tv so you can watch the entire hour-long interview, plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly,

you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.