---
video_title: "What If I Told You Soviets Successfully Invaded the US?"
video_id: E0zugcMELrw
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E0zugcMELrw
video_date: 2026-08-21
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-348
  Soviet dictator Vladimir Lenin would be proud that the movement he started in Russia in the 1900s is alive and well in America today. That’s according to our guest Dr. Bradley Thayer, a fellow at the American Freedom Alliance and the author of the new book AMERICA’S 100 YEARS’ WAR: How to Win Against Communism. https://www.amazon.com/dp/1648212808?
---
You make a very big claim in your book, and it's very interesting to me, uh which is that the person who's had the biggest impact on modern American society is actually Vladimir Lenin from the Soviet Union. How is that possible? >> Well, because he founded the Bolshevik Party, led the Bolshevik Party, successfully brought about a coup d'état uh in uh Russia, the Bolshevik Revolution in November 1917. Lenin is has had the biggest impact because of the strategies that he developed to spread communism globally. Lenin had three paths. First, the coup

d'état that the Bolsheviks did, but Lenin recognized that wasn't going to work everywhere. You can't bring about the seizure of the state everywhere. Secondly, the Red Army could spread the revolution, as he tried to do, and had some success with that, but the Red Army can't get everywhere. Thirdly, he recognized the Bolsheviks broadly that they needed to create what they called the United Front. And the United Front was the means to spread the revolution to all countries.

To do that, they created an organization called the Third International or the Communist International, or we abbreviate the Comintern. The Comintern's job was to spread the revolution by creating communist parties where they didn't exist. So, for example, they created the Chinese Communist Party in 1921, and they created what would become the American Communist Party also in 1921. Lenin provided the tools and the toolkit and the instruction manual for bringing about a revolution. Through the United Front, there was the recognition that you were going to have to do what the Bolsheviks called boring from within. You were going to have to

take over institutions, not directly, but having communist penetrate and over time bring that about. So, when I reflect on American politics today, what do I see? Very successful boring from within in terms of the ideas industry. Uh K-12 education, our universities and colleges, uh think tanks, non-governmental organizations, our media right have successfully influenced by uh many of Lenin's ideas, as well as major political parties. The Democrats also are increasingly receptive uh to his ideas. So, when we look back on who's

had the greatest impact, you can make strong case perhaps the founding fathers, but for me, it's Lenin in his ability to unhinge American identity and replace it with um what he would uh uh certainly desire, uh which is uh um communism in the United States. >> I mean, you spend a big chunk up front in your book talking about what happened in the Soviet Union, the Bolshevik Revolution, just the ideology behind Leninism. Uh is there something in particular like if there is there one thing in particular that you want Americans to understand from that history? >> Certainly, uh Lenin was uh an individual who was uh driven by an incandescent hatred uh of democratic societies and of Western civilization. Secondly, he was a genius both in terms of his theoretical output and his contributions.

It Marx and Engels are certainly important, but Lenin did everything theoretically as well as empirically uh in terms of actually forging a communist party and elite to drive the communist party and the how-to manual in terms of bringing it about. Um and Americans should understand that incandescent hatred uh of the West and of um Western civ- civilization. So, when we reflect on it, uh those are big things that we need uh to keep away. And finally, I would just add that he was also um an individual who was determined uh and uh successful at finding uh if you will, the hinge points in any society. He recognized the importance of language, the importance of ideas, and the importance of identity.

Uh and explicitly targeted those uh to bring about um uh his revolution and to spread it. >> Is there um you know, you talk about Lenin's influence in K-12 and college ideas? Is Is there a a specific idea that is like obviously a Lenin idea that we're seeing being taught in American education? >> Oh, certainly. Uh I think um the hatred of the West, the hatred of Western civilization, which has become ubiquitous now in American education in colleges and universities.

Uh uh I would say uh that is uh a monumental That's a major uh idea that is now uh accepted uh in terms of it. I would also add to that that um Lenin's advice in terms of how to organize your party uh is ex- has been extremely successful. Small groups of individuals making decisions, an inner party a politburo making decisions um are increasingly what we're seeing in the Democratic Party. Certainly, there were always smoke-filled rooms, right? At conventions where folks of senior party officials, Democrats and Republicans would come together to make decisions, but you haven't had a small group who are driven uh by a boldness uh to bring about the revolution. So, I

would say that we see his influence directly in the modern Democratic Party and our educational system uh and in the state of the world, right? We're We're under attack by the CCP and we're under attack by the CCP's allies and others in the United States. >> Um you know, when you talk about communism you know, after there are several, you know, DSA uh Democratic Socialists of America candidates that won in primary elections recently this past summer uh Trump President Trump started talking about communism and the dangers of communism and it seems that it was largely treated fairly dismissively um by the media uh and I think by a lot of Americans who felt like, "Why is he suddenly talking about communism?" Do you think there's something that Americans aren't understanding about communism? >> Uh absolutely. There things they're not

understanding about it and that's in large measure because uh the communists own the ideas industry. Um Orwell was famous for many things, but one of which was from in 1984 is his great dystopian novel where he said, "If the party controls the present, they control the past. If they control the past, they control the future." All of which he meant "If I'm teaching your kids uh in in my schools, of course, I'm going to be teaching them a history which is at root anti-American and anti-Western civilization. I'm not going to tout 1776. I'll tout in In fact,

create alternative narratives, 1619 project and so forth. Demonizing the United States in every step. By owning your history with the present, I own the history and then I'm to own the kids as they grow up, go on to universities and go on uh to colleges. So, I I think when we look at um what President Trump is saying, it's so important that he's calling attention to this. And you're right, a lot of folks are dismissing this, not seeing it as salient. To a large degree,

that's because of the success of communists at taking over the ideas industry, as well as working through other aspects of United Front. Um Soros Foundation, of course, uh Neville Roy Singham, of course, which you've uh certainly covered well. Uh and his influence uh and um multiple organizations to shape the history. The history of communism killing 100 million people, over 100 million people since the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917 is not taught. Right, that's not touted.

Instead, uh communism is seen in a favorable light. It's going to be about equity. It's going to be about redistributing wealth. It's This time it's going to work, right? They're They're uh promising us, despite the history of failures and disasters, always ending in blood and tears.

Uh this time they're promising us promising us it's going uh to work uh in the United States. So, I understand uh the skepticism that many might have of it. We have to be able to see clearly, though, uh in terms of how they're shaping how communists are shaping how we perceive the communist past and how we perceive uh of course communism, the strength of communism in the United States today. >> Thank you for watching this clip. And there's a lot more that we couldn't put here on YouTube. So, visit our website

chinauncensored.tv so you can watch the entire hour-long interview, plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.