---
video_title: "WHO Drops Bombshell on Covid Origins"
video_id: bfvwSOToQOE
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bfvwSOToQOE
video_date: 2026-03-05T19:34:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-327
  World Health Organization (WHO) director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus gave in an interview in which he talks about the origins of Covid and whether covid might have come from a Chinese lab. How does he still have his job after this?!
---
uh... so guys uh... have you heard this uh... it might have been the case that coven leaked from a lab i've not heard this yeah it's crazy uh... uh... tedrow's the the former wh o head is he still the wh is he still no he wasn't replaced i thought it was he he changed anyways yeah he did an interview with bloomberg and you he was he was talking about how there was a lack of transparency in that possible coven came from a chinese lab leak he still the director general of the world health organization oh my boy can see why with this kind of crack uh... coverage of coven it well yeah so bloomberg asked him the question about the origin of coven and he was like well it could be a lab leak or you know the spillover from the wet market we're keeping both options on the table and then he basically was criticizing the chinese government for not being transparent and then the bloomberg reporter was like doesn't that make you wonder if it is a lab leak it's a not being transparent yeah because the the whole like it came from penguins that a wet market was the chinese state run media's line in the in January of 2020 in the beginning of the year 2020 a wet market um... yeah remember when like you'd be called racist or kicked off the internet for saying that about the lab leak yeah oh yeah yeah like remember when our episodes uh... taken off not just censored like actually removed from youtube good times we were right whoo yeah this is what it victory tastes like uh... where nobody where the u.s. has withdrawn from the w h o the ccp still incontrol the the idiot in charge is still in charge and no one was held accountable the same w h o who is just like oh china's doing a great job with the pandemic well i mean they resisted even calling it a pandemic right for a long time like well after the point it was by their own definition and oh stopping flights from china to the rest of the world is racist uh... this was only six years ago i can't even that believe that it was that long ago yeah it away it doesn't feel that long ago and in another sense it feels like wow it's like i went to get blood drawn this week and the lab had the signs outside that was like do not come in if you have covid-19 symptoms and it just felt like a uh... from another era uh... uh... if you ever go to a store and they still have the six feet apart like foot prints on the ground oh yeah that you won't come off the uh... the uh... yeah so that feels like it was forever ago but when you're like oh that was six years ago it's like what happened to time yeah oh well when we recorded the uh... the time travel episode the honeypot one and we had to do like the twenty twenty covid christ running across with a mask we had a month like oh god do we where is a mass do we have a mask anymore looking for the prop all right well fortunately i had a box of masks still so that reminds me of what covid started uh... there were some people i was following on ventwitter from hong kong who were like well i still have a box of masks from two thousand three stars i'm sad vintage masks yeah i mean they were hard to get it first that's right because uh... china nationalized all american production like the three-m company well if we work and ordered and ordered if three i'm wasn't using masks in china in the first yeah lots of problems yeah problems that are continuing to be unresolved yeah i remember when we interviewed that guy from what was the name of his company american face masks plus a merit tech you like do you remember he was producing face masks he was producing face masks in america surgical masks and he had had this problem where they were basically like every other when every other company was off-shoring they were trying to keep production in the u.s. and they couldn't get hospitals to buy masks for them because they all want to buy the cheap chinese mask they almost went out of business a bunch of times and he was going around pleading with government officials and telling them how we don't have any masks like in our strategic national reserve emergency reserves like if this anything happened we would be totally devastated and like going around begging texas officials watch dc officials and he's like just trying to get somebody to listen to him well fortunately uh... covid happened and then uh... new some spent billions of dollars on chinese masks yeah this guy was trying to do this all during like the swine two thousand nine swine flu uh... and so he was just way ahead of his time just and i really felt this moment of like deep kinship with this cio guy because he was like oh yes i'm like because you're you're disgusting capitalist that's why yes um... but actually was because i was just like really relating to his feeling of screaming into the void hoping someone will listen to you about the dangers of ccp and off-shoring and supply chains and all the stuff do you think the void ever gets upset at people constantly screaming into it i've never considered that question before i think it's a bit of a way to feelings devoid that's pretty good that did did you not understand what you did because i feel like you would like totally be owning it right now if you did i just nodded but you couldn't see me because she'll use head is no we have this other screen right here so i i noticed a slight not i just expected a bigger reaction to to there we go classic mac and a's that that was tried to be cool about it i know so unusual so we're recording this on friday and there's a good chance over the next two days the u.s. my bummer on so by the time that this comes out on monday the u.s. may have already bombed her uh the reason we're thinking this is the us embassy in jr.slam has told everyone to get out even china has urged its citizens in iran to get out well yeah so that's citizens in iran but yeah the u.s. is saying it out of israel right out of israel we are ready to order people in iran to get out that was yeah a couple of weeks ago i think yeah if only jimmy carter had done that am i right at any rate um yeah so so who knows but it definitely feels like there's a pretty high likelihood of this but we also don't know when it's going to happen or even if it's going to happen because to an extent this is still in the negotiating phase right like escalating the threats escalating the chance is still within the negotiating part of it i think that ends when the bombing starts i think i read that iran was supposed to give their final offer on saturday as in tomorrow for us thank you for watching this clip there's a lot more so i invite you to visit our website chinensensor dot tv where you can watch the full hour long podcast plus get mp3 downloads of our podcast and most importantly you'll be supporting the work we do link is below