---
video_title: "How Did Xi Jinping Survive?"
video_id: piyVY8OvuZQ
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=piyVY8OvuZQ
video_date: 2026-04-28T15:16:13+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-334
  How has Xi Jinping survived for 13 years in the brutal communist party system of China? Our guest, Zhang Tianliang, sheds light on the source of Xi Jinping’s power throughout his decade plus in power. 
  Zhang is an author, historian, and a professor at Fei Tian College. He’s also the producer of the new documentary “China’s Stealth Invasion” which you can find at https://youtu.be/uIveniHhOnM
---
Well, so this is the big question, because it seems like over the years what Xi Jinping has done is to consolidate more and more power around himself. But, you know, as we've seen basically since the 2023 rocket force purge, and more recently the gutting of the CMC, the Central Military Commission, the big question that is out there among China watchers is, is this the sign that Xi Jinping has consolidated more power, or is he completely out of power as he's been purged? Oh, this is a really good question. I guess different people may have different opinions on that. But, from my perspective, to see if Xi Jinping's power is stable or is under his total control, you need to look at three things. The first one is called the Central Guard Bureau. So basically that's about 10,000 soldiers. So, purpose is to protect the Zhongnan High. And also like they put all those, we call the president level of officials in China under surveillance. So basically they guard them, but on the other hand they also monitor them, you know, their daily activities. So that is very, very important. That's the military force to guard the Zhongnan High. And another thing you need to look at is called the General Office of CCP Central Committee. So that person is basically taking care of your daily operations and they really know everything. So they understand, you know, the different people's opinion they know, like who is siding with, whom, you know, and then I think this is also very, very important. And then the third branch you need to look at is the Secret Service. Basically, it's now under control of Wang Xiaohong, who is the minister of MPS, the minister, Ministry of Public Security. So it's like Secret Service here. And Wang Xiaohong is like the FBI director, but you know, their task is totally different. So their task is to monitor the people. And they also put all the, we call the vice president level of officials under his surveillance. So and then you know in China, like if you are a government official, you're not allowed to meet and talk to people. And everything you want to do needs to be reported to the central office, the central office of CCP Central Committee. So basically every activity is documented, is monitored. And then without approval, then it's not legal. So then you will have a big trouble. So basically if you really want to build your allies, you know, you want to plan a coup, that's very, very hard. It also sounds just absolutely terrible to be a CCP official. That's like the worst life I can imagine. I can't decide if it's like the world's most horrifying bureaucracy or just a mafia. It's like mixing those together, I guess. Okay. What is the difference between the Secret Service and the central guard bureau? The central guard bureau, the purpose is to protect the Zhongnan High and also the president level. Present level officials means like all the member of polyburel standing committee. So now like seven people and also the retired member of polyburel. And then for the Secret Service, they only protect or monitor the vice president level, which means polyburel members. So central guard bureau is standing committee of polyburel. And then the secret service is just polyburel members. And also probably other, you know in China, there is an organization called the CPPCC, the Chinese people's political, conservative conference. And they have 23 vice chairman. And each of them is considered to be a vice president level. And they are also put under the monitor of the secret service. Yeah. And that's like a mix of like influential officials and just like people in China who like I think Jackie Chan is a member, Yao Ming, I believe also added, you know, for being a tall basketball player. Yeah. Yeah. But these people are not, they're not the vice president level. Yeah, they're not vice president level. So you can see that Xi Jinping wants to control his power. And so he appointed the people who trust the most into these three branch. So like central guard bureau is called Zhou Hong Xu, he's the director. And for the central office of the CPP Central Committee, that is Tai Chi, that is his right-hand man. And the other person is Wang Xiaohong, who is in charge of a secret service. He knows Xi Jinping for many, many decades. And actually Xi Jinping's daughter grew up in his family. So they have very close relationship. That's the people he can trust. So then that seems like if those are the most important positions in Xi's top people are in those positions. Yeah. That seems like Xi's got control. He hasn't been purged. Kind of. So a lot of people say, okay, like Zhang Yuxia, you know, the vice chairman of CMC, people feel like he's a very powerful man because he can trust the military, but actually not. In China, if you want to use the military to do something, even you want to use like a hundred like, or 200 soldiers, you have to get signature from the CMC. The chairman, which is Xi Jinping and also two vice chairman, which means like without his signature, you cannot even move a hundred soldiers. They don't even have enough bullets. They don't have enough bullets. Yeah, we're actually going to ask for more bullets. Right. So you know, like in Mao's age, you know, there was like a site, his successor, whose name is called Lin Biao. I don't know whether your audience know that. And he basically should. They should. Okay. Good. I'm going to ask Lin Biao. Lin Biao, along with Confucius. Oh, that don't get me started on that Confucius. Okay. So we can talk about that later. But Lin Biao, you know, he basically was kind of against Mao. And then he fled and then he he's playing crush then he died. And a mysterious plane crash, right? Exactly. But then after he died, John Lai, you know, the premier was giving a kind of announcement. And that was the moment that he said although Lin Biao is like the second ranking member in CCP military, but he even doesn't have a power to move 100 soldiers. So that that was like a mechanism set up for decades. So no matter, you know, how high rank John Xia possesses, possesses, but he just cannot move soldiers. It's very easy for Xi Jinping to arrest him because he's a polyburel member. And polyburel member, they meet once every month at the end of each month. And then Xi Jinping just gave him a phone call saying he come here to have a meeting. And then he can come, you know, with maybe two or three bodyguards and then they can be arrested on site. It's very easy. So I mean, there's no difference arresting him or with anybody else, arrest anybody else. Right. And John Xia, even if he knew he was going to be arrested, he still has to go to the meeting, right? There's not much he can do. Yeah. Really not much he can do. It was interesting because, you know, Xi Jinping created the Central Military Commission because this was considered one of the weaknesses of the Chinese military that there was essentially no joint command. And the reason being was because whoever was in charge of a joint command of all the different branches of Chinese military would be incredibly powerful and was seen as potentially a threat to whoever was on top. But it sounds like for what you're saying, Xi Jinping was able to create this joint command, strengthening the PLA while still ensuring that there were these checks and balances to make sure he's the unchecked dictator. Yeah. Actually, the Central Military Commission was created from day one of even before the so-called PRC was established. But at that time, I guess, because a lot of people in the military, they really fought in the front line, you know, they sacrificed and then they have their faction, they have their friends in the military. So they were very powerful. But I think nowadays, because it's like a peaceful era and then those soldiers or those generals, they have no experience in the battlefield. And then they have no, how to say, no authority, the people don't look up to them. You know, they have no respect. So their power comes from the position, not from their experience or from their personal charisma or from their strategy. So basically, and then because the power was bestowed to them by this position, and then you can easily remove him, that's much easier. And I think a lot of people, they have misunderstanding on the relationship between Zhang Yuxia and Xi Jinping. The reason is people felt that the father of Xi Jinping and the father of Zhang Yuxia used to be very close friends. They worked together for decades, even before the CCP, you know, took the regime. Because I guess the problem is, Zhang Yuxia was actually put by Hu Jingtao to that position. They were afraid that Xi Jinping will be there forever. You know, he wants to be quote unquote, re-elected forever. And then they put Zhang Yuxia there and then they want Zhang Yuxia to be a kind of check and balance power for Xi Jinping. And then that's why, you know, right after 2022, right after the party congress, when Xi Jinping was so called re-elected, and Zhang Yuxia was put on the crosshair immediately. And Xi Jinping wants to remove him and because he was taking care of the military logistics, and then Xi Jinping started to purge the rocket force to find out the corruption in the military and then start from there, you know, step by step and he can approach Zhang Yuxia. And Zhang Yuxia was trying to fight back. And he also had some intelligence and he found that Xi Jinping's close allies, like Miao Hua and the He Wei Dong, these two people. They were also members of the CMC. And they actually also plotting on something. They may not plotting for the supreme power, but actually they were plotting for their position, like Miao Hua wants to be the white chairman of CMC. And then they have some, you know, scheme to collect the money, you know, to get corrupted. And then certainly they do not respect Xi Jinping. So the Xi Jinping had no experience in the military. He never, you know, command any military in the battlefield. But he went to the countryside and carried those sacks. The rise uphill, it was very strong. Probably physically but not mentally. So he's not a high IQ person. So people just, people deride him. Thank you for watching this clip. The full episode and MP3 download is on our website, ChinaNcensored.tv. And to watch the film, China's stealth invasion, click the link below.