---
video_title: "China’s Plan to Kidnap Taiwan’s President"
video_id: PfuORj4ZZZ0
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PfuORj4ZZZ0
video_date: 2026-01-30T18:39:11+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-324
  China has put out a propaganda video of a “decapitation strike” in which China captures Taiwan President Wiliiam Lai (La Ching-te). Can China actually do this though? 
  
  Joining us once again is Captain Jim Fanell. He’s the former Director of Intelligence and Information Operations for the US Pacific Fleet. He’s also co-author of the book Embracing Communist China: America’s Greatest Strategic Failure 
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
The speaking of deterrence do you think the u.s. actions in Venezuela served as deterrence some say that actually is encouraging China to take these actions against Taiwan. And then Trump comes out saying you know we've got weapons I can't even talk about you know kind of bragging that there might be hey you know maybe we don't have enough to do that. But maybe we have some special sauce that we could what's the question? Well that was what happened in Venezuela a demonstration of a superior U.S. military that may have even more things behind the scenes or as some people are saying like since Trump took this violated international law and took this action against Venezuela is that going to encourage the CCP to take Taiwan. Okay so is it a deterrent or is it not a deterrent or is it not a deterrent or is it not a deterrent because suddenly the CCP realizes that they've always loved international law. Well I you know I give you this example when Nancy Pelosi the former speaker of the House went to Taiwan in 2022 she was in Taiwan what less than 24 hours and the Chinese then launched their big exercises around Taiwan, peace missions and launch missiles at Taiwan and everybody said oh look at that. Speaker Pelosi provoked the Chinese Communist Party the good people in Zhong and Hai to launch these exercises and surround Taiwan on a daily basis they're military. If she had a gun this wouldn't have happened and that's total naive to take. We know what the Chinese Communist Party has said is their goal for Taiwan and she could have gone and not gone and they were still going to do something like that. And I feel the same way about what happened off in Venezuela is that China is going to do what they're going to do against Taiwan no matter what we did in Venezuela. So I think what we did in Venezuela was a deterrent because they don't know exactly what all that we did. Now there was a Chinese delegation there. There were some Chinese radars there, some other things. But they got to see something that's incredible. I mean just to describe that in the past I mean just to describe that operation. And you probably people have seen many reports on it. But having been at sea and seeing these kind of things, the ability to have you know a carrier strike group and a 50th ready group, 10, 12, 14,000 sailors at sea hosting special operations forces from our own flight decks, coordinating air assets from Kona's continental United States, bombers, fighters, then also special operations platforms, intelligence surveillance reconnaissance platforms from Puerto Rico, from Southern Florida, and aligned that and get that aligned with our space assets, our intelligence assets and space, all of that working together to get a couple hundred people undetected largely into Venezuela and sees the leader of a country and his wife without any of them being harmed so that no one could accuse us of doing an assassination operation. And do all that and get out of dodge and get back to our ships without any really cash with no casualties and with you know maybe one helicopter shut up. It's something that the Chinese trust me. They are studying. Just like they've studied every other US major military operation in the last 40 years. From the bombing of Belgrade to Desmond Storm, Deserschild, to enduring freedom in Iraq, they are studying all of this. And so this is probably, if anything, it's going to make them go back to the drawing board and say, what do I have to do to make sure I can stop something like that? Now the difference from my perspective is that the one thing that's different is operating from Florida, Puerto Rico, our ships off the shores of Venezuela and a benign environment. That's a lot different than going across the entirety of the Pacific and doing something of that kind of complication and that success. It's a lot different. You know, people don't understand the scale and size. We've been talking about Greenland, not everyone's been talking about Greenland this week. And people don't realize that everything in the North Pole or everything goes to a point. It's called the North Pole. So actually, when a Chinese ship goes through the Bering Sea into the Chuck Chee-C, people, because we grew up with that Mercator projection charts in our schools as great school and high school that kind of showed America over here and Latin America or Europe and Russian Asia over here. Sometimes we think, well, when a Chinese ship operates over in the Bering Sea or in the sea of a cut, it really is so far away from what's going on in America. Well, actually, when you get to the top of the North Pole, those operations are actually pretty close. So people have trouble visualizing something like that. Well, the other way to apply this kind of visualization is to think of the size of the Pacific. The Pacific is somewhere you could fit I've read two different numbers. 17 or 20 continental United States is inside the Pacific. That's how big it is. So when people think in their minds about how far it takes to get ships and material and aircraft and submarines and weapons and fuel and all of that from the west coast of the United States all the way out to the first and second island chain, it's a huge, huge, massive undertaking. And people are maybe don't consider this because, hey, they get on a plane in Los Angeles or San Francisco and fly to Tokyo and, okay, it took 10, 12 hours. All right. So how big is it? Well, it's really big. And when you start saying I got to move big amounts of ships and things, it becomes important to have the kinds of ships that can do that. So my concern with, getting back to your question is the deterrent factor will be there from what happened in Venezuela. But the Chinese are going to say, aha, but it's not in their backyard. They have to come and do an away game in our backyard. So how can we take advantage of that? And that's obviously what their counter intervention strategy has understood all these years and they've been working towards it. But they'll want to know some of the other things like, quote, unquote, the special weapons. And I'm not going to comment on those. I'll just say, those are things that go on that they'll try to fight out. And they'll have to worry about them. So that'll delay them and deter them in some sense. Actually, once I ask you, actually, I want to ask a question about that. There was a recent report in the Niche Asia about how Chinese forces are holding like decapitation, strike drills about, you know, taking the president of Taiwan, William Lai, this, it seems to be from the Chinese propaganda similar to, like, modeled after the US taking Maduro. And then there's been a debate about this over, like, whether Chinese special forces would be able to, yeah, like, maybe they can run this drill, but would they actually be able to do this? You know, is this just propaganda and people kind of saying, well, they're not good enough to do it. Like, do you think that's threat deflation? Well, I saw the videos that were the Chinese published this week that showed these kind of their version of, you know, doing a decapitation or a seizure of a political leader in Taiwan drills. And I saw comments from both sides, some saying, oh, this is hyped up, and it's just, you know, their continual effort to every time we do something to say, well, we can do the same, it's a little bit of bravado, if you will. And when you look at the video, the terrain that they were using was not like the terrain of where, maybe the president would be on a daily bit. The Taiwan president would be on a daily basis inside urban Taipei. It was in a Chinese PLA actions were out in a, you know, jungle fields area, so not the same. So, who knows exactly what kind of capabilities they have? And like I said, they're going to look at what we did and go to school on some of that. So, I don't want to deflate the threat. I don't think they're anywhere near capable of where we are to do something like that today. I think they're much more going to be successful because they have mass. The mass of their forces, the mass of their strategic rocket force, the mass of their air forces, the mass of their naval forces, the mass of their civilian fleets that have cargo capacity that they can unload the of these landing barges or these floating barges that they can run everything off of commercial ships. The fact that they have civil, military drills and political structures that assign their provincial governments to do certain parts of what we would call a people's war. So, they have a lot of mass that they can bring. That's not to suggest that they don't have technology. There are anti-ship cruise missiles and hypersonic missiles are the best in the world, I would say, right now. So, they have good technology. But this kind of stuff of I'm going to do a, you know, decapitation strike to take out the leader of Taiwan. Well, I would expect that we will see them, you know, pursuing that. But we won't see it in the press. We won't see any reporting on it. But you can guarantee that somebody's been assigned that task inside their system to start developing that capability. So, in that sense, it wasn't a deterrent. It was maybe an indicator to say, here's another area that you, you didn't even think about completely like they've done that, the Americans. So, you've got to be able to do that. So, I think they'll pursue that. But again, for them, victory cannot be just taking whoever is the president of Taiwan and snatching them and say, okay, we won. That's not victory for the Chinese Communist Party. Victory comes if they pull the trigger. This is really important. If they decide to pull the trigger, then it will be having the boots on the ground and soldiers, you know, with Chinese Communist flags on the streets, controlling the streets. They don't want to do that. I believe they don't want to do that. But if they get to the point here, as time goes on, the decision makers are going to say, hey, if we don't do this now, then we can't do it in 2045 and have an invasion and then expect everybody to come to Beijing for years later. And celebrate our great victory over Taiwan. They know that they have to, they're in this dilemma right now. They know that by 2049, they have to be whole. They're what they consider whole. They have to have... That's the 100-year anniversary. The 100th anniversary. The 100th anniversary, the People's Republic of China, which is much more important than the 100th anniversary of the People's Liberation Army, which is largely what drove Davidson 2027 statement to be honest. So the real issue is not that date of 2027. It's this notion that the decision makers, Xi and the Standing Committee of the Politburo and the Central Military Commission, are deciding and calculating what levers of power can we use to force Taiwan to have some kind of political arrangement that shows that we have won. Now, you just saw President Trump here for a week and a half and two weeks say, I want sovereignty over Greenland. I want sovereignty over Greenland. And he was infatic about it. And I can tell you from living here in Europe, that was like... That's the most costic thing that they've ever heard and there. But heard beyond all comprehension in Europe right now because of that. But what happened here at the end of Davos yesterday, we learned that what the real issue was, is that Trump wanted to have sovereignty so that he could use move forces on the US military installations in Greenland because he didn't want to have to go through the normal rigourful row that is required for some kind of decision that would have to be approved by the Greenlanders, then voted on in Greenland, then sent to Denmark, have them vote on it, and then have them send it back to Greenland and then have both agreed to it, and then have NATO have to have a chop on it. And by the time all that happened, whatever the reason was, if the president or the joint chiefs of staff or whoever the future president says, we need to get more of a specific kind of golden dome force into a directed energy weapon or something in the Greenland, would have taken months. So Trump was adamant. I want to have that ability to get sovereignty so I don't have to ask permission to move forces into an area. Well, in the same sense, China is not going to want to allow, they know that they can't wait to move forces at a certain point. And so they're going to have to decide, I have to move now, or I'm never going to be able to do it again. And that's the real challenge is, when is that line coming, and are we going to be able to deter that? So I think I got off on a ramble there, but my point is, is that the Chinese are deciding whether or not they're going to use force. And when they make that decision, it won't be a half measure. It won't be something that will, let's take Pratt's read for, let's do a blockade. At that point, and that point in their decision-making process, they'll have checked off every other potential solution to bringing Taiwan in for some kind of political statement. So just having sovereignty by saying that there's some agreement, I don't know, I think the Chinese, when they get to that point, they're going to say to themselves, I have to have 100% assurance that Taiwan's mine. And if I can get it through some kind of political agreement, fine, but if I can't, then I'm pushed up against the wall that I'm going to have to use military force. And when I use it, I'm coming with everything. And that's really the challenge for Taiwan, for the region, for America, is to hone in on that decision-making process. I already think that we know that. I think we already know that at some point it could come, and the more that Taiwan holds out, and the more that the international community says, these kinds of things are unacceptable, like they're saying about what's happened in the Ukraine, the more pressure is going to be on China to say, okay, it's time to pull the trigger. And when they do that, it's going to come in a big way. And we're going to have to deal with what we have at that time, which is why we need to move more expeditiously. I mean, I think we can see a pretty big difference between the way the Trump administration is handling the military, the US military handling the US Navy, shipbuilding these kinds of things, in his second term compared to his first term. Do you think this is a reaction to the fact that, okay, we're just four years later now, or do you think that they're essentially, they have seen something that makes them feel like this is more urgent, than it was in 2016. I'm kind of intel-wing on privy too. Yeah. I think what you, my personal opinion is, is that in the first administration, you had a lot of people that were called hawks. I mean, not as super hawkish as I've been characterized, but people that were hawks. And they put forward, you know, national security strategy that changed for the first time called China a competitor, a great competitor. And Dave Speach is like Secretary Pompeo's speech at the Nixon Library in 2020 that said, you know, China's this great existential threat, and we've got to face it. And it was a lot of harsh talk and things of that nature, and then COVID and all that. But I think in terms of what actually got accomplished, we weren't moving at a strong clip in terms of the actions that are required, like the reforming of the Department of Defense, and the Department of War, the eradication of DEI and woke policies, the getting back to, as the Secretary calls it, and war fighting ethos, being serious about the most serious of all human endeavors, war. And so we see a change, as you said, but interestingly enough, Trump is not saying bellicose things. He didn't really in the first term, but his team did Pompeo and Pondger and others. They said things that were could be considered by many bellicose. Several of the people were, you know, barred from mentoring China now. But now, Trump is basically not saying bellicose things. He's pretty much clipping the wings, in my opinion, of his cabinet officials. So you don't hear Secretary Rubio saying the things that he did when he was a senator about China. Secretary of War Hexath, when he went out to the event in Singapore, the name just gave him the big defense. The Shangri-La. Shangri-La, when he was at Shangri-La, he gave a speech and said some pretty harsh things about China. And what happened the next day or two days later? I mean, he was saying, oh, we're good friends, we have a great relationship. God bless America, God bless China. I mean, so people took that and said, oh my gosh, Trump's gone soft on China. I don't believe so. What I think is, is Trump is the living day version of Teddy Roosevelt. He's trying to speak softly about China. None of the things are different. But when it comes to China, he is speaking softly, but he is doing big, stick actions, the building of the fleet, the reorganization of the military towards war fighting, the statements about I'm not going to allow China to have Venezuela's oil. I don't want them to have control over artificial intelligence. We're going to redo the Department of Defense Acquisition programs because the defense, the big five defense firms are essentially become financial institutions like our universities, and they're taking their profits and investing in their corporations instead of taking their profits and investing in building the ships and the aircraft and the weapons that we need at an accelerated rate. So there are real tangible changes that we didn't see in the first administration that are happening now that are mobilizing America for a future conflict. But he's not getting in there grill and saying, you know, you know, Xi's a murderer and all these kind of things. And I mentioned on another platform, you know, what Trump is doing is exactly the opposite of what all these other presidents have done for the last 50 years with China since we opened up recognition almost 50 years ago. We would have presidents and their administrations condemn China's brutal actions and humanitarian violations. They were, we're always talking about human rights. Jimmy, Jimmy Carden, we're always talking about human rights, human rights, human rights. But we didn't seem to do anything that tangibly constrained China from doing what they're doing. We kept engaging with them. We kept buying and selling and sending our businesses over there off-shoring our jobs while our elites and DC and the presidents condemned their human rights violations. But we didn't really do anything. Trump, on the other hand, he doesn't say anything about human rights ever and he gets criticized for it. But what he's actually physically doing is preparing the nation to defeat the PRC and to stop them from expanding their human rights violation. So I find it kind of ironic and it always gets back for me as somebody that was a military intelligence person is, don't watch what, don't, don't, don't it play exclusive attention to what somebody says? You need to pay attention to that, but not exclusively. You need to also look at what they're doing. And when we look at what he's doing, these are, these are the kind of efforts that demonstrate to me that he's serious about going after China. He's just not going to tell you that. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more, so I invite you to visit our website, ChinaUncensored.tv, where you can watch the full hour long interview plus get MP3 downloads of our podcast. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.