---
video_title: "Trump’s Golden Fleet—China’s Worst Nightmare"
video_id: 6y7i5F3F47k
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6y7i5F3F47k
video_date: 2026-01-29T20:14:38+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-324
  After underinvesting in shipbuilding for decades, the US is finally getting back in the business with a series of “Trump class” Navy ships. 
  
  Joining us once again is Captain Jim Fanell. He’s the former Director of Intelligence and Information Operations for the US Pacific Fleet. He’s also co-author of the book Embracing Communist China: America’s Greatest Strategic Failure 
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
I'd like to have you back on the show. It's really, really good to be with you all and happy new year for 2026. Oh, and what a new year it's been. Well, hey, speaking, we're now about a year away from when not a few people think the CCP might try to invade Taiwan. And I know you are arguing that this is a battle that will not be decided by land or air, but that naval warfare is going to be the deciding factor. Tell us why you think that is. Yeah, I'm a, you know, obviously retired Navy officer. So I see things from that lens from my experience from serving out in the seventh-lead area of responsibility for many tours and onboard carriers and the seventh-lead command ship. So I wouldn't say that it's exclusively naval. I mean, we, the joint force that we need are all support and the air is very important, but we're not going to have a land war in Asia. There's nobody that's planning to invade China to stop them from invading Taiwan or to attack Japan. We're not going to do that. It would be suicide in one case and just really not productive. So what we're trying to do is deter the PRC from thinking about conducting an invasion. And they have spent the last quarter of a century modernizing their military largely around this idea of what they call their counter-intervention strategy to keep the US-Pacific fleet to seven fleet out of their waters, out of the first and second island chains, if you will. That's what they've designed their military to do. And so there's a reason for that because they greatly fear the capacity and the capabilities that naval forces in conjunction with air forces could do to impede and obstruct the Taiwan invasion. So that's where they've spent the majority of their resources across all their services, rocket force, naval forces, air forces, to stop and impede the US-September fleet from getting there. Because when we come with naval power, we're able to reach and provide effects, fires, against their navy that would be trying to cross the strait. And we could do that in many ways, either through submarines, through aircraft carriers, with aircraft that are bombing targets and things of that nature that are coming across the strait and other things. So we need to arm up Taiwan. There's no doubt about it. And there's an army role there, clearly. But when it comes to the majority of the forces that are going to have to be for the Chinese, their boots on the ground, they're going to have to come across for the most part by sea. And we want to stop that. And right now we're having it, in my opinion, we'll have a large problem in that regard because we've essentially gutted the US Navy over the last 35 years. And when I was commissioned in 1986, we had almost 600 naval warships and submarines. And today we have less than 300. Whereas China is upwards of 400. They double the size of their navy in the last decade plus, just over. And they're the largest navy in the world by number of ships. There's certainly the largest naval force in that area of the first and second island chain today. And they're well equipped with war at sea munitions and I ship cruise missiles of supersonic speeds, even hypersonic speeds now. Their naval air forces are equipped with hypersonic and supersonic anti-ship cruise missiles. Their submarines are equipped with them. And their army forces have short batteries with anti-ship cruise missiles. So they've gone all in on war at sea and the notion that we have to sink the US Pacific fleet. Whereas our navy for the last 35 years is focused on land warfare, bringing effects, bringing fires from the shore. The war started from the sea. One of the documents that came out after the maritime strategy that was part of the Cold War under the Reagan administration against the Soviet Navy. We had a strategy in the 80s. When I joined the Navy it was called the maritime strategy. And it was about defeating the Soviet Navy in a war at sea. In the Secretary of the Navy John Laman was the architect of that. And the entire navy, there was almost 600 ships. They were all focused on sinking the Soviet Navy. Then the Soviet Navy went away. And it kind of afterfeed under when the Russian Federation got reconstructed themselves. And it's been growing, but it's still nothing compared to what it was. And so we had this belief in America. We write about it, Brad there, and I write about it. Our book Embracing Communist China America's greatest strategic failure. We write about this notion that we kind of just forgot about threats, peer competitor threats, after the Soviet Union collapsed. And we just didn't worry about anybody threatening us at sea. And there was a large reason for that. We were the strongest navy. And we're still very strong today. But it's very clear that the PLA and the PLA navy are a significant threat to the United States Navy. And we haven't prepared ourselves to deal with that. We're sending the President of this order, the USS Abraham Lincoln carrier strike group to the central command area of responsibility, the Middle East, to deal with what's going on with the protests and potential counter revolution in Iran. And that kind of capability is something that we've been doing since 1990, 91, with Operation Desert Shield and Desert Storm when we took combat against Saddam Hussein and his forces that invaded Kuwait. So for 35 years or so or more, the U.S. Department of Defense now wore the Pentagon and our planners and our budgets have all kind of focused on developing a military force that's focused on taking the fight to counter terrorism or to terrorist through a counterterrorism strategy, the war on terror in places like Afghanistan, Iraq, actions in Syria. We just saw a great operation against Venezuela. That was a special operations-led force was conducted from the ships of the U.S. Navy from our aircraft carrier down there. The USS Gerald R. Four and one of our amphibious ready groups. But it was largely done in a benign environment. We were not really worried about somebody coming in and attacking our carrier forces. Now, don't get me wrong. Those forces that were there, if you were a sailor on one of those ships off of Venezuela for the last couple of months. You were probably very exhausted at this point because you were worried about what would the Venezuelans do, what capabilities would they have to launch some kind of sneak attack or something against our ships. So you have to prepare for that. But in the sense of we haven't really had anybody attack a U.S. Navy aircraft carrier or our naval forces since World War II. You can say Korea and Vietnam somewhat. But really, we haven't fought a naval battle, large fleet on fleet engagement since World War II. So we've kind of assumed that we'll just have this ability to drive up and pull off the shore of some foreign nation and do our business and not have to worry anything. That's clearly not the case when it comes to the Chinese and the time-long or Japan or the South China Sea, what's going on with the Filipinos. Our allies are at risk. We are at risk in the region and we have neglected this area. I think what's happened over the last since 2017 since Trump came in, there's been a recognition that the failed policies and engagement were wrong and that we needed to do something. But there is such an institutional bias against naval warfare. Whenever I bring it up in meetings or conversations with my colleagues from the other services, I'm always thrown in my face. We're a joint force. We're a joint force. There's more than just naval. I don't disagree with that. But my comeback to them is, yes, it's a joint force, but you don't have the naval force that you need to be able to properly execute this mission. In order to get that force, it's going to take time. Everybody knows we don't have time. As you mentioned in your opening, that quote-unquote Davidson window or what I've characterized to say is the decade of concern from 2020 to 2030, the most likely time that China would most likely pull the trigger. The Chinese Communist Party to take Taiwan is probably in the next four years. We're not ready. There are some people that are pregnant and say, well, I hear you, if you know, you want a big navy, but we can't get there right now. We've got to do everything else. I agree with that. That's why you have initiatives like the Hellscape strategy that Admiral Papros, a command review, a specific command and the replicator. That's the drone strategy. The drones and artificial intelligence and getting that out there now. I'm all good with that. I'm actually good with artificial intelligence that, if it can help us improve and speed up our shipbuilding processes, that's essential. But we can't neglect that the long-term utility and benefit of having a strong navy is critical to our national security and the security and safety of our allies as well. We have neglected that. I was very, very pleased to see the president on December 22nd roll out this new battleship. I know there's a lot of people that are nitpicking it, but really, it wasn't just about the battleship. It was the much larger, previous announcement that he made on the navy's birthday in October, the 250th anniversary of the navy of the Golden Fleet. This idea that we're going to restore American naval power. That includes not just building more combatants, ships, submarines, but it's restoring our shipbuilding industry, the number of shipyards that we have in America. We haven't just neglected the size of the U.S. Navy or the combatants, our merchant fleets and our support fleets and the things that make us a naval power have all been apt to feed as well, and we've off-shorted to other countries. We don't have that many flagged U.S. vessels anymore. There's other countries that have larger containerships and fleets than we do. Even the Swiss have MSC as upwards of 40 or plus maritime containerships that basically run a lot of their economy, getting it to and fro around the world in this globalized economy. We leverage that, but there's a presumption there that will always be safe and secure, and we don't have to protect it. It's not a safe assumption, given where we think the Chinese are saying they want to go, which is to have a global governance initiative that's going to run the global development of the world and the strategy and who gets to buy and sell and trade. They're going to be much different at that, and we don't have assurances that they're going to buy by, quote, unquote, the international norms that America essentially cemented after World War II for the last 80 years. I mean, our Navy was protected America, but it didn't just protect America. It protected the world's economy. It allowed Asia to essentially build up. You've heard the phrase, the five tigers, the five nations of Asia that were decimated in World War II were able to rise up and become incredible economic power in their own right and to improve the lives of their own people, because they didn't have to worry about another invasion or a war or that there are goods and services that were made in their countries. We're going to be intercepted and stolen by some other nation. So there's a long history of why we had in our country developed in the Constitution, the Department of the Navy and the importance of naval vessels and ships, and our founding fathers understood it, and we kind of understood it up through the end of World War II and up through the end of the Cold War. But we kind of got, for a variety of reasons, hubris, laziness, some ideological issues where some people in our national security community never really believed that China was a threat. And so therefore, we didn't have to spend the kind of money that we needed to keep our strong Navy. And then there's another aspect of this we talked about, or written about is called threat deflation. Where our actual national security structure deflated the threat from the Chinese Navy. For many, many years, analysts in Washington would say, ah, the Chinese Navy, yeah, they're growing, but they're decades away from being a concern or something that we have to worry about. And now here we are, a decade, a decade and a half, and they went from having no aircraft carriers to having three with the fourth one on the way. And their government saying that they want to build another six. They built a number of amphibious carriers, the typo 75 amphibious assault carriers. They built four of those, more coming, the typo 76 amphibious carriers as well. So I guess my point is we face an uncertain world. There's a lot of conflict out there. But the Chinese naval threat is real. It's not hyped up. We need to be prepared for it. And part of it requires that we have to get back to basics, which is to build large capital ships. And we, there'll be debates and fights over the size and the speed and the armament and the propulsion systems and all of that. But at a minimum, we have to get back to the recognition that we need more platforms that we have today. And we need them as rapidly as we can get them. Well, on that note, Trump's golden fleet. He says it'll take about two and a half years to build. Critics will say it's going to be in the 2030s at least. But even if you go by Trump's optimistic two and a half years, that still potentially takes us past the 2027 mark of a Chinese invasion. Like is it even possible for the US to catch up in time? Well, to be precise, he said that the Trump class new battleships would be two and a half years. Now, as you say, that a lot of people are saying there's no way that can happen. Let's see. Secondly, the larger golden fleet, yes, we'll take time. But if we go with the premise that, well, the war's going to start in 2027 and there's nothing we can do to build that fleet. So let's not do it. I just, I don't agree with that. I think we need to continue to do that because we don't know how long the conflict will go. We don't know how long or what will be required for us in the future. If you recall in World War II in 1940, Senator Carl Vinson passed the Two Ocean Maybe Act. And it was the recognition in America that Japan, Imperial Japanese Navy was going to be a threat and so they authorized a huge expenditure to rebuild and build out the US Navy in both fleets and the Atlantic Fleet and Pacific Fleet. Those ships didn't arrive for the Pacific until three and a half years after that act was passed. So the war had already started. December 7, 1941, it happened. Battle of Midway happened. We scraped by by the skin of our teeth and various naval engagements in 42 and 43. The rest of Midway was very close and the rest of the battles in 42 and in 40, early 43 were very close. Admiral Nimitz, the commander of the Pacific Fleet was constantly fighting essentially with one arm tied behind his back in terms of the number of carriers that he had. But when the carriers that were planned and authorized by Congress in 1940 started showing up in the summer fall of 1943, all of a sudden everything started going our way because we had massive advantage. We started having massive naval power that overwhelmed the Japanese. We don't know what would happen with China in an event of a time when invasion. We may not be able to stop that invasion, but who's to say that that's the end of the Chinese expansionist agenda. So what's next? Guam, Hawaii, the West Coast? What about the East Coast? What about the Arctic? So the idea that we would say 2027 is going to happen and therefore we can't invest in the future. I don't buy that as a legitimate argument. I think we need to be doing both. We need to do what we can to delay and deter and then defeat an event in 2027, 2028. It could be as late as 2035, but we need to be able to work on that problem today, but build out the requirements for the future as fast as possible. So we have to be able to, as they say, walk in Shugun. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more, so I invite you to visit our website, ChinaUncensored.tv, where you can watch the full hour long interview, plus get MP3 downloads of our podcast. But most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.