---
video_title: "Canada Is Importing China’s Mobile Spy Devices"
video_id: Un0EqImalow
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Un0EqImalow
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-350
  Canada has reached an agreement to import Chinese EVs, which many security experts warn are mobile spy devices for China. This is part of a larger drift away from the US and toward Canada, which we discuss with our guest, Canadian investigative journalist Sam Cooper.
---
Yeah. So, one of the things that came out of that meeting where he talked about the New World Order was he basically signed a deal with China that would allow 49,000 Chinese electric vehicles to be imported into Canada. Um, you know, at a at a very low I think they the most favored nations tariff, which is like 6. something percent. Like, it's very cheap now.

So, Canadians who, as we established earlier, are struggling because the economy is not doing that that well and hasn't been for a decade. So, cheap Chinese cars could probably seem like a great thing for a lot of Canadians. >> Well, I think there's also a little bit of context there that's needed is that under Biden, uh, he put a 100% tariff on Chinese EVs to keep them out and Canada joined in with that. And so, they're they're going from uniting with the US and 100% tariff to this 6.1%.

>> Yeah. So, what are your thoughts, Sam? >> Yeah, this this goes very deep and I'll if you'll if you'll indulge me, I'll give you the the top line that everyone can see. Okay, of course, Chinese EVs are rolling spy networks. There's a group called Lion Cage in Norway, security researchers that have showed how, you know, as as as they call them white hat hackers or technology experts could hack into the the Chinese EVs and they found that sort of like 90% of the, uh, communication between these smart vehicles and servers worldwide was flowing back to China even when the cars were turned off. Like, they buried this

car in a mine shaft or a mine under under Oslo and it was still communicating with China. And so, these are top-flight international researchers showing how uh, uh, a fleet of Chinese vehicles will be tapped into what they call smart cities or the Internet of Things and China Ministry of State Security and the People's Liberation Army have the best some of the best hackers in the world and they can run cyber operations through those 77,000 vehicles in in Norway or which is high for now for that proportion you know that population 50,000 in Canada is just a starting point that will scale up year by year so it's very obviously a deep concern to people like the four people here who China quite clearly doesn't like those cars rolling around can be tapped to keep track of us or people in the diaspora that face death threats or or you know any manner of transnational repression from China and its thugs in our cities. Um that's threat one threat two of course the United States is going to see that as a major major lack of faith in Canada's dealings in the trade and as you say Matt Canada is already doing very badly economically and so what might look like a win for people buying a cheap subsidized Chinese EV cheap partly because of Uyghur slave labor by the way that that's like that that it it's at in the end it's economic suicide national security suicide for the nation but here let me go a little deeper with this I mean I reported on a leaked Canadian intelligence document that that showed how when you'll recall Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor got thrown into jail in in in China in the Meng Wanzhou affair and so my document from CSIS that's Canada's CIA it reported in 2019 before the federal election that the Ministry of State Security and its regional bureaus from China were competing for impact in Canada reporting to the highest levels in China. So should be Xi Xi Jinping and Cai Qiang I got you know his his his right hand man in the Politburo. And and they were interfering in Canada's election and they they had spread their support from Justin Trudeau around to the other major Canadian parties seeking to leverage And one more thing, they were targeting Canadian business leaders who were involved in trade with China including canola traders in Saskatchewan. So they

dumped tariffs on canola. Uh you know, that makes Saskatchewan which is a a powerful wealthy western province now a little upset that Chinese EV deal involved taking the tariffs off canola which again I'm saying stems from a Ministry of State Security operation. And in that trade China takes the canola tariffs off, we take the EVs in. So start to finish this is a this is a Chinese intelligence operation that Mark Carney and his business friends have acquiesced to I believe which must look horrible in Washington. >> Yeah, I mean one of the problems is you know, in Canada 90% of Canadians live like I don't know within 100 miles of the US border, right?

And the majority are you know, traveling to the United States uh at least like once a year. I I think something like that, right? So >> If we went further probably 60% live around Lake Ontario. >> Like America. >> [laughter] >> But it it speaks it illustrates you know, what what's at stake here. We will start

fighting over the name of a body of water which 60% of Canadians live around and probably owe a lot of their a lot of their well, you know, standard of living towards being able to trade with the United States and travel back and forth. >> Right. And so but now what what we're going to see is Canadians owning Chinese electric vehicles and they want to drive those EVs across the border into the United States to, you know, go shopping or do whatever I guess you do in the United States. >> be able to drive those EVs over Lake America. >> Or or even the bridge of do they call it Gordie Howe or or is it something else now? Um

>> Bridge of America, but >> Right. >> [laughter] >> Waiting for that executive order. I'm sure it will come very soon. But no, those those those Chinese EVs are not crossing the border. Ambassador Peter Hoekstra, who apparently is not very popular in Canada right now, uh but he is he rationally he has said, "Of course they're not they're not going to cross the American border."

And only an idiot would would allow that. These are a national security threat. >> Yeah. So, I mean but this this is now creating an interesting problem, right? So, Canadians who buy themselves a Chinese EV they actually will know will not be able to use them for one of the things that's very important to a lot of people, which is crossing the >> Crossing the border.

>> Yeah, it creates a problem, but uh I mean, Canadian media including the Canada Broadcasting Corporation appear to be doing their very very best over the past year to to convince Canadians that uh they need to be filled with fear traveling to the United States and uh so people are now they're This is a news story in Canada, a common news story, you know, the retirees are not going to Florida anymore. They'd rather go to Mexico and land in the middle of a Jalisco cartel >> A cartel war? >> Uh peaceful Mexico. >> If you want to follow more of Sam Cooper's work, check out The Bureau on Substack. The link is below. And watch

this entire 1-hour interview plus hundreds of others and get MP3 downloads of our podcast, join us on ChinaUncensored.tv.