---
video_title: "Chinese AI Has Infiltrated American Companies"
video_id: YiujGHQGhME
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YiujGHQGhME
video_date: 2026-07-11T15:17:07+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-342
  Microsoft is considering partnering with Chinese AI company Deepseek for its Copilot Cowork. But Microsoft isn’t the only American company that’s looking at China’s cheaper AI models as a way to pay less while getting similar benefits to using American AI. The only problem: China gets access to your data.
---
Well, this was actually on the dock. How Chinese AI is seeping into American companies. Because it's cheap. It's cheap. And so they use it for free. Microsoft is looking at using deep seek. Yeah. As like the core AI for their Microsoft assist or something technical. You are a channel that talks about the Chinese Communist Party on YouTube. You might have a hard time. I think what you're going to find if this doesn't stop is that the space in which you can use AI will get increasingly shifted away from like American ideas and two Chinese or socialist ideas. It'll be a gradual process and it'll be like a boiling frog situation. Or you get a tasty soup at the end. Yes, but you're thought about it that way, Chris. You're the soup and you'll be tasty for someone else. Some elites who control the soup. Yeah. Yeah, Shalia's accent. So, okay. This is from Axios, which this is their thing that Microsoft is considering using the Chinese AI model deep seek as a cheaper option to power co-pilot co-work. The company's agentic assistant and the most compute hungry part of Microsoft 365. So, basically, if you're using any of those Microsoft like Word, Excel, etc., etc., then you would be using deep seek. That's getting into your company. Knowingly. And then it's like everything they say about why these companies are concerning using these Chinese models are like every stupid reason that companies decide to outsource and try to try it in the first place. Oh, they're not good. They're really behind. It's really inferior. But they're so much cheaper to run. So, you know, it's like people are like, if you're talking about it 10 times, maybe a hundred times price difference. So therefore, we should actually use those cheaper models and there will be no negative consequence. Right. I mean, in terms of how far behind they are, like, let's say they're a year behind, which is a long time in AI, but actually a lot of models from like, you know, we're recording this in May, 2026. But like models from May, 2025, like, would still be good enough for most uses. And therefore, if you can save 90% or 99%. But we're basically the security risks are astronomical. Oh, yeah. No, no, you're totally screwed if you do it. It's just I'm just saying like you don't need in terms of AI computing power. You don't need the best of the best. You're basically, it's just like tick tock. It's just this huge backdoor. Yeah. And to all of your like, for those of you who are business owners, you know this probably, but like, yeah, don't, don't use Chinese in the back end. And if you may not know, like, and if you're working at a, at a corporation and you have an opportunity to talk with the head of your tech department or your CEO, this is actually a good opportunity for you to advocate for the security of your company and help your company make a really good long term decision. Because when all their competitors are getting ultimately screwed because China has hacked the crap out of them through the backdoor, they have deep seek. You're the one who saved your company from having this terrible, terrible problem with Chinese AI. Just saying. That's a very, that's a very good point. It's like the Bowspar Galactica remake. And you may not know. I mean, I think this is like, you need to, okay, like the AI agent platform Lindy switched 100% earlier this month of deep seek, like some of these agents may be using actually using deep seek and you don't know. Like, yeah, so yeah, just be aware. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, this is something it's not completely taken over yet. So this is a, you can move the needle. Yes. Yeah. But, but your window for doing that is probably, you know, months or a year tops. It's not a big window for this before the over 10 window closes. Sure. Yeah. Just a side note, I saw the story about a Microsoft researcher building a working LLM inside of age of empires to using goats. He was doing this to prove that AI is not actually sentient. How did he build the LLM using goats? I don't know. I don't understand all the details, but like there's a video. I was on my axe. I posted on my axe. Yeah. Somehow, he used goats in age of empires too, which I take to mean age of empires too is sentient. Yeah. Now, that's a deep thoughts while gaming. Hmm. If only we didn't have to shutter that entire series because they couldn't afford it because suddenly the views stopped. Yeah. The views went from growing very well to suddenly, you know, yeah. Yeah. Once you started talking about like socialism, it dropped. Weird. Well, yeah. The whole idea was like, this is, I can hide controversial topics in these videos. Yeah. Nope. Figured it out. Yeah. There was a window. What's still working on a few? You still do live streams for gamers. I do live streams. Yeah. I'm still working on a few episodes. I have this idea about for one of using Undertale, the game Undertale to talk about how humans and monsters cannot actually coexist. That's just silly propaganda. Is someone trying to get humans and monsters to code? That's basically the point of the game. Like there's an option in the game where you can do it's called a genocide route where you're the human end, you kill all the monsters and that's the bad. You shouldn't do that. Monsters and humans, they're no different. Tolkien would be flipping out about this. He wrote a book of a tree season about fairy tales and why they're important. Yeah. He was very much like, these are archetypes. You cannot have a good drag and you cannot have a good giants. You can't have a good orc. Yeah. Yeah. Well, rings of power. These are good orcs. Yeah, they're just like, there's this one scene where it's just like the orcs, they're just a family with their little child orc and it's they're being oppressed. Aren't the orcs made by like torturing elves until they like? Yeah, something like that. Yeah. Why is there a child orc? Because they don't actually know the lore or their, I don't know. I don't know. I see, but it's not a, it's not a Tolkien original idea. I mean, it's riffing off of the Simmerilian to create that show. I see. All right. Well, we're getting further and further from China. Yeah. Energy crash. Boy, I could go for a boil frog super right about now. Give me that energy boost across across that finish line. Is this how this podcast ends not with a bang, but with a whimper pulls out gun shoots man. Which doesn't make sense because I've established Shelley's my nemesis. Yeah. And honestly, Chris, you still need me to run the tech. That's right. If I shot you, how would we ever turn this off? We would be eternally chained to just filming a podcast that no one would see because it wouldn't get uploaded to our editor. Yeah. Well, on that note, I better go and the podcast and turn off all the equipment. All right. Should we do a proper sign off or should we let Mac go and then we can talk about him behind his back? Uh, this is maybe it wasn't a good idea to put the whole podcast behind a pay. Well, why do you say that? Oh, because we can do whatever because it's our website. We would do this anyway, Shelley. Oh, really? Uh, pretty, pretty sure. You would get this because this is that behind the scene stuff that we'll always ask to see. Well, yes, true. This is what you guys want. Leave a comment below. Um, thank you for watching. That was just one little clip of an hour long podcast. You can watch if you subscribe at chinainsensor.tv. This is how you can support the show and join the Chinainsensor 50 cent army to stand up to the CCP and the socialist before they take over for good.