---
video_title: "China's Economy Is Built On A HUGE Lie"
video_id: 9jyPGVCISfU
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9jyPGVCISfU
video_date: 2026-08-17T17:07:37+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-347
  When companies look at the China market, they see potentially 1.4 billion consumers. That’s a lie, says our guest David Day, who is the Chairman of the Global Risk Mitigation Foundation. 
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
change. So when I started covering China more than a decade ago, the economy looked very very different uh than it does today. Uh I mean China now has new industries that it's pushing like electric vehicles, AI. Um what is happening with these sectors and and is it successful for China's economy? Well, I mean, and I agree with your assessment, uh, Chris. I mean

back just a very few years ago uh China's economy looked like it was just going to roll forward like a like a steamroller and there were all these predictions that if you recall and and we talked about this in in prior show maybe a couple years ago that the the predictions were that the Chinese economy was just going to roll over the US and uh they were the they were the great uh uh the great new power that was was going to really blow the US economy away. And so what's really happening now is you've got these um uh favored selected sectors which and you just mentioned some of them, the EV, AI, uh the whole solar industry which uh appear to be doing pretty well. Um but those are just the favorite industries and um you know I I I think what we're really seeing is those are actually the the front for the image of China. So you get the the success in a in a few limited areas but if you look behind that front and then we're we're really seeing a a a a pmpkin village economy. You look behind that front uh to the $5 a day situation that the rest of the economy is dealing with and it's not a pretty picture.

And we talked about this a couple years ago. um the way that the economy was going um it it never recovered from COVID and all the shutdowns and then the the new legal restrictions that have been imposed um have just just caused a total collapse of the foreign direct investment in the country. And so you see things like uh vacant shopping malls and um uh companies that have had to just lay off employees left and right. And so the economic picture internally within China is very different than the propaganda image that the country uh projects. China's not living in the future, glittery skyscrapers and all of that nonsense.

>> No, it's part of it's part of the um it's part of the China dream. and um you know the way that the economy is set up, the way that they're conducting themselves, the the party leadership, they've basically um bolted themselves into a a very negative situation. Um it kind of reminds me of the the old Vermont uh comedy team of Bert and I. And uh uh this old farmer was coming up to uh trying to get directions and uh one of the the members of the comedy team said, "Well, you can't get to." And that's exactly the situation that China finds herself in today. They can't

get the get to the China dream uh the way they've got the economy set up. It's just not possible. What is it about the their setup that makes it impossible? >> Well, they've got um you know, they they select favorite industries and um one of the things that that selection process does and the way that uh Shelley, the way the the the party runs the country and the economy is that they cannot really innovate. And the reason they cannot innovate is the leadership will not tolerate and the system will not tolerate failure. And

that's one of the great things that we have uh in the United States is that you know a a startup can fail several times and then ultimately they hit the right formula and it blossoms. And this is the huge difference between uh the way that that a free society, a free economy operates, and one that's a command and control economy, which you know all too well that it's the way Beijing runs things. >> Well, okay. To play devil's advocate, do you have to be able to innovate? because uh can't the the the the Chinese model of we're not going to innovate, but we can maybe steal your IP and then do what you do cheaper.

>> Well, that has worked. Yes. And and that's that's an excellent point. That has worked uh uh to a point. um recognize that in in that type of intellectual property theft uh as part of the business model, which to be fair to you, Shelley, is absolutely correct. That is part of the

business model. They're always behind the power curve in doing that. They're not in the lead. So, as an example that you probably know all too well, but our audience may have forgotten, [clears throat] uh remember the joint venture between uh the Chinese uh firms and uh the Japanese Mitsubishi in terms of highspeed rail. And so following the business model which you've underscored Shelley, what happened is that Mitsubishi got its intellectual property stolen and the Chinese copied uh all of the details for the highspeed rail, but the Japanese have never had the type or the rail accidents like the Chinese copy has.

And so, you know, I think that, you know, while intellectual property is built into the business model, um, it it it means that they're never going to be in front. And inherently as you get really complicated um u products, it's very difficult to make sure that you've got every single little piece copied precisely correct. And that leads to things like rail crashes or buildings falling down or bridges collapsing and those types of problems. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we were just looking

at a Wall Street Journal article that was about um Chinese-made airbags essentially malfunctioning and uh >> at the worst time. >> Yeah. In a a car crash and like ripping someone's jaw apart in the US like that these were counterfeit airbag parts that were put into American cars when they shouldn't have been. But I get what you're saying, Shelley, because recently it's come out that deepseek to the Chinese AI, which is definitely inferior, is being adopted even in Microsoft >> because it's just so much cheaper. >> Yeah. Because it's open source, so it's

it's free essentially. So it that seems very discouraging to be like, "Oh, well, are we going to just keep falling for this over and over again >> where it's like, okay, well, it may not be as good, but it's cheaper, and so let's not worry about the national security implications of giving all of your information to DeepSeek. >> Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more that we couldn't put here on YouTube, so visit our website, chinaunensored.tv, TV so you can watch the entire hour-long interview, plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And

most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.