---
video_title: "Chinese Doctors Falling from Windows—Accident or Murder?"
video_id: 6s0m5ahk050
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6s0m5ahk050
video_date: 2026-04-04T17:01:55+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-331
  When a doctor falls out a window in China, there’s a question of whether it was their own choice (suicide) or someone else’s (murder). In this episode we talk about why it’s so dangerous to be a Chinese doctor and why Taipei’s former mayor has a price on his head after doing business with Chinese hospitals.
---
You know, we used to make a joke when a friend of mine, I mean, human rights try to use to make a joke. He said, you know, if Cole doesn't win the presidency, if he loses the ownership, he could always go back to being a doctor in China. And we all laugh. I mean, we really thought that was funny, but the truth is that wasn't possible. They would have killed him. He would have fallen on a window in Wushie People's Hospital and would have been suicide or whatever. You know, he would just would have been one of these countless casualties. The epic times was very good at calculating them for a little while of doctors, transplant doctors who killed themselves. It's a phenomenon in the country. And I used to say, are you sure? They'd say, you know, well, it's good to know the people at the end of their lives have a conscience. And I'd say, how do you know they weren't pushed? We don't know that. But the point is, so he had no escape, he could only go one direction to the presidency. Okay. And, but first he had to win the ownership again. And that's where I come in because that's when I get a call from Brian Wu, who was an opponent of his and a writer. And absolutely despised him for various reasons. And he said, I will publish your book in Chinese, which have been a long-standing ambition. So the whole thing was the slaughter had not been published in Chinese. It was only that excerpt that involved Co. And so, okay. And so when we my agent got involved and created a publishing company in the US, we all came in. He said, will you come over to the Taipei? And I said, sure, but I'm not going to speak directly against Co. This is before the email. I've seen. I said, I'll just somebody ask me what I think of Co. I'll say, how are the bottles in Taipei? Yeah, that chance. That's going to work. Of course, I came in and then I had this information. And I called Brian and said, when I come in after a couple of days, I want to have a press conference. And he said, I don't know if I can control that. You're very controversial figure right now. I'm going to this westerner kind of being sarcastic in my responses to him. He was being sarcastic to me. I was being I was saying, he said, he's coming over on such and such a day. I said, I'm washing my hair that day. Hi, hi, everybody thought that was historical because nobody's balls and type, Taiwan. So I come over. He does set up the press conference. He hires the best bodyguards in Taiwan. And it's the second biggest press conference in Taiwanese history. Maybe it's been beaten by now. But it was the second biggest press conference. It was huge. And that's I waited. I went through the whole history of Oregon harvesting. I made a terrible mistake at one point. Somebody the first question was, is Dr. Co. Liar? And I said, yeah. And that's it. And I froze and just went back to question. Now that was seen as truly arrogant. You know, some westerner coming in and accusing their beloved mayor of being alive. But of course, he was a liar. He's a politician. Come on. Let's get real here. But beyond that, yes. Of course, he lied about my book. And I made that clear because he kept denying that he agreed to the interview or allowed me to put it in the book. And of course, I revealed emails. Okay. And it showed exposed him as a liar. But that wasn't my point. I wasn't there to say he was a liar. But it was there to say he was, it was somebody who trained people to kill. Okay. Something much more serious. And I waited till the finally, I got a question from a young woman who was like a classic cuff fan. All right. She's so beautiful. She had such gorgeous face. And she stood up there and said, I can see that you have changed. You have changed. You used to like coward. Now you don't. Why is that? It's like we need to laugh. I know he laughed if you're out there. That was a good question. And it was to me. And it was maybe attended to shame me, but it didn't come across that way. And I said, okay, put this up on the screen. And I put up my standard picture of me sitting around with five fallen-grown practitioners, Bangkok. And I said, this woman was one of them was looked at very closely for her organs, Jing-chang. And she's right there in this picture. And I said before, ECMO, she was worth, you know, maybe about $200,000 US. If sold to right foreigners, you got the right organs out. After ECMO, she was worth 600,000 US. These five women together are way over a million dollars now, maybe two million. This is what happened. He created an incentive to kill fallen-gong. And he knew he's the only high who could see knew that they were using fallen-gong. I had no question his mind or his heart about it. That might went over really well. The press is somewhat controlled and dipagre. It's not directly controlled, but you know, if you want access, you kind of have to play ball. Everybody put that on the news. The whole country. And that did really affect him. He did win the mayor. He did win a second term. But the first time he'd won it by 13 points or something, this time he won it by 3,000 boats. It was whispereth in. Okay. In the middle of the night. Who knows what they really wanted? No, no, no, no, no. We're trying to put this on YouTube. Don't get it wrong. I mean, also Taiwan's totally a balance. But what he did not win was the presidency. And interestingly, ended up going in a kind of different direction. And that's the end of the story. I cannot take the credit. I cannot take any more credit, just that I've made him win in a Westporthand majority. I do take some credit for that. The rest I can't take any credit for. Okay. But what happened? Well, all right. All right. Let me be a little more straightforward here. Who do you he brought a case against me? He a criminal court case saying because I'd said he was a liar. At what point did he introduce that? Oh, right after the press conference. He was like, ah, he's in my trap. Big specifically because of the liar. Yeah. Lying. Lying. Because I said he was a liar. I said, yes, he's, do you think he's a liar? Yes. And I was brought in front of a judge and the whole thing, middle of the night, the whole deal. But she was strangely sympathetic. And when she realized that he was trying to get me to change my book, she blew up in Chinese. I don't know what she said. I can't, I can understand some Russian. I can't really understand Chinese at all. But she really blew up the judge. Yes. And she, we were there for eight hours. Okay. Half of that was translation. But still, that's a long time. The cup people were like, oh, this is positive. He's there for eight hours. It's like, no, it was because I was giving all this evidence on. Okay. That's why there is something in Taiwan called the control you want. And it's sort of traditional to Chinese culture, in a sense. It's a watchdog agency which just watches corruption in the elected leadership. Or just the political leadership in case of China, which is not elected. The control one is very powerful in Taiwan. It's like internal affairs that we have for police, but they have it for the government. Yes, but it's specifically about the money thing. It's, you know, it drives something in Chinese culture, what really drives them crazy is when people are on the take, when their political leadership's on the take, that makes them so angry. And so this thing evolved over time. It's been there for a long time. It's traditional, as I say. But they were very interested in this story. And they would after him about it. And they would after him about the ECMO, the original ECMO operations. And he confessed to them. I don't know this because I have access to a closed session, which I shouldn't have, but I do. And they, they didn't send it to me. Somebody else did, but that's another story. The, he admitted he confessed to that. To originally doing those gray zone, yeah. Three gray zone experiments. And then with Godman, he said, well, Godman's a liar, you know, blah, blah, blah. He called you a liar. Unbelievable. You should see it. He sued me three times. And every one of them failed. He said he was going to pursue me all the way across the earth. He said, I'll pursue him in UK. I'll pursue him in America. Okay, he said a lot of things. Thank you for watching this clip. The book is called the Shinjiong procedure. Order it now and get 20% off your next Chinese organ transplant. And if you support extremely controversial episodes like this and want to get more, join our 50 cent army at Chinainsensored.tv.