---
video_title: "China Watches Helplessly as the US Destroys Allies"
video_id: e2--dzV9VVA
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e2--dzV9VVA
video_date: 2026-06-04T16:59:32+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-338
  China claims to have brotherhood-like relations with several authoritarian countries, but that brotherhood is being put to the test as the US attacks China’s supposed allies.
---
Well, the question hanging over all of this is how does China look at it? You'll hear all kinds of arguments. You'll hear people saying, ah, China now sees that the US is weak. They've burned through all of their missiles. Even though nobody actually knows how many stocks the US has. And now they're going to go for Taiwan. This is game over. China is benefiting from all of the chaos. Well, I think China's a mixed mind about this at all. In one sense, it's humiliating as hell. To have your main proxy in the region, the one who you've been using to actually destabilize, keep the Americans distracted, have them certainly just get hammered. And without the defenders who've bought your defense systems and probably have some of your technicians there to work them. Laying a glove on them practically. That's embarrassing for them. And this is just after Venezuela happened when it was even more humiliating for China. And also for China to be exposed. It's not having any ability to actually really go and help these people with whom they claim they have a great relationship and, you know, going to implicitly, going to defend them. Well, they couldn't do anything at all. And that's not good. And then you also, you lose access to this really cheap oil. It's probably free, basically, that China exports a ton of energy and they got, they bought 90% of Iran's exports. But they also get a lot of other energy from the Persian Gulf. And if it isn't moving through the straits of war mues, well, China's got some real problems. They'll of course pretend they don't. But that's their nature. Their expression fake it till you make it. It really does apply to the Chinese regime. So that's caused them a lot of difficulty, the political embarrassment of it, the economic effects as well. By simply not having enough energy to enough of what they need. So that doesn't work well for them. But at the same time, sometimes there's opportunity in these sorts of difficult, these sorts of situations. And I think they don't mind seeing a US administration, particularly the Trump administration, getting bogged down, or at least seeming to get bogged down in the Middle East. Because by definition, if you're bogged down in the Middle East, you don't have as many resources. You don't have the political bandwidth, really, to deal with a single mindedly, say with what goes on in the East Asia, particularly Taiwan, Japan, that first island chain area, and to focus on China. So that is something that Chinese don't mind seeing. I think they're kind of curious to see how this actually plays out. And they're doing everything they can, of course, to keep the Iranian regime afloat, ranging from literal missile fuel to the dual use technology. And even just the pure military technology that they're putting into Iran, plus the targeting data that the Iranians get from the Chinese satellite networks to use to try and hit US ships, US bases, and also the allied facilities in the region as well. So they're glad to see how that plays out. If they say if they can keep it, keep it around afloat, even if it is quietly, without sort of quietly, by providing support and supplies, rather than sending the PLA out to sort of save the day or to take on the Americans. And I don't think they mind seeing that happen to President Trump. But there's a waiting to see, I think, how it plays out. But also having the Pakistanis being the ones who are the go-between, between the administration and the Iranians. Well, that's something that Chinese have got to like, because they've had for decades, have been really the main supporter for Pakistan. And it's hard to imagine that Pakistan is not consulting closely with China and probably taking some orders from China as well, as to exactly how they're going to handle this role as the interlocutors between the Trump administration and the Iranians. So that's something that really raises some eyebrows, at least for me, when you think of the fact that Pakistanis, of all people, these Chinese cat paws really are the ones who we're hoping to help us out with the deal with the Iranians. The Chinese might like that. So there's some things that I think the Chinese really don't like about what's happened in Iran and then others, well, they're trying to hang on and see what happens. Maybe something good will work out from their perspective. And at the same time, they've got their eyes on Taiwan. That's not as if they've forgotten about it. They've also got their eyes on Japan and the Philippines. But the end result here, nobody quite knows. And it's still been a while. And it hasn't been very long. And you've got to wait sometimes and just see how it all plays out. And you know, when never quite knows, and with this, well, one with wars in general, you often don't know how they're going to end. In fact, you almost never do. And then with anything, Mr. Trump, the President Trump is doing, he's a president like we've never had. And he does have a way of sort of confusing people. If they particularly if they pay too much attention to every single thing he says or tweets. But there could be something more that we don't know about. And he's the man in the ring. And lately, it's been talked about, of course, that he's actually trying to get the Abraham Accords greatly expanded and to get some more people to regional countries to join it. And the idea being that that actually might outflank anything the Iranians have. It's hard to say he's a businessman and a negotiator. And the first Abraham Accords were big enough of a surprise to everybody, certainly me. And I'd say all of the elite in the commentary, it was thought they were impossible. So you never quite know what he might pull out of the hat. So do you think that, given what we've currently seen over the last three months of Operation Epic Fury in Iran, that this makes the CCP more likely or less likely to invade Taiwan in the near term? I think it's a little less likely, actually. And there's a couple of reasons for that. One is that I think Xi Jinping has some real concerns about what happens if the, say, he attacks Taiwan and it doesn't like a four day affair because China is not in any position to defend any of its overseas interests if it were to go after Taiwan and if the Americans were in particular and their friends were to make it a global war. So China could potentially lose all of its international trade. So all this export that does look like an export to North Korea and Russia. But you have fun with that. But this whole system that brings in the foreign exchange, the foreign currency is going to be, we will be cut. And that's a real problem for them. And then it doesn't have the energy it needs. It's going to lose that, doesn't have the food it needs. All of that is potentially vulnerable. If the fight doesn't go the way, if I ever Taiwan doesn't go the way, Xi thinks it might and the Americans decide that they are not going to roll over and are going to make it a global fight. And that's one thing that the Iran War, the Venezuela experience, has demonstrated is China still cannot defend its overseas interests and where they can't really apply real combat power, probably much more than a thousand miles away from the Chinese mainland, which isn't very far. And additionally, this is, you know, you, you, you, one would think that if China does move on Taiwan, it's going to cause even some of the European countries, some of, and some of these countries even in the so-called global south, the developing world that are trying to sort of straddle the fence and do a lot of business with China, but not taking a stand on the security defense angles of it, that they may be forced to, forced to make a choice and also see that, well, this is China going after 23 million free people on Taiwan. That's not good in some cases. They may be thinking, well, we might be next. And that actually could cause more opposition to China to build up than the Chinese would like. So I think that's a real concern for the, for Xi Jinping plus. As I said, if it's not a very short attack on Taiwan, where he takes the place in about a week or so, maybe 10 days, then he gets bogged down. I don't think the Chinese public is going to be all that tolerant of it, you know, for if things are going well, well, everybody supports a winner, but when, when you're not having all that much success, well, the resentments from the 600 million people living on five bucks a day who are less, who are then living on a dollar a day or less, they're not going to be very happy. And Xi has got a boatload of enemies that he's made as his consolidated power. Give them an opportunity to go after him because he stumbles with some sort of a fight that has caused China. All of its international trade and just savage this reputation, such as it is and such as it cares, that that would not be in Xi's interests. But also, there's, when it comes to the Americans, you know, yes, we've used up a lot of our, used, we've used up substantial inventory, but he doesn't quite know what we have left. And we probably do have enough to cause him a lot of trouble if we decide to get into the fight. So that's part of the equation as well. But maybe the biggest thing or something as big as anything else that might give him some pause is the nature of Taiwan's domestic politics, where the president of the KMT, for example, was recent, the main opposition party in Taiwan was recently in China, basically having a love fest with Xi Jinping and almost parroting CCP, Chinese Communist Party talking points. And she seems to be very pro-China. And there are people in the KMT who think a lot like her. There's others who don't. They aren't quite such obvious quizzlings or traitors. But that's, I think that Taiwan's domestic politics, or something that she might want to let ride and see if a KMT candidate might win the presidency in the next presidential election to go with the control of the legislature, which they already have, and the idea being that this could perhaps, get a regime and administration in power in Taiwan that is very willing to accommodate China. And even if they aren't able to give China everything they want, that this could really royal sort of stir up Taiwanese domestic politics to the point that Taiwan's national defenses suffer as well. They're not able to focus on building their defenses the way that they are to. They're more reticent about dealing with the Americans and the Compton National Defense things along those lines. And she might want to let this ride and see how things develop in Taiwan before going on an all-out attack. Does he have the ability to launch an assault on Taiwan and think that he might succeed? I think he does. But whether he will actually do it, I don't think it's likely. But then again, anything's possible. And if anyone ever tells you well, such and such, it just couldn't happen. Well, you can probably be sure that it probably could. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more so I invite you to visit our website, chunincensor.tv, where you can watch the full hour long interview plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. Link is below.