---
video_title: "Some States are BANNING Chinese Buyers"
video_id: PKWleKFLqw8
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PKWleKFLqw8
video_date: 2026-05-21T14:08:19+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-332
  There is a move across the U.S. to ban Chinese nationals from buying up real estate because of how China could weaponize that property if it were to get into a hot war with the U.S.
---
So like the USDA is trying to branch out and put some branch offices in different states. It's probably hard to do offices in all 50 states. So it seems like really the onus is on state legislatures to think about what they want to do to protect themselves. Right? And a few states have done that. You mentioned Arkansas. Texas has done some stuff. There's a few other states that have done something you were in Ohio testifying related to a bill on that. So like what states have done the best besides Arkansas, what you mentioned in which states have done the worst? Like what's the worst state of the union? I don't know if we studied what the worst state. Let's just say the let's talk about the best ones and we'll assume the rest are not pretty, maybe generally not protected. But you know, I want to take this as an opportunity, Matt, to expand it out in the sense that as I found this through the agricultural land, both these bills and the purview zoom out more to all strategic land or Texas addressed all real estate. I think this is important for your audience who was a general awareness, which is that this comes to CCP infiltration in general. You know, the Aglan was the entree in 2023 state sessions. But Texas succeeded last summer in passing a law which prevents adversary countries, companies, even individuals. And that was controversial from owning all real estate, all real estate, agricultural land, commercial land, residential land, all of it. So again, what started as an agricultural question becomes a CCP ownership of our land question. Now that one was challenged and also the Florida one, which was similar, is also challenged. I think they're both in the circuit courts of appeals in their respective regions. But there's good faith that those will probably hold on. I mean, isn't it racist to say that, you know, just because someone is from, say, North Korea and a citizen of that country that they're not allowed to own land in Texas? That's beautiful, Matt. As we discussed, probably North Koreans don't have the capital to invest, but that's precisely the point. North Korea, but any, once you have a Chinese company or otherwise that has the wherewithal to invest in the United States, they're at the level where they're going to be tied to the Chinese Communist Party in some sense, whether it be members on the board, the executives. This is, as you guys know, the state is inextricable from the corporations. And in some ways, the people, unfortunately, let me state very clearly. Neither based on ethnicity nor on nationality should anyone be discriminated against, especially US citizens, wherever they're from, have 100% the same rights and must have the same rights under the law. But Texas has a every other year session. So the last time they tried this back in 2023, there was a successful movement on the Democrat side to say this was racist. And one thing they said, which was a fair, I'm glad he went through the democratic process, is a sense that, let's say this is a green card holder who is fleeing China, who is a legitimate dissident who is working for the American cause, and how can we shut these people out. So there was a cutout put in there for green card holders. And there also was a cutout put there. I forget the acreage, but a very small residential concern. So they did, they were able to make some cutouts on there. But yes, it's incredibly important to number one, no American citizen as far as the end of these laws and how it would be incredibly illegal. And number two, provisions are attempted to be made by good faith green card holders and other residents, depending on the state electorate and what they wish to put in. So otherwise, citizens of the PRC cannot buy real estate in Texas. That is correct. Am I understanding that is now in place? And no, yeah, they cannot buy any type of real estate. And do you think that this is effective or going to be effective in preventing some of these problems that you talked about? I think it will. I think it absolutely will. Look, you know, this didn't, that didn't really seem possible when I kind of started on the track, you know, three years ago, it seemed legally and also electorally or not popular enough, you know, to go through. I'm rather, I'm surprised in a good way that it went through. And here's the thing, you know, you know, this is only adversary countries. Most of these, some of these states tried to ban across the board and all foreign countries. I think that's counterproductive. I think we need investment on the agricultural sector and otherwise from allied nations. But these laws that we're talking about, the Texas and the Florida, the lists vary a little bit, but it's generally China, Russia, Iran, North Korea, Venezuela. And listen, we, that's a narrow set of countries. They have a very specific national security threat tied to them. I would much rather err on the side of banning these purchases. And I do think if there was a Texas style law in every state or if it could be done at the federal level, which, misdefyingly, almost, it's almost impossible to pass at the, at the federal level, someone else will have to study the, the, you know, the electoral reasons behind that. But all I can say is that almost half of states have done this and it's, it's the right way to go. Do you think some of the success of this has been because the American public is becoming more aware of the issue and is concerned? Absolutely, absolutely. And yeah, I think, I think nonprofits, nonprofits like mine are stepping up to the plate on that the federal government. Again, I'll keep pointing back to you how important this foreign security action plan was. In back in July, it was an only Secretary of Iran, Secretary heads, headsets, and now two that are not there anymore, but Secretary Nome and Attorney General Bondi, but just to show you the level that the federal government now at least understands there are a problem, you know, there may not be an easy, there's never an easy solution, but they understand the problem is there and that means they're getting pressure or feedback from the electorate, which, which understands, again, in more and more spheres, but Ag is becoming one of them, which is really coming to the fore. So I'm not going to ask you which is the worst state, but let me just suggest, Chris in my home state of California, I was going to, I was going to go for this. Yeah. How's California doing? Yeah. I'm glad you asked that. You're not going to, you're going to be surprised at the answer. In 2022, one of the only states which had tried to do something was California. Again, we're going to need a real political scientist to figure this out, but the assembly, I think it was the lower house, passed something along these lines, and I'm going to forget the details, but they did pass something. No, I think both houses passed it because I think Newsom defeated it. We need a political scientist somewhere. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. We need a political scientist to understand. I know there's lots of farming in the Central Valley, and that's important, but there's so many liberals in California. I don't know. I don't know how that happened. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, ChinaNcensor.tv, where you can watch the full hour-long interview plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.