---
video_title: "Canada Has Fallen"
video_id: uJnYY8NEVbU
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uJnYY8NEVbU
video_date: 2026-02-14T14:29:01+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-325
  
  Canada’s defense against foreign influence as almost non-existent, making Canada a playground for Chinese spies. Joining us today is Dennis Molinaro, author of the new book Under Assault: Interference and Espionage in China's Secret War Against Canada.
---
So how does this use to be, you know, conduct these influence operations and make it seem legal or not get like the kind of pushback that we've seen in the United States more recently. It's just that just especially because they kidnapped Canadian citizens. Why isn't there this pushback? It's a good question. So one, part of the problem here is legislative. So I mean that started to change recently but it hasn't really made much of an impact. It hasn't been kind of carried out yet. So in the United States you have your foreign registry, you have FARA, that the US has been using more recently now to go after people who are essentially working for the PRC and doing it covertly. So engage in that kind of influence attempts. In Canada though, that was passed. So there was an effort to create a registry about 20 months ago. The legislation passed but it still hasn't been created. So it's not there. So effectively what it means is that, you know, until very recently, we had no laws here on the books that, so in other words, you could be working for a foreign intelligence service in Canada. You could be recruiting a network and building a network to work in your countries' interests. And that was totally fine. There was no legislation that could hit anyone with that. So recently the new Bill C70 that went through that piece of legislation has more measures now to kind of get at that. And the foreign agent registry should be able to get at that as well. But it were almost two years and it hasn't even been created. So I mean, what is so it's a permissive environment is the easiest way I can put it. Because what's the cost that's imposed? If there's no cost imposed to you doing these kinds of things, then they're going to do them. I mean, it's as simple as that. And so how does it play out? So you can so make them back to why? Yeah. So the why is is again, it's a, it's a harder question to answer because again, I think it ties into a lot of Canada's focus has been on trade, right? It's a trading country. It's a smaller country. And so it lives for trade in that sense with its foreign relations. And so what you have is in an effort to never want to disrupt that, there's a kind of culture that very is very permissive across the, the, the, the government, I think that security measures could upset or offend trade or disrupted in some, some measure if it, if it's perceived the wrong way or what have you. When the reality is you have to do that kind of stuff because China doesn't, doesn't respect weakness. That's just how it operates. And so that kind of influence attempts happen across the culture. I mean, they happen in the diaspora communities within Canada where the, the PRC is directly harassing or targeting individuals. They happen here throughout. And this is similar to the United States, actually, it's occurring in the US, same as it is in Canada. Targeting academics trying to entice them with, you know, with the old 1000 talents plan where providing lots of funding to engage in research partnerships with the PRC and then the PRC ends up controlling all the IP. I mean, that's all well known now. And then yeah, trying to get to elites or trying to influence them. I mean, there was in the book, I talk about. Back in the 2000s. And this is after the collapse of a major tech giant, North help, which was operating in the US in Canada and just was completely gutted by PRC hacking. And the government's facing cyber attacks at the time from the PRC. So this is the, in the 2000s, early 2010s. And I had people telling me that what was happening is in Ottawa. At the PRC embassy, they would have these open parties. And basically politicians were welcome to come and just eat and drink for free at the PRC embassy. And the PRC loved it because and they were just, you just go on this circuit every week and just go there and it attracted a bunch of people. And this was a regular thing. 100% would have worked on me. I get it. It sounds hilariously comical. Like it's like the diplomatic version of an all you can eat Chinese buffet. Yeah. Yeah, it's an influence buffet. But yeah, this is going, this was going on just quite openly. They wanted it to keep it going from what people told me. It's just, nobody saw any problem with it. And so if you're doing that for, for how long? I mean, it has a effect. Well, that gives me an idea. Like why don't we do our own weekly buffet in New York City or in DC? And we can invite all these influential people and we tell them to stop doing business with China and critical sectors. Well, I don't think that would work. And by communist barbecue. When you were talking about trade, I was thinking of, you mentioned earlier that Canada has a trade deficit with China. Yeah. Every country has a trade deficit with China. There's no, there's no country that has a trade surplus with China because their economic model is to like export out their lack of like domestic consumption. So is there ever like a recognition that like not all trade is good trade? That's a good question. But again, I don't think there is no. I think part, and the other element to this too is what Prime Minister Carniet said more recently, along with the importation of EVs, that there was going to now be more Canada-China investment. So has he put it? When it came to this sector, so that just seems to me like the EV deal is kind of part of something else. Opening up in some capacity too. But I mean, you think about what does that mean? The communist party investing in Ontario. And industries that are linked with Michigan was cost in Ohio. It just doesn't make any sense to me. And what that's going to mean. Because if you start having the PRC and come into Ontario and try to invest in plants, I mean, it's mind-boggling. What about Canada becoming like, you know, there's fentanyl superlabs. I've heard Canada has become now the point of entry into the United States for fentanyl. And that's killing more Americans every year than the entirety of the Vietnam War. Is there any sense in the Canadian government that, you know, maybe this is a problem? Well, I've seen more recently, there's been more and more arrests and more of these attempts to try to target these superlabs that you've mentioned. But again, it seems as if it's only been a relatively new thing that this kind of emphasis has taken place. So there was a strange part of that deal actually is worth mentioning too, that of the recent trip. Because, and I think the UK has something else to tied into this in their recent Starmer's recent trip, that there's going to be more cooperation with law enforcement, with the CCP, with the PRC, and part of that was tied to fentanyl. And I find that very perverse. How would you cooperate with the entity and with the police forces in the PRC that look the other way to allow fentanyl precursors to get sent to North America? How would that partnership work? It just boggles the mind. So I think it's only recently gotten more attention, but for a long time, I don't think it got any attention here at all. Well, Dennis, I think you're being a little unfair because Chinese police aren't just looking the other way. That's actually the Chinese government is subsidizing the chemical companies that make the precursors and helping them get it to Canada and using Chinese state run banks to help them launder their money. Yeah, there's so in other words, I guess what I'm saying is that you're seeking a cooperation with a country that is a main part of the problem and seems to be quite okay with that problem. So I mean, that's the difficulty that I have with any kind of a partnership, especially a partnership with a country that not just in terms of the fentanyl issues, but also wants to get after PRC diaspora that are living in your country, to silence them and plan that it's the Fox on program that they're looking for economic fugitives when they're also targeting people who are critical of the PRC. So how are you going to cooperate with that? I don't know. Yeah. Well, that's a whole other thing and you talk about this in your book that like even like Chinese people who come to Canada for refuge are not safe and they're not really being protected. In the US, we've had the FBI, like there's been several prominent cases, I think within the last six or seven years that have come out about agents of the PRC trying to like they're essentially being arrested and charged and put in prison for this transnational repression. How is that going down in Canada? In terms of arrests, I haven't seen any. I mean, I've seen I think there was one that was kind of seems like at least from what I read in the press indirectly kind of related to it, but in terms of PRC lined individuals who are engaged in that activity, I haven't seen any. And again, that speaks to the problem and we just get new laws now that that criminalize this activity, but I haven't seen any arrests that have resulted or any enforcement of them. So when I was talking to people in the community, they would tell me that they'd go to law enforcement and a lot of the time they didn't understand the issue, where they didn't see the foreign state connection or it was too hard to prove and so they just kind of shrugged it off, but often they were dismissed from law and by law enforcement here. And part of the problem too becomes if you don't have a, if it's not widespread and knowledgeable enough, then in terms of the community, in terms of, I mean, the broader culture, understanding what the issues are and what the problems are and what China is doing. If you don't have that adequate understanding, then I can see from a law enforcement perspective where the dismissal happens because they'll, you know, they'll look at it and say, well, I don't know anything about this stuff. I don't know where to begin, what have you and I have to solve a stabbing or a shooting or a homicide and sorry, but I don't know what to do with this. And there's that lack of appreciation and knowledge about the issue. And so part of the book, the reason for the book too, is to address some of that as well, to make these kinds of issues more prominent, more well-known in Canada so that we can actually do something to stop this activity and kind of help educate the population in a way to, you know, try to contain it. Thank you for watching this clip, but there's a lot more we couldn't put here on YouTube. So visit our website, ChinaNcensored.tv so you can watch the entire hour-long interview, plus get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.