---
video_title: "The US is #1…in DEBT"
video_id: pzvksmoYoQ4
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pzvksmoYoQ4
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-349
  The U.S. is winning…when it comes to debt, which means long-term it’s in big trouble. With $40 trillion in debt, the entire budget of the Pentagon is now smaller than the interest payments the US is making on its debt.This puts the U.S. in a position where it may not be able to maintain its superpower status for much longer.
---
Since it since it just came out, do you have anything else you'd like to say about, particularly the debt [music] issue? Because I know China has been having a field day with that. >> They've also been reducing for years now their exposure to our debt and and and getting rid of US um bonds. As you know, this week we've now have 40 trillion in federal debt. This is the greatest national security threat to the United States in our history.

And no other country has achieved this kind of debt and survived. USA number one. >> Yeah. >> I mean, we >> need is 40 Elon Musks and we're good. >> [snorts] >> Elon Musk created Doge and he he he created a few billion in savings, but you know, you'd have to get rid of every government department in Washington except the Pentagon and the entitlement programs, Medicaid, Medicare, and Social Security. You get

rid of every government department except those things and you take off 1 trillion off the national debt and we are paying 1.4 trillion annually on the interest of that debt and that's larger than our annual defense bill. And when your when your your debt payments your your your interest payments become greater than your defense bill, many academics would argue, like Niall Ferguson, that we have no longer a great power at this point. We are now a huge debtor nation. And it's it's a problematic because also, you know, our organization has come up with solutions to Social Security and there's lots of work to be done at the federal level and at the state level to address this. Um but any politician that

wants to address the debt, particularly anyone who dares talk about reform to funding Social Security, it's political suicide. You'll get every, you know, boomer, every uh older person, a retired person voting against you. So, politicians want short-term solutions and this is a long-term problem that's coming down the path that we're not dealing with on either the Democrat or the Republican side. There are a few people in Congress who talk about it like a Senator Rand Paul and a few others, but there's I'm actually a member of the millennial debt foundation. Millennial Debt Foundation is a group of millennials who are concerned about the debt. We do get the

odd congressman and the odd senator coming to speak to us. But it's like I said, it's too few and far between. It's not political short-term wins in trying to address this issue and politicians in Congress and in the administration keep kicking the tin down the road. >> So the US is stuck between the boomer voters and the younger voters who seem to like the DSA. >> Well, exactly and of course that's you know, I was just on a call previous call we've taken calls from the public in New York City. I was on New York Public

Radio a couple days ago and there was someone who dialed in and he was a you can go listen to it. He was he liked what's this guy? Nick Fuentes the guy that's very popular at the Heritage Foundation. Nick Fuentes is a neo-Nazi. He has glorified the Taliban praised Joseph Stalin Adolf Hitler and even the rape of women. And and and

basically this person was referencing as a point of reference this young man calling into the the radio station as one of his points of reference Nick Fuentes. And and you're finding basically on the right even a lot of young people who for example work in Washington there or groupers are these people who follow Nick Fuentes. And basically they're also advocating socialism. So for example, if you look at J.D. Vance's economic policies

they're identical to the the Democrat Party's policies in their platform. If you go read the Democrat Party platforms of 1980, 84, 88, 92, they're identical to JD Vance's economic policies. He believes in trade unions. You look at another post-liberal like Josh Hawley, he believes in controlling how much interest banks can can put on loans. They believe in big government as long as conservatives or Christians run it.

These people are not conservatives in that any way shape or form. They're basically um They're basically I feel like at times I've woken up in the Republican Party that's been transformed into the Democrat Party of Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale. Whilst in the Democrat Party goes absurdly to the left with the Democratic Socialists of America and being apologists for Islamist regimes. I mean we had we had someone who used to work for Elizabeth Warren who went to the funeral of one of the murdered Ayatollahs, you know, recently. I mean this is crazy.

You've got groups like Queers for Palestine. I mean do these people have a death wish? I mean they throw gay people off buildings in these countries. I mean if you if you are openly gay in in Iran, you have a choice of death or a sex change operation. It's not like going to Beverly Hills for a sex change operation. It's basically castration. So

again, I find that the young people have been subverted by institutions which have been co-opted by the far left. And then of course I've seen that also on the right with people I mean when I was working at the Heritage Foundation, I didn't leave because of any policy disagreement. I left because I literally was having arguments with some of these under age 30 people telling me the Holocaust didn't happen. Um People were making excuses for Adolf Hitler telling me that Winston Churchill was a villain of World War II. This is terrifying, but I asked them. I

said is this something you gleaned off Facebook? And the response I got was, oh no, I'm not on Facebook. That's for old people in their 30s. We're on Instagram and Tik Tok. And look, here's my phone.

It's right here. And they would show me this stuff. They were following. And then the algorithm reinforces it. And JD Vance is like I said, the usual suspects, Tucker Carlson, whom the President Heritage Foundation said last year was his friend and will always be the friend of the Heritage Foundation.

Well, he didn't consult me about that. Um and so I left. And as did 75 people have left Heritage since October last year. And 293 people have left since Kevin Roberts became president 2021. There's that huge problem at the youth level that you mentioned. And huge

divide between younger people and older people. And that's going to get worse as we see, for example, young people not having experiencing the post-war boom that their parents and grandparents, you know, benefit from. Can't have the same level of of of of of of lifestyle that that they had. And then they become bitter. And then of course, they're going to pay more and more taxes to pay for the bankrupt Social Security that the older people are living off of. This

is going to create a huge generational divide. You think it's bad now, it's going to become much worse if we don't address these serious problems. >> Uh is there any hope, Andrew? Cuz this is sounding pretty dire. >> It is dire. In fact, I will finish with

to we are there parallels to be drawn with the 1930s. If you look at the 1930s, we had the America First Committee, which was isolationist, protectionist, populist, and viscerally anti-Semitic. You had Charles Lindbergh, who was viscerally anti-Semitic. He was he and as well as Father Coughlin Charles Coughlin with his radio program in Michigan. And they were the Nick Fuenteses and the Candace Owens. And on

the left, you have Hasan who's all those horrible things well viscerally anti-Semitic and absolute bigot. Says the most outrageous dehumanizing things. You've got those people on the left as well, on the far left and the far right in social media. You had those people in the 1930s. You had Huey Long, who was a socialist senator from Louisiana. You had

um the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act, which turned the tariffs turned the Depression into the Great Depression. And you had vast economic certainty. And then people started to blame minority groups like Jews for their problems. And we're seeing that now as well. So, we have a huge fight on our hands, and I think that there are solutions. I will be

voting for anyone other than J.D. Vance and the post-liberals. And I can go into a great deal of why I don't I don't support post-liberalism. They don't even believe in our US Constitution. They

would rip up our founding documents. They've publicly said that they don't they think America needs to be re-founded on something different. Many of them believe in creating a theocracy. But that's J.D. Vance's crowd and the

people he's the academics and others that he's surrounded himself with. I think he is the very bad candidate. If we get someone like Marco Rubio, I'm going to be very relieved as our candidate, and I think he could potentially win a general election. It also depends on who the Democrats choose. If they choose a crazy candidate, we see AOC basically coming forward saying, "Oh, um woke 1.0 was was crazy." Well, you

know, I don't that doesn't buy it for me. She's she's trying to repackage herself. But if the Democrats choose a crazy candidate, maybe maybe like I said, it really depends on if the Democrats want to shoot themselves in the head with choosing a crazy candidate as they are certainly doing in the primaries right now with some of these DSA candidates. >> Thank you for watching this clip. Want to watch our entire 1-hour interview?

Join us on chinainside.tv. Plus, you'll get MP3 downloads of all our podcasts, and more importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.