---
video_title: "Watch What You Do in a Chinese Hotel"
video_id: 9zBw04yo9aI
channel_name: "China Unscripted"
channel_id: UCvr1DclUsRzNYXWOWJ7eVLQ
channel_category: "News & Politics"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9zBw04yo9aI
video_date: 2026-03-03T01:13:21+00:00
video_description: |
  Watch the full podcast! https://chinauncensored.tv/programs/podcast-326
  Careful what you do in a Chinese hotel because you may end up on a porn website! A BBC investigation found lots of cameras set up in Chinese hotel rooms. And when they took one offline, more popped up in their place. 
  
  
  Join our fight to expose the CCP at https://chinauncensored.tv and get ALL the new full-length interviews!
  
  And check out our other channel, China Uncensored:
  https://www.youtube.com/ChinaUncensored
   
  Our social media:
  X: https://www.x.com/ChinaUncensored
  Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ChinaUncensored
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/ChinaUncensored
  
  #China
---
Oh, we were going to talk about this recent BBC. That's what happens when that's not a wrap that rein us in with a silent disapproval. What you're seeing is basically how a normal conversation goes between Shelley and I where there's a lot of China in there. But then also we get really distracted by other things that we're both interested in. Yes. So there was this BBC documentary that came out recently about this problem they have in China where you go to a hotel or a guest house, maybe with your spouse or your girlfriend enjoy a night of passion. It's worthiering heights, very worthiering heights. That great passionate. If this is clipped out and they don't know what obviously sees the worthiering heights thing that we talked about for like five hours, it'll be very confusing. Subscribe to our website, ChinaNcensored.tv to see the full podcast. Chris and I talk a lot about weathering nights. It's great. You'll love it. And so like the interview this guy who then goes on on one of these websites in China where like you can see like hidden cam footage and he's like, oh my god, that's me and my girlfriend doing it. So he was trolling a porn site and realized it was him. Yeah. So it's kind of like a weird cell phone. So you wanted to watch hidden cam footage of people having sex and we're upset when you found out you were also a victim of it. Yeah. Maybe this is what you were talking about earlier about the whole like people don't really understand what's real in a certain sense. Yeah. You're just like watching hidden cam footage. You're disconnected from reality and you don't think about that. That was another part we talked about earlier in the podcast that you can see if you subscribe to a full thing. Yeah. But I thought it was wise because the guy was like, oh, he, I think there was something in that BBC story about how he liked watching that kind of porn because he thought it was more real. And I was like, this is, you don't think about the fact that other people are also being victimized because they're not, they don't, yeah. Oh my God. But yes. So that was definitely, you know, people started posting things about like people setting up tense and oh inside of the hotel, the hotel, inside the hotel room or like you can buy stuff in China that's like a big kind of almost sleeping bag like thing that you can, this is like a safety thing for women where you could crawl into this to change because you don't trust that there aren't cameras anywhere in the hotel. And this is the thing. It is so, this problem is so widespread. People are resoring that. This, I mean, this was another case where this is something we were talking about years ago before, you know, the BBC gets to it because yeah, I think it was maybe 2024, I forget exactly, but there was a Chinese blogger, shadows never lie, I believe was his name where he basically uncovered this. And it was a, this is widespread. And it was a case where like, you know, the local authorities got involved and it was like, oh, good work. This was not the hotel owners. This was just somebody else who like put cameras in there, no ties to the local government, please delete your videos to the entire hotel. Yeah. And then like it was a whole scandal of like, okay, but maybe like the hotel people were connected to the local officials because this is a way hotel owners and guest house make a lot of money because they're like there are even cases where people will like undercharge on like the rent for a night because they're making so much money selling this hidden camp footage. It's such a huge market in China. Yeah, it's a big story. It's a big story. They weren't able to kind of, they traced it back to this guy who had a network on telegram right where he was, you know, where it seemed like there were lots of hotels and then people kind of went on like found some of the other hotel by looking at the, what the hotel rooms looked like. They found some of the hotels and the BBC went in and they got basically one of the hotels. It was like, oh, they found all the handcrimmers took them out. But then, you know, this network, this network just got reestablished in another telegram group with different hotels, you know, so it's just so widespread. But also this brings up the whole honey pot, honey trap thing, right? Yeah, I know we call, we have the honey pot so much that I get confused too. Yeah, that, I mean, this is like a state tool that they send pretty women film it. Every time I just think about Neil Bush, you know, where he's like, well, it'd been root of me to say no. Right. Where people, in the divorce proceedings, it came out that he had had sex with some random woman in China who came to his hotel room and the question was like, why did you just, like you didn't have any questions about why this random attractive woman just, you know, showed up and was like, hey, yeah, and his response was, oh, it would have been root of me to say no. Good manners. That's what happens when you have too much generational wealth. I just write generational trauma like we're the ring heights comes back. But yeah, so again, going back to the, the redder that we started the podcast with, like this is like, that's not a story that he talks about. People are going to think that this is actually a redder and not a New York Times opinion piece. If you have not subscribed and have not watched the full podcast, we started off by talking about a New York Times opinion piece that I said is basically sounds like it was written by a redder, talking about how great China is and how much more powerful it is. But like these kind of stories don't factor into that that like there's so much economic distress that there's become this wide thread market of spy cameras, filming people, secretly having sex so they can make money and if people are so terrified of it, they have personal sense industry of guests trying to get around or, you know, devices you can use to try to find the hidden cameras in the hotel room and all this kind of stuff. But there's an entire market segment of this kind of stuff. It's really crazy. And now I'm thinking about how in that New York Times article, the guy wrote, you know, everyone needs Chinese products. Oh, yeah. Like there's no way to get around how big of a, you know, how China is such a manufacturing hub that like, you know, you can't, it has such a huge trade surplus. There's, you can't fight it. Like everyone needs Chinese products. Well, maybe, maybe this is where I should, I should end this podcast the way I end all of our podcasts by saying Carthage must be destroyed. But it already was. No, it's analogy for communist China because you know, I've portrayed the US is wrong, US Rome and communist China is a Carthage. Did you portray the US's Rome? Yes, I mean, I don't know if that made it into a clip that people are seeing, but yeah, it's like that's the parallel I drew. I am Kato the elder. Okay. Okay. Communist China must be destroyed. Hopefully you won't take too punic worse. Yeah, hopefully not. And I'm looking forward to making that AI movie with you that would probably be a lot of time and effort and not do very well. Thank you for watching this clip. There's a lot more. So I invite you to visit our website, ChinaUncensored.tv, where you can watch the full hour-long podcast, plus get MP3 downloads. And most importantly, you'll be supporting the work we do. The link is below.