---
video_title: "Sell Plumbers This One Thing For $297/Month. That's The Whole Plan."
video_id: zRZ2LbAkw5Q
channel_name: "Adam Erhart"
channel_id: UCKU0u3VbuYn0wD3CUr-Yn6A
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zRZ2LbAkw5Q
video_date: 2026-08-12T13:00:27+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Free AI Agency Course (+ $8,273 in bonuses): https://adamerhart.co/3TPHiQs
  ⚡ Extended 30-Day HighLevel Trial (Install the System + Unlock Bonuses): https://adamerhart.co/45W3V8k
  
  When you start, you get immediate access to:
  • A simple AI-powered agency model you can launch fast
  • A high-demand service businesses already need
  • Prebuilt funnels, follow-up, and booking
  • Client scripts and outreach templates
  • A step-by-step 90-day roadmap
  • Done-for-you automations
  • Ongoing coaching and community support
  
  Everything unlocks immediately.
  
  ⚠️ Disable ad blockers, VPNs, or incognito mode before clicking so bonuses unlock correctly.
  
  I may earn a commission if you use my link, at no extra cost to you. It’s the exact platform and setup I use to run my own business.
  
  ---
  
  📕 Free First Client Playbook (What to Sell + Who to Target + What to Say): https://adamerhart.co/getclients
  
  0:00 - The 30-Day Plan to Land Your First Client
  2:35 - 5 “Productive” Traps Keeping You Broke
  5:06 - Part 1: Find the Right Prospects Fast
  6:24 - Part 2: Send a Message That Actually Gets Replies
  8:10 - The Follow-Up System Most Beginners Skip
  8:44 - Part 3: Turn Replies Into Clients With a 3-Minute Video
  10:14 - What to Do When a Client Says “Yes”
  12:11 - The Google Reviews Mistake That Can Hurt Your Client
  13:43 - Set Up the Entire System in Under an Hour
  14:41 - 3 Rules That Can Make or Break This Strategy
---
Do you ever feel like you're doing everything right? You've picked a service, you've watched the tutorials, you've got the software open in another tab, but you still don't have a paying client. Here's what I think is actually going on. Every video you've ever watched gave you something like, here are five steps you need to get clients, but every single one of those five steps ended with something like, now choose from these seven different options. Pick a topic, pick a platform, pick an offer type, pick a lead magnet, but here's the deal. A map with five different forks in it and five different decision points isn't a map, it's a maze. So today, no forks, no spooning either, because I'm gonna tell you exactly what to do based on my over decade of experience building successful and wildly profitable agencies. For the next 30 days, this is all you're gonna do. You're gonna find plumbers on Google Maps and you're going to send them one message, not a cold call, just a simple message. And all you're offering them is just one automated review system for $97 a month. Plumbers, one message, reviews, $97 a month, look at that, we're less than a minute in and we've already got four decisions made. And before your brain finishes saying, but I don't wanna do plumbers or $97 isn't enough money. Look, you're not marrying plumbers forever here, you're just starting with them. Same goes for the $97 per month. You're not gonna charge $97 a month for the rest of your life. This is just the starting point. And look, I appreciate you probably don't like being told what to do. I don't like it either, which is why I spent years refusing to be coached or to listen to the advice of people who are trying to help me and could have cut years off my learning curve and made me a whole lot more money, a whole lot sooner. I remember once spending over eight hours at my kitchen table mapping out six different possible marketing services on the notepad. Things that my agency could offer to clients, including websites and SEO and content and a bunch of other things that nobody really wanted and I didn't really know how to do. And yet, at the time, I clearly remember feeling like this was a good and productive use of my time. It's funny how procrastination gets surprisingly convincing once you give it a notepad. Since then, I built three seven figure agencies worked with over 1,500 small businesses, run thousands of campaigns, including for companies like Google and Amazon and Meta. And today, I do it all as a one person agency with zero employees. And what I actually learned is that the winners aren't the ones who picked the perfect road. They're the ones who picked a road that worked and just kept going. So first, I'm gonna cross out the five roads you're not allowed to take. That is, if your goal is to actually get clients and make money. If it's not, then, I don't know, go nuts. There's lots of roads out there. Then, I'm gonna walk you down the only road left. And I'll show you who to contact, exactly what to say, what to charge, and how to deliver it and get results once your clients say yes. I promise that last part is the easiest of them all. So, let's get started by walking down dead end number one, more courses. Rather than leading to more clients and financial success, this road just falls off a cliff. If you're anything like most people, then you've probably bought a course in the past, watched 40% of it, and implemented roughly none of it. And when this course didn't produce a client, you decided the missing ingredient was, yes, another course. Now, no judgment here. So over the years, I've bought way more than my fair share of $997 courses. And to be honest, many of them were good, very good. But, there reaches a point very quickly, typically after the first or second course purchase, where a third or fourth or fifth one isn't going to get you the results that you're after. Okay, dead end number two, build a funnel. This road is a swamp. And admittedly, it's the trap I still fall into more than any other, even today. Because building funnels and campaigns for services that you might launch someday is one of the most productive feeling ways to avoid making money that's ever been invented. Dead end number three, grow an audience. This one is less of a road and more of a brick wall that for some reason people seem convinced that they need to keep bashing their heads into until they finally break through. Now, this next part's important, like really important. So, you're gonna wanna pay attention here because here's the deal. Most of the successful agency owners and entrepreneurs that I know, myself included, built an audience after they made their millions. Clients gave me proof, proof gave me content, content gave me an audience. You run that sentence backwards, though, and you end up with an audience made up almost entirely of other people trying to build an audience. In other words, not clients. Dead end number four, find the perfect type of business. This one is an endless maze of procrastination and it's the exact trap that I sat in with my notepad trying to map out the perfect list of services for the perfect niche. Fun fact, you can't research your way into market feedback. Eventually, another human being has to be involved. They're the ones with the money after all. Dead end number five, wait until you're ready. This is gonna sound harsh, but let's just call it what it is. This one is a death spiral and it's where dreams go to die. Learn a little bit more, get one more certification, redo the website, change the logo, back again, all that is is fear, dressed up and pretending to be preparation. So we've got five different roads and every one of them ends the same way. Another month without a single message sent to a single real business and therefore another month without a single paying client. So that's the road that doesn't work. So now, let me show you the one that actually does. The one I want you to use. Part one, find. The reason plumbers work here is simple. They've got a phone number, a Google listing, and a very emotional relationship with whether or not the phone rings this week. Their business success can pretty much be measured by that one metric alone. The phone either rings or it doesn't. So here's how you're gonna find them. Open Google Maps, type in Plummer and your city. As an example here, I'm searching for plumbers in Huntsville, Alabama. Then we scroll and we look at one number, the review count. How many reviews they have? What you want are plumbers sitting roughly between 10 and 40 reviews. If they're under 10, you wanna skip them for now. They're usually too new to feel it. If they've got over 100, you wanna skip them too because somebody's probably already handling it. Look at this one though. 28 reviews and a competitor less than a mile away with more than 3000 reviews. That's the ideal client here. And I found it in like 11 seconds. So right down the name, the phone number, and the review count. Then find 19 more just like that. And here's the honest math. 20 messages might get you a reply, it might not. The people who actually land a client from this send 10 to 20 a day and just keep going. That's about 20 minutes a day once you get moving and it gets faster after the first few. Now, part two, and this is the message itself. And I wanna be really clear just in case you're afraid of what I'm gonna ask you to do here. So here's the good news. You are not cold calling anyone. You're not picking up the phone, you're not standing in your kitchen at nine o'clock in the morning trying to psych yourself up to make the call. None of that. All you're going to do is just send a simple message. Now before I show you the right thing to send, I first need to show you the wrong thing which is what most people said. And it usually sounds a little something like this. Hi, I'm a digital marketer. And I help businesses like yours get more leads. Would you like to hop on a call? Unsurprisingly, this doesn't work. The business owner reads this and thinks, great, another one, and deletes it. But here's what you send instead. And you're gonna want to screenshot this or write this one down. Hey Dave, I was looking for a plumber in Huntsville and came across your business. You've got some great reviews by the way. One thing I did notice though is the company just down the road is sitting at over 3,000 reviews and you're at 28. I recorded a quick video showing an easy way to close that gap. Is it all right if I send it over? Now that message works for three reasons. One, it's specific to his business. Two, it starts with something true and positive. And three, it asks permission for one tiny thing. You're not asking him for money right there on the spot. You're not asking for a meeting. All you're asking for is can I send this over? And that is a tiny request. And tiny requests get answered. Big requests like how would you like to hop on a call with a complete stranger and get pitched marketing for half an hour, those get ignored. This message strategically also doesn't mention your agency or your experience, which is great news if you're new. Now you don't want to lie and you don't want to hide it, but you also don't have to make it one of the first things you say here because what's important is that he's not buying your experience, he's buying the result that you're going to be able to get for him. Now most deals don't close on the first message, but most people quit after the first message. Those two facts are related. So you send three messages across five days. The original, a soft bump, the next day, and a final low pressure one three days later. And you can automate the whole thing. Inside high level, which is the software I used to run my entire one person agency, I add a prospect and the sequence runs itself. Build time is maybe 10, 15 minutes, one time. Then it runs for every new prospect you ever add. If you don't have the software yet, do it by hand. Just use a spreadsheet, set some phone reminders, sticky notes on your monitor. The principle is what matters here, which is staying in front of him for around five days. And then we come to part three, which is the video. And don't worry here, I'm not asking you to create a full length feature film. So here's how the whole thing works. The prospect says yes, send over the video. Well, now what? Here you record a loom video, which is a free screen recording software. The video itself is just two to three minutes and it has three things in it that you want to cover. First, you show them the problem. His Google listening and the competitors side by side. In the case of our example here, this is 28 reviews compared against 3,000 reviews. And this is important because you're not just telling him that something's broken, you're actually showing him right there on the screen. Second, you show them the solution running. Not describing it, but actually showing the solution. In this case, I'll show them the trigger that kicks off the whole automation, the messages and how they're sequenced and some of the logic and automation. This is basically proving that there's a system in place to do what I say I'm going to do. Third, you make them an offer and you keep this just as simple as everything else. So here's what to say. If you want me to set this up for your business, it's $97 per month. One extra job can cover it. You can click the link below and I can get this set up for you in the next 48 hours. You might want a screenshot that or write it down to. That link goes to a simple checkout page. He clicks, he pays, now you've got a client. And getting things set up in 48 hours is a real selling point for a small business that values their time and prioritizes speed above pretty much all else. In $97 a month is low enough that even just one extra job covers this. Now you are going to raise your rates later but for now start with $97 a month for at least the first few clients. Okay, so now let me talk to you about the thing that you might actually be worried about most which is what happens if he says yes, I wanna hire you, take my money. Because somewhere in the back of your head is probably a version of this where he replies, sure, let's do it. And then he asks you a question that you weren't ready for and your brain responds by shutting down and completely deleting the entire English language from your vocabulary. So let me show you the whole thing top to bottom and you can decide for yourself just how scary it is. First, I showed you this part real quick when I talked about showing your prospect the entire system. This is the entire automation that runs and don't worry, you don't need to build this yourself. I'll put a link down in the description that's going to allow you to just copy and paste this entire thing over into your account. One thing I do wanna cover though is that trigger right at the top, which is what kicks off this entire automation. As the software can send the review request all on its own but what it can't do is know that a plumber just finished installing a water heater. I mean, the software is good but it's not clairvoyant. So something has to tell it that the job is done. Lucky for us, that's something is whatever he's already using. You see, every plumber has some way of marking a job as complete. This could be jobber or house call pro or quickbooks, whatever it is, that's the part you connect. For example, if he's on house call pro, it's a native integration. You just go to integrations, click house call pro, paste an API key and you're done. Takes maybe five minutes. And anything else, you can use a connector like Zapier and it's the same idea, just one more step. And this is the part that actually matters. He doesn't need to change anything. He doesn't have to learn your software, he doesn't have to retie a single customer. He just marks the job as complete exactly the same way he did last week but now a review request goes out automatically all because of it. From there, the system sends a check in. This is just making sure that everything looks good. There's no ask, there's no link. You're just being a good business. Then it sends the actual review request with the direct Google link. If they don't click it, it sends another reminder a couple days later and if they never do text well, it follows up with an email instead. The second that they do click, everything stops. And if a customer ever replies stop at any point, the system also never messages them again. Now, real quick but real important warning here because there's a lot of people teaching this the wrong way. What they're doing is they're advising that you send happy customers to Google and quietly rooting unhappy customers somewhere else. But that's called review gating and Google explicitly prohibits it. And this isn't some harmless little shortcut either. Google can restrict the business's profile. It can hide its reviews or can even put a warning on it which means the system that you installed to help your client could end up causing a real problem. Not exactly a good look for you. Fortunately, avoiding this is almost stupidly simple. Every customer just gets the same exact Google review link. Same link, same process, no filtering people based on what they said first. Everyone gets the same opportunity to leave a review. That keeps the process simple and transparent and compliant with Google's review policies. And the check-in first is what protects your client. If somebody writes back actually the gutter near the garage is still leaking, well, now he knows and he can fix it before anybody's asked for a review. And if you don't have the software and automations in place, you can do this manually by hand. Just send a check-in text after each job, you can wait for the reply, then send the review link from there. No software needed, the automation just makes it happen every time without anybody having to remember. But like I mentioned before, if you want to just copy and paste this exact thing directly over into your account, I've linked up an extended free trial of high level, which is the software I'm using down in the descriptions. It comes with all of my agency templates, including the one for this build already inside. So once a client says yes, you just connect his account and start the setup instead of having to build the whole thing off a blank screen. One practical thing here as well, before you go sell this. His business phone number needs messaging registration before any of this sends. And that approval takes us, well, as long as it takes. Now the easy workaround is we send the first few messages by email while we're waiting for the phone number to get approved. Once that's ready, the workflow takes 45 minutes, maybe an hour to fully set up and connect. Then your monthly job is about 20 to 30 minutes of making sure that the triggers being used and the requests are firing. Now here's what makes that first $97 worth way more than it looks like. Three months from now, the reviews are working and he stopped thinking about them entirely, which is the highest compliment an automated system can get. And once that happens, he trusts you. And another conversation is going to come up. He's going to tell you what's broken next or where else he needs help. Maybe he's missing calls, maybe the websites costing him jobs. And when that happens, he's going to want you to be the one to help him. Not a stranger, you. But that's month three. It's not today. And I don't want to hand you back the maze. So today, you just sell reviews. That's it. Now I've got three important warnings that I need to share with you before you go do this. Warning number one, do not lower the price even further. You're going to get to the part where you say it's $97 a month. And your mouth is going to attempt an unauthorized discount. So don't let it. The guy who says 47, or haven't brewed 27, is telling him that this is not a valuable service. And in fact, there might even be something wrong with it. So stick to the price. Same goes for later down the road when you raise this to 197, then 297 a month. Warning number two, do not add a second service to that first message. You're going to be tempted because you'll see six different things that are wrong with his business. But here's the deal. He's not buying six things from a complete stranger. He's buying one small thing from a stranger. And then he's going to buy more things later from somebody that he now knows and trusts. That's you. Warning number three. And this is the one that trips most people up. Do not build the thing before you sell it. Don't spend Saturday setting up the automation for a client who does not exist yet. Like we've already covered here, I'm giving you the entire automation that you can just copy and paste over. It's not complicated. The best use of your time is reaching out to potential clients and offering them this service. Only after they say yes, do you start putting the pieces in place. Now, lending one client and building an actual agency are two very different problems. This is why I've got a video linked up right here that's going to show you how to turn that first yes into an agency that pays you recurring revenue month after month. So feel free to tap or click that now. I'll see you in there in just a second.