---
video_title: "From 46% to 90%: Fine-Tuning Tiny LLMs for On-Device Agents — Cormac Brick, Google"
video_id: -TiET_K-E_g
channel_name: "AI Engineer"
channel_id: UCLKPca3kwwd-B59HNr-_lvA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-TiET_K-E_g
video_date: 2026-05-20T13:00:06+00:00
video_description: |
  Function Gemma ships at 270 million parameters and processes nearly 2,000 tokens per second prefill on a Pixel 7. Out of the box, on a fixed set of app intents, it hits 46% accuracy. Fine-tuned on a synthetically generated dataset, it clears 90% on eight of ten functions.
  
  Cormac Brick covers the two options developers have for on-device AI: Gemini Nano via AI core for common tasks, and LiteRT-LM for custom models that ship inside your app. The session walks through a live skill harness built on Gemma 4 with a restaurant roulette demo running fully on-device, and Eloquent, a production transcription app built by chaining two models under a few hundred million parameters.
  
  Speaker info:
  - https://www.linkedin.com/in/cbrick/
  
  Timestamps:
  0:00 Introduction to on-device agents and tiny LLMs
  0:48 Overview of AI Edge, SLMs, and TLMs
  0:57 Taking a look at agent skills
  1:06 Taking a look at tiny models
  1:24 Motivations for on-device AI (latency, privacy, offline use)
  3:01 System-level GenAI (Gemini Nano via AI Core)
  4:03 App-level GenAI (LiteRT-LM for custom/boutique models)
  5:06 Google AI Edge Gallery app demo
  6:22 Deep dive into agent skills and the skill harness
  7:41 How the skill harness works (system prompts, tool calls, and JavaScript UI)
  9:00 Creating and publishing your own skills
  10:28 Using LiteRT-LM runtime for model deployment
  12:31 Export and inference workflow (from PyTorch to deployment)
  13:19 Function Gemma: Robust, small-scale function calling
  14:35 Fine-tuning workflow for tiny models using synthetic data
  16:01 Eloquent: A production transcription app example using tiny models
  17:28 Q&A: Agent skill robustness and multi-skill calling
  19:26 Q&A: LiteRT-LM file format vs. Task files
  20:00 Q&A: Performance on CPU/TPU and resources
---
So what we wait for it to come up, because I know we're short of time. I'm going to talk about agents on device. So I know whoever asked a question about skills in AI Core, we have an answer to that. We've built a simple skill harness in top of AI Core that you can build skills on. We're able to show that. Also going to talk about tiny LLMs, which are, we would call LMs, they're like smaller than a billion parameters, they're small enough to build into your app. If you want to have more customization or you want to do something that isn't already available a few in AI Core. So that's the, just, so a quick overview of AI Edge, well, how we think about small language models, tiny LLMs and system gen AI, then we're going to take a quick look at agent skills, which is something we can build on top of kind of system gen AI or the new models that are coming down the pipe. And then we're going to take a quick look at tiny models. So that's that. Okay, so, oh, yeah, cool. Yeah, oh, okay. Yeah, feel free. Okay, so AI Edge, SLMs and TLMs. Okay, so I think I'll be already covered this. We know it's great to do things on device, latency, privacy, offline use, reliability or savings, depending on things, these are all motivations to do things locally. Me, by way of intro, I didn't really do this. I kind of, I'm a software engineer and kind of tech lead working on the Google AI Edge stack. We have MediaPipe, which is an asset that some people may be familiar with. We've LiterTLM, which is a LM harness that you can integrate with your app, where you download the model and ship the model with your app. And then we also have kind of LiterT, is a runtime that supports both LiterTLM and MediaPipe. It's kind of formally known as TentraflowLight, which is a kind of cross framework runtime for running models. And all of that can run on CPU, GPU or NPU, depending on the platform and depending what's best and use it, developer gets to choose. Yeah, it's already trusted at scale. Like the LiterTLM runtime, there's a version of that built in Tendraux. Lots of Android apps already use it. So it does support over 2.7 billion devices, lots and lots of daily invocations, and lots and lots of Android apps leverage this. It also works far beyond Android as well. So we support all of these platforms. And for example, Gemma is available on many of these platforms. Our team is giving another talk tomorrow. So you can hear more about Gemma performance on all of these types of platforms, and how we're able to do really useful things with the latest Gemma form models. But then building on Oles and Florin this talk, this is kind of key idea. We have system level Gen AI, which is something that will be pre-installed into the system. So there's Gemma Nanover via AI Core. This is an example of the summarization API. Apple also has something going on with their intelligence on iOS that I probably know a lot less about. But as a concept, as an app developer, when you go to build a mobile app, this is kind of one choice. There will often be some form of intelligence built into the system that you can leverage, which is highly optimized as kind of audio and Florina coverage that's available for use with your app. So this is kind of typically small language models. Like for Nano, it is the Gemma 4, E2B and E4B, are the base models for what we ship there. That's really capable, highly optimized, pre-loaded with device. If you can use it, it's great. Your app doesn't get any bigger. And if it means your use case needs, it's a great place to start. If you want more specific tasks that you want to do that's highly customized or something really boutique, you can use an app Gen-AI. So that's what the Lighter TLN runtime. That can be loaded with your app or even your webpage. This offers a higher degree of customization and reach, definitely more work. But you kind of access to smaller models that can run in lots of devices and full customization. So it's clearly a lot more work. But it's the other option that's available. Okay. So rest of the talk. 50 minutes go to cover two key ideas. One is, hey, how do you do skills on device? Because this is something new that we can do with Gemma 4. It came out last week. We have a few examples of that. This is one key idea. The other idea I want to cover is, hey, for tiny models, what can you actually do? What do you actually do with those types of models today? Because we've actually made a lot of progress in this in the last six to 12 months. So I kind of just want to share what's the state of the art with tiny LLNs. And if you want to use one in your app, how'd you go back to that? Okay. So this is, wow, there's a lot on this screen. This is an app that Artinhood developed to the works on both iOS and Android for running LLNs locally. And here we show both really tiny LLNs, so you can see what they can do. But also, because Gemma 4 just came out, we're also using this to showcase what, how Gemma 4 can work on Android and iOS as well. And this actually builds on AI Core. When AI Core is available on the device, it will use AI Core to kind of provide the Gemma model for the app. So skills is the thing I want to kind of go into deeply today. But there's a bunch of other things in the app like you can do AI check. You can ask image, you can do audio scribe. And there's lots of example models. And the app also supports 3P models, like kind of, Quinn or Fire or these types of models. If you just want to load a model, get a feel for how it performs on device. And this app is also open source in Android. And it's built using LLN. So it's both a neat way for you to try things out. But also if you're keen, you can kind of dive into the code and see, hey, how does it all kind of hang together as an example for LLN. But we're going to dive into skills because this is kind of a topic to sure. Okay, I'm not going to play this video because I don't have enough time. But yeah, this app is available Android, iOS, code available on GitHub as well. Maybe let's take a picture. Okay. Okay, and the app is called Google AI Edge Gallery. So this is the video we will watch because it's shorter. It means my time budget. And we don't. Could we get sounds in ancient Dictasc? Sorry. Hey, Jim, is that you can find a French restaurant in Francisco? Please reply to me in English. This uses a restaurant-related skill. And we'll see how that's built in a little bit. A little bit of reference. Select one winner, right? So that's an example of something neat that you can build like with a simple agent harness on top of the gem before. That's like really just a few lines, like pretty easy to do with a few lines of code or a few lines of the right videcoding parameters. We'll see in a minute. Okay. Okay. I know how that. Yeah. Okay. I kind of got lost a little bit. Okay. Sorry. Back to where it was supposed to be. So what's actually happening under the hood? So like I was saying, this is built on like, and this is built just using a prompt, right? And here you can provide, we have our own system prompt in our app. Then we also put the skill descriptions into the prompt. So the model is aware of the types of skills it can use, but it doesn't have to see all of the functions and details of the skill. That's only kind of loaded on demand. We actually have a, a loads, a load skill tool called built into the model that then like selectively. So if you say, hey, can you show us the location of the Google office? It will then know, wow, I should use the map skill, the skill from App Navigation, the two responds, and then it uses the ShowJS tool to show you the location in the app as well. So one of the things that's neat about being in and out is you can put simple JavaScript into the skill that we then call as part of the skill. So this is how, like I don't have the corresponding demo for this, but this would kind of pop up a nice, kind of like JavaScript UI of kind of Google Maps to kind of just show you in the app right there. Similar to the restaurant relash, that was a custom JavaScript to do the rendering, to do the relash release. Okay, so you can create your own skill as well. The app supports this. Sorry, yep, instructions on GitHub. But also, I'd create your own skill. There's full instructions there if you want to kind of handwrite it out. This works really well though, so we can use skills to write skills. So we have Gemini CLI or Cloud Code, like our team have done like 80 skills that had a lot of fun with it. So this is an example of a prompt which works really reliably. In Gemini CLI, we actually have an ADB skill as well. But we, our team uses a lot, so you can even debug and test by saying, hey, you have access to a device via ADB, and you can also ask to test that. So this type of thing actually works really, really well, and it's fun, and you can then create a skill. And then in the app, there's a dot, dot, dot button and you can go to load your own skill from a URL if you kind of publish it to your custom to your own GitHub. It's kind of really easy to do from what I'm doing. You can then also let us know in our discussion on GitHub that you've created a skill and then other people can check out your skill and kind of use that as well. These are some things. This has only been out since last Thursday, but these are some example skills that the community should have built. So feel free to do this and tag it up here. Hey, that's skills. So the last ten minutes, we are going to spend on TLMs, or probably more ideally maybe five or six of the minutes, so this time for questions. Okay, so later TLMs, this is the runtime that we have that we use for running models. It runs models in light or TLM format, which is a single file that packages everything we need to know about the model in order to be able to run it. It's open source. It's fast, and it works on multiple platforms. And there is a Swift API and a JavaScript API coming soon at the moment. If you go to the GitHub, you can see the C++ and JavaScript version. And when we publish the Swift version, we will also publish. We will also open source the iOS app at that point in time. So if you go to gallery for at the moment, you can only see the code for Android. But hopefully in the next few weeks where we can get the Swift work finished, have a really good API, and then we'll be able to open source that as well. So yep, and it supports Jemaphore as well on all of these devices. It also supports loads of other models, but understandably Jemaphore is our favorite. So then to deploy a tiny model, what do you do? So typically, start and transformers. You then have a package called Light or T Torch that can help you export the model and then Light or TLM. There's actually a reference version of that that you can use on your desktop as well. If you want to try out a model, you can either try it out for desktop or you can load it into the gallery and see it perform there. And then you can deploy the Light or TLM. It's worth noting for smaller models. You would either pick a fixed function model like a visual language model or a transcription model or something like this. So there are some pre-built models available on our transformers page that you can use. Something we also see that's really common is people find tuning models. Because certainly once you get out to like 200 or 100 million parameters, for that model to work, it needs to have a very narrow and focused task. And we've had a lot of success deploying those models internally and in a different app that you're going to see in a minute by doing kind of fine-tuning using synthetic data. So this is what the export inference flow looks like. So this is showing, on the left-hand side, it's exporting a QN.6 model and then running that on desktop or GLM run. So you can just see how that behaves using a GPU, for example. The right-hand side is showing a different example, which is Apple's Fast-Fey LM. This is a visual language model that's only 500 million parameters. And this is optimized and running on like a, this is running on the Qualcomm NPU. That's also available through our stack NPU optimization. So this is an example of that happening at the end. And this is running really quick because it's using hardware acceleration. And this model is just, that particular model is 500 million parameters by way of example. Another example that we've spent a bunch of time with the DeepMine team on was publishing function jemma. It's something we published last December. This was based on jemma 3 technology. This is only 270 million parameters. But it's robust function calling when fine-tuned, type of there. And this is then, it's small and it's really fast, even on legacy devices. So if you're all the ways back to a pixel 7, this still can process almost 2,000 seconds per second pre-fill and 140 decodes. So it's really useful for lots of, it's really useful for lots of simple use cases like you can do text-to-function calling or voice-to-function calling using this size model. And there is a whole YouTube video on this called function jemma. If you want to find out lots more details about how to do it, we also have a function jemma fine-tuning lab. So if you search function jemma fine-tuning lab, I don't have here. This is available as a hugging face space. So you can kind of import, you can define functions, upload your own data, and see how that kind of fine-tuned function jemma. And this is kind of recommended for really high, for really robust function calling. So we have an example in the app called app-intense, where it'll do the thing you saw previously of add calendar or add email. So when we took function jemma out of the box, our success rate and that was, I think, 46% or something like that. Then we put it through this fine-tuning flow where we're like, hey, we have these seven functions. And instead of providing that via a system prompt, which is what you would do if you were using a larger model or if you're on a device today, I core, for example. But you instead need to kind of synthetically create a data set, right? It's typically the workflow we use flash to synthetically create a data set. Uploaded to this type of tool, or we obviously have our own internal tools, but that then got that 46% to over, like it was over 90% for eight of the 10 functions we were trying and two of the functions were a bit lower in the kind of 80s. So you can get really robust and reliable function calling using this fine-tuning workflow. Yes, it's a bit more work than just prompting a larger model, but it does allow you to kind of ship something robust in your app at scale. Sorry, going the wrong direction. Oh, yeah. So then pre-built tiny models are here. Yeah, okay, I'm going to pull stuff for questions. Okay, so we have, I don't want to go to this in such a short time. We've another app, I'll just speedrun this for one minute. We also have another app called eloquent, which is a transcription service. But what's more interesting than the app is just an example of how we built that. So it also supports things like personalization. So it does transcription with your own favorite keyword. So if you use a lot of tech jargon or a lot of people's names, transcription service, don't always get that correct. Sadly, this is only available on iOS and not available in Europe yet, right? So this will be increasingly available soon. But the more interesting thing for the purpose of this conversation is under the hood, this is something we've built using tiny LLNs ourselves. So this uses a sort of engine that we have built based on Gemma 3 technology. And then it also has a text polishing engine that we've also built with Gemma 3 technology. And both each of these models are only a few hundred million parameters, but change together that can create a really compelling offline, like offline transcription service that is able to leverage a personal dictionary, right? And also the publishing also removes onz and az and that sort of stuff, right? Which is also a common gripe with kind of offline transcription apps. But yeah, so not really available widely, it will be available in the purpose of this conversation. It's more just like a proof of life example. So like this does work in production. Once you put in the effort to kind of fine tune the model and you can create pretty compelling things. Okay, so it's not available in iOS and Europe, so that's not true. So yeah, take away system genie, NF genie, that's the kind of the overall, overall kind of message and wrap up. Happy to take questions. I have three whole minutes. I think person there was first. Yeah, we are still putting models in the clock there. So we've literally been playing the model for about two to three weeks now. It's been in public for about one week. We see like within a single convert, so we can provide like certainly for the four billion problem model, like if you by default, we enable about eight skills and it's able to choose between the eight skills reasonably well, right? Within a conversation, you're able to say, hey, like, you know, like, like find me out of the fact I'm using a Wikipedia scale. Then, oh, wow, show me where that is on Google Maps. If you have a conversation that uses scale scale scale, that works really robustly. The thing we're still working on that's harder is through a single like interaction with the app for the app to note called multiple skills as part of a single answer. That's, and that works sometimes, right? And we're still like that's something we're still figuring out how to make that more robust, right? But yeah, like it's all in a just our like our agent harness thing is really simple, so I'm sure we'll figure that out. We're still kind of discovering the limits of how far we can push the model. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Lighter TLM file format for just for stock. LLMs is effectively replacement for dot task file. That's a transition we made last year. Dot task files are still useful for things like the like a task file creates more things than just an LLM model, right? So there is like a face mesh task and obviously that was a lot of other code as well. But for LLMs, we want something dedicated simpler that people can use with open developer to do. Yeah. So yeah. So it bundles things like the tokenizer, but it's just the LLM model. What about TPU? How was the performance of TPU for? On TPU? CPU. And yeah, so there is another talk tomorrow from some of my colleagues, I'm doing a way who's here in second row, and that has lots of performance data on Gemma and various models on, yeah, you can also check out our model card in the meantime. If you search Gemma, LLM model card, we keep her kind of running like we update that whenever we have new performance numbers on new platforms. So there's a lot of comprehensive data there as well. All right, I'm at zero seconds and it's flashing at me. Yeah. Yeah, two, three, sorry, Chinton sir. Sorry, Chinton, didn't see that.