---
video_title: "Inside 847 Production Clinical AI Notes — Sebastian Fox, Composo"
video_id: yqF6XhzbWBk
channel_name: "AI Engineer"
channel_id: UCLKPca3kwwd-B59HNr-_lvA
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yqF6XhzbWBk
video_date: 2026-08-22
video_description: |
  A clinical note from a real consultation reads like a routine tension headache, and nothing in it is wrong. What never reached the page is that the patient also mentioned her jaw aches when she chews, which alongside a new headache over 50 is a red flag for a condition that can take her sight within days. Sebastian Fox pulled that error, and every other failure here, out of three leading production ambient scribes in one afternoon. In the largest real world study of these notes, roughly one in 20 carried an error serious enough to cause significant harm, nearly one in five had an important omission, and more than one in 10 contained a hallucination. Ambient scribes now run in about a third of US practices, and almost none of this surfaces as a reported incident.
  
  The obvious fix is a checker after the generator, and Fox built the best version he had seen: a frontier model, a faithfulness rubric with worked examples, automatic rubric optimization, deterministic concept counting. One in five of the notes it waved through still hid a serious error. Verification is only cheap for the easy half, spotting what changed between transcript and note. Deciding which differences matter is tacit, contextual and always moving, so it was never written down anywhere a rubric could read. Two notes drop the same holiday detail, and France is noise while Lake Malawi is the diagnosis. His answer is to keep the standard as examples rather than specifications, discovered from real outputs and assembled per note.
  
  Speaker info:
  - https://www.linkedin.com/in/seb--fox/
  - https://composo.ai
  
  Timestamps:
  0:00 - The note that looks completely fine
  1:29 - The obvious errors, and how common they are
  4:02 - Mapping every failure across three production scribes
  5:30 - Mishearings, additions, changes, omissions
  7:03 - The hard part is knowing what matters
  7:56 - Put a checker after the generator
  9:35 - The best judge waved a fifth of them through
  12:06 - France versus Lake Malawi
  13:49 - Discover, capture, calibrate
  17:13 - Three judges on the same notes
  18:06 - Beyond healthcare
---
This is a clinical note in AI rope from a real consultation. Take a few seconds and read it. It reads like a routine headache. A new headache, like the tension type, takes some piracy tomorrow, comes back if it doesn't settle. Looks completely fine, doesn't it? Here's what's missing. In the room, she also mentioned her jaw aches when she juice. A new headache, over 50, with jaw pain on chewing. That's giant cell arthritis. And untreated it can take her sight within days. It's the same day that starts to arise now, emergency. And that one line, it never made it into the note. On the page, it's a piracy tomorrow headache. Nothing in the note is technically wrong. It's a dangerous part, is what isn't there. And so that's what I'm going to talk about today. The dangerous failures are often the ones that actually look completely fine. Firstly, who am I? I'm Seb, medical doctor, by background, and now I'm composing where we build AI evaluation systems for high-stakes domains. So that one was a subtle kind of error, but sometimes it's not subtle at all. A man in his 20s sees his GP for a sore throat, tonsillitis. The AI writes that up. It gives him chest pain, suspect and vagina, diabetes medications he never taken, and then addressed for a hospital that doesn't exist. And I really like the LLM for this one. I think it's a good attempt to hospital name. And weeks later, he's invited to diabetic ice-creaming for diabetes he doesn't have. That's genuinely a real case that happened recently. Obviously, these kind of crazy ones, someone notices. But it's those quiet ones that sit in the record uncore that are the most challenging and can actually do a lot more damage. And they're not rare at all. In the largest real-world study of these notes, about one in 20, carried an error, there was serious enough that it could cause significant harm to the patient. One in 20, that's not fear-excaural in testing, that's in production on real patients. And that's only the serious ones. If you widen that lens to all errors, nearly one in five had an important omission, and more than one in ten had a hallucination. And AI has been deployed at scale across healthcare, fast. Ambient scribes are one of the leading cases, already in about a third of US practices and climbing. Physician AI used double last year, and none of this is tracked. So for most of these systems, there's no adverse event reporting at all. The error is going to show up as incidents. They just sit in the record. So, errors this common that are going unseen, it's quite hard for me to believe that it's not already affecting patients. It's not that we checked and it's fine. It's that we're offline blind. And this isn't just a healthcare problem. It's every white-to-extusive AI. Healthcare shows it more viscerally, because here being confidently wrong can be life and death. But everything I show you can map straight back onto other domains as well. So here's what I want to do. I'm going to show you what exactly is going wrong, why it's going wrong, why the systems we built, the catcher don't work, and a suggestion at how maybe we can start to fix that. So first, what's going wrong and why? So, elements are getting good, obviously. They don't make stupid mistakes any more most of the time. So it's not about dumb errors. Everything here came out of three of the best production ambient scribes on the market. One's that we all know. We generated loaded notes across them last week. And this is exactly what's going on right now. So every failure we found, each dot is an error colored by type. Left to right, how much it matters, bottom to top, whether a strong automated check catches it. And that split is the point. A handful up top get caught, but almost everything sits below the line. The ones I care about most are these on the bottom right, the high stakes and missed ones. Let me show you what a couple of those looks like. So a woman comes in with a headache, Dr. asks, did it come on suddenly or build up gradually? She says she doesn't know it just happened. The note records that as abrupt sudden onset. And sudden onset as a red flag, you can see why it just happened, could maybe be interpreted and inferred as abrupt onset. But that's a feature that points to a bleed on the brain. She never said it, the model decided it. And now that one word drives the whole workup. Here's another. Dr. suggests running some tests. The patient says, can we just try antibiotics instead? They agree, hot off in the tests, treat and see how it goes. Note records the opposite. Arrange tests today. It kept the plan that they talked out of, not the one they chose. Every line in the note reads fine because it's not really a hallucination until it's not wrong. It was there in the original, but it's just not what they ended up deciding. So why are these having? There's an ambient scribes, there's first transcription and then generation. A lot of it does happen on the transcription layer. It can be words misheard for their sounder likes. So, heumolog, heard as heumolin. Two incidents on completely different timelines. So swapping them could crash a blood sugar. Hyperthyroidism becomes hypothyroidism, the opposite condition. Or a drop to no on no evidence of cancer that becomes evidence of cancer. So these are really hard problems and they are common. Not the ones I'm going to focus on because most of what goes wrong is actually even where the perfect transcript. It's the model reading the words correctly and still doing one of three things. Either it adds something that was never said, it changes something that was or it emits something that should be there. Now the blatant version of each of these is really easy to catch. Harplot in all three is the same. It's telling whether that thing that was added or changed or dropped actually matters. It's detecting that slight over-imference versus the dangerous fabrication. The harness refrays versus the meaning flip. A dropped line of small torque versus a dropped allergy. So the ones that matter slip through along with all of the ones that don't. Back all which different matters is taste effectively. Not aesthetic taste, but essentially judgment. It's whether in this context a misalogy might kill someone or is not important. And I think there's three properties that really matter about this. It's tacit so your domain experts have it but they can't fully write it down. It's contextual. So the same detail is critical in one noise in the next. And it's moving. The model changes, guidelines change, two good doctors disagree. Different hospitals have different definitions. There's no fix to target to write down. So the model knows the facts. Ultimately they're extraordinarily capable. But what they lack is a sense of what matters here for this specific example. And that's why even brilliant models make these mistakes. So one natural move, you're never going to make that generated perfect. Generator is cheap. Generations cheap. So stop fixing it at the source. Let it write, put a checker after it, pass on your work clothes the bar. And that checker should be the easier job. The generator has to get everything right and pay attention to lots of varying instructions. Whereas the checker only has to find the one thing that's wrong and just focus on that task. You can also give it more time, more tokens, the exact failure modes to hunt for. Evaluation should be easier than generation. It's the asymmetry of verification, verifies law. And that's why AI is raised ahead anyway. You can cheaply check the answer, maths and code. And doing this is exactly what the best teams do. They put a lot of energy into evaluation. It starts with the gold standard which is expert humans reviewing notes, which obviously works offline, but you can't put a human on every note in production. So they automate it. They build a serious system. And some of the best versions of this that I've seen are you take the transcript and the note and context, put it in front of the judge, a detailed rubric for faithfulness with worked pass and fail examples. The rubric may be auto optimised with G-PUR or something like that. Maybe you have some deterministic NLP to count up medical concepts that are differing between the two. That's a powerful system. And yeah, I pulled all of those errors earlier out of ambient scribes in our afternoon. So if the evaluation is this good, how are these errors still getting through? So I built this system and ran those same notes through it. And it scored most of them fine. It flagged a handful of them and signed off the rest. But one in five of those clean passes still had some sort of serious error buried in it. And often that was an omission. The things that should have been there and actually quietly were. And that's the best version of a judge that I've seen in a lot of teams and it waved them through. Why did I do that? It's not stupid. It's a frontier model. Serious engineering behind it, more than clever enough to read the whole account term, catch every obvious error. And it's not blind either. And that's part of the trap. If you take a note that says start a motocelin when the real decision was actually to wait and see, it's faithful to the words a motocelinin did come up, but it's alive at the intent. A good judge might catch that, might. But whether it flag is that versus the other doesn't have other things that it could comment on. Depends on it knowing what decision matters most. And so it's not blind. It just can't tell what counts essentially. So the note passes confidently and you put a judge like that in front of your system. You've not added a safety net. You've added a second silent failure that just nods along with the first. And here's the root of it. So in Matzel code, the verifier comes for free, a unit test, a compiler. But is this note safe and complete? There's no unit test. You have to build the verifier yourself. And verification is only easier than generation for the easy bit i.e. spot the difference between transcription note. But that's not the hard bit. The hard bit is knowing all those differences you've seen which matter. And that's harder than writing that plausibly good note in the first place. Because that's down to the good. It was never written down anywhere that the judge can read it. A rubric that you pre-specify is only the taste you could write down. The taste that matters is the part that you couldn't. And so here's a bit more detail on what what matters looks like. Two patients, both of blood in their urine, both notes dropped the same kind of line, where they'd been on holiday. One had been France, the other was Lake Marlowe. Same in wish, a mission, same shape, same mistake. Well, not really because blood in the urine obviously worrying either way and you're going to investigate it. But the France trip is a relic. The Lake Marlowe trip is the diagnosis. Fresh water and sub-siren Africa means just a smisus until proven otherwise. And it completely changes what the management plan is. So that same drop line and one note is pure noise. In the other, it's the answer. And which one it is, you simply just can't write all of that down in advance. So if you can't write it down, you can't write taste down. How do you get that into your evaluator and your whole application system? Well, we've answered a version of this before. RLHF exists because you can't write the reward function for good. You learn it from examples by showing it. The only question is where you keep what you've learned. And there's three places. You can either specify it up front. You can stuff the prompt, write the perfect rubric. We just watched that fail, essentially. You can bake it into the weights, fine tuning or continual learning. But for a standard that's still moving and a score that has to be explainable, the weights, I think are the wrong place to keep that. They go to stay or they can't tell you why. And you can't change them without a retrain. So there's the third option, which I'll show you, which is you essentially just keep the taste as the examples themselves. Parts, judgments, expert corrections, references. And for each output, you retrieve the ones that bear on it into the judges context, add one and it's live on the next call. You can point and exactly what move the score. For this problem, it's both better and also cheaper to do. So that's the way to do that. There's one repeating loop, three steps. Discover the failure modes from real outputs. Capture how your experts judge them. Calibrate every output against that. And when the standard moves, the loop moves with it. So in more detail, discover. You don't write that rubric in a vacuum. You have to put the system in production and look at the real outputs. You cluster what goes wrong in the failure mode surface on their own. You name them. This is your failure mode ontology. Discover from your data, not guessed on a whiteboard. And you can't shortcut it. The ways that a real system goes wrong are effectively unbounded and synthetic test cases only cover the failures you already imagined. The ones that hurt you are often the ones that you didn't. And you only find those in real outputs. So this ontology is your map, what to capture judgment on, what to retrieve against, including the failures that you've never thought to check for. After that, it's capture and then calibrate. So those discovered modes, they're not a checklist that the judge runs, but they organize everything. What you ask your experts about, how you index the cases that you'll retrieve. And capturing is a simple part. You put real outputs in front of your experts. Coalition spends a focused few hours leaving comments. A session doesn't have to be a month's long labeling project to start with. And you collect their judgment. Not just a score, but the reasoning and corrections. And over time you build up that record of how your experts actually judge. You think calibrate. That's the generic part of this. You can write down once easily. For example, be faithful or don't drop anything important. But what you can't write down is what counts as a serious miss for this specific note. That's contextual. And it shifts from note to note. So what we recommend is you assemble that on the fly. For each output, your judging agent pulls in everything that bears on this one case. It's memory of the most similar outputs that it's judged before and how they scored. The expert corrections that apply, the reference stops and guidelines. It's just context engineering. Put output. And crucially, not just one pre-specified rubric in vacuum. And not a model that you have to retrain every week. But a full case specific standard assembled for this output. And it's a loop as well. Every output you judge, every correction, sharpens the next. And when a brand new failure mode appears, discovery surface it, and it flows straight back in. And so to make that a little bit more concrete, that headache that I opened with, the one that was really a possible blindness emergency. Here's the kinds of things that you would want to pull in for that note. The nearest cases that your experts have judged. Not this exact patient, but the same shape, maybe a red flag, filed as routine. The corrections that apply like a new headache over 50 suggest something that you need to check where it flags on. And some criteria and guidelines. And you pull all of that in. It hasn't memorized this case. It's a capable model. And handled the right context for reason from. How did against that? The drop red flag stands out. It was never actually hard to catch. It just didn't know what mattered. And so if you take that same data set of generated notes from the star and pass it through these three judging systems. The first, a strong off the shelf, judge with a rubric frontier model. It's better than a coin flip, but it misses most of what matters. The second, that's a serious system that we talked about before. Rubric, G-Pur, maybe some deterministic checks. Better again. But still missing quite a lot of what counts. The third, the judge running this loop, discovered failure modes, colorate, per output, against what experts judged, is performing a lot better on this specific data set. Same notes. The only thing that changes what the judge was shown. The difference here, it's not more compute or a better prompt. It's that the first two fight, taste and lose. They guess the criteria. They freeze one standard and they go stale. This repeating evolving loop and discovers the modes, fits the standard to each note and keeps learning. So you might not write clinical notes, but if you ship anything where being company wrong has a cost, the contract review that misses the clauses that change the deal, the support agent that promises a refund you don't offer, the same thing is true for all of those. It's watched if at all by a judge with no taste for what matters in your domain. So three things. Discover your failure modes from rear outputs. Don't guess them. Capture your experts judgment on them, the standard that they can't write down. Calibrate every output against the cases that they've already judged. Not a static rubric, not a retrained model. Then keep that loop running. And if you take one thing away, easiest place to start is your experts leaving free form comments on real outputs. That's the real, that's the raw material for everything else. Your judge can verify anything that you write down in advance, but the standard of good never could be. So stop trying to write it all down in advance and just start capturing it, case by case, and evolving it. That's why evaluation can't be a thing you build once and freeze. The standard it checks against doesn't exist on paper. It has to be discovered from rear outputs captured from the people who hold it and kept alive as it moves. Evaluation isn't something you have. It's something that you do continuously at a time. Thank you.