---
video_title: "Every Crazy Prediction That Got True Revealed to Fall Asleep to"
video_id: _R89edQDK28
channel_name: "SleepWise"
channel_id: UCXRSNxnGdfXAKmlucGIdQ2Q
channel_category: "Entertainment"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_R89edQDK28
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  In this SleepWise session, we explore the strange moments when someone described the future decades before it existed — in novels, in equations, in throwaway magazine articles nobody took seriously. Discover the bizarre truths behind predictions about ships, satellites, phones, particles, and the internet itself. Forecasts that seemed absurd until the world quietly caught up with them. Relax and drift to sleep as we uncover the crazy predictions.
  
  At Sleepwise, we’re building a community of like-minded people who enjoy falling asleep to thoughtful content. If that sounds like your cup of tea, consider joining us!
  
  🌐 Sleepwise Socials
  Threads: https://www.threads.net/@sleep__wise
  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/sleep__wise
  
  🕙 Timestamps
  0:00 The Titan
  02:15 The pocket phone
  04:11 Antimatter
  06:19 The Florida launch
  08:06 The seashells
  10:05 The music machine
  12:13 The empty squares
  14:16 Nineteen seventy four
  16:07 Richard Parker
  18:03 The atom
  20:07 The credit card
  22:01 Bending starlight
  23:59 The machine stops
  26:14 The word robot
  28:11 The satellite belt
  30:15 The two moons
  32:30 The wish list
  34:36 The limit
  36:33 The Aspen tape
  38:18 The wrist radio
  40:18 The atomic bomb
  42:30 The carbon number
  44:34 Year two thousand
  46:28 The primeval atom
  48:27 The metaverse
  50:27 The retraction
  52:43 Future shock
  55:01 The moving earth
  57:10 The great demo
  59:13 The ghost particle
  01:01:12 The chicken breast
  01:03:10 Cyberspace
  01:05:16 The space tower
  01:07:19 The missing mass
  01:09:24 Debt of honour
  01:11:18 The communicator
  01:13:06 The imitation game
  01:15:25 The automation warning
  01:17:33 The memex
  01:19:40 The television goggles
  01:21:43 The locked manuscript
  01:23:47 The global village
  01:25:55 The waterbed
  01:27:51 The unk*llable network
  01:29:53 The boson
  01:32:02 Down a wire
  01:33:59 Stand on Zanzibar
  01:36:18 The doubling
  01:38:27 The pandemic talk
  01:40:26 The newspad
  01:42:19 The chess machine
  01:44:21 Phantomatics
  01:46:24 You will
  01:48:21 The waves
  01:50:19 Asimov's twenty fourteen
  01:52:21 Speed of thought
  01:54:23 Alien life form
  01:56:21 The budget crunch
  01:58:14 The accelerating rate
  02:00:20 The comet
---
The Titan, 1898. A struggling American writer named Morgan Robertson publishes a slim novel about the largest ship ever built. He names her the Titan. She is British. She is nearly 800 ft long. She carries the

wealthy across the North Atlantic in winter. And the book describes her as practically unsinkable. On an April night, driving too fast through cold water, she strikes an iceberg on her starboard side and goes down with almost everyone aboard because there are nowhere near enough lifeboats for the people she is carrying. 14 years later, the Titanic left Southampton, British, just over 880 ft. described in her own publicity as practically unsinkable.

She struck an iceberg on her starboard side on an April night, moving too fast through cold water, and she carried lifeboats for barely half the souls on board. More than 1,500 people died in water that was a few degrees above freezing. Robertson never claimed second sight, and he had a reasonable defense. He had worked at sea. He read the shipping journals. Liners were growing every

single year. Lifeboat regulations were decades out of date. And the North Atlantic ice lanes were killing ships on a schedule. Given all of that, a giant unsinkable liner meeting an iceberg was less a vision than an actuarial forecast waiting to be filled in. What he could never explain away was everything else.

the month, the side of the hull, the excessive speed, the name. Publishers rushed the book back into print after the disaster with the fictional ship's tonnage, quietly edited upward so it matched the real one more closely. Robertson spent the rest of his short life insisting he had simply understood ships. Almost nobody believed him. The pocket phone. An old man is feeding

pigeons in a Manhattan park most mornings. Nearly 70, mostly broke, living out of a single hotel room. It is 1926 and his name is Nicola Tesla. A journalist from Collier's magazine comes to interview him about what the world will look like later. Much of what Tesla says that day reads, even to the reporter taking it down, like the drifting of a great mind well past its best years.

Then he describes the thing when wireless is perfectly applied. He says the whole earth will be converted into a huge brain. We shall be able to communicate with one another instantly regardless of distance. We shall see and hear one another as perfectly as though we were face to face despite intervening distances of thousands of miles. And then comes the detail that makes it genuinely strange.

The instruments through which we shall be able to do this, Tesla says, will be amazingly simple compared with our present telephone. A man will be able to carry one in his vest pocket. Not a machine that fills a room, not a wooden booth on a street corner, something small enough to sit in a pocket on your chest and travel with you all day. He got the shape of it, the size of it, the video calls, and the reason people would end up wanting it inside a single paragraph in a decade when placing a long-distance call still required a human operator to physically connect two wires. He died in that same hotel 17 years later, alone, still owed money by companies built on his patents.

He never held a single device like the one he had described. Antimatter. In Cambridge in 1928, a painfully shy young Englishman named Paul Drack is trying to force two of physics theories to agree with each other. Quantum mechanics describes the very small. Relativity describes the very fast. The electron happens to be

both. and nobody's equation could handle it. Drach working mostly in silence writes one that can. The equation works beautifully. It also does something he did not ask it to do.

Like a simple square root, it produces two answers instead of one. The first answer is the ordinary electron. The second answer describes a particle with exactly the same mass and exactly the opposite charge. A mirror image, something nobody had ever seen, measured, or had any reason to believe existed. Dra could have quietly discarded it.

Physicists throw away inconvenient solutions all the time. Instead, he did the braver and much more embarrassing thing. He said the second answer was probably real and that there was probably a whole shadow category of matter out there behaving as the mathematics insisted it must. His colleagues found this ridiculous. One of the most respected physicists alive called it the most disappointing paper he had read.

Four years later, a young American named Carl Anderson was photographing cosmic rays passing through a magnetic field, and he found a track that curved the wrong way. Same mass as an electron, opposite charge, exactly what the equation had ordered. We call it the posetron now, and hospitals use it every day because that is the anti-inosetron emission tomography scan. Drach had found a new kind of matter without an experiment, without a telescope, and without leaving his desk. The Florida Launch, 1865.

Jules Vern publishes a novel about a group of bored American gun enthusiasts who decide, essentially for entertainment, to fire a man projectile at the moon. It is a comedy. Vern is making fun of the American appetite for enormous, expensive, faintly absurd projects. He is not writing an engineering document. He simply does the arithmetic properly because that is the sort of writer he is. He puts the launch

site in Florida because he works out that a location near the equator gives you a helpful shove from the Earth's own rotation. He selects a spot in the state very close to where Cape Canaveral would eventually be built. He puts three men in the capsule. He makes it roughly the same size and made of a light metal. He brings them home by splashdown in the Pacific Ocean and has a naval vessel go out to collect them. 104 years later,

Apollo 11 launched from Florida with three men aboard in a command module of comparable dimensions and came down in the Pacific where a naval vessel went out to collect them. The commander of that flight had grown up reading Verer. So had a great many of the engineers who put him there. The story is not that a novelist guessed. It is that a novelist who took the trouble to do real physics arrived at the same small set of workable answers that engineers arrived at a century later because there were never that many workable answers to begin with. The moon does not care who

is doing the calculation. Vern's cannon was wrong. Almost everything around it was right. The seashells. You are on a train or in a queue or walking through a city and you are the only person nearby who is not wearing something in their ears. Everyone else

is sealed into a private audio world. Nobody planned this. It arrived so gradually that there was never a day when it felt like a change. Ray Bradbury wrote it in 1953. In Fahrenheit 451, the main character comes home to find his wife Mildred lying in bed with what Bradbury calls seashells in her ears. Thimble radios,

he writes, tiny electronic bees packing an electronic ocean of sound, of music and talk and music and talk coming in on the shore of her unsleeping mind. She wears them constantly. She sleeps in them. The technology is not the impressive part. Small earpieces already existed in a crude form. What Bradbury

nailed was the behavior. He understood that once the sound could be made personal enough and constant enough, people would not use it occasionally. They would use it as a way of never having to be alone with an unfilled minute. Mildred is not listening to anything in particular. She is avoiding silence.

His publisher wanted a novel about censorship and book burning. Bradbury insisted for the rest of his life that the book was really about something else and that people kept missing it. He was writing about a population that had stopped reading, not because a government forbade it, but because there was always something warmer and easier arriving in their ears. He was describing the wireless earbud and he was describing exactly why we would love it. Mildred never takes them out.

Neither do we. The music machine. Adah Love Lace is translating a French article in 1843 about a machine that does not exist yet. Charles Babage has designed something called the analytical engine, a mechanical calculator of brass and steel that is never actually built in his lifetime. Love Lace translates the article, then adds her own notes to the end. Her notes

run roughly three times longer than the article itself. Buried in those notes is one of the strangest sentences of the century. Everyone around her, Babage included, understands the machine as a device for numbers, faster arithmetic, better tables. Love Lace writes that this is far too small a view of it. If the fundamental relations of pitched sounds could be expressed in the machine's terms, she says, then the engine might compose elaborate and scientific pieces of music of any degree of complexity or extent.

Read that again with modern ears. She is saying the machine does not really operate on numbers. It operates on symbols. And numbers are only one thing symbols can stand for. Music is another.

So is text. So is anything at all that can be encoded. That single leap is the difference between a calculator and a computer. and she made it in a footnote about a machine made of gears that nobody had assembled roughly a century before anyone built one. She died at 36.

Her notes sat largely unread for decades until people building the first real computers went looking for ancestors and found her already there waiting, having described their whole field in a paragraph. The generative music sitting in a playlist somewhere on your phone right now is doing exactly the thing she said a machine of gears might eventually do. The empty squares. Dimmitri Mendelv is trying to write a chemistry textbook in 1869 and he cannot decide what order to put the elements in. 63 of them are known.

He writes each one on a card with its weight and its properties and starts arranging the cards on a table like a game of patience. Looking for a pattern that holds, he finds one, sort the elements by weight, and their behavior repeats on a cycle. But the pattern only works if he is willing to do something no serious scientist wants to do. He has to leave gaps, empty squares where the arithmetic says an element belongs and no such element has ever been found. Rather than fudge his table to close the holes, Mendelie left them open and made his position much worse.

Then he went further. He described the missing elements. He said the gap below aluminium would be filled by a metal with an atomic weight near 68, a low melting point and a specific density. He said the same for the gap below boron and the gap below silicon. He gave numbers. He gave properties.

He effectively wrote a wanted poster for three substances no human being had ever encountered. Gallium was found in 1875 and melts in your hand near the weight he named. Scandium arrived 4 years later. Germanmanium arrived in 1886 and its discoverer noted that the predicted properties matched what he had in front of him almost point for point. Mendel had not just organized chemistry.

He had proved his table was describing something real about the structure of matter by using it to order in advance three things that did not yet exist for anyone. 1974 a film crew from Australian television is in a computer room surrounded by machines the size of wardrobes and they have brought a small boy along for the interview. Arthur C. Clark sits down next to him. The interviewer asks what the boy's life will be like when he is grown. Clark

turns to the child and starts describing a world that will not exist for another 25 years. He tells the boy that he will have in his own house a console through which he can talk to his friendly local computer and get all the information he needs for his everyday life. his bank statements, his theater reservations, all the information you need in the course of living in a complex modern society, Clark says, will be available in a compact form in your own house. Then he says the part that reframes it. He does not present this as convenience.

He says it will change society completely because it will mean people no longer have to commute. We will not be stuck in cities. We will be able to live anywhere we like and do our business from there. He is describing remote work on camera while sitting beside a mainframe with less power than a modern doorbell. The clip is easy to find. What lands hardest

is not the accuracy. It is Clark's tone. He is not selling anything and he is not showing off. He is calmly telling a small boy in 1974 the ordinary facts of the boy's adult life. The way you would explain that he will one day have a job and a house. And

every single ordinary fact turned out to be correct. Richard Parker 1838. Edgar Alan Poe publishes his only fulllength novel and it does not go well. It is a strange uneven sea story about a stowaway on a whailing ship and critics dislike it. Po himself later called it a silly book. In the middle of

it, four survivors are a drift after a shipwreck, starving with no food and no prospect of rescue. They draw lots to decide which of them will be eaten so the others can live. The one who loses is a young cabin boy. Po gives him a name, Richard Parker. The others kill him and survive on his body, and the novel moves on to other things. And for 46 years, that is simply

a grim scene in a book nobody much liked. 1884. The yacht Minionette sinks in the South Atlantic. Four men escape in a small boat with almost no water and no food. After weeks of drift, the three older men kill and eat the youngest, a 17-year-old cabin boy, and are picked up days later by a passing ship.

The boy's name was Richard Parker. The survivors were tried in England, and the case became one of the most famous in the history of criminal law because it settled whether necessity can excuse murder. It cannot. The connection to Po was noticed almost immediately, and a relative of the dead boy is said to have written about it. Po had invented a starving crew, a cannibalized cabin boy, and the exact name of the real one four and a half decades early in a novel he had dismissed as worthless. He never knew

any of it happened. the atom. Around 24 centuries ago, a Greek thinker named Democrus, following his teacher Lucipus, sat down with no instrument of any kind and reasoned his way to the structure of matter. His argument was purely logical. Take something and cut it in half. Cut the

half in half. Keep going. Either you can do this forever, which he found absurd, or you eventually reach a piece that cannot be cut. He called that piece atos, meaning uncutable. And he did not stop at the word. He

proposed that these particles are eternal, that they move through empty space, that they differ in shape and size, and that everything you can see or touch is just different arrangements of them. Water flows because its atoms are smooth. Iron is hard because its atoms catch on one another. The variety of the world comes from arrangement, not from substance. He was wrong in the details and he had no way of testing any of it. He also

lost the argument for the next 2,000 years because Aristotle came along and said matter was continuous made of earth, water, air, and fire. And Aristotle was the one whose books survived and got taught. Almost everything Democrus wrote was lost. We know his ideas mostly from other people quoting him in order to disagree. Then chemistry caught up. Then physics

caught up. And the working model became a universe of tiny discrete particles moving through mostly empty space differing in kind, combining into everything. We kept his word. The thing on the periodic table is still called an atom, named by a man who arrived at it with nothing but the refusal to accept that you could go on cutting forever. The credit card. An American journalist

named Edward Bellamy publishes a novel in 1888 in which a man falls asleep in Boston and wakes up in the year 2000. It becomes one of the bestselling books of the century. Most of it is a long argument about how society should be organized and most of that argument did not come true at all. One detail did. Bellamy needed his future citizens to buy things without carrying coins. So he invented a system

and gave it a name, a card issued against your account that you present at a shop. The cler records the amount against it. You settle up centrally. He used the words credit card and as far as anyone has been able to trace, that is the first time those two words appear together in English. He is describing a charge plate, not a bank loan. and the

economics behind his version are nothing like ours. But the physical object and the everyday ritual are unmistakable. You hand over a small card that is not money and is not a check. Somebody makes a record and you walk out with the goods. Nobody was doing that in 1888.

Almost everybody is doing it now. What is stranger is the effect the book had. Bellamy clubs sprang up across America. People organized their politics around it. The novel was one of the most influential things anyone published that decade. And today, the entire elaborate

social scheme at its center is forgotten. While the throwaway payment gimmick he invented to solve a plot problem sits in several billion pockets, still carrying the name he gave it, he chose those two particular words himself. Bending Starlight 1915. In the middle of a war, Albert Einstein finishes a theory that says, "Gravity is not a force pulling on things. It is a curve in space and time made by mass and everything moving nearby simply follows the shape. It is a beautiful idea. It is

also at that point only an idea and there were competing ideas and physics does not run on beauty. So he did the thing that makes it science instead of philosophy. He turned it into a number. If space really curves around the sun, he said then starlight passing close to the sun's edge must bend as it goes by and the star will appear very slightly out of position. He calculated exactly how much.

Roughly 1.75 arcsec, which is about the width of a coin seen from 2 mi away. There was one obstacle. You cannot see stars next to the sun. The only chance is a total solar eclipse and you have to be standing in the right place on Earth with working equipment and clear weather on the right day.

In 1919, Arthur Edington took an expedition to an island off West Africa and another team went to Brazil and they photographed the sky around a blacked out sun. The stars had moved, not by much, but by roughly the amount a German physicist had written down 4 years earlier on paper. The results were announced in London that November, and by the next morning, Einstein was on the front page of newspapers around the world. He had told the universe where to put the stars during an eclipse, and the universe had complied. The machine stops. Imagine a story where

people live alone in small identical rooms underground. They rarely meet in person. They communicate through screens. They message constantly. They attend lectures given remotely. And

physical travel is considered strange and slightly distasteful. Everything they need is delivered by a global automated system that nobody fully understands anymore. Then the system starts to fail. That is the machine stops written by EM Forester and published in 1909. Fer was not a science fiction writer. He

wrote gentle English novels about drawing rooms and misunderstandings. And he produced this one time apparently as a reaction against the technological optimism of his era and then never return to the genre. The specifics are what unsettle people. The main character speaks to her son on a glowing plate that shows his face. She complains about the quality of the image.

She has thousands of contacts and no real relationships. She gives a talk to an unseen audience from a chair in her room and receives instant reactions. The story explicitly discusses how secondhand ideas circulate faster than firstirhand experience and how nobody wants firstirhand experience anymore. And then the machine begins to break and no one alive knows how to repair it because the people who built it are long dead and the knowledge was never kept. That is the part worth sitting with.

Fers's real prediction was not video calls or instant messaging. It was a civilization so completely dependent on an inherited system that the ability to fix it had quietly been lost and nobody noticed until the humming changed. Fer wrote it as a warning and it reads now as a description. the word robot. A Czech playwright named Carol Capek is writing a play in 1920 about artificial workers built in a factory and he cannot decide what to call them. He tries labori from the

Latin. It sounds wrong, too bookish, too soft. He goes to his brother Joseph, who is painting at the time, and asks for help. Joseph with a brush in his mouth suggests roboti and goes back to work. The word comes from robotta, an old Czech term for forced labor, the kind a surf owed a landlord.

Capeek used it, the play opened, and within a couple of years the word had spread into English, German, French, and beyond. It is now one of the most widely recognized words on earth and a painter invented it in about 4 seconds without looking up from his canvas. The play is called Rur and it is not the cheerful thing people assume. Capex robots are not metal. They are artificial biological workers closer to what we would now call synthetic humans.

They are built to be cheap and tireless. They are given no rights. They gradually acquire something like feelings and then they organize and then they wipe out humanity. So the very first appearance of the concept in popular culture already contains the entire anxiety made to serve denied any standing turning on the people who made them. A century of films and books and public arguments about artificial minds have mostly been footnotes to a Czech stage play from 1920 which also happened to name the thing we are still arguing about. Carol always

insisted publicly and repeatedly that the credit belonged to his brother Joseph and it did. The satellite belt. The war in Europe has just ended. A young radar officer in the Royal Air Force named Arthur C. Clark writes a short technical article in 1945 for a magazine called Wireless World. He

titles it extraterrestrial relays. It is four pages long. He has paid a small fee for it and thinks little more about it. In those four pages, he works out something nobody had put together. If you place a satellite in a circular orbit roughly 22,000 m above the equator, its orbital period matches the rotation of the Earth exactly from the ground. It does not move. It sits there,

which means an antenna pointed at it never has to track anything. It just points once and stays pointed. Then he finishes the argument. Three such satellites spaced evenly can cover almost the entire populated surface of the planet. Every television broadcast, every telephone call, every weather picture could be routed through three objects hanging motionless in the sky. He even calculated the power

requirements and discussed how they might be maintained. He did not patent it. He said later that it never seriously occurred to him that it would happen in his lifetime and that he assumed any such system would need crews living aboard. The first geostationary communication satellite went up 18 years later. Today that band of space is one of the most valuable pieces of real estate humans have access to. It is crowded and it is officially

named the Clark orbit after a demobbed radar officer who gave away the idea for the price of a magazine article. He said later that he never regretted it, which is probably not entirely true. The Two Moons, 1726. Jonathan Swift publishes Guliver's Travels, a savage satire dressed as a travel diary. In the third voyage, Guliver reaches Leaputa, a flying island populated by astronomers so obsessed with mathematics that they cannot hold a conversation or build a house with square corners. Swift is mocking the

Royal Society. He thinks these people are ridiculous and he spends the whole section saying so. Then in passing he has the Lapatan astronomers describe their discoveries. They have found, he writes, two lesser stars or satellites which revolve about Mars. He gives their distances from the planet in Martian diameters.

He gives their orbital periods in hours. The inner one, he says, goes around in 10 hours and the outer one in 21. Mars does have exactly two moons. Nobody on Earth knew that in 1726. They were not discovered until 1877, 151 years later, when ASF Hall found them with a large refracting telescope in Washington and named them Phobos and Daimos.

Phobos orbits in about 7 and 1/2 hours. Daimos takes about 30. Swift's numbers are wrong, but they are in the neighborhood, and no other planet than known had two moons at all. There is a decent explanation. Earth had one moon.

Jupiter had four. So a numerologically tidy universe might give Mars 2 sitting between them. Kepler had suggested something similar decades earlier. Swift almost certainly borrowed the guess and dressed it in fake precision to make his astronomers sound absurd. The joke was that they were making things up.

The joke landed differently a century and a half later when a telescope in Washington found both of them exactly where the punchline had put them. The wish list. Sometime in the 1660s, Robert Bole sat down and wrote a list. Boille is one of the founders of modern chemistry, the man behind the gas law that carries his name and one of the earliest members of the Royal Society. The list was private. It was found among

his papers after his death. A single folded sheet headed with a note about the deciderata of his age. 24 items. No explanations, just wishes. Read them now and it is difficult to breathe normally. The

prolongation of life, the recovery of youthful vigor, the art of flying, the art of continuing long underwater, the cure of diseases at a distance or at least by transplantation. Potent drugs to alter or exalt imagination, waking, memory, and other functions, and appease pain, procure innocent sleep, and harmless dreams. He was writing in a century where surgery meant being held down by four men, where the average person did not survive childhood reliably, where nobody had flown, where nobody had gone underwater for more than a held breath, and where the idea of moving a working organ from one body into another was not merely impossible, but close to unthinkable. He wrote it all down anyway, as a to-do list for the future, and then went back to his experiments. Almost every line has been delivered. We

fly constantly. We live in submarines for months. We transplant hearts. We have anesthesia, general and local, which is the innocent sleep and the appeasing of pain in the same clause. Boil did not predict a single technology. He predicted what people

would refuse to stop wanting. And then history spent three and a half centuries quietly ticking off his boxes. The limit. A 19-year-old Indian student named Subramanion Chandra Seekar is on a ship from Madras to England in 1930 going to Cambridge to study. The voyage takes weeks. To pass the time, he works

on a problem about what happens to a star when it runs out of fuel. The accepted answer at the time was that it cools, shrinks into a dense white dwarf, and sits there forever as a cinder. Working on the deck of a steamer with no library and no supervisor, Chandra Sakar combines the new quantum mechanics with relativity and find something the accepted answer had missed. There is a ceiling. A dead star can only hold itself up against its own gravity if it weighs less than about 1 and a half times our sun. Above that mass, nothing

known can stop the collapse. the star must keep falling inward with no obvious end. He was describing in a rough form the road to neutron stars and black holes and he had done it before he was 20 when he presented the work in London a few years later. Arthur Edington, the most celebrated astrophysicist in Britain and the man who had confirmed Einstein stood up after him and publicly ridiculed the result. There should be a law of nature, Edington said, to prevent a star from behaving in this absurd way.

The rooms sided with Edington because rooms usually side with the famous man. Chandra Seca eventually left the field and went to America and it took roughly 30 years for astronomers to accept the number. It is called the Chandra Secar limit now. He received the Nobel Prize for it in 1983. more than half a century after he worked it out on a boat.

The Aspen tape. Steve Jobs is 28 years old in 1983. Apple is a young company and he gives a talk at a design conference in Aspen to a room of maybe 50 people. There is one audio recording. It sat forgotten for decades until somebody found the tape and put it online and people started listening to what he actually said that afternoon. He

tells the room that Apple's strategy is very simple. What we want to do, he says, is put an incredibly great computer in a book that you can carry around with you and learn how to use in 20 minutes. He says they know how to do it, but the technology to build it well is a few years away and that it will happen in the 1980s. Then he describes something else. He points out that software is sold in the way records were sold before radio, meaning you have to buy the thing before you can hear it. He says there should be

a way to distribute software over phone lines so people can try it and so developers can reach buyers directly without a shop in between. He says it will need a way to pay for it too. He is describing a laptop and an app store in a hotel conference room 8 years before the web existed. and 25 years before the app store opened. The most striking part of the recording is not the content. It is that nobody in

the room reacts. There is no gasp. He says it the way you would describe next quarter's road map and the audience moves on to the next question. Nobody in that room seems to understand what they have just been told. The wrist radio. The cartoonist Chester

Gould needs to solve a storytelling problem in 1946. His detective, Dick Tracy, keeps getting separated from the plot, and there is no good way to get information to him quickly in the middle of a chase. A friend of Gould's, an inventor, shows him some work on miniature radio equipment, and Gould draws his detective a two-way radio the size of a watch and straps it to his wrist. It became the most famous object in American comics. Kids drew it on their arms. It appeared in every strip.

Later, Gould upgraded it, and by the 60s, Tracy had a two-way wrist television, which was a small color screen on his forearm showing a live picture of whoever he was talking to. Here is what makes this different from an accidental guess. Engineers did not just happen to arrive at the same idea later. They said out loud, repeatedly for decades, that they were chasing the thing from the comic strip. It was a stated target inside laboratories.

When early wearable communication devices were demonstrated to the press, reporters and engineers alike simply called them Dick Tracy watches because everyone already had the reference. That is a strange kind of prediction. Gould was not forecasting. He was inventing a fictional object to keep his story moving. And it was so appealing that it turned into an engineering goal. And the goal was

pursued until it was met. Look at a smartwatch taking a call, screen lit, held up near a face. That is a newspaper cartoon from 1946. Delivered late, but delivered. Gould drew it to solve a plot problem and accidentally set an engineering target for two generations of laboratories.

The atomic bomb. Months before the first world war begins in 1914, HG Wells publishes a novel called The World Set Free. In it, scientists learn to release the energy locked inside atoms. The energy is first used for power and then inevitably for weapons. Wells describes aircraft dropping them on cities.

He describes the cities burning for years afterward because the material keeps releasing energy long after the explosion. He calls the weapons atomic bombs. That phrase is his. He got the physics from a real book. Frederick Saodi, who worked with Rutherford and later won a Nobel Prize, had written about the enormous energy sitting inside radioactive elements and what might happen if it could be unlocked.

Wells read it, took the idea seriously, and did what novelists do, which is to ask what people would actually do with such a thing. His answer was that they would drop it on each other. 1932, a Hungarian physicist named Leo Sillard reads the novel and it stays with him. The following year, standing at a traffic light in London, irritated by a newspaper article insisting atomic energy could never be released, he works out the idea of the nuclear chain reaction. He later said plainly that Wells's book had shaped how he thought about the whole problem. He filed a

patent on the chain reaction and tried to keep it secret. Sillard went on to draft the letter that Einstein signed, the one that pushed America into building the bomb. So, the line runs from a chemist's textbook to a novelist's imagination to a physicist waiting to cross a road to Hiroshima. Wells did not merely predict it. His book was one of the things that put the idea into the head of the man who made it possible.

The carbon number 1896 Stockholm. A Swedish chemist named Svante Arinius is going through a miserable divorce and buries himself in an enormous tedious calculation to keep his mind occupied. He wants to know why ice ages happen. His suspicion is that the amount of carbon dioxide in the air controls how much heat the planet holds onto and he decides to work out the relationship by hand. There are no computers. There is no

climate modeling. He divides the globe into zones, uses moon radiation measurements taken by an American astronomer, and grinds through tens of thousands of arithmetic operations on paper over roughly a year. At the end of it, he has a number. If you double the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, he concludes the average surface temperature of the Earth rises by somewhere between 5 and 6°. Modern estimates of that same figure produced with satellites, ocean data, and supercomputers generally land between 2 and 1/2 and 4 1/2°.

Arinius came in high, but he was in the right range using the right mechanism from a chair in the 1890s, more than 60 years before anyone began measuring atmospheric carbon dioxide continuously. The part that stings is his conclusion. He knew coal burning was adding carbon to the air and he thought it would take thousands of years to matter and he considered a warmer planet a rather good outcome for Sweden. He got the chemistry right and the timeline and the judgment wrong. The heating he calculated in a period of personal misery is now the central number in the century's largest argument and he thought it was a pleasant side benefit of industry.

Year 2000 an engineer named John Elfreth Watkins writes an article for the ladies home journal in 1900 titled what may happen in the next 100 years. He is not a famous futurist. He works for the Smithsonian. He had been a railroad man until an injury ended that career. And he assembles his predictions by asking the most capable scientists and engineers he can reach what they expect.

The hits are relentless. He says photographs will be telegraphed from any distance [clears throat] and that if there is a battle in China a century hence, pictures of it will appear in newspapers an hour later. He says color photographs will be reproduced in those papers. He says telephones will circle the globe and that a man in a city here will be able to speak to another anywhere in the world and recognize the voice. He goes on, readycooked meals will be bought from establishments like bakeries and delivered to homes. Vegetables will

be grown out of season by artificial light and be larger than they are now. There will be airship carrying passengers and freight. There will be moving pictures shown in color with sound seen and heard at the same time by audiences. He also predicted the letters C, X, and Q would be dropped from the alphabet, that everyone would walk 10 m a day, and that mosquitoes and house flies would be exterminated. So, it is not a clean sheet. But the

specific claim that a photograph of a battle on the other side of the planet would be in front of ordinary readers within the hour, written before powered flight existed, is a description of a phone screen in a kitchen. the primeval atom. A Belgian priest named Gor Lamemetra, who is also a trained physicist with a doctorate from an American university, publishes a paper in 1927 in an obscure Belgian journal. He has been working through Einstein's equations of general relativity, and he has noticed something almost everyone else had chosen to work around. The equations do not describe a universe sitting still. They describe one that is

expanding. Then he runs the film backwards, which is the move nobody else was willing to make. If everything is flying apart now, then yesterday everything was closer together and far enough back everything was in one place. He proposed that the universe began as a single dense point which he called the primeval atom and that it has been expanding ever since. He also derived the relationship between a galaxy's distance and its speed of recession 2 years before Edwin Hubble published the observations.

The reception was cold. Einstein met him and told him, apparently quite bluntly, that his calculations were correct, but his physics was abominable. Others found it suspicious that a Catholic priest was proposing that the universe had a moment of creation. The English astronomer Fred Hy disliked the whole notion so much that he mocked it on the radio by calling it a big bang. The insult became the name. The evidence

arrived slowly, then all at once, with the discovery of the faint microwave glow left over from the early universe. A priest working in Belgium had read an expanding universe out of somebody else's equations and followed it back to a beginning, and the mockery of his loudest opponent is what we all call it now. The metaverse. Neil Stevenson publishes a novel in 1992 called Snow Crash. It opens with a pizza delivery driver for the mafia. It is deliberately absurd and

it is written partly as a joke about how seriously cyberpunk fiction takes itself. Then the main character puts on a pair of goggles and enters a shared virtual world and Stevenson gives that world a name he invented, the metaverse. The detail is what matters. It is not a game. It is a persistent place that continues existing whether you are logged in or not. People appear as

avatars and Stevenson uses that word too in the sense we now use it. The quality of your avatar depends on how much you can afford. So poor users show up as lowresolution figures in black and white and everyone can see it instantly. There is real estate. There is a main street. Land near the good parts costs

more and it is sold by a governing body and people buy it as an investment. There are nightclubs where the dorman is code. There is a whole economy of people who make things inside the world and sell them to other people inside the world and status there translates into status outside. Stevenson has said since that he is uneasy watching companies build his book partly because Snow Crash is a satire and the metaverse in it is a symptom of a broken society not an aspiration that has not slowed anyone down. The word was coined for a comic dystopia by a novelist writing on an early Macintosh and it is now on the side of buildings and in corporate earnings calls. He

picked the word in an afternoon and cannot get it back. The retraction 1920 Robert Godard, a physics professor in Massachusetts, publishes a modest technical paper for the Smithsonian about rockets reaching high altitudes. Near the end, almost as an aside, he mentions that a sufficiently large rocket could in principle reach the moon and that you could confirm the arrival by having it ignite flash powder on impact. The press seizes on that one line and the story goes everywhere. The New York Times ran an unsigned editorial mocking him. Its argument was

that a rocket cannot work in space because there is nothing out there for the exhaust to push against and everyone knows you need something to push against. Professor Goddard, it said, only seems to lack the knowledge ladled out daily in high schools. The paper was confidently publicly explaining that a Clark University physicist did not understand basic science. The editorial was wrong. And it was wrong in a way any firstear student can now dismantle.

A rocket does not push against air. It pushes against its own exhaust by conservation of momentum, which is why rockets work better in a vacuum than in atmosphere. Goddard did not respond in the press. He kept working largely alone in Massachusetts and later New Mexico. launching liquidfueled rockets that nobody paid much attention to.

1969 Apollo 11 is on its way to the moon. The New York Times printed a short item headed a correction. It restated the old editorial noted that further investigation and experimentation have confirmed the findings of Isaac Newton in the 17th century and said it very much regrets the error. Goddard had been dead for 24 years. His widow was asked for comment and said she thought he would have enjoyed it.

Future shock. You are tired in a specific modern way from too much arriving too quickly for too long. A former factory worker turned journalist named Alvin Tooffler published a book about that in 1970 arguing that the central problem of the coming decades would not be any particular technology. it would be the rate at which everything changes. He borrows a term from medicine and calls the result future shock, meaning the disorientation and exhaustion produced by too much change in too short a time. Inside it he

describes what he calls information overload and the phrase enters the language from that book. His claim was that human decision-making has a ceiling. That beyond a certain volume of incoming information, people do not become better informed, but measurably worse at deciding anything. And that they respond by simplifying, by withdrawing, or by picking one loud source and ignoring everything else. He also predicted the throwaway society where objects are designed for short lives and disposal is normal. He

predicted that stable lifelong careers would be replaced by shorter repeated reinventions. He predicted temporary relationships built around shared projects rather than shared places, subcultures multiplying rather than a shared mass culture, and rented goods replacing owned ones. He described a world where people would pay for experiences rather than objects. Every one of those is now so ordinary that it is hard to feel the strangeness of writing it down in 1970. Before personal computers, before the internet, before mobile phones, in a decade when a person might reasonably expect to hold one job in one town for 40 years, Tooffler did not predict a device. He

predicted the feeling of being alive now, which is the much harder thing to see coming. He wrote the book with his wife Heidi, who went uncredited on the cover for years. The Moving Earth. Around 2,300 years ago, a Greek astronomer named Aristoarkus of Samos worked out that the Earth goes around the Sun, not as a mystical intuition, as a conclusion from measurements he had taken himself, using nothing but geometry, careful observation, and an unusual willingness to follow an argument to a conclusion he knew people would hate. He had measured roughly the sizes of the sun and the moon and their distances.

His numbers were badly off because the instruments of the time could not do better. But they were good enough to establish one thing beyond doubt. The sun is much larger than the earth, considerably larger. And once you know that, the standard picture starts to look ridiculous. because it asks you to believe that an enormous object is circling a small one. So he flipped it.

The Earth turns on its axis daily and travels around the sun annually and the fixed stars are so unimaginably far away that our motion does not visibly shift them. That last part is crucial. His critic's strongest objection was that if the Earth moved, nearby stars should appear to shift position over the year. Aristoarkus answered that the stars are simply too distant for it to show, which is exactly right, and which was not confirmed until the 1830s. The work did not survive.

We know about it mainly because Archimedes mentions it in order to describe it and because a later writer records that Aristoarkus was accused of impiiety for moving the half of the universe. Capernicus published the same idea about 18 centuries later and changed the world with it. And in an early draft of his book he credited the Greek who got there first. The Great Demo. December 1968.

San Francisco. A researcher named Douglas Engelbart sits on a stage in front of a thousand computer professionals with a headset on, a keyboard in front of him, and a strange wooden block with wheels underneath it beside his right hand. Behind him is a screen showing what is on his display. He has 90 minutes. In that 90 minutes, he demonstrates for the first time in public essentially all of it. A mouse moving a cursor on a

screen. Windows text you can edit directly and reorganize on the fly. Copy and paste documents that contain clickable links to other documents. Version tracking. a live video window showing the face of a colleague 30 m away while the two of them edit the same file at the same time and watch each other's cursor move. Remember what a

computer was in 1968. It was a room. You wrote your instructions on punched cards, handed them to an operator, and came back tomorrow for a print out. The notion that a computer was something you would sit at, look at, point at, and use in real time to work with another person was not merely unbuilt. It was not even a common ambition.

The audience gave him a standing ovation, and then the industry mostly went back to what it was doing. It took roughly 15 years for the mouse and the windows to reach ordinary desks and considerably longer for the shared editing and the video calling. People call it the mother of all demos. Now Engelbart was not predicting the next 50 years of computing. He was sitting there operating it live in front of a thousand people who had never seen a cursor move.

The ghost particle. Physics in 1930 has a serious problem and it is called beta decay. When certain atoms decay and throw out an electron, the energy does not add up. Some of it is missing and not a fixed amount, which is worse. Neils Boore, one of the greatest physicists alive, was prepared to consider abandoning the conservation of energy itself. one of the most

fundamental principles in all of science. Wolf Gang Pi proposed something else. He suggested there is another particle coming out of the decay that nobody has detected. It carries the missing energy away to have escaped every experiment so far. It must have no electric charge, almost no mass, and it must barely interact with anything at all.

He announced this in a letter addressed jokingly to dear radioactive ladies and gentlemen because he could not attend the conference himself. Then he apologized for it. Parley believed he had committed the worst sin a theorist can commit which is to invent an undetectable particle to patch a hole in the accounting. I have done a terrible thing. He reportedly said, "I have postulated a particle that cannot be detected." He

was not being modest. By his own standards, it was close to cheating. 26 years later, Clyde Cowan and Frederick Reers set up detectors beside a nuclear reactor in South Carolina, waited, and caught it. They sent Paulie a telegram. We are happy to inform you that we have definitely detected nutrinos. The particle turned out to be

one of the most abundant things in the universe. Trillions of them are passing through your body as you listen to this and almost none of them will touch a single atom of you. The chicken breast. Winston Churchill is out of office in 1931, short of money, and writing magazine articles to pay his bills. One of them is an essay called 50 Years Hence, and it is a genuinely odd piece of work because a politician best remembered for a war is sitting down to think carefully about biology, energy, and food supply for a general audience.

In the middle of it comes a sentence people still quote. We shall escape the absurdity of growing a whole chicken in order to eat the breast or wing, he writes, by growing these parts separately under a suitable medium. He is describing cultured meat, not a vague gesture at future food, the specific idea of growing the edible tissue on its own in a controlled medium and skipping the animal entirely. He was drawing on real science. A French surgeon named Alexis Carell had kept fragments of chicken heart tissue alive in culture for years and it was a famous experiment at the time widely reported.

Churchill took a laboratory curiosity and asked the practical question nobody else was asking which was whether it could ever become dinner. The first laboratory grown burger was eaten in front of cameras in 2013 and cost a fortune. cultured chicken was approved for sale in Singapore and later in the United States and the price has been falling since. Elsewhere in that same essay, Churchill also predicted nuclear energy and communication by wireless with anywhere on Earth and machines that free people from routine labor. He wrote all of it to make a magazine deadline. He was out of office, out of

favor, and being paid by the word. Cyberspace. Walking past an arcade in Vancouver in [clears throat] 1982, a young writer watches the teenagers hunched over the cabinets and notices how completely gone they are. Their bodies are in the room and their attention is somewhere else entirely, somewhere behind the glass. William Gibson decides that whatever place they are in, it needs a name and that he will write about it. He tried a few words.

infospace, data space. Neither had any music in them. Then he wrote cyerspace on a page and by his own account he thought it was essentially meaningless. An evocative sound with no real content, which is precisely why it worked. He used it first in a short story, then built a novel around it, and Neurommancer came out in 1984.

Here is the part that people underrate. Gibson did not own a computer. He wrote Neurommancer on a manual typewriter that his wife's family had passed down, a machine from the 1920s. He had no idea how computers actually worked. He has said since that if he had known, he could not have written the book because the reality would have crushed the metaphor.

What he was really describing was not a technology. It was a feeling, a consensual hallucination experienced daily by billions. He wrote in a book published before the web, before browsers, before most people had heard the word online. A shared, addictive, commerciallyowned space that people go into and do not fully come back from. He got the sensation right first from outside the arcade window, and everyone else spent 40 years building the plumbing to match it. Gibson bought his first computer

only after the book had made him famous, and was disappointed to find it contained a noisy disc drive rather than anything mysterious. The Space Tower, 1895. A deaf, largely self-taught school teacher named Constantine Tielkovski is living in a provincial Russian town teaching mathematics and working through the problem of getting off the planet in his spare time. He has never met another rocket scientist because there are none. He visits Paris, sees the Eiffel Tower, and it starts him thinking about how tall a structure could theoretically be.

He works out that if you built a tower to the altitude where an orbit takes exactly one day, then an object released at the top would not fall. It would stay. He is describing a space elevator and he is doing it in the 1890s in a paper written in a town with unpaved streets. The idea is still considered serious and is still limited only by material science. That is a footnote in his output. He

derived the equation that governs how much fuel a rocket needs to reach a given speed, which is the single most important formula in space flight and is now named after him. He worked out that you need multiple stages that fall away. He described liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen as the fuel combination. He designed airlocks for leaving a spacecraft and proposed closed ecological systems with plants recycling the air. Almost nobody read him for years. He published in obscure Russian

journals, was largely dismissed as an eccentric and had to fund some of his own work. Then the Soviet space program found him and the men who launched Sputnik and Gagarin treated a deaf provincial school teacher as their founding father because he had written down how to do it before anyone had built the machine. The missing mass. A Swiss astronomer named Fritz Zwicki working in California in 1933 and famous mainly for being extraordinarily rude to his colleagues is studying a cluster of galaxies in the constellation Coma Brenes. He wants to know how much the cluster weighs. So he uses two independent

methods and expects them to agree. The first method is straightforward. Add up the light. Count the galaxies. Estimate the stars. Work out the mass. The second

method uses motion. Measure how fast the galaxies are moving relative to each other. And since gravity is the only thing holding them together, the speeds tell you the mass required to stop the whole cluster flying apart. The two answers should match. They did not match. They were not even close. The

motion required vastly more mass than the light could account for by a factor of well over a 100. Ziki's conclusion was blunt. There must be a great deal of matter in there that does not shine. He used the German phrase dunlater dark matter and pointed out that if this held generally most of the universe is made of something we cannot see. The field ignored him for about 40 years. partly because he was abrasive

enough that people avoided his papers and partly because the claim was enormous. Then in the 1970s, Vera Rubin measured how stars orbit within individual galaxies and found the same impossible arithmetic all over again. The current picture is that ordinary matter, everything we have ever detected directly is a small minority of what is out there. Ziki said so, counting galaxies in 1933. He coined the term supernova and predicted neutron stars in the same period and was largely ignored on both of those as well.

Debt of honor. Tom Clansancy publishes a long thriller in 1994 about a trade war between the United States and Japan that escalates into something worse. It sells enormously. Most people remember the plot only vaguely now, except for the last few pages, which is where the book stopped being a thriller and turned into something people find difficult to talk about. In the closing chapter, a Japanese airline pilot who has lost his family in the conflict takes a fully fueled passenger jet, flies it into Washington, and deliberately crashes it into the capital building during a joint session of Congress. The strike kills

the president, most of the cabinet, most of the Congress, and the Supreme Court. The book ends with the government of the United States effectively decapitated in a single act by one man using an airliner. Clancy was not guessing wildly. He had spent his career talking to people in defense and intelligence, and the vulnerability of civil aviation was discussed inside those circles. What he did was take a known weakness that professionals worried about privately and dramatize it for millions of readers 7 years before anyone tried it.

He was asked about it afterwards repeatedly and he was visibly uncomfortable every time. His answer was consistent and worth hearing. He said the terrible thing was not that a novelist thought of it because a novelist's job is to think of the worst thing that could happen. The terrible thing was that a novelist could think of it, publish it, sell millions of copies, and nothing whatsoever was changed as a result. The procedures he had effectively pointed at stayed exactly as they were for the next seven years.

The Communicator. April 1973. A Motorola engineer named Martin Cooper is standing on 6th Avenue in New York with a brick of a device against his ear, roughly 2 lb of it, making the first public call from a handheld mobile phone. He calls his main rival at the competing laboratory, tells him where he is standing and what he is holding, and enjoys the silence on the other end. Cooper has been asked hundreds of times where the idea came from, and his answer never changes. The competition was

building car phones, machines bolted into vehicles, because that is where the power and the antenna could live. Cooper's argument was that a phone should belong to a person and not to a place. And when he explains what put that picture in his head, he says he was watching Captain Kirk flip open a communicator on Star Trek. The Star Trek prop was designed in 1966 by a man named Wah Ming Chang, and it was a design decision made for television. It had to be small enough to hide in a costume, dramatic enough to be visible on screen, and it needed a satisfying physical action for the actor. So, it flipped

open. That flip existed for the camera, not for engineering. Then, the flip phone arrived and sold in the hundreds of millions, and the hinge served no technical purpose there either. It protected the keypad, and it felt good to snap shut. A prop built to look right on a 1960s television show set the shape of the most personal object of the following century because the man who built the real one had grown up watching it. The

imitation game. You have probably had an argument or listened to one about whether a machine can really think or only appear to. Every move in that argument was written down and answered in 1950 by Alan Turing in a philosophy journal called mind. His paper opens with a sentence that sounds almost naive. I propose to consider the question can machines think? Then he immediately

points out that the question is useless as written because nobody can define thinking and he replaces it with something you can actually run. His replacement is a game. Put a person at a keyboard. On the other side in another room is either a human or a machine. The person types questions and reads answers and has to work out which they are talking to. If a machine can hold that

conversation well enough that the interrogator does no better than chance, Churing argues, then arguing about whether it really thinks has stopped being a useful activity. What makes the paper astonishing is the second half. Turing lists the objections people will raise and answers them in advance. The theological objection that thinking requires a soul. The objection from consciousness that a machine cannot feel what it says.

The argument that a machine can only do what it is told which he attributes to a love lace and answers directly. The claim that machines cannot be creative or make mistakes or fall in love. Read that list now, 75 years later, and it is almost exactly the list of arguments in circulation today in newspapers and podcasts and dinner conversations. Turing wrote them all down before a single computer existed that could hold a sentence. He also guessed that by roughly the year 2000, machines would play the game well enough to fool an average questioner for 5 minutes and that people would stop finding the idea absurd. Both happened.

The automation warning. Norbert Viner, the mathematician who founded the field of cybernetics and one of the most formidable minds of his generation, publishes a book for general readers in 1950 about machines and communication. He is not a technophobe. He helped invent this territory. He built the mathematics that lets a machine correct itself against feedback, which is the beating heart of everything automatic, which is what makes his warning land. He

argues that the modern industrial revolution is bound to devalue the human brain, at least in its simpler and more routine decisions, in precisely the way that the earlier industrial revolution devalued the human arm. The steam engine did not replace muscle for one trade. It changed the price of muscle everywhere permanently. He then said the part that got him disliked. The competent economic system, he wrote, will not be able to resist adopting these machines because they will be cheaper. So the question of

whether to do it will not really be asked. He warned that the disruption would arrive faster than any society could adapt to, that the gains would flow to whoever owned the machines, and that the people displaced would be told to retrain into work that was itself being automated. Vina wrote letters to union leaders trying to warn them and was largely brushed off. He turned down lucrative industrial consulting because he did not want to help build what he was describing. 75 years later, every serious argument about automation and employment is a rerun of his book, including the counterarguments, which he also anticipated and answered. He described

the shape of the argument so completely that reading him now feels less like history than like listening to somebody describe this week. The MEX, July 1945. Vanavar Bush has just finished running American science through the war, coordinating tens of thousands of researchers, and he is exhausted by a specific problem. There is too much knowledge and no way to find any of it. research is published, filed, indexed alphabetically and then effectively lost because the human mind does not work alphabetically and the filing system does not work like a mind.

He writes an essay for The Atlantic called As We May Think. And in it, he describes a machine, a desk with screens set into it, storing an entire library with a keyboard and levers to move through it. He calls it a MX. You can call up any page in seconds. You can annotate [clears throat] it. You can

photograph a page and add it yourself. That much is a fancy microfilm reader. The real idea is the next part. Bush says the machine's essential feature is associative indexing whereby any item may be caused at will to select immediately and automatically another. You build trails. You link one document

to another because you saw a connection. You name that trail and it persists. Other people can be given your trails and they can follow the path your thinking took. That is hypertext described in 1945. And it is the specific thing that makes the web a web rather than a very large filing cabinet. Both Douglas Angelbart

and Ted Nelson read that essay as young men and said outright that it set the direction of their careers. And Nelson coined the word hypertext for what Bush had described. A tired administrator complaining about paperwork sketch the shape of the internet. The television goggles Life magazine in 1963 photographs a 78-year-old man wearing an odd contraption on his head. Two small square screens sit in front of his eyes.

A pair of antenna stick up from the sides. He is grinning. The man is Hugo Gernsback and he calls the device telly glasses and he built it himself as a working prototype. The idea was not new for him. He had described a headset that puts television directly in front of a viewer's eyes decades earlier in the magazines he published.

Gernsbach was a strange and important figure, an inventor and publisher who founded the first magazine dedicated to science fiction, and the field's highest award is named after him. He also predicted radar in print, describing the principle years before it was built. The telly glasses were a serious attempt. Batteries, small cathode ray tubes, and an antenna weighing about 140 g and worn on the face. He was not building a novelty for the photographer.

He believed that eventually a television would stop being a piece of furniture in a room and become something personal, worn, and private to the viewer. 60 years on, headsets with two small screens in front of the eyes are sold by the largest companies on Earth. And the arguments about them are the arguments Gernsbach anticipated, whether it isolates you, whether it is worth wearing something on your face, whether the image can ever be good enough. He got there with vacuum tubes and a soldering iron, and then posed for the camera, looking thoroughly pleased with himself. He was 78 years old and he had been describing that device in print since before the Second World War.

The Locked Manuscript, 1989. A man in France is going through his family's old safe, an iron box that has sat unopened for so long that nobody living has the combination. It has to be cut open. Inside, among other papers, is a handwritten novel by his greatgrandfather, Jules Vern. It has never been published. Nobody knew it

existed. Verer wrote it in 1863, early in his career, and his publisher rejected it flatly. The publishers's written notes survive, and they are brutal. Nobody today will believe your prophecy, he told Verer. He called it lifeless, said the subject was badly chosen, and warned that publishing it would ruin the young author's growing reputation.

Verer put it away and never tried again with it. The book is called Paris in the 20th century, and it is set in the 1960s. In it, Vern describes a city lit by electric light with cars running on internal combustion engines through paved streets, elevated trains, and a global network of machines that transmit written messages instantly from one city to another. He describes calculating machines used in banking. He describes an electric chair used for executions.

He also got the mood right, which is why the publisher hated it. It is not a celebration. The main character is a young man who loves poetry in a society that has no use for it, where everything is measured in commerce and engineering, and where art has quietly died. Vern wrote a bleak, accurate century, and was told it was unbelievable, and it sat in a locked box for 126 years before anyone was allowed to read it. His publishers's rejection note survives and it has aged very badly indeed.

The Global Village, a Canadian professor of English literature named Marshall McLuhan publishes a book in 1962 about the invention of printing and inside it he uses a phrase that escapes into every language on Earth. The new electric interdependence, he writes, recreates the world in the image of a global village. His argument was that for most of human history, the reach of your voice defined the size of your world. Then printing arrived and made knowledge private, linear, and silent. And it produced individuals who read alone and thought of themselves as separate.

Now electric media were reversing that. Information moving instantly across distance would pull everyone back into a single shared space where everything happens to everybody at once. People took the phrase as a warm one. A village suggests neighbors and community. McLuhan meant something considerably sharper and said so. Villages are not

gentle. In a village, everyone knows your business. Gossip travels faster than fact. reputations are destroyed collectively and there is nowhere to hide. He said explicitly that the global village would produce more discord than harmony and that the closer people are pushed together, the more intensely they will define themselves against each other. He wrote that in 1962 on a campus

with no computer describing the world with unnerving accuracy. He also said the medium is the message meaning that the shape of a technology changes us more than anything carried on it. He was dismissed for years as an entertainer who spoke in slogans. Then the network arrived and every one of the slogans turned out to be a plain description. He died in 1980 11 years before the first web page existed.

The water bed. A design student in San Francisco named Charles Hall builds a bed filled with water as a project in 1968, refineses it, and files for a patent. It seems obviously new. Then the patent office and the courts come back with a problem that has almost no parallel in the history of invention. The idea has already been published in detail in fiction by Robert Heinline.

Heinline described it in more than one book. The fullest version is in stranger in a strange land and the description is not a passing mention. He specifies the temperature control, the pump, the safety features, the way it supports a body without pressure points. It is written like a specification because Heinline had a reason for the detail. He had spent long stretches in hospital with tuberculosis, lying in one position, in pain, designing in his head the bed he wished he had. His descriptions were so

complete and so public that they legally counted as prior art, which is the term for an idea already disclosed to the world before someone tries to claim it. Hall was granted a much narrower patent than he wanted. Heinline wrote afterwards with obvious amusement that he had never received a dime for any of it and that the waterbed was a free public gift from a man who had spent a great deal of time being uncomfortable in bed. That is a peculiar kind of prediction. Heinline did not foresee a product. He specified one precisely

enough to block the patent of the person who eventually built it from a hospital bed decades earlier purely because he was bored and sore and had an engineer's mind and nothing to do with it. The Unkillable Network 1964 a Polishborn engineer named Paul Ban is working at the Rand Corporation on a question nobody enjoys thinking about. If the United States is attacked with nuclear weapons, communications will be destroyed because the telephone system is built around a small number of central switching points. Take out the centers and the whole thing goes silent. He is asked to find something that survives.

His answer breaks two rules at once. First, get rid of the center entirely. Build a mesh where every node connects to several others. So there are many possible routes between any two points and no single place that matters. Second and stranger, stop sending messages as continuous streams down a dedicated line. Chop each message into small

standard blocks. Send every block independently by whatever route is free and reassemble them at the far end. He wrote it up across 11 volumes in public, deliberately unclassified so the Soviets could build one too, on the reasoning that a world where both sides can still talk after a first strike is a safer world. Then he took it to the company that ran the American telephone network, AT&T. They told him it would not work. One

executive reportedly said that he clearly did not understand how telefan works. It works. Every message you have ever sent has been broken into packets, sent by different routes, and reassembled. The internet has no center, which is why it is nearly impossible to switch off, and why a company that owned the world's phone system missed the thing that replaced it after a man walked in and explained it to them in person twice. As it happens, the Boson, a quiet physicist in Edinburgh named Peter Higgs is trying in 1964 to solve a problem with the equations describing fundamental particles.

The mathematics is elegant, but it insists that certain particles have no mass, and they visibly do. Higs works out that if space is filled with an invisible field, particles moving through it would be slowed by their interaction with it and that resistance is what mass actually is. He writes a short paper. Then he adds a note pointing out something crucial which is that if the field exists, disturbing it hard enough should produce a particle and that particle could in principle be detected. That is the sentence that turns a mathematical convenience into a testable claim. He

sends the paper to a journal in Europe. They rejected it. The reason given was that it had no obvious relevance to physics. Higs was in his own account furious. He revised it, added the prediction of the particle more explicitly, and sent it to an American journal which published it. Then he

waited along with several other physicists who had arrived at similar ideas independently. 48 years later, in July 2012, two enormous detector teams at the Large Hadron Collider in Switzerland announced they had found it. It took a machine 17 m around, a decade of construction, thousands of physicists, and the better part of a small country's budget to see the thing his paper had described. Higgs, then in his 80s, was in the audience. He was filmed taking off his glasses and wiping his eyes while the room applauded. He shared the Nobel

Prize the following year and used much of his public attention to argue that the modern academic system would never have given a man like him the years of quiet he needed to do the work. Down a wire, you pick something on a screen on the wall and it simply starts. No shop, no cassette, nothing to rewind. Roger Eert described that evening in 1987 in an interview with Omni Magazine at a time when watching a film at home meant a video cassette rented from a shop and rewound before returning in a picture quality that was frankly poor. Cable television existed. The web did

not. Abert answered the question as though he had already been there. He says that we will have highdefin widescreen television sets and a pushb button dialing system to order the movie you want at the time you want it. You will not go to a video store, he says, but you will call up a movie on your television screen by unseen means and it will be delivered to you on a wire. Then he adds the part that shows he was not just guessing at plumbing. He argues

this will change what gets made because a film with a small scattered audience becomes viable once you no longer need enough local demand to justify a shelf in a shop. He predicted a revival of specialist and art films on that basis and said the mainstream would not be the only thing that survives. So, a film critic in 1987 described video on demand, streaming, the death of the rental shop, the flat screen on the wall, and the longtale economics that eventually made prestige television and niche cinema profitable. He was not a technologist and had no inside knowledge of any of it. He simply thought carefully about what people actually want when they sit down in front of a screen and worked backwards from there to the machinery that would have to exist. Almost every part of it

now sits in a living room. Stand on Zanzibar. A British writer named John Bruner publishes an enormous fragmented difficult novel in 1968 set in the year 2010. It is not written like a normal book. It is assembled from news clippings, advertisements, overheard conversations, and broadcast fragments, deliberately imitating what Bruner thought the texture of information would feel like by then. Readers found it exhausting. It

won the field's highest award. Anyway, the predictions are unnerving in aggregate. Television is delivered by satellite and there are hundreds of channels. Cars run on electricity and rechargeable fuel cells. People take pills to enhance performance and mood as a matter of routine.

Tobacco is socially finished while marijuana is decriminalized. Samesex relationships are ordinary and unremarkable. Detroit has become a decayed shell of a city. Terrorist attacks on civilians in wealthy countries are a background fact of life. There is a service called Mr.

and Mrs. Everywhere in which subscribers watch a couple travel the world with their own faces digitally inserted onto the characters so viewers experience the trip as themselves. Bruner also has people carrying small devices for personalized news and describes something close to a computer that people consult conversationally for answers. And then there is the detail nobody can quite get past. One of the world leaders in the book, the president of a small African nation is named Obami.

Bruner was not being clever. It is a common enough name. But a novel written in 1968, set precisely in 2010, containing electric cars, satellite television, personalized media feeds, and a president called OMI is a difficult thing to file under coincidence and forget about. Bruner died largely forgotten at a science fiction convention in 1995. The doubling, 1965.

An engineer named Gordon Moore is asked to write a short article for the 35th anniversary issue of a trade magazine called Electronics. He is running research at a semiconductor company. He is not writing a manifesto. He is filling four pages about where the components business might go. He plots the number of components that manufacturers have managed to fit onto a single chip against time. He has about

five data points covering roughly 6 years. The line doubles about every year. He extends it forward a decade and says that by 1975, a single chip might hold 65,000 components. At the time, the best was around 60. He also described what it would mean, which is the part people forget. He wrote that

integrated circuits would lead to home computers or at least terminals connected to a central computer, automatic controls for automobiles, personal portable communications equipment, he wrote that in the same article in a decade when a computer was a corporate asset the size of a wall. The prediction turned into something odder than a forecast. Because the whole industry read it, chip companies began planning their research budgets and product road maps around hitting the line. Suppliers timed their investments to it. It stopped being a description of what was happening and became a coordinated target that tens of thousands of engineers spent 60 years and enormous sums of money deliberately meeting.

A four-page article by a man filling space in a trade magazine became the metronome for the entire modern world. Moore himself was always uncomfortable with the word law and pointed out for the rest of his life that it was never a law of physics, only a statement about how hard people were willing to work. The pandemic talk. March 2015. Bill Gates walks onto a stage in Vancouver, wheels out an old metal barrel, and explains that when he was a child, this was what a family kept in the basement in case of nuclear war.

Then he says the barrel is the wrong preparation for the wrong disaster. If anything kills over 10 million people in the next few decades, he says it is most likely to be a highly infectious virus rather than a war. He is speaking a year after the West African Ebola outbreak. And his point is that the world got lucky with that one because Ebola spreads only through close contact with the very sick and infected people become too ill to travel. A virus that spreads before symptoms appear through the air from people who feel fine and get on airplanes is a completely different problem. He then

lists what is missing. No standing core of trained epidemiologists ready to deploy. No global monitoring system. No way to move medical staff at scale. No preparation for vaccine manufacturing and distribution at speed. No

simulations of the logistics which he compares directly to the military pointing out that armies run war games constantly and health systems run almost none. The talk was watched a modest amount and then largely forgotten. 5 years later, when it started circulating again, it was accurate enough that a substantial number of people concluded he must have been involved. And he spent years dealing with that instead. He had not seen the future. He had read

the outbreak reports, done the arithmetic, and said the obvious thing out loud on a stage where it was recorded. The newspad. In one quiet scene of 2001, a space odyssey released in 1968, two astronauts are eating a meal aboard a spacecraft on the way to Jupiter. Each of them has a flat rectangular slab propped on the table in front of him. It has a screen filling the front face and no visible controls. They watch a news

broadcast on it while they eat, and neither of them so much as remarks on the object. Arthur C. Clark, who wrote the novel alongside the film, names it in the book. He calls it a newspad, and he explains how it works. The astronaut plugs it into the ship's information circuit and scans the headlines of the world's major electronic papers. He can

request any story and read the page. he can update it constantly. Clark notes that the printed newspaper has become an anacronism. Then Clark writes the sentence that goes past prediction into something closer to prophecy about attention. He observes that the more the man used the newspad, the more he was fascinated by the endlessly available flood of information and that it was hard to tear himself away from it. He describes the

news refreshing while you read it and the pull of the next item. Decades later, when Apple and Samsung were suing each other over who invented the shape of the tablet, Samsung's lawyers submitted that scene as evidence of prior art, arguing that the design already existed in a film from 1968. A prop built for a Stanley Kubri set turned up in a modern patent dispute because it looked far too much like the thing that was actually built. The chess machine. You have almost certainly lost to a computer at something. Chess most likely or a game

on a phone that adjusts its difficulty so you barely win. It feels unremarkable now. It was not always obvious that a machine could do this at all. And the question of how it might be done was answered before there was any machine capable of trying. Claude Shannon wrote the answer in 1950.

Shannon is the man who invented information theory who worked out that all communication can be measured in bits and who is arguably the most quietly consequential thinker of the century. He published a paper called programming a computer for playing chess and it is the founding document of the entire field. He begins by explaining why brute force is hopeless. He estimates the number of possible chess games at somewhere around 10 to the power of 120. A number so large that a machine examining positions at any conceivable rate would still be running when the sun burns out.

That figure is now known as the Shannon number. So instead, he lays out the alternative. Look ahead a limited number of moves. Score the resulting positions using a formula that weighs material, mobility, and structure. Assume your opponent plays their best reply. Choose accordingly.

Every serious chess program built since has been a refinement of that structure. 47 years later, a machine called Deep Blue beat the world champion in a match watched by millions, running an enormously more powerful version of exactly the procedure Shannon had described on paper when no computer on Earth could have executed a line of it. Shannon also built a machine that solved a maze and another that juggled. Phantomatics. Picture a machine that feeds signals directly to your senses so convincingly that you cannot tell the difference between what it produces and the world outside. Now picture someone describing

that machine in careful technical detail along with the philosophical trouble it causes in 1964 in Poland behind the Iron Curtain with no computer graphics of any kind in existence. Stannis Llem did it in a book called Suma Technologier. He coined the word phantomatics for the technology and he worked through it seriously. He asked how the machine would have to intercept the nerve signals. He asked what happens to a person who cannot verify whether they have left the machine. He asked

whether people would use it mostly for experiences they could not otherwise have or mostly for flattering ones and concluded glooily that it would mostly be flattering ones. The same book contains other things he had no business knowing. He describes something very close to nanotechnology, machines working at the scale of molecules roughly a year before the field had a name. He describes evolving software where you set a goal and let a program improve itself through selection rather than writing the solution yourself. He describes the problem of searching an information base so large that finding anything becomes harder than producing it.

The book was barely translated for decades. So the ideas mostly did not travel and the same ground was covered again later by people who had never heard of him. Lem is best known in the west for a novel about a thinking ocean. His most remarkable work was a dense non-fiction book of forecasts that almost nobody outside Poland could read. You will 1993.

A telephone company runs a series of television advertisements narrated by Tom Celich. Each one built the same way. A short scene of something impossible, then the line. Have you ever borrowed a book from thousands of miles away? Have you ever sent someone a fax from the beach? You will. And the company that

will bring it to you is a TNT. Watch them now. And the hit rate is uncomfortable. A woman opens a door with her voice. A father watches his child's school play on a small screen in the back of a taxi.

A driver passes through a toll without stopping, while a sensor reads the car. A doctor examines a scan sent electronically from another hospital. A traveler checks in with a ticket that exists only as data. A man in a phone booth has a video call with his daughter. Almost every scene in the campaign describes something that now exists and is ordinary.

video calling, streaming, electronic tolls, digital tickets, remote medicine, voice controlled locks, ebooks, navigation that follows you rather than sitting folded in a glove box. The bitter joke is in the last line of every advertisement, and the company that will bring it to you is a TNT. They were right about the world and wrong about themselves. Almost none of those products came from them. They saw the entire shape of the next 30 years, put it on national television with a budget behind it, and then watched other companies build very nearly every item on the list. The campaign is taught in

business schools now as a case study in seeing a market with perfect clarity and failing to enter it. the waves. Einstein having established that gravity is the bending of space and time works out a consequence in 1916 and does not much like it. If space can bend, then space can also ripple, move a large mass violently enough, and you should send waves of stretched and squeezed spaceime traveling outward at the speed of light, the way a struck bell sends sound through a room. Then he calculates how big the ripples would be by the time they reach us. And

the answer is absurd. A passing gravitational wave would change the length of an object by a fraction so small that no instrument could plausibly measure it. Einstein spent years going back and forth on whether the waves were even physically real or merely an artifact of the mathematics. He submitted a paper arguing they did not exist. which was rejected by a referee who had found his error. The number is the

reason it took a century. To catch a wave, you need to measure a change in length thousands of times smaller than the width of a proton. The detector built to do it uses two tunnels each 2 and 1/2 m long with laser beams bouncing between mirrors isolated so completely from the world that it registers distant lorries and ocean waves hitting the coast. September 2015. The detectors had just been upgraded and were barely switched on when both of them, 3,000 km apart, twitched in the same pattern within 7 milliseconds of each other.

Two black holes had collided over a billion years ago, and the ripple had been traveling ever since, arriving to move a mirror by a fraction of a proton, exactly as a man had calculated with a pen. 99 years earlier. Asimov's 2014. Isaac Asimoff visits the World's Fair in New York in 1964, walks around the exhibits about the future, and then writes an article for a newspaper asking what the fair would look like 50 years later. He picks the year 2014 and starts describing it in specifics rather than generalities, which is what makes the piece so difficult to read. Now, he says

communications will be sight and sound and that you will be able to see as well as hear the person you telephone. He says the screens will also be used to study documents and photographs and read passages from books. He says appliances will have no electrical cords and will run on longived batteries. He says robots will not be common but will exist and that there will be machines that clean floors. He gets the food right too, describing automatic meals and prepared dishes heated quickly in the kitchen. He

predicts that world population pressure will be severe, that suburbs will spread, and that computers will be doing much of the routine work of society with humans employed increasingly as machine tenders. Then he writes the line that stops people. He says the most glorious single word in the vocabulary will have become work and that mankind will suffer badly from the disease of boredom, a disease spreading more widely each year and growing in intensity. He predicted that psychiatry would be the largest medical specialtity and that the serious problem of a wealthy automated society would not be scarcity but the difficulty of finding anything meaningful to do with the day. He wrote that during a decade of full employment and rising wages when almost nobody was worried about anything of the kind.

Speed of thought. A business book from 1999 is not usually where you look for prophecy. Bill Gates publishes one called business at the speed of thought. It sells well and it is mostly the sort of thing business books are. Buried in it is a list of predictions that people went back and checked 20 years later and the checking did not go the way anyone expected. He says price comparison sites

will emerge that let people find the cheapest seller of any product automatically. He says people will carry small devices that let them stay constantly in touch and do electronic business wherever they are. He says these devices will let you read news, check flights, and see your bank accounts. He goes further into things nobody was doing. He describes automated price matching in retail. He

describes online home finance and payments becoming ordinary. He describes personal companion software that connects all your devices and knows your interests well enough to notify you about what you would want. He describes online communities that form around shared interests rather than shared location and social sites where friends discuss and organize plans together. He also predicted recruitment sites listing jobs internationally, project management software that finds people by skill across companies, and internet connected devices monitoring homes. The failure rate on the list is remarkably low. What he did not predict was who

would build most of it since the companies that ended up owning social networking, search and mobile were in 1999, either tiny or not yet founded. Several of them went on to take enormous market share from his own company using products he had described accurately before they existed. Alien life form. Watch a British television interview from 1999 and you can see the moment somebody gets it completely right while the person opposite laughs at them. David Bowie is being interviewed by Jeremy Paxman and the subject turns to the internet.

Paxman's position is the reasonable one for the time. It is just a tool. It is a delivery system. The hype is overblown. Bowie disagrees and the way he disagrees is what people find remarkable now. It

is an alien life form. He says he argues that the potential of what the internet is going to do to society, both good and bad, is unimaginable and that we are on the cusp of something exhilarating and terrifying. Paxman pushes back and says it is simply a tool. Bowie replies that no it is not and that the state of content is going to be so different from anything they can envisage. Then he says the sentence that reframes his whole career. The interplay between

the user and the provider will be so in sympatico. He says that the actual duality between the artist and the audience is going to be completely blurred. The audience is at least as important as whoever is performing. That is participatory culture described precisely before social media existed. He also predicted in the same period that music would become like running water or electricity, a service you subscribe to rather than an object you own and that this would happen fast enough that artists should tour while they still could. He was right about

that too and he restructured his own finances around it years before the industry would admit it was happening. He sold bonds against his own back catalog in order to do it. The Budget Crunch, March 2000. A fairly ordinary episode of The Simpsons Heirs in which Bart sees a vision of his adult life. His sister Lisa has become president of the United States. In one scene, she is sitting in

the Oval Office being briefed by an aid and she says the line that would later be replayed several billion times. As you know, we have inherited quite a budget crunch from President Trump. The writer Dan Grainy has explained the joke since, and his explanation is more interesting than the coincidence. It was not a random celebrity name pulled out of a hat. Donald Trump had publicly floated running for president, and the writers wanted a specific idea. They

needed America to have hit rock bottom before its first female president. and Trump was chosen as the punchline for a country that had gone as far as it could go. The line worked as a joke because in 2000 it was self-evidently absurd. That is the entire mechanism of the gag. 16 years later, it was a headline and the clip resurfaced with such force that people began attributing all sorts of other predictions to the show that it never actually made.

The show has a long record of this, and the honest explanation is arithmetic rather than magic. roughly 800 episodes written by a large staff of unusually well-informed people throwing out an enormous number of jokes about a world they were paying close attention to. Fire enough darts at the future and some of them land. But the presidency one landed dead center and everyone involved found it far less funny than they expected to. The accelerating rate 1958 The mathematician John von Noman has recently died and his friend Stannis Law Ulam writes a memorial article about him. Vonoman was one of the most

extraordinary minds anyone has recorded. A man who helped build game theory, the architecture of modern computers, and much of the mathematics behind the bomb. In the memorial, Ulam recalls a conversation the two of them had. The conversation, Ulam writes, centered on the ever accelerating progress of technology and changes in the mode of human life, which gives the appearance of approaching some essential singularity in the history of the race beyond which human affairs as we know them could not continue. That is the first known use of the word singularity in this sense and the entire modern argument about accelerating technology descends from that one sentence in a memorial notice.

Fonomanyman had already done something else along these lines. He worked out mathematically the requirements for a machine that could build a complete copy of itself, including the copying mechanism. He proved it was logically possible and specified what such a machine would need. He did this before the structure of DNA was published. And the solution he arrived at has the same essential architecture that biology uses, which is a set of instructions that is both executed and copied. He was

working on a book about the brain and the computer when he died. What he left behind was a description of self-replicating machines, a mathematical framework for strategic behavior, the design your laptop still follows, and a single reported remark about acceleration that turned into one of the defining arguments of the current century. The comet Hal's comet comes close to the sun roughly every 75 or 76 years. It has been doing this for a very long time and it will keep doing it long after everyone listening is gone. It appeared in 1493 in6007 and it appeared again toward the end of 1835.

2 weeks after that appearance a boy was born in a small town in Missouri and named Samuel Clemens. He grew up, went to the river, took the name Mark Twain, and became the most famous writer his country had produced. Late in his life, after the deaths of his wife and two of his daughters, he began talking about the comet, and he said something that people around him found unsettling. I came in with Hal's comet in 1835. He said, "It is coming again next year, and I expect to go out with it.

The Almighty has said, "No doubt. Now here are these two unaccountable freaks. They came in together. They must go out together." Twain said he would be the greatest disappointment of his life if he did not go out with comet. The comet reached its

closest approach to the sun on the 20th of April, 1910. Mark Twain died of a heart attack the following day at his house in Connecticut at the age of 74. He arrived with it and he left with it exactly as he said he would and the comet went on its way and is due back in the middle of this century. He is buried in Elmyra in New York State and when it next comes round there will be nobody alive who remembers the man who timed his life to it.