---
video_title: "New Google AI Studio Update Is WILD!"
video_id: yEmOrTeTIUA
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yEmOrTeTIUA
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Gemini 3.8 Flash is Here: Google’s New AI "Workhorse" Model
  
  Google’s Gemini 3.8 Flash update transforms the light model into a powerhouse that rivals top-tier competitors in reasoning and coding. Discover how to use the new thinking levels and 1-million token context window to automate complex business workflows and build functional apps with a single prompt.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The AI Workhorse
  01:05 - Where to Access Gemini 3.8
  01:46 - New Multi-Step Reasoning Explained
  02:23 - The Three Thinking Levels
  02:38 - 1 Million Token Context Window
  04:10 - Mind-Blowing Coding Demos
  05:59 - How to Use It for Business
---
New Google AI Studio update is wild. Gemini 3.8 flash is here and it is Google's most intelligent workhorse model yet. That's Google's own word, workhorse, and I want to show you why that word matters because it changes what you can actually get done with this thing. Let me start with the number that got my attention. Gemini 3.8 flash

scored 54.9% on a test called HLE verified. That test is brutal. It throws hard questions at model across science, history, law, medicine, all of it. Questions that need many steps of thinking, not one quick lookup. Fast

light models were never supposed to score there. And on the artificial analysis intelligence index, 3.8 flash sits at 59. That's three points up from 3.7 flash. It puts it level with GPT 5.6

sole and Grok 4.6. So a flash model, the small quick one, is now sitting shoulder to shoulder with the big heavy ones. Here's the part most people are going to miss though. It's not the score, it's what changed inside the model to get that score. When I explain it, you'll

see why this matters for your actual work. Stay with me because there's a demo later in this video that I still think about. First, where you can get it right now. Gemini 3.8 flash is live in Google AI Studio. It's live in the

Gemini API. It's in Android Studio. It's in Google anti-gravity, which is Google's agent building space. It's in Stitch, which builds interfaces for you. Enterprises get it through Gemini Enterprise. And if you're a normal

person who just wants to use it, it's in the Gemini app for Google AI Pro and ultra subscribers. It's in AI mode in Google search and it's in Gemini inside Google Sheets. That last one is the sleeper. Gemini inside Google Sheets running the smartest flash model Google has ever shipped. Most people won't notice for months. Now, what actually

changed? Google's own explanation is short and honest. Tulsee Doshi, who runs product management there, and Raluca Ada Popa, the Gemini security lead at DeepMind, wrote the launch post together. Their line is that 3.8 flash works harder. Here's what works harder

means in plain English. When you give it a hard job, it takes smaller steps. It thinks a bit more before each move. It reaches for tools over and over instead of guessing, and it checks its own work along the way. Think about hiring someone new. One person reads your

request, does it fast, hands it in, and hopes. Another person reads it, does the first bit, stops, checks it, fixes the mistake, then keeps going. Same job, very different result. 3.8 flash is the second person, and you can control how much it does this. There are three

thinking levels: low, medium, high. Low is for the easy stuff. High is for the jobs where you need it to be careful. That's a real dial you can turn. Easy task, turn it down. Hard task, turn it

up. It also holds 1 million tokens of context. That's roughly a big stack of documents in its head at once, and it can write out up to 64,000 tokens in one go. So, it's not just answering questions, it can produce long, finished work. Let me pause here for a second because this is exactly what we're doing every single day. Look, Gemini 3.8 flash

is free to try in Google AI Studio right now. The hard part isn't getting access. The hard part is knowing what to build with it so it saves you actual hours every week. That's what the AI Profit Boardroom is for. We've got a 30-day roadmap built around exactly this: how to set up Gemini 3.8 flash in AI Studio,

how to use the 1 million token window to feed it your whole client folder, and how to build long-running agents that finish the job instead of stalling halfway. Four coaching calls every week where you can bring your own Gemini setup and we'll fix it live. Daily tutorials with step-by-step walkthroughs, including the Google Sheets side so you can automate your reporting without touching a formula. A prompt library built for agent workflows, plus a member map so you can find people near you doing the same thing. Link in the description or go to AI profitboardroom.com. If you're

creating all this content with AI, but nobody's finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means if it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team, and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic.

The link is in the comments and description below. Right, back to it. I promised you a demo. Here it is. Google gave Gemini 3.8 flash a single prompt

inside Anti-Gravity. One prompt. It built a working DOS-style version of Google Maps, old-school green screen look, and it actually works. You can search locations, get directions, and use Street View. One prompt, a whole working map app. They also gave it a

looping instruction, and it built a 3D game. A wizard walking through a castle with puzzles, with story built into the environment, with textures made by NanoBanana on the fly. There's another one built with real data from the US Geological Survey. It shows famous places as topographic maps with cross-sections you can look at in real time and explanations of what you're seeing. And my favorite is called Hardware Anatomy. It was built with

Gemini 3.8 flash inside AI Studio. It takes a device and generates a realistic 3D teardown. Then you drag a slider and the whole thing explodes into layers so you can look inside. Now, I know what some of you are thinking. Julian, those

are toys. Cool demos. I run a real business. Fair. I get it. But look at

what those demos are actually proving. A single instruction turning into a finished working interactive thing. No back and forth. No fixing it 15 times. The instruction goes in, the finished thing comes out. Swap the topic and

you'll see it. Build me a landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom that explains in simple words how AI automation saves business owners time with a clear sign-up at the top and one at the bottom. Same skill, different job. Loop it. A company that builds an AI game creation tool tested it, too.

What stood out to them wasn't one killer feature. It was how well rounded it is. Strong across coding, strong at reasoning about images and assets, fast, and the output looks polished without endless tweaking. Well rounded is underrated. Most tools are brilliant at one thing and useless at four others.

You end up juggling five tabs. Now, let me get to the So, what should you actually do this week? If you've never opened Google AI Studio, do that first. It's free to try. Pick Gemini 3.8 flash

from the model list, then give it something real from your business, not a test question. If you already use AI every day, go find the job you gave up on. The one that was too long, too many steps, where the model kept losing the thread. That's the exact job this model was built for. Try it again. If you run

a team, look at the long jobs. The research pile, the document reading, the reports nobody wants to write. Those are the jobs that just changed. And if you're in Google Sheets a lot, go look at Gemini in Sheets. That upgrade landed quietly and it's sitting right there in a tool you already open every day. But

here's the honest part. The tool is free to open. The skill is not free. Knowing what job to hand over, how to write the instruction, when to turn the effort up, how to check the output. That's a skill.

And right now, a small number of business owners have it and most don't. That gap is going to get expensive to sit on. Not today, but in 6 months, when the person down the road is running long agent workflows and you're still copying and pasting into a chat box. You don't need to be technical. Nothing I showed you today needs code. You just

need to know what to point it at. So, two things before you go. First, if you want to actually build this into your business, instead of just watching videos about it, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. We're already running Gemini 3.8 flash workflows in there. The

30-day Gemini roadmap covers setting it up in AI Studio, using the thinking levels properly so you're not wasting effort, and building long-running agents for lead follow-up, client onboarding, and content research. Four coaching calls every week and you can bring your own Gemini setup and get it fixed live on the call. Daily step-by-step tutorials, including the Google Sheets automations most people don't know exist yet. A prompt library built for these agent workflows. And a member map so you can meet people near you doing the same thing. There's always someone online,

link in the description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And second, on the traffic side, you can build the best AI workflows in the world, but if nobody finds your business on Google, none of it matters. My team does SEO all day, every day. Book a free SEO strategy session with us and we'll give you a clear picture of what it takes to rank your site and get real people finding you. Link in the comments

and the description.