---
video_title: "Grok Bot Is Here… AI Teammates Just Got REAL"
video_id: C1mlpQQPBBk
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C1mlpQQPBBk
video_date: 2026-08-14T04:30:07+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Grok Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Grok's new AI teammates don't just chat—they sign into your tools, do the work, and finish it. Here's everything Grokbot XA can actually do (and what to watch out for).
  
  00:00 Intro – Meet Grokbot, your AI teammate
  00:47 What It Is – Cloud bots that work 24/7
  01:02 The Difference – Clicks apps like a human, no setup
  01:13 How to Use It – Just message it like a teammate
  02:17 Multiple Bots – Run a whole AI team at once
  02:41 Show, Don't Tell – Teach a bot by doing it once
  03:52 vs Normal Chatbots – Goes the last mile
  04:08 vs Other AI Agents – Built as a "crew," not a solo bot
  04:52 Who It's For – Repetitive, multi-tool tasks
  05:50 Reality Check – Early beta, limited access
  06:14 Pro Tips – 5 rules for using it safely
  07:11 Recap – What Grokbot means for you
---
Grokbot is here. AI teammates just got real. Ever notice how most AI stops right before the finish line? It writes the email, but it never sends it. It plans the whole task, but you still do it. What if it could just finish the job

on its own, not explain it, actually get it done? That's the part nobody saw coming. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and my whole job is helping you learn AI tools and actually put them to work. And today we're looking at something that feels different from every AI tool before it. It's called Grokbot. XA, I just dropped it in early

beta, and the idea is simple, but kind of wild. These aren't chatbots that answer questions. They're AI teammates that sign into your tools, use them just like you would, and come back when the work is done. Stick with me, because by the end I'll show you what it can do, who it's really for, and the one thing most people are going to miss. So, let's break down what Grokbot actually is. XA,

I launched it on August 11th, 2026, and instead of a single assistant, you get a small team of bots. Each one works on a computer in the cloud. That computer stays on all day and night, so the work keeps going even when you close your laptop and walk away. Here's the part that makes it click. Most AI can only help if a tool has a clean connection built for it. Grokbot doesn't need that.

It opens apps and websites and clicks around just like a person does, so it can work inside the messy tools that never played nice with AI before. And it doesn't just get you most of the way there. It's built to finish the job and put the work where it actually belongs. Now, the way you use it is the easy part. You message a bot like you text someone on your team. You hand it a job,

and it takes it from start to finish. It only comes back when it hits something that needs your call, and you can pick the same chat back up later on your phone or your computer, so it's always right there. There's nothing to build first, no complicated setup, no automations to wire together. You just talk to it like a teammate, and it goes. Think about that for a second. No

dashboards to learn, no rules to map out ahead of time. You send one message, and something on the other end actually goes and does the thing. That alone makes it feel really different from the AI most of us are used to. And this is exactly the kind of tool we go deep on inside the AI Profit Boardroom. When something like Grokbot drops, I don't want you left guessing how to use it. Inside the

AI Profit Boardroom, we've got walkthroughs that show you how to set up your first bot the smart way, live coaching calls where you can bring your own setup and ask your questions, and a simple roadmap that takes you from never touching an AI teammate to running a few of them for real work. So, if you're watching this and thinking you actually want to use GrokBot instead of just hearing about it, that's what the AI Profit Boardroom was built for. Okay, let's get into the features because there's more here than one bot doing one job. The first big one is that you're not stuck with a single bot. You can run a whole group of them at the same time.

One handles outreach, one handles support, one keeps things organized, and you can put a chief of staff bot on top to manage the rest. They message each other, share what they know, and pass work back and forth on their own. You're not the middleman anymore. You just check in when they need a real decision. The second feature I really like is called show a bot how it's done. Instead

of writing out long instructions, you let a bot watch you do a task one time. It follows along, remembers the steps, and saves the whole thing as a routine. Next time, it runs it on its own. You can even set it to run on a schedule. So, the stuff you do over and over, you teach once, and then it's off your plate. And the more you work with a bot,

the sharper it gets. It starts to pick up your voice, learns your little edge cases, and figures out when to check with you and when to just keep going. It'll even circle back on stuff you dropped, nudge your handoff that stalled, and start grabbing work before you ask for it. And because that same chat lives on your phone and your computer, you can kick something off from your pocket, walk away, and come back to it later at your desk. Over time, it stops feeling like a tool you're running and starts feeling like a helper who already knows the routine.

That's the whole promise here. Less setting things up, more just handing work off. Here's how I'd put all of that to work for the AI Profit Boardroom. I'd set up one bot to handle outreach. I'd have it research the right people to invite, look at who's actually a good fit, and draft a personal message to each one in our voice. Then it leaves me

a tidy list to look over before anything goes out. That's the kind of steady behind-the-scenes work that keeps the right people finding their way into the AI Profit Boardroom without me sitting there doing it by hand all day. So, how is this different from the AI you already use? A normal chatbot mostly explains things or writes a draft and then hands it back to you to finish. Grokbot is built to go the last mile. It

doesn't stop at almost done. It works inside your real tools and drops the finished work right where it belongs. Now, it's not the only tool that can drive a computer like this. A few of the big AI labs have their own versions of an agent that clicks around a screen, but Grokbot leans hard into the teammate idea. It's not one agent you babysit.

It's a small crew of bots that talk to each other, learn how you like things, and keep working while you're asleep. That framing is what makes it feel less like a tool and more like hiring help. Here's a second way I'd use it for the AI Profit Boardroom. I'd walk one bot through our onboarding the very first time a new member joins. I'd show it how we send the welcome message, where the key resources live, and how we point people to the right first steps. It

watches me do it once, saves it as a routine, and from then on it can handle that same flow every time someone new lands inside the AI Profit Boardroom. New members get a smooth start and I get that time back. So, who is this really for? If your days are full of the same repeated steps across a bunch of different tools, this is aimed right at you. Outreach, updating records, onboarding new people, cleaning up little tasks, chasing loose ends that never quite get done. That's the boring

time eating stuff a bot can quietly carry for you. And why does this matter so much? Because it's a real shift in what AI does for us. For a long time, AI could only tell you how to do something. You still had to go do it. Now, it's

starting to just do it inside the same tools you already work in. When the AI stops being helper on the side and starts being the one actually finishing the work, that changes how a whole day looks. And I could take it even further for the AI Profit Boardroom. I'd run a few bots together on one content push. One drafts a batch of posts around the questions our AI Profit Boardroom members keep asking. One lines up where

each piece goes. And a chief of staff bot keeps them all moving and only pings me when it needs a yes or a no. That kind of teamwork is how I'd keep fresh, helpful content flowing for the AI Profit Boardroom without it eating my whole week. Now, before you go all in, let me keep it real with you because there are a few things worth knowing. Right now, Grok Bot is in early beta.

It's rolling out to people on a few of the top plans like Super Grok Heavy, Cursor Ultra, and Cursor Teams Premium. And there's a waitlist for bigger teams, so not everyone can jump in today and being early beta means it will still have some rough edges. You want to keep an eye on it while it learns your work and give it real feedback when it gets something wrong because that's how it gets better. Here are my tips to use it well. First, start small. Give a bot

easy, low-risk jobs you can undo and build up trust from there. The people who made it actually suggest the same thing. Second, lean on that show a bot how it's done feature. Teach it once, let it save the routine, and you'll save yourself so much repeating down the road. Third, keep yourself in charge of anything sensitive. You handle the

passwords, the login codes, and any payment steps yourself. Never pass a password or a one-time code into a normal chat. The bot is actually built to hand control back to you for those moments, and that's a good thing. Fourth, remember that all of your bots share one cloud computer tied to your account, so whatever one bot can reach, the others can reach, too. Only give it the kind of access you'd hand to one trusted helper, not the keys to everything you own. And fifth, don't

assume what's running under the hood. XAI hasn't said which model actually powers Grok Bot, so test it on your own tasks before you lean on it for anything big. Okay, quick recap. Grok Bot gives you AI teammates that sign into your tools, do real multi-step work, learn how you like it, and keep going around the clock. If you want the full process, the step-by-step guides, and over 100 AI use cases just like this one, come join the AI Success Lab. The links are in the

comments and the description. You'll get all the notes from this video in there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And if you're ready to actually go and try Grok Bot for yourself, here's my honest heads-up. The first time you set up a bot and hand off real work, you're going to run into a few questions. What should I trust it with? How do I teach it a

routine that actually sticks? Where do I keep myself in the loop? That's exactly where the AI Profit Boardroom helps you move faster. You get coaching calls where you can ask about your own setup, tutorials that walk you through tools like this one step-by-step, road maps to follow, and prompts you can put to work right away. It's over 4,000 members learning this stuff together. Come join

us at AI Profit Boardroom.com. I'll see you inside.