---
video_title: "These 5 Hermes Use Cases are MIND BLOWING! 🤯"
video_id: eh9gw3qLpCA
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eh9gw3qLpCA
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  5 Mind-Blowing Hermes AI Use Cases to Automate Your Business
  
  Discover five revolutionary ways to use Hermes, a free AI agent that can generate videos, build a second brain, and automate your content publishing. This guide walks you through the Agent Operating System to help you scale your business and boost SEO efficiency using autonomous goal mode.
  
  00:00 - Intro to Hermes AI
  01:06 - Create AI Videos with Hyperframe
  02:03 - Building an AI Second Brain
  03:07 - The Agent Operating System
  04:04 - Automated SEO Content Writing
  05:10 - Creating an Agent Dashboard
  06:12 - Using Goal Mode for Automation
  07:50 - How to Rank on Google
---
These five Hermes use cases are mind-blowing. Today, I'm showing you five ways to use a free AI agent called Hermes. It can make full videos for you. It can remember your whole business, so you never repeat yourself. It can write and post content while you sleep. This

is wild, and it's free. Use case five ties everything together. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. While he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below.

Today, we're talking about these five Hermes use cases, and they are mind-blowing. Hermes is a free AI agent. Most people open it, type one thing, get one answer, and close it. That's it. But, Hermes can do so much more than that. It can make videos. It can build

your whole content system. It can give every AI tool you use a real memory. And, it can even keep working on your biggest task while you sleep. Stick with me, because use case five ties everything together into one system. Let's get into it. Use case one. Hermes

can make full videos for you using a free tool called HyperFrame. You just type what you want, and Hermes goes and builds it. We're talking fully animated videos saved right inside your Hermes space. You could even ask it to make a short video that explains what the AI Profit Boardroom is about, and walk away. You come back, and the video is done. Here's how it works in plain

terms. HyperFrame turns your words into a video. Hermes runs the whole thing. You don't touch any editing tools. You don't switch between apps. The video

just lands in your workspace, and you can watch it right there. And, here's the best part. You can use a free tool called Alpha from OpenRouter to power this. It has a huge context window, so you get a free agent and a free way to run it. One quick tip here. If you use

Hermes in a plain terminal, nothing gets saved. Everything you build just disappears. You can't see it again. But, if you set it up the right way, which I'll show you, everything you make stays in one place. You can find it anytime.

Use case two is building a second brain. This one is so underrated and most people skip it completely. Here's the problem. Every AI tool starts from zero every single time. So, you waste the first five minutes explaining who you are over and over. Do that across every

tool you use and you're burning so much time. So, here's the fix. We built something called the infinite context engine. It's a free app called Obsidian and it holds all our notes and memories in one place. Then our AI agents plug straight into it. So, you could ask it,

"Based on everything you know about my business and the AI Profit Boardroom, what should we automate today?" And it actually knows the answer because it already knows your business. Obsidian is free. It just stores your notes as simple files on your computer. Your AI agent reads straight from those files.

So, instead of starting from nothing every time, Hermes opens up already knowing your projects, your goals, and your business. You could even tell it, "Every time we talk, save what we learned into my notes." Then it gets smarter every single day without you doing any extra work. Now, here's the thing. Everything I'm showing you today, the video studio, the memory system, the content dashboard, that's all one full system we built called the Agent Operating System. You're actually

looking at it right now on the screen so you can see exactly what it looks like and how it all fits together. If you want that exact setup for yourself, you can get the full zip file for the whole Agent Operating System ready to install inside the AI Profit Boardroom. That means Hermes, Claude, Open Claude, and Gemini all wired together into one dashboard. The video studio is already built in. The memory system is already built in. The content system is already

built in. You just drop it into your own business and start building. Come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom to grab it. And once you've got that system built out, the next question is always, "Okay, how do I get this content found on Google?" That's where my team comes in. We'll sit down with you, look at

your website, your keywords, and your competitors, and map out exactly what needs to happen to get your content ranking and bringing in traffic. If you want that kind of help, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. Use case three is one of the most practical things you can do with Hermes, and it has a direct impact on how much traffic and leads you get. Here's how it works. You give Hermes a keyword, you give it some context and real case studies, and it writes a fully optimized article around that keyword, then publishes it straight to your website. So, say you wanted to

grow the AI Profit Boardroom, you could tell Hermes, "Write an article about how business owners are using AI automation to save time using our real case studies and results, and publish it to the site." Why does this work better than just asking any AI to write content? Because Hermes is pulling from that memory system. It knows your real examples and your real results. That matters because Google in 2026 wants content with real firsthand experience.

Generic AI content doesn't have that. Your content does. We also plug this into a tool called Indexical, which helps get your new content indexed and ranking on Google fast. As one example, we had a keyword ranking and fully indexed inside 4 days. That's how fast this whole system can move once it's set up right. Use case four is building an

actual agent operating system. This is where everything comes together. Most people use Hermes on its own in a plain terminal. You type something, you get a result, and you move on. There's no history. You can't see what you built

before. You can't track anything. Every single session feels like starting cold. An agent operating system fixes all of that. It's basically one dashboard on your computer that holds every AI tool you use all in one screen. So, say your

goal is growing the AI Profit Boardroom, you could have one tab for content, one for video, one for customer questions, all run by different AI agents, all visible in one place. You can even set it up as a task board. You drop in a task like write five posts about AI automation for small business owners, and an agent breaks it down into smaller steps and gets it done. You just tell Hermes what you want the dashboard to do, and it builds it for you. Without this setup, you're stuck in a chat box that forgets everything the moment you close it. With it, you have one mission

control screen that tracks every agent, stores your memory, and shows you exactly what's been built so far. Use case five is goal mode, and this is the one that ties it all together. You give Hermes one big goal, and it just keeps working on it. After every step, a second AI checks the work and asks, "Is this goal actually done, or does it need to keep going?" If it's not done, Hermes writes its own next step and keeps working. Nobody has to sit there typing.

By default, it gets 20 tries at finishing the goal before it stops and checks in with you. So, think about what that means. You could hand Hermes a goal like write and publish five articles about AI automation, walk away, make a coffee, even go to sleep, and come back to finished work waiting for you. That is a massive difference from just typing in a chat box and getting one basic answer back. So, that's it. Five free

use cases for Hermes. Now, some people hear all this and think, "That sounds hard. That sounds complicated." But inside our community, we've had members who had never touched AI before build their own dashboards just like this. If I can build this without knowing how to code, you can, too. And like I said at

the start, this whole thing, the video studio, the memory system, the content system, the task board, that's the full agent operating system. You've seen it right there on screen throughout this video. So, you know exactly what you're getting. If you want that same setup running for your own business, come join us inside the AI profit board room, where you can get the full zip file for the whole agent operating system ready to install. Hermes, Claude, Open Claude, and Gemini all wired together in one dashboard with the video studio, the memory system, and the content system already built in for you. You don't

build it from scratch, you just install it and start using it. And once you've got all this automation running for you, don't forget the other half of the equation, getting found on Google. My team and I have spent years building out link building strategies that work, and we know exactly what it takes to get content rankings. So, if you want us to look at your website, your keywords, and your current content, and put together a real plan to get you found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. See you in the next one.