---
video_title: "Hermes Agent Can Automate Backlinks in 1 Click"
video_id: DoroJ4dormQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DoroJ4dormQ
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Discover how AI agents can fully automate backlink building — finding pages, writing varied anchor text, and placing links without manual clicking. See a live walkthrough using an MCP-connected marketplace inside an AI agent setup, plus the best practices that keep your link profile natural.
  
  0:00 Intro – why backlinks matter for Google & AI search
  0:43 Why Backlinks Matter – votes of trust, boosts AI search visibility
  1:14 The Problem – manual link building is slow, repetitive
  1:38 The Fix – insert.link marketplace + MCP explained
  2:33 Live Demo – agent finds pages, anchor text, places order
  3:28 Why It's Better – page-level search, not just domains
  3:41 Backlink Gap Analysis – find links competitors have that you don't
  4:06 Multi-Site Workspaces & Country Filters
  4:14 Custom Rules – agent follows your standards every time
  6:04 Best Practices – pacing and anchor text variation
  6:35 Save as a Skill – turn the workflow into a repeatable one-message task
  7:27 Recap – full workflow in 6 steps
---
Hermes agent can automate backlinks in one click. What if the most painful part of SEO could just do itself? You know the one. Finding sites, picking anchor text, chasing placements. It's the work everyone avoids, and it's the exact work that gets you found in Google and in AI search. What if your AI agent did all of

it and you just said yes? Almost nobody has this set up yet. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and my whole thing is helping you actually use AI tools in your real work, not just watch demos and forget them. Today, I'm going to show you a brand new setup an AI agent build backlinks for you start to finish right inside my agent OS. Stick around near the end, I'll show you the one move that turns this into a saved workflow you can run every single month with basically one message. Okay, first,

why even bother with backlinks? Simple, a backlink is just another website linking to yours. Think of it like a vote. The more good votes you have, the more search engines trust you. And here's the part most people miss. This

doesn't just help you in normal Google search anymore. It helps you show up in AI search, too. In Google's AI mode, in the answers ChatGPT and Perplexity have people. When more real sites point to you, you're way more likely to be the answer the AI pulls up. We've seen this ourselves as we built more links pointing to the AI Profit Boardroom, the traffic climbed, regular search went up, AI search traffic went up, too. More

links, more visibility. So, backlinks matter. The problem is that building them is brutal. You're scrolling giant lists of sites, opening tab after tab, copying stuff into spreadsheets, hunting for the right anchor text, then reaching out, following up, waiting on replies. I call it the clicking problem. It eats

hours and it's the same painful job every single month. It's the part everybody quietly skips, which is a shame because it's the part that actually moves the needle. Here's what changes it. There's a tool called insert.link. It's a marketplace of

publisher sites you can build links from, over 30,000 of them across 150 plus locations. Normally, you'd log into their dashboard and do all that clicking yourself, but insert.link built an MCP, and that one thing changes everything. Quick pause, what's an MCP? Don't overthink it, it's just a plug in a socket. Your AI agent is the plug, the

tool is the socket, and the MCP is the standard shape that lets them click together. So, your agent, Hermes, Claude, ChatGPT, Cursor, whatever you like, plugs straight into insert.link and reads the whole marketplace itself. No dashboard, no manual clicking. Setting it up is honestly easy. You grab

the MCP details from insert.link, grab an API key from their marketplace. That's just a little pass that lets your agent talk to the tool, and plug both into your agent. You can literally paste it into Claude or Hermes, say set up this MCP, and it does the work. Once it's connected, the live session pops up, and your agent's ready to go. Inside

my AgentOS, I've got this wired in, so all my agents share the same connection. Once set up, every agent can use it. Let me show you what this actually looks like. I opened up Hermes inside my AgentOS, and just talked to it like a person. I said, "I'm looking for backlinks to my AI automation site, The AI Profit Boardroom. Can you suggest

some with the anchor text and the exact pages to build them from?" Hermes searched the insert.link marketplace itself, and came back with real pages, not just domains, actual pages, that fit. For each one, it showed the page, the best target page on my site, the suggested anchor text, where the link would sit, and even the domain rating. That's the whole painful research job done in one shot, right in front of me.

And here's a detail I loved. When it suggested the anchor text, it didn't just repeat the same phrase over and over. It mixed it up. A couple branded ones, a few partial matches, a couple topical ones, one plain URL. It made a point of avoiding the exact same match every time. That matters, and I'll come

back to why in a second. When I was happy with the list, I just said place the order, and it did. The order showed up in the marketplace automatically, and I could ask Hermes for the status anytime without ever logging in. Now, let me show you why this beats the old way. It's not just faster, it's smarter.

First, it's page level. Old marketplaces hand you a domain and say But, a single site can have thousands of pages, and you do not want to dig through all of those by hand. This searches the actual pages, so you get the specific blog post your link goes on, context and all. Second, you can do a backlink gap analysis, one of my favorites. You just ask your agent which links your competitors have that you don't. It

finds the gap, and now you know exactly where to build to catch up. That used to take a whole afternoon. Now, it's one question. Third, if you're juggling more than one site, you can keep a separate workspace for each. One project for this site, another for that client, all clean and organized. And you don't even set

those up by hand, you just ask your agent to do it. You can also filter by country. Want pages about copywriting, but only on UK sites? Just ask, and it runs a page-level search and hands you the list. And you can give it your own rules. Maybe there are certain sites you

never want to link from, or strict standards for what counts as relevant. You write those rules once, and the agent follows them every time through the MCP. Your team might forget your rules on a busy day. Your agent never will. And this is where my Agent OS really pays off. All my agents share one

memory. So, the same setup can pull data from my search console, watch what my competitors are doing, help write and publish content, and then use all of that to order the right links with the right anchor text pointing at the right pages. It's one connected system instead of 10 separate tools that don't talk to each other. That's the whole idea behind Agent OS, one brain, one memory, every agent working from the same page. Now, if you're watching this thinking, "Okay, but how do I actually apply this to my own site?" I've got something for you,

and it's completely free. We're running free AI brand visibility sessions right now. Here's what that is. You hop on, and a strategist builds you a custom visibility plan. A real look at how you show up or don't show up across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. They run a gap analysis against

your competitors, so you can see exactly where they're getting found and you're not, which is perfect if you're about to start building links. And you get your questions answered directly by an actual strategist. It's 100% free, no strings, no obligation. If you want in, the link is in the description below. And if you want the whole thing done for you, that's what the AI Profit Boardroom is for. Inside, you get the full Agent OS

zip file, the exact setup I'm using here, ready to install with the marketplace connection already wired in. We've built a complete 30-day roadmap that walks you through it step by step. You get walkthroughs on this exact backlink setup, connecting the MCP, saving it as a skill, mixing your anchor text, and we run live coaching calls where you bring your own site and get your setup checked in real time. So, instead of piecing it together alone, you've got the map and the room. All right, let me give you the best practices because how you build links matters just as much as building them.

First one, pacing. Do not blast 100 links at once. That looks unnatural and it can actually work against you. Slow and steady wins. Something like five links a week or five to 10 a month is plenty to get the ball rolling and build your authority. Just keep it consistent.

Second, mix your anchor text. Remember how the agent did that automatically? That's on purpose. You don't want the same exact phrase every single time because a natural link profile is varied. So, tell your agent, sometimes use my brand name, sometimes a partial match, sometimes the raw URL, sometimes a few plain words. That mix looks

natural the way real links happen out in the wild. And you can bake that instruction right into your rules. So, it happens every time without you even thinking about it. Now, here's that move I promised you at the start. Once you've got this flow working, you can tell your agent to save it as a skill. You say

something like, "Save this as my link building skill. Use the insert.link MCP, find relevant pages, recommend the placements and anchor text, then ask me to approve before you order." And it saves the whole workflow. Hermes files it away with a name and notes on when and how to use it. So, next month when

you need a fresh batch of links, you don't rebuild a thing. You just call the skill, review what it recommends, approve, done. That's what turns this from a cool demo into something you run on repeat. A whole team's worth of link building work saved as one reusable move. And think about what that frees up. We ran a full link building team for

years. This handles the searching, the matching, the anchor text, the ordering, the tracking, all the stuff that used to eat entire days. You hand it the goal, it does the grind, you stay in control by approving. You're not replaced, you're just not clicking anymore. So, that's the whole thing. Connect the MCP,

plug in your key, let your agent read the marketplace, ask for relevant pages and anchor text, and approve. It orders and tracks the rest. Run a gap check to find what you're missing, keep the pace natural, mix the anchors, and save it all as a skill. So, it's one quick message every month, simple, and it runs inside one connected system in my Agent OS. So, here's your next step. If you

want real eyes on your own site, not a generic checklist, book one of our free AI brand visibility sessions. This is where you go from watching to doing. A strategist looks at your brand, shows you where your competitors are getting found across Google and the AI tools, and gives you clear, specific recommendations you can act on this week. Custom plan, competitor insights, straight answers, 100% free, no obligation. The link is waiting for you in the description. And when you're

ready to actually build this out, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. When you set this up yourself, you're going to hit a few little snags, which agents to use, how to word your rules, how to get the skill saving cleanly. That's exactly what the room is for. You get the full Agent OS zip ready to install, the 30-day roadmap, the walkthroughs on this backlink setup, the prompts, and live coaching calls to get you unstuck fast. There are over 4,000 members in there building right alongside you. So,

don't do it the slow, lonely way. Come get it done with us at AI Profit Boardroom.