---
video_title: "This FREE SEO Tool Could Replace Ahrefs & Semrush"
video_id: gkJbtbK_J1E
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gkJbtbK_J1E
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  This free, open-source tool does keyword research, rank tracking, backlinks, and AI visibility — and plugs straight into your AI agent via MCP. Open SEO might be the only SEO tool you need in 2026.
  
  00:00 Intro – Free tool replacing paid SEO platforms
  00:41 What It Is – Open-source, 14K+ GitHub stars
  1:20 Why Now – SEO now means Google + AI answers
  2:04 Core Features – Keywords, backlinks, audits, AI visibility
  2:56 Setup – Self-host free or use hosted version
  3:23 MCP Integration – Connects real data to your AI agent
  6:09 Who It's For – Solo creators, indie founders, small teams
  6:54 Pro Tips – Search console + MCP = fastest wins
---
This free SEO tool could replace Ahrefs and Semrush. What if you never needed the big SEO tools again? Not some stripped-down free trial, the real thing. Keyword research, backlinks, rank tracking, all of it. There's an open tool doing this quietly, and almost nobody is talking about it. It even

plugs straight into your AI agent. Let me show you. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and my whole job is helping you actually learn and use AI tools in your real work, not just watch demos. Today, I want to show you a free open tool called Open SEO. By the end, you'll see how it does the core jobs the giant SEO platforms do, plus one thing it does that they can't. Stick around

because that last part is where it gets really good. So, let's start simple. What is Open SEO? Open SEO is an open-source SEO tool. Someone built it because the big SEO platforms felt too heavy, too bloated, and honestly a bit much for what most people actually need.

So, instead of a giant all-in-one suite you get locked into, Open SEO gives you the core SEO jobs in a clean, simple tool that you actually own. It's fully open-source under the MIT license, which just means anyone can look at the code, run it themselves, or change it. And it's caught on fast. It's picked up over 14,000 stars on GitHub, and when it launched on Product Hunt back in July, it hit number one for the whole day. So, this isn't some tiny side project nobody uses. Real people are running it every

day. Now, let's talk about why this even matters right now. SEO today. Here's the thing. SEO changed. It's not just about

ranking on Google anymore. Nearly half of all Google searches now show an AI answer right at the top, and more and more people skip the search bar completely and just ask ChatGPT, or Perplexity, or Gemini. So, now you've got two places to win, not one. You need to show up in Google, and you need to show up in the AI answers. That's a lot to keep track of, and the old tools were built for the old game. They're big,

they're slow to learn, and they pack in a hundred features you'll never touch. Most people just need the core stuff done well. That's the gap Open SEO walks right into. So, what can Open SEO actually do? Let me walk you through it.

It covers the main SEO jobs you'd expect. Keyword research so you can find what people are searching for, how much demand there is, and how hard it will be to rank. Rank tracking so you can watch your keyword positions move over time. Competitor insights where you point it at another site and see what they're ranking for and where their traffic comes from. Backlinks so you can check who's linking to a site and how strong those links are. Site audits where it

crawls your pages and flags the technical stuff that's quietly holding you back. And here's the one the old tools don't really have, AI visibility. This shows you whether your brand is actually showing up when people ask AI tools a question. You can even compare how different AI models answer the same prompt. That's the modern half of SEO and it's built right in. And all of this

runs on real search data. That part matters and I'll come back to why in a second. Now, how does it actually work? This is where it gets interesting. You've got a couple of ways to run it.

You can self-host it yourself for free on your own machine or through Cloudflare. And Cloudflare works even on their free plan. That means the tool is yours. Nobody can take it away or lock you out. Or, if you don't want to mess with any setup, there's a hosted version you can just log into and start using.

Either way, it connects to a real search data source. So, you're working with actual numbers, not guesses. And the neat part is you only ever pull the data you actually use. You're not chained to a giant platform whether you touch it or not. But here's the feature that makes Open SEO feel like a 2026 tool instead of just another SEO dashboard. It has a

built-in MCP server. Okay, quick plain English version because I don't want to lose you here. MCP is just the standard way AI agents talk to outside tools. So, Open SEO's MCP server lets your AI agent use real SEO data directly. You connect it to something like Claude, Codex, Open Claude, or Hermes, and now your agent can research keywords, check live search results, look at competitor domains, pull backlink info, and read your search console data. Then it saves everything

back into Open SEO, so you can review it. So, instead of your AI guessing at search numbers and sounding confident while being totally wrong, it's working from real data. That's a huge deal, and most people haven't caught on to it yet. Oh, and one more thing that's genuinely handy. Normally, hooking an AI up to your Google Search Console is a pain.

Google Cloud projects, credentials, the whole mess. Open SEO skips all of that. It can read your search console data with no Google Cloud setup at all, and it's read-only, so your agent can look but not touch anything. So, let's talk about why you'd actually pick this over the tools you already know. A few reasons. First, the AI agent piece is

best in class. If you want your AI grounded in real SEO data, this is one of the cleanest ways to do it. Second, the tool is simple. It's focused on the workflows you actually use instead of burying you in features you don't. Third, you're not locked in. You own it.

You can even fork it and build your own custom version on top. And fourth, it's open. You can see exactly how it works. There's no black box. Now, before I go further, I want to point you to something that can help you take all of this a lot further.

If you're watching this and thinking, "Okay, but how do I actually get my brand showing up across Google and all these AI tools?" We've got a free session for exactly that. It's a free AI brand visibility session. You get a custom plan built around your site, a clear look at how you show up right now across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini, a breakdown of where your competitors are beating you, and you get to ask a real strategist your own questions directly. It's completely free, no obligation. So, if

any of this AI visibility stuff clicked for you, that session is where you get it mapped out for your exact brand. The link is in the comments and the description below. And if you want to go deeper and actually build these skills yourself, that's what we do inside the iProfit Boardroom. Inside, we've got full walkthroughs on tools exactly like Open SEO, setting up the MCP connection, plugging it into your AI agent, and running real SEO tasks step-by-step. We run live coaching calls every week where you can bring your own site and your own questions and get help on the spot.

There are prompts, road maps, and tutorials built around getting your content to actually rank both in Google and in the AI answers. If SEO and AI is your thing, that's the room to be in. Okay, back to Open SEO. Let's talk about who this is actually for. Honestly, if you run anywhere from one to a handful of sites, this fits you perfectly. Indie

founders, small teams, solo creators, people who do SEO in bursts, not every single day. If you've been putting off getting a proper SEO tool because the big ones just felt like overkill, this is your on-ramp. And it's especially good if you already use AI agents to help plan your content. Because here's the problem with that. AI agents love to build a whole content strategy on made-up keyword data and sound completely sure of themselves while doing it. You've probably seen it. It

hands you a confident plan built on numbers it basically invented. Open SEO fixes that. It gives your agent real data, so the plan it builds is grounded in what people are actually searching for. That one thing can save you from weeks of writing content nobody's even looking for. So, let me give you some quick tips to actually get value out of this. Tip one, start with keyword

research. Don't try to use every feature on day one. Pick one topic, pull the keyword ideas, and just get a feel for the demand and the difficulty. That alone is worth it. Tip two, connect your search console. This is where the gold

is. It can look at what you're already almost ranking for, the keywords sitting on page two, and show you the ones worth pushing up to page one. Those are the fastest wins you'll ever get. Tip three, if you use an AI agent, hook up the MCP. Seriously, this is the part most people skip, and it's the best part. Let your

agent do the first pass, then you review the work. It's like having an SEO assistant that never guesses. Tip four, don't just track Google. Check your AI visibility, too. See if you're showing up when people ask the AI tools a question. That's half the battle now,

and almost nobody's watching it. Tip five, if you're a bit technical, self-host it. Run your own copy, own your data, and if there's something you want changed, you can literally change it. That's the whole point of it being open. So, that's Open SEO, a free open SEO tool that does the core jobs the big platforms do, plugs straight into your AI agent, and shows you the modern AI side of search that the old tools completely miss. If you've been feeling

boxed in by the heavy tools, this is a breath of fresh air. Go try it, play with it, see what it finds for you. And if you want real help applying all of this to your own brand, here's your next step. Book that free AI brand visibility session. You'll get a custom plan for your site, a real look at how you show up across Google and the AI tools, competitor insights, and clear recommendations you can act on right away. It's the fastest way to go from

watching this to actually seeing something happen on your own site. Completely free, no obligation. The link is in the comments and the description. And once you've got the direction, come build it with us. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you'll find the exact walkthroughs for tools like Open SEO, plus the coaching calls where you can get unstuck fast the moment you hit a wall, the roadmaps that show you what to do first, and the prompts that make the whole thing so much easier. Setting up

any new tool always has a rough first week, and that's exactly where having a room full of people doing the same thing pays off. We've got over 4,000 members in there already, all learning this stuff together. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.