---
video_title: "IBM Just Dropped FREE AI Models for AI Agents"
video_id: -pdRK7mwGHc
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-pdRK7mwGHc
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  IBM quietly dropped free, open-source AI models built specifically for agents — no gatekeeping, no subscriptions. One of them also transcribes hours of audio in seconds. Here's what Granite 4.2 can actually do, the honest limitations, and how to start using it today.
  
  00:00 Intro – Free agent models nobody's talking about
  00:47 Granite 4.2 – Open, free, Apache 2.0 license
  01:37 Reasoning Switch – Toggle thinking on/off for speed
  02:02 Agent Training – Why the bigger models are built to act
  03:05 Benchmarks – Strong scores, take with a grain of salt
  03:51 Specs – 128K context, 12 languages, easy setup
  05:44 Speech Model – Near-instant audio-to-text
  06:46 Reality Check – Where it falls short
---
IBM just dropped free AI models for AI agents. Quick question, when you picture the top AI models right now, does IBM even come to mind? Probably not. But IBM just quietly dropped a set of free open models built for AI agents. Models you can run on your own computer today. No

big company holding the keys. And most people scrolled right past it. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and my whole job is helping you learn AI tools and actually use them in your work, not just watch from the sidelines. So today I'm breaking down exactly what IBM released, why it's a big deal for anyone building AI agents, and the one thing these models do that most open models still can't. Stick around because there's a speech model buried in this release that is almost too fast to believe. Let's get into it. Okay, so

here's what dropped. On August 25th, IBM released something called Granite 4.2. It's a family of open AI models, and they come in three sizes: a small 3B, a middle 8B, and a bigger 30B. Those numbers just mean how big each model is.

Smaller is lighter and faster to run. Bigger is smarter, but needs more power. And here's the part I love. All three are open under the Apache 2.0 license.

In plain words, that means they're free to download, free to use in your own work, and you can even change them and build on top of them. No permission slip, no locked door, you just grab them and go. Now, IBM isn't exactly the name you think of when you think cutting-edge AI, right? They're the old serious enterprise company. But that's kind of why this is interesting. They built

these models for one specific thing: AI agents, not chatbots that just talk back. Agents that actually do stuff, plan a task, use tools, write code, check their own work, and fix it when they get it wrong. So what makes Granite 4.2 different from the older Granite models? One word: reasoning. Every model

in this family can think before it answers. It can lay out its steps, work through a problem, then give you the answer. But here's the smart part: it has a switch. You can turn the thinking on for hard problems, turn it off for easy ones, or set it to a low-effort mode that only thinks a little. Why does that matter? Because thinking takes

time. For simple stuff, you don't want it sitting there over thinking. You flip the switch and it answers fast. Hard problem, turn the thinking back on. You're the one in control. Now, here's a

detail most people miss and it's important. The 8B and the 30B got extra training that the little 3B didn't. IBM put them inside real practice environments, actual coding setups, a real terminal, real web search and let them learn by doing, editing code, running commands, searching the web over and over until they got good at acting, not just talking. That's the gap between the small one and the two bigger ones. The 3B is great for light, simple jobs.

The 8B and 30B are the ones built to run as real working agents. So, what could you actually do with these? Well, the small 3B is light enough to run on everyday hardware, the kind of machine sitting on a factory floor, in a shop or out in the field where there's no reliable internet. You could use it for quick, simple tasks right there on the device. The bigger models are where agent work lives. Someone could point

the 30B at a coding job and let it work through a real software problem step-by-step or wire it into an agent that uses tools, searches for answers and handles a multi-step task from start to finish. And because they're open, you run all of this on your own hardware with your own data staying right where it is. That last part is a big deal for anyone who can't send everything off to some outside service. And now, let's talk numbers because IBM shared some and they look strong. On a hard math test called AIME 25, the 30B model scored just over 89. On a coding test called

SWE-Bench Verified, that one checks if a model can fix real software bugs on its own, the 30B hit 57. Those are solid scores open models this size. But, I'm going to be straight with you because that's the whole point of this channel. Those numbers are IBM's own testing. Nobody outside has fully checked them yet. So, take them as a good sign, not

gospel. And honestly, on pure coding, a couple of other open models like Qwen 3.8 are still ahead on the same tests. So, Granite 4.2 isn't the new king of everything. What it is is a clean, open,

easy to use set of models you can actually run yourself and trust with your own data. Sometimes that matters way more than topping a leaderboard. These models also hold a huge amount of text at once. In the everyday setup, you can feed them around 128,000 tokens. That's a big pile of text, like long documents or a whole back-and-forth conversation. IBM also built in a

stretch that goes much higher for long context work. So, if you're throwing big files at an agent, these can handle it. And they work across 12 languages, so you're not locked to English. And getting them is easy. You can grab Granite 4.2 from Hugging Face, from

GitHub, or just pull it through Ollama if you like running models locally. There are also smaller, squished-down versions so they fit on lighter machines. Plus, they use the same tool-calling style as OpenAI's, and they plug into common tools like vLLM and SGLang. In plain terms, if you've already got an agent setup, you can swap these in without rebuilding everything. That's a quiet win, because switching models is usually a headache. Now, quick

pause because if you're watching this thinking, "Okay, this is cool, but how do I actually make any of it work for me and my brand?" I've got something for you, and it won't take a thing out of your pocket. We're running free AI brand visibility sessions right now. Here's what that is. You hop on with a strategist, and they map out exactly how you show up across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini, or where you're not showing up at all, which is the part most people don't even realize. You get a custom visibility

plan, a gap check against your competitors, and straight answers to your questions. It's 100% free, no strings, no obligation. As AI agents and AI search change how people find you, this is the fastest way to see where you actually stand. I'll tell you how to book it at the end. And if you want to go deeper and actually build this stuff, that's what the AI Profit Boardroom is for. Inside, we've got walkthroughs on

taking free open models like these and plugging them into a real agent setup, the exact kind of thing I just walked you through. We run live coaching calls where you can bring your own setup, ask questions, and get unstuck. There are step-by-step roadmaps, ready-to-use prompts, and tutorials that keep up as new models like Granite 4.2 keep dropping. So, instead of watching a video and forgetting it by tomorrow, you've got a place to actually put it to work. All right, back to the release

because I promised you something almost too fast to believe, and here it is. Along with the language models, IBM also dropped something called Granite Speech 5.0 Turbo CTC. This one turns speech into text, and it is quick. We're talking two tiny models, just 470 million in size, way smaller than the language ones. Here's why they're so

fast. Most speech models bolt a whole language model onto the back end. IBM stripped that out. These are built to do one job, take audio, give you text, and nothing else. And the speed is wild. On

a single high-end graphics card, IBM says it can chew through about 3 and 1/2 hours of audio in 1 second. 1 second. Stuff that used to take ages done almost instantly. So, what's that good for? Think about anyone sitting on piles of recordings, calls, meetings, interviews, voice notes. Turning all of that into

text used to be slow and painful. With something this fast, you could run through hours of audio in the time it takes to grab a coffee. And IBM even put up a live demo you can try right in your browser. No setup. Just go play with it.

Now, let me give you the honest take, because I don't want you walking away with the wrong idea. Granite 4.2 won't beat the biggest closed models at everything, and IBM isn't claiming that. It's text only. So, if your work needs it to read images or screenshots, this isn't your tool on its own. And on raw

coding, a couple of other open models still edge it out. But, that's not the point of this release. The point is you get open, easy-to-use models built for agents that you can run on your own hardware, keep your data private, and fine-tune for your own work. No permission needed. For a ton of real work, that's exactly what people have been asking for. IBM also leans hard

into trust and governance, which matters for teams that need to know exactly what they're running. So, how do you actually start? A few quick tips. One, don't jump straight to the biggest model. Start with the 3B for light tasks. It's fast,

and it might be all you need. Move up only when you hit a wall. Two, use that thinking switch. Leave thinking off for simple stuff, so it answers fast. Turn it on only for the hard problems. You

get better speed without giving up the smarts. Three, remember it's the two bigger models, the 8B and 30B, that got the real agent training. If you're building an agent that takes actions, that's where to look. Four, to run it on a lighter machine, grab one of those smaller squished down versions instead of the full-size one. And five, test the numbers yourself. IBM scores look great,

but the real test is your own tasks. Try it before you trust it. Okay, we're near the end, so here's your next step. If you want real help applying any of this to your own brand, book that free AI brand visibility session I mentioned. This is the one where a strategist looks at how you're showing up across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini, hands you a custom plan, shows you where your competitors are beating you, and gives you clear next moves.

It's completely free, no obligation, and it's the fastest way to turn all of this into something that actually moves the needle for you. The link's in the comments and the description below. And if you're ready to really learn this to build agents, run open models, and keep up as new stuff like Granite 4.2 keeps landing, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. You're about to run into the same questions everyone does. Which

model do I pick? How do I wire it into an agent? Why isn't my setup working? Inside, we help you get through all of that faster with live coaching calls, step-by-step tutorials, roadmaps, and prompts built around the exact tools I cover here. There are over 4,000 members in there already learning and building together. Come be one of them. Just head

to aiprofitboardroom.com. That's it for this one. IBM just handed you free, open, agent-ready models, so go grab them and actually build something with them. I'll see you in the next video.