---
video_title: "NEW Prime Agent Changed AI Forever"
video_id: msBuulMh9AQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=msBuulMh9AQ
video_date: 20260814
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Prime Agent Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Prime Agent: The Open-Source AI That Beats Human Experts
  
  Discover Prime Agent, the open-source AI system that achieved a record-breaking 95.5% benchmark score by rethinking architecture over model size. Learn how its recursive language model eliminates memory bloat and how to integrate it into your business today.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The AI System Shift
  00:46 - Open Source & Setup Costs
  01:19 - Why Traditional Agents Fail
  01:55 - The Recursive Language Model
  03:14 - Inside the Agent OS Dashboard
  05:14 - Permanent Memory & Refinement
  06:38 - How to Install Prime Agent
  07:41 - Join the AI Success Lab
---
New Prime Agent changed AI forever. Prime Intellect just released an open-source AI agent. It took an existing model and pushed it to 95.5% on one of the hardest AI benchmarks on the planet. The human expert baseline on that same test, 95.4%. The agent edged

it out. But here's the part that actually matters. They didn't build a new model to do it. They built a better system around the model they already had. And that shift from smarter model to smarter system is what this video is about. Because it changes how you should

think about every AI tool you're using right now. Let me walk you through exactly what Prime Agent does, why it's different, and what we've built on top of it inside our Agent OS that you can actually get your hands on today. Prime Intellect dropped this on August 6th. Completely open-source MIT licensed. Runs in your terminal. If you already

pay for Claude Pro or Max, you log straight in at no extra cost. You can also connect it to over 20 different model providers or run it on local models for free. The cost barrier is basically zero if you're already using AI. But the price isn't the story. The architecture is. Hey, if we haven't met

already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Every AI agent you've used before, Claude Code, Codex, all of them, works the same basic way. The model gets a list of tools, read a file, run a command, edit something. It picks a tool, runs it, the

result gets dumped into its memory. Then it picks the next tool, dumps that result in too, over and over. Here's the problem. That memory fills up fast. Every tool result piles in. The context

window bloats. And when it gets full, the agent compresses everything into a summary. Summaries lose detail. That's why your agent forgets what you told it 2 hours ago. That's why it starts making mistakes on longer tasks. You felt this.

Everyone has. Prime Agent throws that whole approach out. Instead of giving the model a menu of tools, it gives it one thing, a live Python session that stays open the whole time. If the agent needs to read a file, it writes a tiny piece of code. If it needs to search for something, code. If it needs to spin up

a helper agent, code. Here's why that actually matters. Say the agent needs to read a large document. The old way, that entire document gets loaded into the model's memory, tens of thousands of tokens gone. The new way, the file sits outside the model in a variable. The

agent writes one line of code to pull exactly the piece it needs. The rest never touches memory at all. It's the difference between trying to memorize an entire reference library versus just knowing how to look something up when you need it. Prime Intellect calls this a recursive language model, RLM. The context becomes something the agent can actually program, not just fill up.

Memory stays clean. Long sessions stop breaking down. One tester ran Prime Agent side-by-side with Claude Code on the same tasks and found Prime Agent used substantially fewer tokens because Claude Code reads entire files into memory, while Prime Agent only pulls what it needs. Fewer tokens means your usage limits stretch further. Sessions run longer without falling apart. Now,

the feature that makes this genuinely different from anything else out there, and this is the part where I need to show you what we've built on top of it, because our Agent OS takes this concept and turns it into something you can actually plug into your business from day one. What you're looking at right now is our Agent OS dashboard. This is what we've built inside the AI Profit Boardroom. One place where all your agents live, Prime Agent, Claude, any other tool you're running, all managed together with shared memory across your whole operation. You can see here how we've plugged Prime Agent straight into this system. The agent isn't running in an

isolated terminal window, it's connected to everything else. When it learns something, that lesson is available across the whole setup. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we've already done the hard work of mapping Prime Agent into the Agent OS, building the workflows, stress testing what actually works, and packaging it all up so you can get started without spending weeks figuring it out yourself. Here's exactly what you get when you join. You get the full Agent OS zip file, Prime Agent already configured and ready to install, not a blank setup you have to build from scratch. You get a 30-day roadmap

specifically built around using Prime Agent and the Agent OS to save time and grow your operation with step-by-step instructions for each day. You get daily tutorials as we keep testing new workflows and adding what works. Four live coaching calls every week where you can share your screen, show us your Agent OS setup, and get direct feedback on your exact configuration. A prompt library built specifically around Prime Agent workflows, and a member map so you can connect with other people running the Agent OS near you with someone always online to help. Link in the description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com

to get the zip file and get set up. And here's a real workflow we run inside the AI Profit Boardroom using this exact system. We use it to handle member onboarding sequences. The agent pulls in new member data, drafts the welcome message in the exact tone and structure we've trained it on, and queues it for review all without anyone touching it manually. We set that up once, it runs every time. That's what the Agent OS

makes possible. The reason that works is because of Prime Agent's continual harness. The agent keeps a small notebook about itself, instructions on how it behaves, memories about your project, skills it's learned. Every 25 turns, a separate process reads over what just happened and makes small evidence-backed edits to that notebook. If the agent failed something twice, it writes the lesson down. If you correct

it, you run one command {slash} refine, and that correction gets baked in permanently. Next session, it just knows. Every other agent works with a kind of amnesia. You explain your project, it helps you, you close the terminal, tomorrow you explain everything again from scratch. That's the reality of every tool in this space right now. Prime Agent breaks that.

Every mistake becomes a lesson. Every correction sticks. The agent you're using in month three is genuinely smarter than the one you installed on day one. Same download, different agent. Here's a real example of how this plays out inside the Agent OS. We corrected

the agent once on how we like our coaching call recap summaries worded, the tone, the structure, what to include, run {slash} refine. Now, every single recap it drafts comes out exactly right. We explained it once, locked in permanently. That's the kind of compounding that actually saves time at scale. They also built safety rails in.

The base system prompt never changes. Every refinement gets snapshotted, so if a change makes things worse, you can roll it back. Nothing is permanent unless you want it to be. So, here's what to actually do. If you want to try Prime Agent, install it on Mac or Linux with one command. Log in

with what you already use. Start on a real task, something you actually do week to week. Correct it when it gets something wrong, run {slash} refine, then watch what happens next session. That moment where it remembers your correction without being told, that's when this clicks. And if you want the full system, rather than building it from scratch yourself, the Agent OS zip file with Prime Agent already configured and ready to install, the 30-day roadmap, daily tutorials based on real tests from inside the community, and four live coaching calls every week where you can show us your exact setup and get direct feedbacks. It's all

inside the AI Profit Boardroom right now. We've already done the work of building this into a system you can actually run. The zip file is there, the roadmap is there, the coaching calls are live every week with people who are deep in this already. You don't have to spend weeks working it out alone. Link in the description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com

and get the Agent OS installed this week. And one more thing before you go. If you want the full process, the SOPs, and over 100 AI use cases built around tools exactly like Prime Agent and the Agent OS, join the AI Success Lab. It's our free AI community. Links in the comments and description. You'll get all

the video notes from this episode in there, plus access to our community of 75,000 members who are already running AI automation in their businesses every single day. Free to join, link below. For 2 years the game was picking the smartest model. A team just took a model at 30% and pushed it past human experts without changing the model at all.