---
video_title: "New Antigravity Update is Scary Good!"
video_id: i5lNy1vONZU
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i5lNy1vONZU
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google Anti-Gravity 2.11.0: Generative UI Changes Everything
  
  Google's latest Anti-gravity update introduces Generative UI, allowing AI agents to build interactive, standalone tools instead of just text responses. Discover how this shift from reading data to touching it enables anyone to create and share custom HTML artifacts with zero dependencies.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Anti-gravity 2.11.0
  00:42 - Understanding Generative UI
  01:11 - The Evolution of Anti-gravity
  02:26 - 3 Interactive Demo Examples
  03:27 - Standalone HTML & Offline Access
  05:08 - Advanced Charts and UI Fixes
  06:22 - The Future of Agentic Input/Output
---
New anti-gravity update is scary good. On August 26th, Google shipped anti-gravity 2.11.0, and the headline change in that release is one line long: generative UI, which renders HTML artifacts right inside the chat. That sounds small. It isn't.

Here's what it actually means. Up until now, when you asked an AI agent to explain something, you got text back, maybe a picture, maybe a mermaid diagram, which is that boxes and arrows thing that looks like a flowchart. That was the ceiling: words, a picture, a flowchart. Now the agent can build you a working thing, a real thing you can click, a chart you can hover over, a slider you can drag, a map of your project you can grab a node on and move around. It shows up in line right in the chat and again in your artifacts panel.

Google's own words for it are rich interactive artifacts. Their example prompt is dead simple: help me visualize the dependencies in my project. And what comes back isn't a paragraph about your project, it's a graph you can drag, filter, and click into. Click any node and a side panel opens up telling you what that piece does. Stay with me because there's a detail buried in this release that I think most people are going to miss. I'll get to it in a

minute, and it's the part that makes this useful for people who don't like code at all. First, let's ground this. Anti-gravity is Google's agent tool. It launched on November 18th, 2025, and back then it was basically a code editor with agents bolted on. It was a fork of VS Code. Then at Google I/O in May 2026,

Google relaunched it as anti-gravity 2.0, and the whole point changed. The editor stopped being the main event. Managing teams of agents became the main event. You can run up to five agents side by side, and the thing those agents hand back to you is called an artifact: plans, screenshots, recordings, task lists. The idea was always that you

shouldn't have to read every single line the agent wrote to trust it. You look at the artifact instead. You check the work without doing the work. So artifacts have been there since day one. What changed on August 26th is what an artifact is allowed to be. It used to be

a document. Now it can be a tool. Let me show you the difference with something you'd actually do. Say you want to see how people move through the AI Profit Boardroom after they join, which day they show up to their first coaching call, when they open their first 30-day road map, where they drop off. Before this update, you'd ask an agent and get a wall of text describing it. Now, you

ask for it as a visual artifact and you get a flow you can click through, filter, and poke at. Same data, completely different experience. That's the shift. You stop reading about your stuff and start touching it. Google gave three demo examples on their blog, and I want to walk you through them because they tell you exactly how far this goes.

The first one is that dependency graph. You ask what your project depends on, and the agent goes and reads your files, thinks about it for a few seconds, then builds a live map. There are filters at the top, runtime, internal, dev tools. You can reset the zoom. You drag nodes around, click one, and a panel on the right tells you what it is and what it connects to. The second one is a

quadtree visualizer. That's a way computers split up space to find things fast. In the demo, you click canvas to drop points down, you drag a box to run a search, and the counter tells you how many checks it did versus how many a slow search would have done. You're not reading about the idea, you're playing with it until it clicks. The third one is my favorite. It's a solar system

explorer. 10 planets, you can flip between top-down and a tilted 3D view. Turn orbit trails on and off, show the asteroid belt, switch the scale between artistic, logarithmic, and realistic. Speed the whole thing up to a year per second. Click Earth and get its distance, its orbital period, its speed, its tilt. That's not a diagram, that's a

little piece of software built on demand from one sentence. And here's the part I said I'd come back to. Every one of those runs with zero dependencies. In plain English, nothing gets downloaded, nothing gets installed, it runs on your machine, it works offline, and you can export the whole thing as a single standalone HTML file and open it later. Think about what that unlocks. You ask

an agent to build you a visual tool, it builds it, and you get a file. One file. You can email that file, you can put it on a shared drive. You can open it on a laptop with no internet on it. The person opening it doesn't need antigravity, doesn't need an account, doesn't need to install anything. That's

the bit that takes this out of developer land and puts it in normal people land. Because here's a use case anyone watching could run today. Ask the agent to build an interactive onboarding checklist for new AI profit boardroom members where each step opens up to show the exact tutorial to watch. Export it, send it, done. That's one sentence in, one working file out. Quick pause here

because this is exactly the kind of thing we're doing every day inside the AI profit boardroom. If you want to actually build with antigravity's generative UI instead of just hearing about it, come join us. We've got four coaching calls every single week where you can share your screen, show us the artifact you're trying to build, and get it fixed live. There's a 30-day antigravity roadmap that takes you from installing it to running agents that build dashboards and reports for your business without you touching them. Daily step-by-step tutorials, including how to write prompts that get the agent to build the visual you actually wanted the first time. A prompt library you can

copy straight into antigravity. Business owners in there, a lot of them running Google's agent tools right now. So, if you get stuck at 11:00 p.m., someone's online. And a member map so you can find

people near you doing the same thing. Link in the comments and description or go to AIprofitboardroom.com. Right, back to it. Let's talk about what else came in that same release because generative UI didn't ship alone. Google

added support for KaTeX math, chart.js, and Plotly charts inside generative UI widgets and artifact previews. Let me unpack that. Chart.js and Plotly are the two most common ways to make charts on the web. Plotly is the one that gives

you charts you can zoom into, hover over, and download. KaTeX is for math formulas, the proper ones with fractions and symbols that normally turn into gibberish in a chat window. So, the agent can now hand you a real working interactive chart. Not a screenshot of a chart, a chart. That matters for anyone who deals with numbers and doesn't want to open a spreadsheet. Ask the agent to

chart which AI Profit Boardroom tutorials get watched the most each week and you get something you can hover over and filter sitting right there in the chat. They also added something small that tells you how seriously Google is taking this. One of the fixes in 2.11.0 was that form controls and scroll bars inside generative UI widgets weren't matching your dark or light theme.

Someone found that. Someone fixed it. You only fix scroll bar theming when you expect people to live inside these things. There were 30 fixes in this release, 30 against 10 improvements. That's a team hardening something they plan to build on. Now, let's zoom out a

bit because this update makes way more sense when you see the three weeks before it. August 20th, version 2.9.1. Google shipped remote control. You can

now connect to agent sessions running on your own machine from any browser. Push notifications when an agent finishes or needs you. August 24th, version 2.10.0.

They put a terminal directly in the sidebar. They put Git version control in the review pane so you can stage and commit without leaving. They added audio file attachments, MP3, WebM, 4A, and more up to 20 megabytes. You can drag a box on any image and leave a comment on that exact spot. And URL artifact cards now open Google Docs, Sheets, Slides, and Drive links inside an in-app preview pane. August 26th, version 2.11.0.

Generative UI. Three releases, six days. Look at the shape of that. Remote control so you can reach your agents from anywhere. Then audio, images, comments, Google Docs previews so the agent can take in more kinds of stuff.

Then interactive output so it can hand back more kinds of stuff. The input got wider, the output got richer, and you can now reach the whole thing from your phone browser. And if you want the shortcut, come get it with us. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we've built a 30-day anti-gravity roadmap that walks you through this exact thing, installing it, running your first agent, and getting it to build interactive dashboards and clickable reports for your own business step by step. Four coaching calls a week where you bring your anti-gravity screen and we fix your prompts live so you stop getting artifacts that almost work. Daily

tutorials that cover new releases like this one within days of them shipping so you're never learning a version behind. A prompt library with the exact generative UI prompts we use. And business owners using this stuff to save hours a week, get more leads and bring in more customers with a member map so you can find the ones near you. Link in the comments and description or go to AI profit room.com. And if you want the

full process, the SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI success lab. It's free. Links in the comments and description, you'll get all the video notes from there plus access to our community members who are crushing it with AI.