---
video_title: "How to Rank #1 with DeepSeek Harness AI SEO"
video_id: 4B7xy43hVCQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4B7xy43hVCQ
video_date: 20260818
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Deepseek Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want a free SEO Strategy session? Book here: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  DeepSeek just dropped a free, MIT-licensed agent harness — and it quietly rewires how you run SEO. Everything's a plugin, it reads your existing CLAUDE.md files with zero migration, and a trajectory view shows every step the agent took so you can catch ungrounded content before it publishes. Here's the full free SEO stack, top to bottom.
  
  00:00 Intro – Free SEO with DeepSeek Harness
  01:15 The Difference – Everything's a plugin
  01:43 Zero Migration – Reads your CLAUDE.md files
  02:18 Level 1: Setup – Skill file + one workspace
  03:04 Why It Ranks – Grounded vs. generic AI slop
  04:24 Free Stack – Free harness, free brain
  07:09 Level 2: Trajectory View – See every step it took
  09:40 Level 3: Scale – Parallel SEO agents
  10:50 The Full Loop – Generate to auto-index
---
Deepseek harness AI just changed SEO. Here's the part that matters. You can now run a full SEO content system on it for free. The harness is free. The brain can be free. And it shows you every

single step it took. So you can check the work in 30 seconds instead of 30 minutes. Now Deep Seat released this on August the 13th. It's MIT licensed, which means you can download it, change it, even build a product on top of it without asking anyone. and it blew past 115,000 stars on GitHub, which puts it among the fastest growing AI projects ever. Already 300 community plugins for

a tool that stays old. And the team behind it is 19 people led by Tanisu who joined Deepseek M from James Street. But none of that is why you should care. You should care because of what this does for your website traffic. By the end of this, you understand the three levels of running SEO with Deep Sea Carnis. So

level one is the setup, how it plugs into an SEO content system without changing anything you already have. Level two is the checking system. There's a feature inside this tool that no other harness has, and it solves the biggest problem with AI content. I'll get to that in a minute. And level three is scale. So running multiple SEO agents

at the same time on the same site whilst you're out and about walking around or at the gym or whatever you're doing. Now, let's start with what's actually new here because a lot of tools actually claim to be different and aren't. And until now, these serious harnesses were closed. So clawed code, codeex, great tools for sealed boxes. You could swap the brain, but the body was fixed. The

interface, the rules, the way it works, all decided by someone else. Deepseek flipped that. Everything in this harness is a plugin. So the sidebar is a plugin. The tools a plugin. Even the core loop

the agent runs on is a plugin. So you can swap any piece out and the rest keeps working. And there's one line in their document that matters more than the whole launch. Deep Sea Carnis reads agents MD and Claude MD files. Let me explain why those are huge for SEO.

Those are instruction files, little pieces of text files you leave in a folder that tell an agent about your business, your sites, your writing rules, your keywords, what to never do with it. Now, if you've been building with clawed code or if you already have, for example, codecs, DeepSeek can read those exact same files instead of inventing their own format. Everything I built for SEO over the past year works inside this tool on day one with zero migration, zero rebuilding. That's the story of this launch. It slots into what you already have. Now, level one, the

setup. My SEO system runs on something called skill files. A skill file is a written instruction set. So, you want to think of it like a recipe that AI follows step by step every single time without you repeating yourself. My main one is a 13step quality control file. It

covers how articles get structured, what language to use, what to check before anything gets published. Now, the system underneath it works like this. I record my real screen, actual SEO tasks, research, actual things that are happening on those websites. Nothing is invented. Nothing is made up. And every

claim in the article traces back to something that actually happened on that screen. Why does that m matter? Because the biggest problem with AR content isn't it's AI. Google doesn't penalize content for being written by AI. Google penalizes content that's thin, generic, and says nothing new. Grounded content,

content built from real work, real data, real experience ranks. Generic AI slop doesn't. That's the whole difference. Now, to run this inside deepsee, you give it a workspace and a workspace is just one folder. So, if we go back to Deep Seek Carnis, as you can see right here, we can click on new session. And

then we can set up the workspace as you can see with one single folder. So that workspace is just one folder the agent works in. It can read every file inside that folder, create files, change files and it can't touch anything outside of it. So the skill file goes in that folder and the agent starts every task already knowing the rules, the sites and the source material. So it's one clean folder with one instruction file and that's the whole setup. Now let's talk

about the brain. So the harness asks for a deepseek API key when you first open it. So you can see that inside the settings here. And then we can switch over to models. And you can see that we can swap and change and add providers and custom providers over here. Now V4 Pro is their

model that's built for this harness. They were built for each other. So Pro is pretty cheap, but it's a powerful Frontier level model, but inside the settings under models, you can add more providers. So you can actually connect Open Code directly to the harness. And one of Open Codes free models is Deep Seek V4 Flash. So this means that you've

got a free harness and a free brain with a full SEO system running at no cost. Now here's to think about which brain does what because this is where the economics get interesting. So Flash isn't the smartest pro, but SEO has two kinds of work. There's the thinking work. You got pillar articles, content strategy, topical research, and then there's the volume work, metad descriptions, title tax, image or text, internal link suggestions, schema markup across hundreds of pages. So Pro can

handle the thinking work for pennies. Flash can handle the volume work for nothing. Most people pay for SEO tools that do a fraction of this, but the volume layer of SEO, the boring stuff that eats your week, now costs zero because you can plug in that free system into it. Now, you might be wondering, okay, how do you actually set that up? This is the beautiful thing and the unique thing about Deep Sea Carnis. So,

what you can actually do is you can actually go into creator mode, right? So, there's different systems and different presets for Deep Seek as you can see right here. So, we we've got standard mode, code mode, minimal mode, and creator mode. Now, creator mode is something where you can basically tweak the whole system layout and everything you see inside DC caris. So, this means it's very flexible. So, for example, if

we go into creator mode and we say, can you add open code as a drop down with DC v4 flash that I can use harness for free when I'm building it? You can see that it goes off and actually builds that in. And you can do this too. And then what that actually means is that on the drop down here, we can switch between models and we have DeepSeek V4 Flash free running with open code. So, you can actually make SEO free now with Deepseek V4 flash harness. Now, quick example of

what this system looks like dayto-day. So you can point at folders and say write an article on this topic using only the content that I provided for my case studies. Come back later and the draft is sitting in your folder. Now before level two if you're watching this and thinking this agent operating system is amazing. The systems are great.

Everything that I'm showing you we run live inside the AI profitable boardroom. So there's a full deep sea harness masterass inside there right now plus daily tutorials and running SEO with it. The workspace setup the skill files connecting the free models the whole grounded content system. There are four weekly coaching calls every single week where you can ask questions about your own SEO setup live and you get the agent OS. So, this is the dashboard where Deepseek and Hermes and Claude and everything else plug in all sharing one memory. Comes as a zip file with daily

updates, uh, 30-day road map as we improve it as well. And we've helped over 3,700 business owners inside there. Plenty of them have never touched AI before joining. Link in the comments description or just go to the aprofit.com to get access. Now, let's

get back to level two. And this is the feature I teach at the start and it's called the trajectory view. So next to every session inside DeepC harness you get the trajectory mode here. So if we look you can see this inside the harness and you can just click on that. So if you click it you can see every single step the agent took laid out in order and it's all clickable. So the files are

open the exact things it read is actual reasoning visible in full and every tool that it called how long each step took. So nothing is hidden and it's very transparent as a harness. Now, why does that help with SEO specifically? Because AI agents make mistakes, all of them. Anyone who tells you otherwise hasn't run agents and real work. Now, the

question was never whether they make mistakes. The question is whether you can see why. Now, with most tools, a failed job gives you a wrong output and no explanation. So, you have to kind of figure out what went wrong. And that's super messy. With trajectory view, you

scroll to the exact step where things went sideways. For example, maybe it looked in the wrong folder. Maybe it skipped some of the case studies he gave it. Maybe it skips some of the SEO skills he gave it. But for SEO content, it can go deeper than fixing errors as well. So you if you remember the rule,

articles must be built only from the case studies I give it. Now before this, checking that meant reading the article and reading the case studies that we give it side by side. That's slow. It's painful. Most people skip it. And that's

exactly how unggrounded AI content ends up published. But with trajectory view, you can open the panel and you can look at which files the agent actually read before writing. So, if it opened all of the case studies that we gave it, great. But if it skipped, we'll catch it before the content gets published, which means that we can basically check, is it quality control and everything? Is it using the words that we're doing? Is it

actually using that as a truth or is it just making stuff up? It's very easy to check that with the trajectory view because you can see everything that it's done side by side. You can even, for example, take the session logs, run that through Deep Seek and say, "Hey, checklist, did you follow the steps that you should have done? If not, go back and redo it." Now also when you can export the session logs which you can just download as you can see right here.

If someone on your team reviews content before it goes live they can check the log instead of redoing the research. So you review the work the way a manager reviews a report. No other harness gives you that level of visibility. So Claude code shows you some of what it's doing but you'll never get that much detail. Deepseek made every step visible as a core design choice and for SEO where for example not following the rules that you've given it or not using the facts you've given it plays a big part in getting your content ranked and also making sure it's validated properly. This is a

powerful feature. So no other tool gives you that sort of visibility before. Now level three is scale and this is where deep sea kindness stops being a tool and becomes a system. So three things can stack here which is parallel sessions. So you can run multiple agent conversations inside the same workspace at the same time. For SEO that means one

session drafting an article, another running keyword research and over fixing internal links across the site all at once or reading the same folder or following the same skill file and the work that used to fill your week run side by side whilst you go out for a walk. Second is creator mode. And so this is the one that still surprised me, right? You can describe a tool you wish existed in one plain English sentence and the highest builds it live in your session and switches it on. So for SEO, if you think about what you actually check each day, you could, for example, describe a panel showing your recent published articles, whether each one has been indexed yet, a keyword tracker, a panel showing which pages need updates.

Whatever you check manually right now, you can describe and it becomes a button on your screen. You could even just build in a to-do list or something like that into it. So you don't have to write a line of code. You don't have to wait for developers. And third, the full loop. So my framework for using deepseek

harness for SEO is basically generate, optimize, launch, distribute, index, evolve. Here's how the harness covers each piece. So generate is the grounded articles from case studies which we've covered. Then optimize is the skill file that enforces the 13 quality control steps plus schema markup and internal links in every article automatically. Launch is the agent can publish directly to our websites. distribute is every

article gets relevant back links from the outreach agent inside our system too. And so if we want to create content, we just go inside the chat and give it the SEO skill. If you're wondering, okay, what is the skill that you can use? Here's an example of mine that I use for creating content and then we just plug that into our system. So you can say, okay, use this SEO skill for creating content. And then for

publishing, you can give it your WordPress login details and your access token to publish content. What you can also do from there is you can automate the outreach and the back links with something like Hermes agent or even deepseek itself to do the outreach index. So new pages can get pushed for fast indexing through an indexing API for example like index optional and evolve. So what we can actually do is we can drop our Google search console workspace API into this system. Then it can look at our sites, find relevant keywords and look for new keywords that get impressions but no clicks. And

that's the whole loop. So you can run on a free harness with a brain that can also be free. You've got a trajectory log proving every step. And the reason this works longterm is the last piece. So it plugs into an agentic operating system where every agent I run, Claude Code, Hermes, Open Claw, and now Deep Sea Carnis, reads and writes to one shared obsidian vault. Now, Obsidian is

just a folder of plain text notes. That plainness is the superpower to be honest because plain text is one thing that every agent can read. So my sites, my keyword, my writing voice, my past decisions, it's all inside our agentic operating system synced to every agent inside of memory. So the first time Deep Seek Harness opened my vault, I already knew my whole business. It wrote on brand from minute one with Zero Training Time, understood my keywords, understood what content we've already created and our processes, and we've all got that plugged into one system. So it's a

really powerful setup. You can basically automate every single stage of SEO with DC Caris, even the quality controls I've shown you today with the SEO skill, and it's all ready to go and free for you to use. Now, if you want to get my system including the Aentic OS with Hermes Claude, Deep Sea Carnis with the memory system um with a full SEO workflow for looking at our Google Workspace keywords, then generating content, deploying it to our sites, making sure it's automatically indexed and using our 13step SEO skills. You can see right here, you can get that inside the AR profit boardroom link in the comments description or just go to the arrum.com.

Inside this community, you can get all of my best trainings. You can post questions inside the community. I personally answer them every single day. In the classroom, you get access to all of my new courses. We actually have a full section on AIO automation. And then

inside the new daily update section, you can get a full agent OS right here. You can also jump on weekly coaching calls, get help and support in real time. Inside the map, you can meet people in your local area who are building out with AI agents like you. And this is all available link in the comments description or just go to the arrform.com. Thanks for watching. Also,

if you want to get a free SEO strategy session, feel free to get that link in the comments description. And on that free SEO strategy session, we're going to give you an SEO domination plan. You'll discover the secrets to SEO link building, answer any questions you have onetoone on the call, and you'll learn the best link building strategies for your website, plus how to outrank your competitors with AI SEO. This is all based on what's working for us. So feel free to book it in link in the comments description or go to julianoldie.com.