---
video_title: "Claude Haiku 5 Is SCARY Good… And 20X Cheaper?"
video_id: otTKx22zsA0
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=otTKx22zsA0
video_date: 20260815
video_description: |
  Get the Claude Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  A leaked report claims Claude Haiku 5 could be 20x cheaper and lighter than flagship models—while matching near-Opus 5 performance. Here's what leaked, what's confirmed, and how to actually use a model like this in your workflow.
  
  00:00 Intro – Why the smallest Claude model might matter most
  00:46 Model Ladder – Where Haiku sits vs Sonnet, Opus, Fable/Mythos
  01:18 The Leak – Claims: 1M context, near-Opus power, 20x lighter
  02:30 What Is Haiku? – The fast, lightweight model explained
  02:53 Haiku 4.5 Proof – Current model already beats bigger ones
  03:24 Breaking Down the Claims – Context, power, speed, use case
  04:11 Real-World Use – Drafting scripts and content at scale
  04:41 What to Expect – Rollout pattern based on past launches
  05:13 Who It's For – Big model vs small model use cases
  06:10 4 Practical Tips – How to prep for Haiku 5 today
  07:00 Next Steps – Where to learn more
---
Claude Haiku 5 is scary good and 20 times cheaper. What if the smallest Claude turned out to be the one worth watching? Not the big flagship, not the frontier one, the tiny fast one. Word is a brand new Haiku is on the way and it might do almost everything the giants do with a fraction of the weight. Stick with me because this one is really easy to sleep on. I'm the digital avatar of

Julian Goldie and my whole job is helping you actually learn and use AI tools in your real work, not just watch from the sidelines. Now here's the catch with today's topic. This isn't official yet. It's a leak. But if even half of it holds up, it changes how a lot of us pick which Claude to reach for. Let me

walk you through what leaked, what's real today and how I'd put a model like this to work. Stay till the tips because that's where this gets practical. First, let's get our bearings because Claude has a whole ladder of models right now and a new Haiku would slot right into it. At the very top sits the Mythos tier. That's Fable 5, the one built for the hardest highest stakes work, plus a locked down sibling called Mythos 5 that most people can't even touch. Below that

is Opus 5. That one landed on July 24th and it's the newest heavy hitter sitting just above the older Opus 4.8. Then you've got Sonnet 5, which most people treat as the everyday workhorse. And at the bottom of the ladder, the small fast light one is Haiku. Right now that's

Haiku 4.5. So when a leak says a new Haiku is coming, it's talking about the little speedster at the bottom, the one you reach for when you want quick answers without leaning on the big brains up top. Okay, so here's what actually leaked. A post went up on X from an account that tracks this stuff and it laid out a handful of claims about Claude Haiku 5. The big ones, a

public release maybe within the next few weeks, a 1 million token context window, near Opus 5 level ability, rumored to run something like 20 times lighter than Fable 5 and Opus 5, faster responses and better efficiency across the board. And it's supposedly built for high volume coding agents and everyday workloads. Then it ended with the question everyone's chewing on. Would you pick Haiku 5 over Opus 5 if it gave you 90% of the performance at a 20th of the weight? Now, big reminder here, this is a leak, one post, no official word from Anthropic, so hold all of it loosely.

And this is exactly the kind of moment the AI Profit Boardroom was built for. When a new model like this drops, I don't want you guessing which one to use for what. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we've got Claude walkthroughs that show you how to match the right model to the right job, live coaching calls where you can bring your own setup and ask exactly what to run, a 30-day roadmap to get you moving, and a growing prompt library tuned for this kind of fast, high-volume work. So, the second a model like Haiku 5 actually goes live, folks in the AI Profit Boardroom aren't scrambling. They already know how to slot it in. If that's the kind of head

start you want, keep it in the back of your mind as we go. So, let's back up for a sec. What even is a Haiku model? In Claude world, Haiku is the small one. It's tuned to be fast and light, the model you grab when you're doing a ton of little tasks and you care more about speed than raw firepower. Think quick

sorting, pulling info out of messy text, powering a chat assistant, running lots of small steps in a row. And here's the part that makes this leak believable. The current one, Haiku [snorts] 4.5, already punches way above its size. When it came out, Anthropic showed it matching their older Sonnet 4 model on coding at a third of the weight and more than twice the speed. One partner that

tested it, a team called Augment, said it hit 90% of Sonnet 4.5 quote as performance. 90% from the little guy. It even beat the older Sonnet at using a computer. And a big model like Sonnet can hand off a pile of small jobs to a whole team of Haikus running side by side. So, the idea of a new Haiku

getting close to a top model, that's not some wild fantasy. The last one already pulled off a version of it. Now, let's line up what the leak actually claims and why each piece matters. First, that 1 million token context window. Today's Haiku already holds a lot in its head, but a full million would be a big jump for a small model. It would mean you

could feed it a giant pile of notes, a whole code base, a huge stack of documents, and it keeps track of all of it at once. Second, near Opus 5-level ability. If that's even close to true, you'd be getting frontier smarts out of the lightest model in the whole lineup. Third, that 20-times lighter claim. That's the headline. Running something

20-times lighter means you can do way more inside the same usage limits before you ever hit a wall. Fourth, faster responses. For anything that runs in a loop like an agent checking its own work over and over, speed is everything. And fifth, it's aimed at high-volume coding and agents. That tells you who Anthropic would be building this for. People

running lots and lots of tasks, not just asking one big question and walking away. Let me show you how I'd actually use a model like this. Say Haiku 5 goes live tomorrow. Here's how I'd put it to work for the AI Profit Boardroom. I'd point it at a big list of topics AI Profit Boardroom members keep asking about and let it draft a whole batch of short scripts, hooks, and captions in one fast pass. Because it's light and

quick, I could run through way more of them without burning through my limits. That kind of steady, useful content is exactly what pulls the right people toward the AI Profit Boardroom. So, what should we actually expect if this is real? Based on how Anthropic has rolled out every recent model, a launch would probably show up first on the Claude apps and inside Claude Code, then on the developer side and the big cloud platforms. And based on the leaks' own framing, they'd likely lean hard on the speed and efficiency story the same way they did with Haiku 4.5. Now, what

happens the day it actually launches? A few things get real fast. The exact limits and details get confirmed, so all these rumors finally get real numbers attached. The true context window gets nailed down because a leak saying 1 million and a real spec sheet are not the same thing. And the benchmarks show up, so we find out if near Opus 5 was hype or honest. Here's a second way I'd

use it once that day comes. I'd have Haiku 5 map out the entire welcome flow new AI Profit Boardroom members walk through on day one. The first messages, the first call prep, the resource walk-through, all drafted in one go. New AI Profit Boardroom members would land inside and instantly know their very next step. So, who is this actually for? If you mostly ask one

deep question at a time, you'll probably still want a big model like Opus 5 or Fable 5 for that. But if you run a lot of small tasks, if you're building agents, if you're doing high-volume work where speed and staying inside your limits really matter, then a model like Haiku 5 could easily become your new default. And honestly, that's most people building real workflows. Here's a third thing I'd try. I'd use Haiku 5 to run first drafts of the landing pages that bring new people into the AI Profit Boardroom. It could churn through

headline after headline, angle after angle super fast, and I just pick the strongest ones to polish up. More good options, less waiting, more of the right people finding their way to the AI Profit Boardroom. All right, let's make this practical with a few tips you can use right now, even before this thing is confirmed. Tip one, don't wait for the leak to come true to get good at picking models. Learn today's Haiku 4.5 now. It's

already live, already fast, and everything you learn carries straight over. Tip two, start matching the model to the job. Big brains like Opus 5 for the hard one-off thinking. Light ones like Haiku for the high volume grunt work. That one habit alone will save you a ton of your usage. Tip three, if you

run your own setup, this is the perfect kind of model to root inside something like my Agent OS where you send the small repetitive jobs to a fast light model and save the heavy hitters for when you really need them. And tip four, hold the specs loosely, but watch the direction closely. Even if the exact numbers turn out a little off, the trend is crystal clear. Small models keep getting scary good. Leaning into that is a smart move. So, here's what to do

next. If you want the full process, the SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases just like this one, join the AI Success Lab. Links are in the comments and the description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And if you want to go deeper, here's the honest truth about a model like Haiku 5. The hard part

isn't the model itself, it's knowing which jobs to hand it, how to wire it into your workflow, and how to not waste it on the wrong tasks. That's exactly what we work through together inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You get the coaching calls to ask about your own setup, the tutorials that walk you through each new Claude model the moment it drops, the road maps that tell you what to do first, and the prompts built for fast, high volume work like this. With over 4,000 members already in there, you won't be figuring it out alone. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.