---
video_title: "Here's How to Run Hermes Agent Free Forever! 🤯"
video_id: J2wBxyKws8s
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J2wBxyKws8s
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Run Hermes Agent FREE: No Token Costs or API Fees
  
  Learn four proven methods to run Hermes Agent completely free without worrying about token costs or API limits. This guide covers everything from using local models with Ollama to leveraging free tiers on Open Router and existing subscriptions.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Hermes v0.20.6 Updates
  00:32 - Method 1: News Portal Free Drops
  00:54 - Method 2: Open Router Free API
  02:40 - Method 3: Unlimited Local Models
  03:45 - Profiles and Blank Slate Mode
  04:36 - Method 4: OAuth and Existing Subs
  06:03 - Free vs Frontier Model Strategy
  06:58 - Summary and Implementation Guide
---
Here's how to run Hermes agent completely free forever. No token anxiety, no canceling a run halfway through because you're watching the counter tick up. Four different ways to do it, and I'm going to walk you through all of them right now. Quick thing first, Hermes agent just hit V0.20.6.

That's 239,000 GitHub stars, over 1,300 commits in the last patch alone. This thing is growing fast. And the good news is you can run all of it without paying a single cent per token. Let me show you how. The method is News Portal. That's

Hermes' native home base. If you open your terminal and type Hermes model, you'll see a list of providers. News Portal is right there. What's useful about this one is that News occasionally drops free models on there. Recently, they included Step 3.7 Flash and

Nematron Ultra. These come and go, so it's worth checking regularly. When a free one appears, just select it and you're running Hermes on zero. The second method is Open Router. This is honestly the easiest one if you're just starting out. Open Router gives you

access to over 200 models through one single API key. Right now, there are 16 free models on there, including GPT-OSS 120B and Gemma 431B, both with full tool calling support. You just go to openrouter.ai, create a free account, grab your API key, and plug it into Hermes using the Hermes model command. Switch to Open Router, paste the key, type free in the search bar inside Open Router, and you'll see every model available at zero cost. If I had to pick

one from Open Router right now, I'd go with Gemma 4. Strong reasoning, handles multi-step tasks, no cost. One thing to note, Open Router's free tier does have a rate limit. You get 200 requests per day on most free models. For light use, that's fine. For heavy automation tasks,

you'll want to combine it with one of the other methods I'm about to show you. Now, if you want the full Hermes setup already built for your business, every free model wired in, profiles ready, and a step-by-step 30-day roadmap for using Hermes to get more leads and automate your outreach. That's all inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You get the full Agent OS as a zip file ready to install. Four live coaching calls every week where you can share your screen and get your exact Hermes setup reviewed. Over 4,000

members already running Hermes automations, a lot of them on free models. Get the link in the description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you want a custom one-on-one game plan for how to use Hermes and AI automation specific to get more clients and grow your business, book a free strategy session with our team at go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session.

We'll build you a tailored road map. Link in the description. Okay, back to it. Method three, local models. This is the only genuinely unlimited free option. No rate limits,

no API keys, no usage caps. Your data never leaves your machine. You use Ollama or LM Studio to run the model locally, then connect it to Hermes. Here's how. Download Ollama free, takes two minutes. Once it's installed, you

pull a model. If you have 16 GB of RAM, pull Gemma 4 12B. That's the command ollama pull Gemma 4:12B. Then open Hermes, run Hermes model, scroll to Ollama, select Gemma 4, and you're running a full AI agent locally at zero cost. If you have a bigger machine, 32 gigs or more, you can pull Agent A1.

That's a 35-billion parameter model built specifically for the kind of multi-step agentic tasks Hermes does. On the local leaderboard, it's sitting at number two overall. It runs offline, completely free, no limits. Collapsible. The advantage here is that LM Studio shows you upfront which models your hardware can actually handle. It

grades them likely too large, fits your setup, so you're not guessing. Download it free, browse the models, find one that fits, load it up, then switch Hermes's provider to LM Studio. Same result. Free agent running locally. Inside Hermes, you can create separate profiles for each setup. So, you might

have a profile called free local that uses Ollama with Gemma 4, another called open router free that uses the free Gemma API. You switch between profiles in seconds. You never have to reconfigure anything. To create a profile, go to your Hermes dashboard, hit profiles, create new, name it, pick your model, save it. One more tip, use blank slate mode when you're on free or local models. Blank slate strips out

extra tools you haven't installed, which means Hermes uses fewer tokens per run. On a free plan with daily limits, this keeps your usage tight and your runs clean. For the AI Profit Boardroom, for example, you could set up a Hermes profile on a free local model that drafts personalized follow-up messages to every new member who joins based on what they write in their intro post. Runs locally, zero cost, handles something that would take you hours manually. Method four is OAuth. This

one's for people who already pay for ChatGPT or Grok. You can wire those subscriptions directly into Hermes without paying anything extra. In your terminal, type Hermes model, scroll to OpenAI, and select use existing credentials. Hermes links to your ChatGPT login through OAuth. No new API key, no extra charges. You're just

reusing what you already pay for. Same thing works with Grok. If you have an X Premium subscription, you authenticate Grok through OAuth inside Hermes and use it as your model, including image generation, video generation, and voice all through Hermes. So, let's be real about what this looks like day-to-day. You wake up, Hermes is running, it's already processed your inbox, flagged the things that need replies, drafted them, summarized updates from the tools you use, and queued up content based on what's been performing this week. The

cost for all of that, zero, because it ran on a free local model overnight with no rate limits stopping it. Here's what the token anxiety thing actually does to people. They cancel runs. They break loops. They water down what they ask the agent to do, all because they're watching the API counter. When you

remove that, you think differently. You let Hermes run longer. You test more. You build bigger stuff. The constraint was never your ideas. It was the per

token cost making you nervous. And this is why the local model option is so powerful. Once it's set up, there's no ceiling. You can loop Hermes all day. You can run the same workflow 500 times to test it. No bill at the end. One

honest thing though, free models are not as powerful as frontier models. Gemma 412B is strong for its size, but for complex multi-step reasoning or long research runs, you might hit its limits. The smart move is to use the free model as a sub-agent for the grunt work, summaries, file reads, drafts, data pulls, and only send hard reasoning tasks to a stronger model. Hermes supports this natively. Your spend on the expensive model collapses. You still

get the output quality you need. The latest version of Hermes UV 0.20.6 makes all of this better. They shipped Lean Tail compression as the default, which cuts token usage in long conversations automatically. The remote

MCP catalog now has over 50 live vendor services. TTL caching for web search means Hermes doesn't rerun the same search twice. And A2AV 1.0 agent-to-agent protocol is now stable. Here's the summary. Four free methods.

News portal, check it regularly for free model drops. Open router, easiest setup, 16 free models right now. One API key, done in 5 minutes. Local models via Ollama or LM Studio, Gemma 412B on 16 GB machines, agents A1 on 32 GB plus, unlimited offline and private OAuth. Reuse ChatGPT or Grok subscriptions you already have. Start with Open Router.

Get one agent running free today. Then when you're ready for unlimited, spend 30 minutes with Ollama and Gemma 4. Create your profiles, enable blank slate mode, build your first free workflow. And when you're ready to go deeper, the full Agent OS is inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Zip file, ready to install, every free model already wired in. A

30-day roadmap specifically for using Hermes to generate leads and automate your business. Daily tutorials showing you exactly what's working right now. Four weekly coaching calls where you get your Hermes setup reviewed live. 4,000 plus members, a prompt library built around Hermes workflows, and a member map so you can find other Hermes users near you and get support 24/7. Link in the description or aiprofitboardroom.com.

And if you want a free one-on-one strategy session where we look at your business specifically and build you a custom plan for using Hermes and AI automation to get more clients and more leads, go to go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session. Book a free call with our team. We'll map out exactly how to set this up for your business. Link in the description.