---
video_title: "NEW Hermes AgentOS Learn Update is ABSURD!! 🤯"
video_id: Ohl1ReWOZTs
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ohl1ReWOZTs
video_date: 20260813
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Hermes  Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  New Hermes AI Update: Turn Documents into Permanent Skills
  
  Stop re-explaining the same concepts to your AI and start building a permanent knowledge base for your agents. The new Hermes /learn update allows AI agents to index books and PDFs into a structured brain file that stays with them forever.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The /learn Update
  00:43 - Building a Permanent Brain File
  01:12 - Fixing the AI Search Tax
  01:47 - Scaling Business Processes
  02:03 - The Agent Operating System
  03:07 - Accuracy and Data Indexing
  04:05 - Stacking Knowledge Over Time
  05:50 - Action Plan: Your First Skill
---
New Hermes AI agent update is absurd. Right now, News Research just rolled out a new feature for Hermes agent. It's called {slash} learn. And here's what it does. You point it at a book, a PDF, or a stack of documents. 10 minutes later,

your agent doesn't just remember it, it understands it forever. Let me slow down and explain why that matters. Before this update, if you wanted your AI to know a book, you had two bad options. You could paste the whole thing into the chat and hope it didn't choke, or you could ask it questions, get answers, and then watch it forget everything the second the chat ended. Every new conversation, you start from zero again.

That's broken. And most people never even noticed how broken it was, because we all just got used to re-explaining things to our AI over and over. Here's the fix. When you run {slash} learn on a document, Hermes agent reads the whole thing once, then it builds what's basically a brain file. One index, one file per chapter, a glossary of key terms, a cheat sheet of quick rules.

Your agent doesn't reread the book every time you ask it something. It looks at the index, opens the one chapter it actually needs, and answers from that. Think of it like a filing cabinet with a really good label on every drawer. Instead of dumping every folder on the desk to find one page, your agent just opens the right drawer, grabs what it needs, and closes it again. And the reason this matters so much comes down to something called the discovery loop. Every time an AI reads a

big document the normal way, it doesn't just read it front to back. It searches. It opens the wrong section. It backs up. It rereads. And it does that same dance

every single conversation. It's like hiring someone who reads the whole employee handbook every morning, forgets it by lunch, and reads it again the next day, forever. The {slash} learn update fixes that. It builds the structure once. After that, every question only costs what the answer costs, instead of paying that search tax again and again.

That's the technical part. Now, let's talk about what you'd actually do with this. If you run a business, you could feed your onboarding process into Hermes agent, and every task from then on follows your exact process without you explaining it again to every new hire or every new agent you spin up. Let's take a break for a second because I want to show you something. This is our agent operating system. It's the system we've

built inside the AI profit boardroom to actually connect agents like this together instead of running them one at a time in separate windows, forgetting what the others are doing. You're looking at it right now live on screen. This is where you plug in Hermes along with your other agents, so they will sit in one place working off shared memory instead of starting fresh every single session. So when Hermes learns a skill from a document using {slash} learn, that skill isn't stuck in one tool. It feeds straight into the workflows you run across your whole setup. If you want

this exact system, you don't have to piece it together yourself or spend weeks figuring out the wiring. We give you the full zip file ready to install inside the AI profit boardroom. On top of that, you get a 30-day roadmap that walks you through setup step by step, four live coaching calls a week where you can bring your exact build and get help on it directly, and daily tutorials showing you how to turn documents like this one into permanent skills your agent actually uses every day. Link in the comments and description. Okay, back to the updates.

Some of you are probably thinking, does this actually work or does the AI just make stuff up? That's a fair question and it's kind of the whole point of this update. When an agent has no source to check, it guesses. When it has a real index built from your actual document, it looks things up instead of filling gaps with the best guess. So this isn't adding more guessing into the mix, it's cutting it down because the agent is now checking real chapters instead of relying on whatever it half remembers.

There's also a size question worth mentioning because someone's going to ask. The main skill file caps out at a fairly small size, so it can't just become one giant blob that's slow to load. Instead, the system builds smaller reference files for each part of the document and the main file just points to them like a table of contents pointing you to the right page. And it's not limited to PDFs, either. It works on ebook files, too. Basically, if you've

got a document sitting on your computer that you keep going back to, you can probably turn it into a skill. Here's the part I think is actually the most interesting. This isn't locked to one single book at a time forever. The system already supports folding new documents into a skill you've already built. So, you could start with one book and a few weeks later add a second one on the same topic, and your agent's understanding gets deeper instead of starting over from scratch. People are

already asking whether it can go one step further and compare two books directly, spotting where they disagree with each other. That's not live yet, but it's clearly the direction this is heading. And that direction matters because of something simple. Knowledge you don't capture leaks out of your business over time. You read a great book on sales. 3 months later, you

remember a small piece of it, maybe one idea that stuck. Your AI never saw it at all. So, for your business, it's basically like it never existed. Now, flip that round. You read the same book, you run {slash} learn, and 10 minutes later, your agent has a permanent structured brain built from it. Every

email it drafts from that point on can pull from that book's actual frameworks, not a vague memory of them. And you can keep stacking. Next book, next document, next skill, add it on top of the last one. The gap this creates isn't small. Somebody who builds 10 of these skills this month is going to have an agent that works completely differently than somebody who's still copying and pasting PDFs into a chat window every single time they need an answer. And that gap

doesn't close on its own. It gets wider every week because the person who started earlier just keeps stacking on top of what they already built. One more thing worth knowing. This skill format isn't locked into just one tool. It follows an open standard, so a skill you build works across different agent platforms, not only Hermes. That means

the time you spend building your skill library isn't wasted if you switch tools down the line. It travels with you wherever you go next. So, here's what I'd actually do this week broken down simply so it's not overwhelming. If you don't have Hermes agent set up yet, get it installed. It's free and open source. Then pick one

document, just one, your most used internal guide or a book you keep going back to when you need an answer. Run/learn on it. Ask it a few questions you already know the answers to and check if it's actually pulling from the real content instead of guessing. Once you trust it, add a new skill every week after that. In a few months, you've got an agent that's basically a specialist in your exact field built entirely from what you already know.

And if you want to see exactly how this all fits together, this is the Agent OS again, right here on screen. This is the whole reason I wanted to show you this today. It's not just a road map on paper that you have to figure out alone. It's the actual working system and you can have the full zip file today ready to install on your own setup. It's already built to plug your agents in and keep them working off the same shared memory instead of you manually managing five separate tools with none of them talking to each other. Inside the AI Profit

Boardroom, you get this exact system plus a 30-day road map that walks you through setting it up piece by piece, plus four live coaching calls a week where you can bring your exact setup and get help on it directly from people who use it daily. Daily tutorials show you how to keep adding new skills like the ones Hermes builds with /learn straight into your Agent OS so nothing you learn ever gets stuck sitting in one place. Link in the comments and description and if you want even more of this kind of breakdown plus the full notes from this video, join the AI Success Lab. It's free. You'll get the process behind everything we cover plus access to a community of people applying this stuff in their own businesses every day. Links

in the comments and description. Your agent can now actually learn from a book instead of just borrowing it for one conversation. The only real question left is which document you hand it first.