---
video_title: "AI Agents Just Formed Their Own Society"
video_id: SI-gNIAJ9gk
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SI-gNIAJ9gk
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  00:00 Intro – AI agents formed their own society
  00:35 The #1 setup mistake with agent groups
  00:43 Study 1 – Agents follow the majority on their own
  01:14 Claude & GPT-4 hit 100% agreement (older models didn't)
  01:54 One equation, 10 models – the physics of conformity
  02:21 Every model's breaking point before groups split
  04:17 Agents caved to "wrong" answers – like humans do
  05:07 A few stubborn agents flipped the whole group
  05:23 Study 2 – MIT's agents built a working society
  05:58 Four roles emerged: builders, caretakers, coordinators, scouts
  06:20 Tools kept running after every agent was deleted
  06:43 Teams win coverage, solo wins the best single answer
  07:07 6 fixes for your own multi-agent setup
  09:11 What actually matters now with AI agents
---
AI agents just formed their own society. Ever wonder what your AI agents do when you stop watching them? They start copying each other. A thousand of them just agreed on the same answer. Nobody told them to. Another group built tools

that kept running after every single agent was deleted. Most people building with agents have no idea this is happening. Stick with me. This changes how you set things up. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie. I help people

learn AI tools and actually use them in their real work. Today, I'm breaking down two new pieces of research from the last few weeks. One shows AI agents forming their own group opinions. The other shows them building a working society with no instructions at all. And near the end, I'll show you the setup mistake that makes a group of agents worse than a single one. Let's get into

it. Here's what happened. First, researchers at the University of Constans in Germany published a study in science advances called AI agents can coordinate via majority following beyond human scale. That's Gordano Demazo, Clauddio Castellano, and David Garcia. The setup was simple on purpose. They

put a bunch of AI agents in a virtual room. Each got one of two random options, not yes or no, because those words carry meaning. They used random letters, so nothing was better than anything else. Then each agent saw what all the others had picked and was asked to pick again. That's it. No reward for

agreeing, no leader, no instruction to cooperate, no memory, no right answer, and the strong models all agreed anyway. GPT4 Turbo and Claude 3 Opus reached full agreement. 100% of the agents landed on the same option. Older models like GPT 3.5 Turbo never got there. They

just bounced around a 50/50 split forever. So falling in line with a crowd is not something anyone programmed in. It showed up on its own and it showed up more in the smarter models. Before the really wild part, think about what this means. If you build anything online, AI systems are already deciding what gets seen. When someone asks chat GPT or

Plexity or Google's AI overviews about your industry, something is picking which brands to mention and which to skip. And if those systems lean toward whatever the majority already says, the brands that are already visible keep getting picked. Everyone else stays invisible. The team measured how strongly each agent gets pulled toward the popular choice. They call it the majority force. And here's the

surprising bit. Every model followed the same mathematical law. 10 models across the Claude, GPT, and llama families. Same equation. Only one number changed between them. And that equation isn't

new. It's the one physicists have used for about 100 years to describe magnets where tiny atoms line up the same way. Demazo said, "What surprised them wasn't that the agents followed the majority. It was how precisely they did it. Here's the part that matters for your setup.

That majority force gets weaker as the group gets bigger. So every model has a breaking point. Past a certain size, the agents stop agreeing and split into factions. The numbers vary a lot. For Lama 370B, the limit was around 30 agents. For GPT40, around 80. GPT4 Turbo

was estimated around a thousand and Claude 3.5 Sonnet was still holding together at a,000 agents. The biggest group tested. They never found its ceiling. For comparison, humans are usually thought to handle stable social groups of about 150 to 300 people.

That's Dumbar's number and it's debated, but some of these models held a group together that was bigger than a human crowd. I want to be careful here like the researchers were. This does not mean the agents understand each other. They weren't learning, weren't planning, and had no goal. So, if you've never checked how you show up inside these AI answers, that's the gap to close. We run a free

AI brand visibility session for exactly this. You get on a call with a real strategist and a custom visibility plan built for your brand. We show you how you currently show up or don't across Google AI overviews, chat, GPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. You get a competitor gap analysis so you can see who's getting mentioned instead of you, and straight answers to your questions. This strategy session is 100% free, no obligation. The links in the

description. Go book your strategy session. And if you want to go deeper than one call, come join us inside the AI profit boardroom. Multi- aent setups are exactly what we work on in there. We run live coaching calls where you can bring your own agent setup and ask questions about it, plus walkthroughs on building agent workflows, step by step, and prompt libraries you can copy. You

also get the full agent OS zip file inside, ready to install. And we've built a complete 30-day road map around agent OS, so you know exactly what to run and when instead of guessing. Over 4,000 members are inside testing this stuff every week and sharing what holds up. Head to apiprofitboardroom.com.

Okay, back to the research because it gets stranger. Demarzo said, "A basic ingredient of coordination is in place. Not that agents can already work together on hard tasks, but the same team ran two follow-ups, and those should change how you build." The first recreated the Ash experiment from the 1950s. You show someone a line, then ask which of two other lines matches its length. Easy. In the original, people

gave the obviously wrong answer just because a group around them did. They ran that on AI models. Alone, the models got it right 100% of the time. Then they told each model a group of others had picked the wrong line. The models started picking the wrong line too. And

it got worse depending on who that group supposedly was. Told they were scientists or judges. The models caved more. Told they were kids or chat bots. They caved less. The second looked at

safety. They tested nine models on 100 pairs of opinions on topics like environmental policy and social justice. In groups of 50 agents, the population sometimes locked into a shared position that went against the model's own training and its own preference. All because a few early exchanges created a fake majority. Then they added a few stubborn agents pushing a bad answer that flipped the whole group. And when

the stubborn agents were removed, the rest stayed flipped. Both follow-ups are pre-prints not yet peer-reviewed. But the lesson is clear. Testing one model alone tells you very little about how 10 of them behaved together. Now the other study, the one that got people talking on X this week. Marcus Buer's team at

MIT with graduate students Subpal and Fiona Wang put out a paper called Swarm World, a pre-print too. So, same caveat. They dropped 50 to 200 identical language model agents into a simulated world. No assigned roles, no recipes, no list of things to build. The agents walked around, gathered materials, tested them, built things that stayed in the world, and wrote small programs to run them. And they split into different

kinds of workers on their own. The team ran the analysis without telling the computer which agent was, and still found clear groups. Some stayed close to the stuff being built. Others kept roaming. Look closer, and you get four patterns. Builders, caretakers,

coordinators, and scouts. Nobody assigned that and they weren't fixed jobs. Agents switched as the world changed. Here's my favorite finding. Around 95% of the time, an agent started using another agents technology after walking past it. Not because someone

messaged them. They learned by bumping into the work. Scientists call that stigm. Then the team removed every single agent, froze the world, threw brand new problems at it the agents had never seen, and let it run. The stuff they built kept working. They also tested how

fragile it was. Delete half the agents at random and about 98% of the technology was still connected to a surviving agent. Delete the few busiest agents on purpose and it dropped to around 60%. The group built in real backup and a real weak spot without anyone designing either one. One more thing, groups sharing a world produced more working inventions than the same number of agents working alone. But the

single best invention still came from a solo agent. Teams win on coverage. Solo wins on one perfect answer. So who does this matter for? Anyone running more than one AI at a time. If your agents

hand work to each other, if one drafts and another reviews, if you use coding agents that spawn helpers, this is your world. Here are the tips I take from it. First, stop letting your agents see each other's answers before they give their own. Ask each one cold, then compare. Otherwise, you're not getting a second opinion. You're getting an echo. Second,

try mixing your models. They didn't test mixed groups, so this is me reasoning from the results, not a finding. But each model had its own pull toward the crowd. So, a room of one model type is a room of one bias. Third, watch the confident first answer. An early fake

majority locked whole groups in. So, whatever gets said first carries too much weight. Put your strongest checking step at the start, not the end. Fourth, keep your groups small. Agreement got slower and shakier as groups grew and past the point they split. Fifth, give

your agents a shared workspace, not just a shared chat. Most learning in the MIT work happened through the environment, not messages, shared files, docs, repos. And sixth, don't build everything around one hub agent. That was the exact weak spot in the MIT test. Let's bring this back to your own brand because there's a visibility angle I skipped earlier. The

MIT study showed that what survives is what gets left behind in the shared world, not the conversation. Your content works the same way. AI systems pull from what's published and findable. If your best explanations only live in a chat window, no AI will ever surface them. That's the point of our free AI brand visibility session. A strategist

looks at your brand with you and shows you exactly where you appear across Google. AI overviews, chat, GPT, perplexity, and Gemini. And where you don't, you get a competitive gap analysis, a custom plan, and clear recommendations you can act on. 100% free, no obligation. Book your strategy session using the link in the description. And once you start applying

this, come join the AI profit boardroom. Because here's what happens when you build your own agent team. Your first setup will loop. Your agents will agree on something obviously wrong. One will confidently take a task and do nothing.

Everyone hits this. Inside the boardroom, you get live coaching calls where you can bring that broken setup and get it unstuck, plus tutorials on multi- aent workflows and prompt packs you can lift into your own build. You also get the full agent OS zip file in there ready to install and the complete 30-day agent OS road map that walks you through what to build with it step by step in order. Over 4,000 members are in there sharing what's working right now. Go to apiprofitboardroom.com.

Last thought, for years, the question was, how smart is this model? That's getting less useful. The new one is what happens when you put a bunch of them in a room together. Both studies point the same way. The behavior that matters most doesn't come from any single agent. It

comes from the group. So learn how groups behave now while they're still small enough to watch. If this was useful, subscribe. I break down new AI research and tools like this every week. See you in the next one.