---
video_title: "NEW K2 Horizon AI is a GAME CHANGER! 🤯"
video_id: -cuiol-vW_o
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-cuiol-vW_o
video_date: 2026-09-05
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & K2 Masterclass → https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
---
K2 Horizon is a game-changer, and by the end of this, you're going to understand exactly why this is one of the most important AI releases of 2026. On September 3rd, the Institute of Foundation Models, IFM, dropped something that nobody in AI was expecting. Not one model, six. A full connected fleet of AI models ranging from 0.9 billion parameters all the way up to 375 billion. And they didn't just

release the finished product, they released the weights, the training code, the data recipes, the checkpoints, the logs, basically the entire process of how these models were built. That's the headline, and I want to explain why that matters in a way that actually makes sense for your business. Most AI companies give you the car. You can drive it, you can use it, but you have no idea how it was made. K2 Horizon gave you the car, the factory blueprints, the manufacturing process, the prototypes from 6 months ago, and the detailed notes on every decision made along the way. That's a fundamentally different

thing. Let me break down what the six models actually are, because this is where it gets interesting. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. The smallest one is 0.9

billion parameters. Designed for edge devices, think smartwatches, smart glasses, tiny hardware. Then 3.7 billion, built for mobile and on-device AI. Then 7 billion out, powerful local AI, the kind you can run on a decent laptop or workstation. Then 32 billion,

high-performance for local deployments. Then the 36 billion, which uses a clever sparse architecture, I'll explain that in a minute. And then the big one, 375 billion parameters, enterprise model, built for complex reasoning, coding, and multi-step agents. Now, here's what I want you to focus on. Most people will cover K2 Horizon by talking about the 375 billion model. Look how big it is.

But the real story, the one that actually matters for what we're building, is what the small models can do. The 0.9 billion model scored above 48 on AIME 2026. That's a serious math benchmark. And it can do tool use, agentic tasks, reasoning. A model small

enough to run on a watch is doing things that would have required a massive cloud system a year ago. The 3.7 billion and 7 billion extend that even further, coding, reasoning, multi-step problem solving. The direction is obvious. AI doesn't need to live in a giant data center anymore. It's moving to devices,

to local machines, to embedded systems. And the businesses that already understand how to use it are building a serious head start right now. Here's a practical example of what that looks like. Say you wanted to use a small local K2 Horizon model to automatically summarize every new AI Profit Boardroom coaching call and pull out the top five questions members asked that week. The prompt would be something like, "You are an AI assistant for the AI Profit Boardroom community. Analyze this

coaching call transcript, extract the five most common questions members asked. Categorize each question by topic, lead generation, content automation, tool setup, or workflow design. Write a one-paragraph summary of the call for members who missed it." That runs on a 7 billion parameter model, fast, local, no data leaving your system. That's the kind of automation that used to feel complex. With models

like K2 Horizon, it's becoming straightforward. Look, if you want to know exactly how to build AI automations like that one for your own business, the AI Profit Boardroom is where that happens. We've got a 30-day AI automation roadmap built specifically around open source and cloud AI tools, step-by-step, designed for business owners, not developers. Inside, you'll find daily tutorials covering how to set up workflows like the ones I just described, plus four live coaching calls every week where you can ask questions about your exact setup and get real answers. We've got 3,600 business owners automating with AI right now, a full prompt library, and a member map so you can find and connect with people near you who are building the same kinds of systems. If you want to

stop watching AI happen and start using it in your business, the link is in the comments and description. Also, if you want to know how to get your business ranking on Google and AI search engines so you're getting consistent leads without paying for every click, book a free SEO strategy session with our team. We'll build you a custom plan based on your business, your market, and where the search opportunities actually are right now. We work specifically with businesses that want to show up when their ideal customers are searching on Google and on AI platforms like ChatGPT and Perplexity. Link is in the comments and description, or go to goldie.agency

to book your free session. Now, let me talk about the architecture because there's one technical detail that's genuinely worth understanding. One of the six models, the 36 billion one, uses something called MoVA, mixture of value attention. Here's what that means in plain English. Most AI models, when you ask them something, activate the entire model for every single word they process. All those

billions of parameters firing at once. MoVA changes that. Instead of activating everything, the model selectively activates only the parts it actually needs for that specific task. So, the 36 billion model has 36 billion total parameters, but only around 4 billion are active at any given moment. You get the intelligence of a massive model at a fraction of the processing cost. IFM

says it performs close to the dense 32 billion model while using significantly fewer active parameters. The simple way to think about it, imagine you run a large team. Instead of pulling every person into every meeting, you send only the right people to each specific task. Faster, cheaper, better results. That's MOVA.

And that idea of intelligent routing, sending different tasks to different tools based on complexity, is exactly the concept you should take into your own AI workflows right now. Here's how that looks in practice for AI Profit Boardroom. A member joins the community and asks a quick question. What tools should I start with for AI automation? That goes to a small, fast model, answered in seconds. The same member

comes back 2 days later and asks for a full 30-day automation plan for their consulting business. That's a complex task. It goes to a larger model with deeper reasoning capability. A week later, they submit a research request. Analyze the top five AI tools for client onboarding and tell me which one fits AI Profit Boardroom's workflow best. That

goes to the biggest model available. Same community, same interface. The system decides which model to use. Members get faster, better, more accurate responses. And the whole thing scales without anyone manually routing requests. Here's a prompt you could

actually use to build that kind of classifier. You are a task complexity router for AI Profit Boardroom. Read the following member request. Classify it as simple, medium, or complex based on the reasoning and research required. Simple means it can be answered with a single factual response. Medium means it

requires some analysis or comparison. Complex means it requires multi-step research, planning, or workflow design. Return only the class fication and a one-sentence reason. That single prompt, wired into an automation, starts building intelligent model routing for your entire operation. And if you want to get ahead of this, if you want coaching specifically on how to build AI agent workflows, intelligent automation systems, and open-source AI setups for your business, that's exactly what we do inside the AI Profit Boardroom every single week. We've got daily tutorials

walking you through how to set up and use AI tools like K2 Horizon in real business workflows, not theory, actual step-by-step implementation. Four live coaching calls every week where we go deep on AI automation. You can ask questions about your exact setup and get answers from people who are already running these systems. We've got a 30-day roadmap from day one, a full prompt library with templates you can plug straight into your workflows, 3,600 members building with AI right now, and a member map so you can connect with people near you. Link is in the comments and description or go to AI Profit Boardroom dot com.

Also, if you want to know how to get your business ranking on Google and AI search engines so you're getting consistent leads without paying for every click, book a free SEO strategy session with our team. We'll build you a custom plan based on your business, your market, and where the search opportunities actually are right now. We work specifically with businesses that want to show up when their ideal customers are searching on Google and on AI platforms like Chat GPT and Perplexity. Link is in the comments and description or go to goldie.agency to book your free session.