---
video_title: "Hermes + Gemini Notebook is Absolutely INSANE!"
video_id: HhmSDrFBsDg
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HhmSDrFBsDg
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Hermes + Gemini Notebook: Build Your Ultimate AI Content System
  
  Learn how to combine Gemini Notebook and the Hermes AI agent to create a fully automated content system that never forgets your business details. This setup uses a memory vault and MCP bridge to turn raw research into ready-to-use videos, posts, and reports.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Ultimate AI Setup
  01:10 - How the Agent OS Research Brain Works
  01:31 - Connecting Gemini and Hermes via MCP
  02:14 - Creating Videos with Hyperframes
  02:49 - The Obsidian Memory Vault
  04:23 - Solving the AI 'Starting from Zero' Problem
  06:10 - Gemini Notebook 2026 Update & Code Execution
  07:16 - How to Get the Agent OS Setup
---
Hermes plus Gemini notebook is absolutely insane. Today, I'm going to show you something wild. It's a new AI setup that runs your whole content system for you. This thing is free. It's easy to set up and it never forgets one single thing about your business. Once

you see this, you will never use AI the same way again. Stick around because this one is big. Today, we are talking about Hermes plus Gemini notebook. Yes, it is just as crazy as it sounds. I'm going to show you the exact system I built with these two tools. I will show

you how it works, what it does, and how you can get the whole thing set up today. Most people use Gemini notebook the wrong way. You may know it as notebook LM. Google changed the name to Gemini notebook on July 16th, 2026. Most people go in, drop in some sources, make one thing like a report, and then stop.

Nothing else happens with it. It does not connect to anything else. There is no system around it. That is the exact problem this setup fixes. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie agency. Whilst he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Let me show you how it works. So, this my agent OS, you can see Gemini notebook is the research branch. You drop in your sources. This can be PDFs,

websites, YouTube videos, Google Drive files, docs, or audio files. Gemini notebook reads all of it. Then it answers your questions using only what is inside those sources. No guessing. No made-up facts. Just real research. Next

comes Hermes. Hermes is the agent. It is the part that goes and does the work. Hermes connects to Gemini notebook through something called an MCP. MCP stands for model context protocol. Think

of it like a bridge. This bridge lets Hermes talk right to your notebooks. Hermes can open your notebooks, ask some questions, pull the research out, and use it to make content. All of this happens without you copying or pasting one single thing. Picture this. Say you

run a business like the AI Profit Boardroom. You want new content that teaches people how AI automation grows a business. You give Hermes one instruction. Hermes goes into Gemini notebook, reads the research, and starts making things: scripts, posts, and even full reports, all from one instruction. That is the whole point of an Agent OS1 system. Everything connected, nothing

wasted. Now, here is the part that really got me excited. Inside the studio part of this setup, there is a skill called Hyperframes. A skill is something extra you add onto Hermes. Once you add Hyperframes, Hermes can make full videos, not just scripts, real rendered video files. It writes the script first,

then it builds the visuals using simple code. It adds title cards, captions, and a voice that reads the script out loud. Then it renders the whole thing into a finished video. But here is where it gets even better. Every single thing Hermes makes gets saved. It goes into

something called a memory vault built with a free tool called Obsidian. Obsidian builds a map of everything your system has ever made, every piece of research it has read, every content idea it has used before. So next time you ask Hermes to make something new, it does not start from zero. If you want the exact Agent OS you're watching me use right now, you don't have to go build it yourself from scratch. You can grab it as a full zip file, ready to install inside the AI Profit Boardroom. I'm not

just telling you about this system and leaving you to figure it out. I'm handing you the actual setup, the bots, the workflows, the whole thing, so you can plug it straight into your own business and start putting it to work. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you'll also get to see how other people are using AI automation to save time and bring in more customers, so you're never stuck trying to figure this stuff out on your own. And once your AI team is set up and doing the work behind the scenes, the next question is always, will people even find your content online? That's where my team comes in. If you want help

making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll take a look at where you're at right now and walk you through what it would take to get more of the right eyes on what you're putting out. Let's keep going because this next part is where the whole system really shows its power. Say you want Hermes to know your brand. With this memory vault, it does. It knows

what the AI Profit Boardroom is. It knows who it is for. It knows what the community wants to hear. It knows every piece of content it has already made, so it does not repeat itself. Every single time you use it, it builds on the last time. The system gets smarter about your

business the more you use it. Think about what that actually means for you day-to-day. Right now, most people sit down, open a chat window, and start typing out their whole business story over and over every single day. That takes time. That takes energy. And most

of the time, you forget to add something important. With this setup, you skip all of that. The memory vault already has it. You just ask and the system already knows the full picture. This is the part that makes it so different from just using AI tools by themselves. Most AI

tools start fresh every time. You have to explain your business again. You have to explain your audience again every single time. This setup does not make you do that. It remembers. It grows. It

gets better on its own. Let me show you what this looks like in a real workflow. Say I want to build a lead generation push for the AI Profit Boardroom. Here is what actually happens. Hermes searches the memory vault first. It looks at everything

already saved from before. It reads what we have already made about AI automation. It checks what ideas we have already covered, what the community already cares about. Then it goes into Gemini Notebook through the MCP bridge and pulls the newest research. It puts both together. Then it builds the full

push, a video script, a post for LinkedIn, the start of an email, and a short clip all from one instruction, all backed by real research, and all saved right back into the memory vault. So the next push starts even smarter than the last one. Now think about doing that same push every single week. Each time, the memory vault already knows what worked last time and what did not. So, each new lead push gets a little sharper, a little clearer, a little more likely to bring in the right people.

That is the real value here. It is not just about making one good piece of content. It is about a system that keeps improving every single time you use it without you having to manage all the little details yourself. That is the whole loop. Research goes in, content comes out, memory gets saved, the system keeps getting better.

Here is one more thing about Gemini notebook that I have to show you because the July 2026 update added something big. Google added a secure cloud computer right inside Gemini notebook. This computer can run code. So, if you drop in a spreadsheet, say numbers about how your community is engaging with your content, Gemini notebook can actually run real analysis on it. Not just a summary. It can calculate things,

compare things, find things you might miss. And when Hermes has access to those insights through the MCP bridge, you have an agent making choices based on real data, not just guesses. That is a brand new skill for this stack and it changes what is possible. So, here is the bottom line. Gemini notebook is one of the best research tools you can use right now. Hermes is a strong free agent

with memory skills and the ability to connect to other tools. When you wire these two together into one system, you stop just making cool things inside a notebook. You get a full content system that runs itself. Research connects to content, content connects to memory, memory makes the next round faster and smarter. That is the loop and once you see it working, you will not want to go back to doing things the old If you want the exact Agent OS you're watching me use right now, you don't have to go build it yourself from scratch. You can

grab it as a full zip file ready to install inside the AI Profit Boardroom. I'm not just telling you about this system and leaving you to figure it out. I'm handing you the actual setup, the bots, the workflows, the whole thing, so you can plug it straight into your own business and start putting it to work. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you'll also get to see how other people are using AI automation to save time and bring in more customers, so you're never stuck trying to figure this stuff out on your own. And once your AI team is set up and doing the work behind the scenes, the next question is always, will people even find your content online? That's

where my team comes in. If you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll take a look at where you're at right now and walk you through what it would take to get more of the right eyes on what you're putting out. Comment below and let me know what you want me to build with this setup next. Julian reads every single comment, so do not be shy. I will

see you in the next one.