---
video_title: "NEW Google AI Super Gems Update is INSANE!"
video_id: uwKHybXdDhk
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uwKHybXdDhk
video_date: 2026-04-26T17:01:09+00:00
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session → https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google just upgraded Gemini Gems with Opal integration — turning simple AI assistants into full multi-step workflow systems you build once and reuse forever. No coding, no tool-switching, no wasted time. If you're still doing the same tasks manually, this changes everything.
  
  00:00 Intro – Why AI still feels manual (and what's fixing it)
  00:14 The Big Announcement – Google's Super Gems update explained
  00:30 What Are Gems? – Custom AI experts inside Gemini
  01:03 Pre-Built Gems – Ready-to-use options from Google
  01:18 What Is Opal? – Google's visual workflow builder
  01:48 Super Gems Explained – Opal now lives inside Gemini
  02:03 Inside the Interface – How Gems from Labs looks
  02:21 How to Build a Workflow – Step-by-step walkthrough
  02:43 Share & Publish – Send workflows to your team via link
  03:05 Why This Is Different – No more tool-switching or context loss
  03:45 How Opal Chains Steps – Each output feeds the next
  04:08 The Real Shift – From single answers to reusable systems
  04:23 Rollout Status – Who has access and when to expect it
  04:49 AI Profit Boardroom – Community for real AI workflows
  05:17 Content Creation Use Case – Research, draft, captions in one run
  05:34 Team Onboarding Use Case – Share a gem instead of a manual
  05:53 Research Workflow Use Case – Structured briefs on autopilot
  06:12 Honest Take – It's still experimental, here's what to expect
  06:40 The Bigger Picture – Google building one central AI workspace
  07:03 What to Do Right Now – Start here inside your Gems manager
  07:30 Final Recommendation – AI Success Lab + community links
---
New Google AI Super Gems update is insane. You're spending hours every week doing the same tasks over and over, writing prompts from scratch every single time, switching between five different tools to get one thing done, and wondering why AI still feels so manual. Here's what's changing everything. Google just dropped something that most people haven't even heard about yet, and by the end of this video, you'll know exactly how to use it. Hey, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldey. I help people learn AI tools and build smarter workflows. And today we're breaking down Google's Super Gems update because this one is actually a big deal. Let's start from the beginning so this all makes sense. Gems have been inside Gemini for a while now. If you haven't used them, here's the quick version. A gem is basically a custom AI expert you build inside Gemini. You give it a name, write instructions for how it should behave, and from that point on, every time you open that gem, it already knows its role, no reprompting, no starting from scratch. Just open it and go. So for example, you could build a gem that acts like a writing editor who knows your brand voice, or a gem that works like a coding partner, or a brainstorming partner, or a career coach. Google even gives you pre-built gems to get started. Things like a learning coach, a sales pitch ideator, and more. You can also upload your own files into a gem, so it has the context it needs to be actually useful. That's been the baseline. And it was already good. But now, Google took it to a completely different level. Stay with me here because this next part is where things get interesting. Google has a tool they've been building inside Google Labs called Opal. It's been in testing for a while, mostly available to a limited group of users. Opal is a visual, natural language workflow builder. What that means is it lets you build multi-step AI workflows using plain English. No coding, no scripts, no API setup. You just describe what you want the tool to do and Opal figures out all the steps. So let's say you tell it, build me a workflow that takes a blog topic, does keyword research, writes a full draft, and then creates social media captions for promotion. Opal doesn't just answer that as a prompt. It actually builds a reusable system with all of those steps wired together. You run it once you save it, and you use it over and over again. And now, as of December 2025, Google has taken Opal and put it directly inside Gemini. That's what supergems are. Inside your Gems manager in Gemini, there's now a section called Gems from Labs. That's where you'll find this. The interface has two clear sections. Pre-built Gems from Google Labs are at the top. Your own custom ones are below. And if you were already using Opal workflow separately, those automatically migrated over under my Gems from Labs. No manual transfer needed. Here's how building one actually works. You open the workflow builder inside Gems. You type what you want in plain language. Gemini then auto generates the workflow steps, the system prompts for each step, and the visual layout. You can see the whole thing laid out in front of you like a flow chart, and you can edit each part in real time. You can test it immediately using the preview inside the builder. It supports standard text input and even voice dictation, which is huge if you're on mobile and don't want to type out long prompts. Once you're happy with it, you can publish it with a shareable link. That means your team, your friends, or anyone you want can access and use the same workflow. No complicated Google Drive permissions, just a link. And if you want deeper control, there's an advanced option that takes you directly to the full Opal builder at opal.google.com where you can get into the more technical details of your workflow. This is genuinely different from what's been available before. Let me explain why. Before this update, building a multi-step AI workflow meant juggling multiple tools. You might use Gemini for the chat side, another tool for automation like Zapier or Make.com, and then something else entirely for task management. You were switching context constantly. That context switching kills your focus and slows everything down. What SuperGems does is bring all of that into one place. You build the workflow inside Gemini. You run it inside Gemini. You share it from Gemini. Opal even handles the hosting. So once your mini app is ready, you don't need to set up any servers or deploy anything yourself. It just works. And here's something worth understanding about how OpalChains thinks together. It doesn't just fire off one prompt and give you a result. It links multiple prompts, multiple model calls, and multiple tools into a single connected mini app. Each step feeds into the next. So the output from step one becomes the input for step two and so on. That's what makes these workflows genuinely powerful compared to a regular Gemini conversation. This is the practical shift. Instead of AI giving you a single answer, you're now building systems. A system you design once and reuse forever, a system that can handle a whole sequence of tasks automatically. And a system other people on your team can use too. Now a quick note on where things stand with the rollout. As of when this launched in December 2025, the SuperGems feature with Opal Integration was rolling out first to users in the US and a select group. Google is taking a staged approach here. The same way they brought notebook LM integration into Gemini gradually. So if you don't see it yet, check back in your Gem's manager and look for the Gem's from Lab section. It's being expanded and more regions are expected to get access over time. When I first started digging into AI workflows like this, it honestly felt overwhelming. There were too many tools, too many options. And it was hard to know which ones were actually worth learning. That's exactly why I created a community called AI Profit Boardroom. Over 2,000 members all focused on learning AI together and sharing what actually works. It taught me which workflows save time versus which ones waste it. The community shares real use cases and practical implementations. If you're serious about using AI to improve your work and skills, check it out, link in the description. All right, now let me give you some real examples of how you can actually put this to use. So it's not just theory. Think about content creation. A lot of people who create online content have a very repeatable process. Take a topic, do research, write a draft, adapt it for different platforms. That's four separate tasks. With SuperGems, you could build a single workflow that handles all of that. You enter the topic and the workflow takes care of the rest. Research draft social captions done every time. Consistently, or think about onboarding a new team member. You could build a gem that acts as your onboarding guide. It already knows your process is your style, your standards. New person joins, you hand them the gem link, and they have a knowledgeable assistant ready to answer questions about how things work in your specific context. Or think about research. You could build a workflow that takes any topic you're investigating, pulls together key information, summarizes it in your preferred format, and outputs a structured brief. Every time same quality, no extra effort from you. The point is this. The tasks you do over and over are the exact things you should be building gems for. And with SuperGems, you're not just saving a prompt. You're building an actual process that runs automatically. Now, I also want to give you the honest picture here. This feature is still in an experimental phase from Google Labs. That means it's not perfect yet. Some users are getting access before others. The workflow builder will keep improving. And Google is clearly treating this as an early version rather than a finished product. So go in with the expectation that you're building on something that's still evolving. But even in this early state, it's already a genuinely useful tool. The bigger picture here is what Google is actually building toward. What they're doing with SuperGems is pulling their experimental AI features into one platform, Opal with Separate. Notebook LM had its own integration. Gradually, everything is coming into Gemini. The goal seems to be making Gemini your central AI workspace where you can chat, research, build, and automate all in one place without needing to manage a stack of separate tools. That's an ambitious direction. And if they execute it well, it changes how a lot of people use AI day to day. So here's what I'd actually suggest doing right now. Go into Gemini. Open the Gem's Manager. Look for the Gems from Lab section. If it's available in your account, start exploring the pre-built ones first to understand what these workflows look like. Then try building one from scratch. Keep it simple. Pick one task you do repeatedly and see if you can turn it into a workflow. Even a basic one will teach you how the builder works. And as this feature expands and gets more polished, you'll already be ahead because you started learning it early. If you're looking to dive deeper into AI tools and actually implement them in your work, I recommend AI Profit Boardroom. Over 2,000 people learning how to use AI effectively. Everyone shares real experiences. What's working? What's not? Which tools are worth your time? Which ones to skip? No hype. Just solid information and practical guidance from people doing the work. It's helped me stay on top of updates and figure out how to actually apply them. Link in the description if you want to check it out. And if you want the full process SOPs and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. Links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there. Plus access to our community of 58,000 members who are crushing it with AI. That's everything on Google Super Gems. Now go build something.