---
video_title: "Sakana Chat Just Changed Vibe Coding Forever"
video_id: EN03oTr2Ya0
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EN03oTr2Ya0
video_date: 2026-08-16T14:30:27+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Sakana Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Sakana Chat just got a major upgrade — two new models, live code execution, and the ability to build real, working files right inside the chat. Here's a full breakdown plus a live test where it built a working game from a single prompt.
  
  00:00 Intro – Sakana Chat's big update
  00:25 What's New – 4 major changes in one drop
  00:44 Live Test – Building a Japanese learning game
  1:14 Namazu – Upgraded model, new generation
  1:39 Fugu – New orchestrator for complex tasks
  2:10 Boardroom – Where we help you build with it
  2:42 Code Execution – The real game-changer
  3:06 Live Preview – See files render instantly
  3:37 Old Workflow vs New – What actually changes
  3:58 Spreadsheet Example – Data to chart automatically
  4:23 Uploads – Images & documents across all models
  4:43 PDF to Slides – One-shot document conversion
  5:01 What This Isn’t – Clearing up the update
  5:17 Choosing a Model – Fugu vs Namazu
  6:05 Why It Works – Thinking + building, same place
  6:46 Try It Yourself – Free, no API needed
  7:15 Join – AI Success Lab & Agent OS access
---
Sakana Chat just changed vibe coding forever. Two new models, code that runs itself, files it builds and hands you. This isn't a small patch, this is a different tool now. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie. I help people learn how to actually use AI tools in their work, not just talk about them.

Today I'm breaking down exactly what changed inside Sakana Chat, and I tested it myself before making this video. Stick around because I'm going to show you what it actually built for me. Sakana AI pushed a major update to Sakana Chat, their free chat tool where you can try their models without needing an API key. They added a brand new model, upgraded their existing model to a new generation, gave the tool the ability to run code on its own, and added support for uploading images and documents. Four changes in one update.

Here's where I actually put this to the test. I didn't log in. I used the Namazu model with the standard style, and I asked it to build me a playable game to help someone learn Japanese with three difficulty levels. It didn't just describe a game to me, it built one. It gave me a landing page with three options: beginner for Hiragana and basic words, intermediate for Katakana and everyday vocabulary, and advanced for Kanji, phrases, and grammar. I clicked

into beginner, and it dropped me straight into a working quiz showing a Hiragana character, four multiple-choice answers, and tracking my score and streak as I played. One request and a working game came out the other side. That game came from Sakana Namazu, which just got upgraded to a whole new generation. Sakana AI says it now beats the previous version on two fronts: Japanese response quality and its ability to act as an agent and actually execute tasks. It's built to take instructions and return natural, usable output, which is exactly what happened with my game. It's also available

through their API if you want to build with it directly. The other new model is Sakana Fugu, an orchestrator model that Sakana AI says performs on par with frontier models. This one's built for the harder stuff: complex instructions, tasks that span multiple steps, situations where the quality of the response decides the quality of what you end up with. So, now you're not stuck with one model for everything. You pick the one that fits the task in front of you. Two models, one gap between them

closed, and a real working file to show for it in under a minute of prompting. This is the kind of update that actually shifts how you'd use an AI tool day-to-day, and it's exactly the type of thing we go deep on inside the iProfit Boardroom. We've been mapping out how members can use tools like Sakana Chat in their own workflows with live coaching calls where you can bring your own setup and ask questions directly, plus walkthroughs and roadmaps built around getting real output out of tools like this one instead of just chatting back and forth. If you're the kind of person who wants to actually build with what these updates unlock, that's what the Boardroom is built for, and you can jump in right now while this update is fresh. Now, let's talk about what's actually running under the hood, because this is the part that changes everything. Before this update, Sakana

Chat could only give you an answer in text. You get a description, maybe some code, and then it was on you to run it and fix whatever broke. That gap is gone now. The model runs Python inside a sandbox right there in the chat. It can do calculations, process data, and generate real files on its own. You

actually see it happen, too. Whatever the model builds shows up in a panel on the right side of the screen. If it's HTML, you see it rendered exactly as it would look live. If it's a Word document or a slide deck, you review it right there as a real document, not a wall of code you have to imagine into shape. You can download it as is, and if something's off, you don't start from scratch. You just say what to fix, and

it rebuilds the output in that same panel. That's exactly what happened with my Japanese game. I asked for three difficulty levels, I got three difficulty levels, and I never left the chat once to make it happen. Think about what that actually removes from your process. Normally, you'd get an idea, describe it to a model, get a wall of code back, paste that code somewhere, run it, hit an error, go back and explain the error, paste in the fix, and try again. That whole loop used to live

outside the conversation. Now it lives inside it. You ask, it builds, you look, you adjust. One thread, start to finish. It's not just games, either. Sakana AI

showed an example where you attach an Excel file, ask the model to aggregate the data by quarter, and turn it into a chart. The model writes the code, runs it, and hands you back the finished graph. Researching, calculating, and putting it into a usable format, all inside one conversation, with zero switching between tools. That's the same sandbox, the same right-side panel, just pointed at a spreadsheet instead of a game idea. And this last piece ties it all together. Sakana Chat now lets you

attach images and documents, and this works across every model, not just the new ones. Got a screenshot of an error message or a chart you don't understand? Paste it in and ask about it directly. Same goes for documents, PDFs, Office files, whatever you're working with. Combine that with code execution, and you can hand off the whole process in one go. Sakana AI gave the example of

taking a PDF of meeting materials, having the model pull out the key points, and rebuild those points into a slide deck without touching a separate app. You upload the file, say what you want, and it hands you back a finished document. I want to be clear about what this update is not. It's not a bigger context window. It's not a longer memory. It's a shift in what the tool

can actually do once you ask it something. That's the difference between a model that talks and a model that works. And it's worth stepping back on the model choice, too, because that part matters just as much as the code execution. Fugu is there for the moments where you need the model to actually think its way through something layered, multiple steps, instructions that build on each other. The kind of task where a shaky answer halfway through ruins the whole result. Namazu is there for the

stuff you do over and over, especially if your work runs through Japanese, since Sakana AI built this generation specifically to take instructions and hand back natural, ready-to-use documents. Picking the right one before you even start typing is going to save you more time than any single prompt trick will. It sounds like a small decision, but it's the difference between getting a rushed answer to a layered problem and getting a focused one, or between a generic response to a repeating task and one that actually sounds like it was written for that task in the first place. There's also something worth noting about how these two changes work together. Code execution on its own is useful, two models to pick from is useful, but it's the combination that actually changes your workflow because now the model doing the thinking is the same model doing the building. You're not

describing a plan to one tool and then executing it in another. The plan and the output come from the same place in the same conversation without you translating anything in between. If you've used other AI chat tools before, you'll notice this is the direction most of them are heading. Text-only answers are becoming the baseline, not the ceiling. What separates the tools worth your time now is whether they can actually finish the job, not just describe how you'd finish it yourself.

So, kind of chat moving into that category with this update is worth paying attention to, especially since it's free to access and doesn't require setting up an API key first. If you want to try this yourself, Sakana Chat is free to use, no API required. Go build something small first. Ask it to put together a simple tool or hand it a document you already have and see what it does with it. That's the fastest way to actually understand what changed here, faster than watching someone else describe it to you. If you want the full

process, SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. Links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And if you're about to go try building something inside Sakana Chat yourself, you're going to hit questions fast. What model to pick for your task? How to structure

a prompt so the output matches what you pictured? What to do when the first version isn't quite right. That's exactly where the AI Profit Boardroom helps you move faster. Inside, you get coaching calls where you can ask about your exact setup, tutorials that walk through tools like this step-by-step, and road maps and prompts built to get you from an idea to a finished output without the trial and error. We've got over 4,000 members already building with tools like this. Head to

AIProfitBoardroom.com.