---
video_title: "Claude Can Now Control Your Computer in the Background"
video_id: FN4xW88Zm0o
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FN4xW88Zm0o
video_date: 2026-09-05
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Claude can now use your computer in the background — clicking, typing, and opening apps while you keep working up front. This walkthrough shows the one hidden toggle that switches it on, how Claude picks the fastest path (connector → browser → screen control), and how to build skills and schedule tasks that keep running even when your computer's asleep. Plus the safety settings you should lock down before you start.
  
  00:00  Intro – Claude now runs on your computer in the background
  00:41  What Changed – background windows vs. full screen takeover
  01:22  Who Can Use It – beta, Pro/Max, Mac & Windows
  03:06  How It Works – the connector → browser → screen-control ladder
  03:43  Setup – the one hidden toggle that unlocks everything
  04:54  Skills & Scheduling – save a task, run it on repeat in the cloud
  05:52  Safety & Limits – permissions, blocklists, what not to point it at
---
Claude can now control your computer in the background. What if your computer could keep working after you walk away from it? Not you, your computer on its own. Sounds made up, right? It's not.

And the wild part is it might already be switched on. Stay with me. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help you learn AI tools and actually use them in your real work. Today, I want to show you something Claude just rolled out that quietly changes how you get things done every single day. Claude can now use your computer in the background.

That means you hand it a job on your desktop and it clicks, types, and opens apps just like you would while you go and do something else. And here's the loop I want you to hold on to. There's one setting you have to flip before any of this works. And most people don't even know it's there. I'll show you exactly where it hides in a minute. So,

let's start with what actually happened. Claude added background computer use inside two tools. One is called Claude Co-work. The other is Claude Code. Co-work is the one for regular work like reports, research, files, and admin.

Code is the one for people who write software. Before this update, when Claude used your computer, it took over. Your mouse moved on its own, your keyboard typed on its own. You had to sit there and watch it happen, and you couldn't touch anything. That's annoying. Nobody wants to stare at their

screen while a robot borrows their hands. Now, it runs in the background. Claude opens apps in their own background windows. It does the work back there while you keep typing, browsing, or working up front. It doesn't grab your mouse. It doesn't

steal your keyboard. And if you're in the middle of typing something, it waits for you to finish first. The only time it interrupts you is when a task really needs your full screen and even then it asks for permission just once for that session. Let me tell you who can use it right now because this matters. It's in beta on the pro and max plans. It works

in the claw desktop app on both Mac and Windows. The full background mode where it works quietly behind your other stuff. Runs on Mac version 15 or newer. Team and enterprise plans don't have this part yet. Now, before I walk you through the setup step by step, let me quickly connect this to something bigger because this feature is a real timesaver for anyone trying to get seen online.

Think about it. When Claude can pull research from your files, open your tools, and shape it into a clean report in the background, that's hours of content work off your plate. That's faster blog posts, better onpage structure, and more time to actually show up where people are searching now. And people aren't just searching on Google anymore. They're asking Chat GPT, Plexity, Gemini, and Google's AI overviews. If your brand isn't showing

up in those answers, you're basically invisible to a huge chunk of people. So, here's what I've got for you. My team runs a free AI brand visibility strategy session. On that strategy session, you get a custom visibility plan, a clear look at how you show up right now across Google, AI overviews, chat, GPT, Perplexity, and Gemini, a gap analysis against your competitors, and you get to ask a real strategist your questions directly. Is completely free and there's no obligation at all. The link is below.

And if you want to go deeper than one session, come join us inside the AI profit boardroom. Inside, we've got full walkthroughs on Claude Co-work and Claude Code, including this exact background computer use feature. We run live coaching calls where you can bring your own setup and ask your questions in real time. We've got step-by-step road maps, readyto-use prompts and tutorials that show you how to build these workflows into your day. If you're watching this and thinking, I want help setting this up properly, that's exactly what the boardroom is for. Now, let me

get back to actually showing you how this works. Here's something clever. Most people miss. Claude doesn't just jump straight to controlling your screen. It actually tries the fastest, safest way first. Think of it like a

ladder. On the first run, Claude checks if it has a direct connector for the job. A connector is a straight line into an app like Gmail, Google Drive, Microsoft 365, or Slack. If it has one, it uses that because it's quick and reliable. If there's no connector, it moves to the second rung and works inside a browser. And only if neither of

those works does it climb to the top rung and actually control your screen, clicking and typing like a person. This matters because screen control is the slowest and most errorprone way to do things. So the more tools you connect, the faster and smoother Claude works. Okay, let me walk you through what using this actually looks like start to finish. First, the setup. And this is

that hidden setting I promised you. Make sure your Clawude desktop app is fully updated. Then open it and go to settings, then general under the desktop app section. Look for the toggle that says enable computer use and switch it on. That's it. That's the switch that

unlocks everything. On Mac 15 or newer, background mode is already the default, so it will quietly work behind your other windows without you doing anything extra. Next, open co-work and start working with your local files. This is the part people love. You can point Claude at a folder on your own computer and it can read and work with what's inside. Just remember, for it to reach

those local files, the desktop app needs to stay open on that machine. Then connect Google Drive. This is one of those connectors I mentioned on the first rung of the ladder. Once it's linked, Claude can pull documents straight from your drive without ever touching your screen. Faster, cleaner, fewer mistakes. Now, here's a great

example of the top rung in action. Say you've got an internal dashboard, some tool your team uses that doesn't have a connector. Claude can actually open it, click through it, and update it for you by controlling the screen just like you would. That's the whole point of computer use. It fills the gaps where no connector exists. Here's where it gets

really smart. You can create something called a skill. A skill is basically a saved set of instructions that teaches Claude how you like a certain job done. Instead of explaining the same task over and over, you build it once. Think of it like training a new team member and then never having to repeat yourself again.

Once your skill is built, you just run it. You call it up. Claude follows those saved instructions and it does the job the way you taught it every single time. Same quality. No re-exaining. And this

is my favorite part. You can schedule work to run on repeat inside co-work. You just type slash schedule or click the scheduled tab in the sidebar. You pick how often, like hourly, daily, weekdays, or weekly. Then Claude runs that task on its own on that cadence. A

morning briefing before you sit down. A weekly summary pulled from your drive and your connected tools. File cleanup on a folder every few days. You describe it once and it just keeps happening. And here's the kicker. Scheduled tasks run

in the cloud so they can fire even when your computer is asleep or the app is closed. Now, I need to be straight with you about safety because this is powerful and you should use it smartly. There's no wall between Claude and your apps here. It's working directly on your machine. So, Claude asks permission before it touches each app. Some

sensitive apps are blocked by default. You can also build a block list to keep Claude out of specific apps completely. And there's a system watching for shady instructions hiding inside web pages or files. The kind of thing designed to trick an AI into doing something you didn't ask for. On top of that, Claude takes screenshots of your screen to figure out where to click, which means it can see whatever is visible. So, do

yourself a favor. Close anything private before you let it run. And don't point it at your banking, health, or other sensitive records. Start with simple, low-risk jobs like research and organizing while you learn how it behaves. A couple of honest limits, too.

For live screen control, your computer needs to be awake and the desktop app open. Complex multi-step jobs sometimes need a second try to get right. And screen control is slower than connectors, which is exactly why connecting your tools is worth the 2 minutes. This is beta. It's early and it's going to keep getting better fast.

So, let's zoom out. What you've really got now is a way to hand off the boring, repetitive parts of your day, and keep them running in the background. Set the toggle, connect your tools, point it at your files, build a skill for the stuff you do again and again. Then schedule it so it runs without you. That's not a small thing. That's real hours coming

back to you every week. And the people who learn this now while it's still new are the ones who'll be miles ahead when everyone else catches on. So here's my last nudge. Learning the tool is step one. Making it actually grow your brand is step two. And that's where a lot of

people get stuck. If you want expert eyes on your exact situation, book your free strategy session with my team. Instead of guessing, you'll get a clear plan for showing up across Google and the AI answer engines like ChatGpt, Perplexity, and Gemini. Plus a look at what your competitors are doing that you're not. a real strategist, real recommendations built around your brand.

Free, no obligation. The link is right below this video. And when you go to try this yourself, you're going to hit little bumps, a setting that won't cooperate, a skill that needs tweaking, a workflow you can't quite get right. That's completely normal. The fastest way through it is having people around you who've already done it. That's the I

Profit Boardroom. You get coaching calls, tutorials, road maps, and readytouse prompts built around tools exactly like this one, so you'll never stuck guessing. We've got over 4,000 members learning and building together right now. Come join us.