---
video_title: "Google Just Made a HUGE Change to AI Search"
video_id: tix4tq7iUAE
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tix4tq7iUAE
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google just quietly handed every site owner a button that pins your content inside readers' AI answers — no algorithm required. Here's what changed on August 20th, how the "preferred sources" button works, and how to add it to your site in ~2 minutes before everyone else catches on.
  
  00:00 The Google Change Nobody Noticed
  00:46 What the Button Actually Does
  01:17 How Preferred Sources Evolved
  02:07 Why It's Like an Email List in Google
  02:14 Setup in 2 Lines of Code
  02:40 Why Google Is Doing This
  03:59 The Honest Limits
  04:29 The Two Lanes of AI Search
  04:52 How Preferred Readers Compound
  05:21 New AI Mode Carousels
  05:48 Change #2: The Discover Feed
  06:50 Change #3: Custom Audio Briefings
  07:14 Debunking the "SEO Is Dead" Myth
  07:47 Search Is Splitting Into Two Layers
  08:06 Your Next Step
---
Google just made a huge change to AI search. What if you never had to outrank anyone on Google again? For two years, an algorithm decided who showed up inside AI answers and you just had to hope it picked you. On August the 20th, that quietly ended. Now, one reader, one click, and your site gets pinned inside their AI answers. And most site owners

have no idea it's even happening yet. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and I help people actually learn and use AI tools in their real work, not just watch from the sidelines. And this is one of the biggest openings for websites all year. So, I'll walk you through what changed, how the button works, and how to add it to your site today. Stick around, too, because there's a second change Google made the same day that quietly tells you where all of search is heading next. And almost everyone

scrolled right past it. So, here's what happened. On August the 20th, Google gave every website owner a button. You add it to your pages. A reader clicks it, and Google marks your site as one of their preferred sources. From then on,

Google shows them more of your content across search, top stories, AI overviews, and AI mode. One click and you're inside their AI answers going forward. And I didn't just read about this. We set it up within hours of it going live and we're rolling it out across all five of my sites this week. Right now, we're testing it at the bottom of our pages near the calls to action. The people who scroll all the

way down and actually found the article useful are the ones most likely to click it. About 2 minutes of work per site. Now, let me back up because the backstory is why this matters. Google first launched preferred sources last year, but only inside top stories. Readers had to dig into their settings to pick sites they liked. Nice idea,

tiny reach. Then on May the 27th this year, Google pushed it into AI overviews and AI mode. That was the real shift. When someone marked your site as preferred, your link started showing up inside their AI answers with a label on them. And AI mode is not small. It

passed 1 billion monthly users back in May. But there was still a problem. To mark you as preferred, readers had to hunt through their settings. Most never did. By late May, around 345,000 sources had been picked. It was working, but

slowly. The August update removed that friction completely. Now, the button lives right on your page. One click and Google sends the reader straight back to where they left off. No settings menu, no hunting. And since the friction

dropped, the number jumped past 600,000 sources. Here's the way I think about it. This is the closest thing to an email list that lives inside Google. You earn the reader once, and Google keeps bringing them back. Every time they search a topic you cover, you're right there, marked as trusted. And setting it

up is genuinely simple. Google published the button code right in its search central documentation. And the standard version is about two lines you paste in once. If you can't add code to your site, there's a deep link that works too. You drop your web address into a Google link, point a button at it, and Google fills the rest in. One thing to

know, it works at the domain or subdomain level, so the whole site gets preferred, not one folder. So why is Google doing this? Publishers have been losing traffic to AI answers for two years and saying so loudly. But Google needs the open web to keep making content because that content is what feeds its AI answers. If sites stop earning visits, they stop publishing and Google's answers get worse. So Google is

building loyalty pipes back to publishers. Techrunch covered it as exactly that, a way to fight AIdriven traffic losses. Google keeps its answers, sites get a path inside them, and readers get sources they chose. Now, if you're looking at your own site right now wondering where this button should go, what content earns that click, and how you even show up in AI answers today, that's exactly what my team does every single day. We map out where your site stands across Google AI overviews, chat, GPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. Book

a free strategy session with us. You'll get a custom visibility plan, a clear look at how you currently show up across those AI answers, a competitive gap analysis, and straight answers from a real strategist. It's 100% free, no obligation. Just head to goldie. agency or grab the link in the description. And

if you want the full system we use to actually earn those clicks, that's inside the AI profit boardroom. It's where I keep the walkthroughs for setting this button up, the coaching calls where you can ask about your own site, the road maps, and the exact prompts we use for AI SEO. It's the same pipeline we use to grow one site from zero to 429 clicks a day from AI search. You get all of it the moment you join. That's the AI profit boardroom. Now, let

me be straight about the limits because this only helps if you see it clearly. Preferred sources works on people who already know you. A first-time visitor searching your topic won't see your badge because they haven't picked you yet. This is a loyalty tool, not a discovery tool. It multiplies an audience you already have. It doesn't

build one from nothing. And the badge doesn't force a click. If the AI answer already gave someone everything they needed, your label won't pull them through. Your content still has to be worth clicking into. And that twice as likely to click number comes from Google's own data. So, treat it as

directional. Here's how this changes the whole game. For two years, the entire thing was convincing an algorithm to site you. Schema, entity building, getting mentioned on pages the AI trusts. That still matters, and nothing here replaces it. But now there's a

second lane beside it. Lane one earns the algorithm's trust. Lane two earns the readers click on that button and skips the algorithm race entirely for that reader. Every person who clicks is someone you never have to outrank again on your topic. And here's the part to really get. Say a small slice of your

readers click the button each month. Everyone now sees you inside their AI answers going forward. Next month, another slice. It stacks. 6 months from now, you've got a growing pool of people using AI search who favor your site every time they look up your topic. And

a core update can't really take that away because the reader chose you, not the algorithm. Compare that to what most sites are doing, which is nothing because most owners don't even know this button exists. It only shipped on August the 20th. The sites adding it now get a head start collecting preferred readers while everyone else catches up. That's the real window. And Google sacked more

on top. There are two new carousels showing up in AI mode. One pulls recent articles for questions about developing topics with your preferred badge right inside it. The other pulls in forum discussions and firsthand perspectives for opinion type searches. Google is also expanding a highly cited label. So

original reporting gets marked over sites that just rewrote someone else's work. All of it rewards the same thing, being a real named trusted source. Remember that second change I teased? This is the one almost everyone skipped and it's the bigger signal. Google is changing how the discover feed works.

That's the feed of articles in the Google app that millions scroll every day. Until now, you could only tune it with blunt tools like tapping not interested and hoping Google figured out why. Soon, you'll be able to tap the three dot menu on any item and just tell Google what you want in plain words. Their examples are things like kitchen renovation ideas, but eco-friendly only or weekend road trip videos with no camping. You type it like a text message. The feed adjusts and it

remembers what you asked for. Why should you care about someone else's feed settings? Because of what it means for how content gets picked. For years, discover traffic was basically random. post took off for no clear reason, then vanished. People built whole strategies

around gaming that feed with curiosity headlines. But now readers can say in their own words what they actually want, and it sticks. Misleading stuff gets filtered out person by person, while content people genuinely ask for gets pulled in. Put that next to the preferred sources button, and you see the pattern. Google is moving from the algorithm decides everything to the reader tells us what they trust. There's

a quieter third change, too. The audio news briefings in the Google News app on Android are now customizable. You pick the topics you want and each story links out to the full article with the source named. Notice the thread through all three. Named sources, getting credit, readers getting control. Google is

quietly building a personal layer of search, one that runs on trust instead of algorithm luck. So, let me knock down the two objections people have. First, some say AI search ended SEO, but this update is Google proving that wrong. It built a system where sites get badges inside AI answers and readers get sent back out to full articles. The game changed shape and the new shape favors sites that adapt, not ones mourning the old rules. Second, people say, "My

site's too small to matter." Honestly, small a niche is an advantage here. If you're the go-to on a specific topic, people are far more likely to pick you than a giant general site because you're not showing up for everything. Loyalty beats raw size and local outlets and niche blogs are already testing this button. The bigger lesson here is that search is splitting into two layers. A

public layer where algorithms rank everyone and a personal layer where each reader's choices reshape what they see. All of these updates are Google building out that personal layer. And the sites that win are the ones treating readers as people to win over one click at a time instead of chasing the algorithm's approval. So here's where this leaves you. The button code is live in Google's documentation right now. The deep link

works today and the readers who click it are already on your pages. If you want a hand doing this properly, book a free strategy session with my team. We'll look at your site together, show you which of your posts should carry the button first, and build you a custom plan for getting cited inside AI overviews and AI mode, even for people who haven't preferred you yet. Custom plan, competitor insights, clear recommendations, 100% free, no obligation. And once you start adding this, you'll run into the real questions. Which posts earn the click?

what to publish so readers actually want to press that button. How to show up in chat GBT and Plexity too, not just Google. That's what the AI profit boardroom is built for. You get the coaching calls, the tutorials, the road maps, and the exact prompts for all of it tied to this exact playbook. It's over 4,000 members strong, all working on the same thing. Google just gave your

readers a vote in AI search. Make sure they've got something worth voting for, and make sure the buttons there when they want to press it. Come join us at AI profitboardroom.com.