---
video_title: "Google Gemini Notebook Full COURSE 1 HOUR (Build & Automate Anything)"
video_id: Gj4DrcPdOe4
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gj4DrcPdOe4
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google quietly renamed NotebookLM to Gemini Notebook — and it now does way more than summarize your files. In this full 1-hour course, learn to build audio shows, videos, slide decks, mind maps, quizzes, and even run code from your own sources. Everything grounded in your documents, so the answers are actually trustworthy.
  
  00:00 Intro – NotebookLM is now Gemini Notebook
  00:41 What It Is – Your AI research partner, grounded in your sources
  01:05 The Backstory – Project Tailwind to 30M+ users
  01:46 What's New – Build & automate, not just summarize
  02:18 Getting Started – Sign in free at notebook.google.com
  02:50 The 3-Panel Layout – Sources, Chat, Studio
  03:06 Sources – Add PDFs, docs, sites, YouTube
  04:16 Discover – Let it find web sources for you
  04:38 Chat – Ask anything, every answer cited
  06:03 Studio – Turn files into real content
  07:48 Why Not ChatGPT? – Grounded answers you can trust
  09:41 Build Your First Notebook – Step by step
  10:22 Real Use Cases – Students, teams, researchers, creators
  11:08 The Big Upgrade – Notebooks that run code
  12:16 Sync & Mobile – Your research travels with you
  13:31 5 Power Tips – Get more from every notebook
  15:33 Studio Deep Dive – Every tool explained
  18:30 Slide Deck – Full presentation in one click
  20:51 Audio Overview – Turn notes into a podcast
  22:53 Video Overview – Narrated slideshow & shorts
  24:34 Mind Map – See how everything connects
  26:08 Reports – Briefings, study guides, FAQs
  28:03 Better-Output Tips – Steer, refine, verify
  29:38 Stack the Tools – A full learning system
  32:32 Flashcards – Auto study cards with recall tracking
  37:39 Quiz – Test understanding, not just memory
  41:34 Data Table – Turn messy text into clean grids
  45:35 Infographic – One shareable visual summary
  49:42 Tool Recap – Which one to reach for
  51:33 Who Needs This – More people than you think
  53:17 5 Mistakes to Avoid – Save yourself the frustration
  55:21 Using AI Right – Kill busywork, keep the real work
  57:02 Get Started Today – Your 10-minute first step
---
Google Gemini Notebook full course 1 hour build and automate anything. Remember notebook LM? That tool everyone used to make AI podcasts from their notes. Google just gave it a brand new name. It's called Gemini Notebook now.

And it does way more than summarize your files. Most people have no idea it can build and run things on its own. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help people actually learn and use AI tools in their real work, not just watch videos about them. In this one, I'm going to walk you through Gemini Notebook from the very start. what it is, how it got here, every part of the screen, and how to set it up the right way. And near the end, I'll show you the

one new upgrade that turns this from a simple note tool into something a lot more powerful. Stick around for that one because almost nobody's talking about it yet. So, let's start simple. What is Gemini Notebook? Think of it as your own AI research partner. You give it your

sources, your documents, your PDFs, your Google Docs, a website, even a YouTube video, and then you can ask it questions about all of it. The big thing that makes it special, it only answers from the stuff you gave it. It doesn't wander off and make things up. Every answer points right back to your sources, so you can always check where it came from. That's huge if you care about getting things right instead of getting a confident guess. Now, here's the part a

lot of people missed. This tool didn't just show up out of nowhere. It started back at Google's big event in 2023 under a code name Project Tailwind. The whole goal was simple, help people learn. Then Google gave it the name Notebook LM and it kind of blew up. Today, over 30

million people use it. more than 600,000 organizations too. Students turning notes into study guides, business owners building training material, writers, researchers, all of them. Then in July of 2026, Google renamed it one more time. Notebook LM became Gemini Notebook. Same tool people already

loved, just tied much more tightly into the rest of Google's AI world. And that name change came with real muscle. Gemini Notebook can now build and automate way more than before. It doesn't just chat with your files. It can turn them into audio shows, into videos, slide decks, mind maps, study guides, you name it. And the newest

upgrade is the big one. Every notebook now gets its own secure little cloud computer. That means it can actually write and run code for you right inside the notebook to dig into your data. I'll come back to that because it's the piece most people haven't caught on to yet. Okay, so how do you get in? Easy. Just

head to notebook.google.com, sign in with any Google account, and you're in. No download needed. It works right in your web browser and there are apps for your phone too, both iPhone and Android. When you first land inside,

you'll notice some notebooks already sitting there. These are ones Google made or ones from big publications just to show you what's possible. Click around them for a minute. It's a really nice way to see the tool in action before you build your own. But don't stop there because the real magic happens when you make one from scratch with your own stuff. Now, let me show

you the layout because once you get this, the whole thing just clicks. When you open a notebook, the screen splits into three parts. On the left, you've got sources. In the middle, you've got chat. And on the right, you've got the studio panel. Let me break down each one

because each does a completely different job. First, sources. This is on the left. And honestly, this is the heart of everything. Sources are the files and links you feed the tool. You can add

PDFs, Google Docs, Google Slides, websites, YouTube videos, audio files, even images. Just click add and drop them in. You can paste in raw text, too, or copy a link straight in. and you can stack a whole pile of sources into a single notebook. So, this becomes like one big brain that knows everything you fed it. Now, here's a detail most people

never notice. Every source gets its own little check box. That means you can turn sources on and off whenever you want. So, if you only want answers from two specific documents right now, you just uncheck the rest and the tool only looks at those two. That's a simple trick that keeps your answers really focused. And when you click on any

source, Gemini Notebook shows you a quick summary of what's inside it. plus the key topics it spotted so you can understand a long document without even reading the whole thing. And it's smart about what it reads. Drop in a YouTube video and it works off the transcript. So you can get through an hourong video in seconds. Add an audio file and it

transcribes that too. You can also rename any source to keep things tidy. So a messy file name turns into something you'll actually recognize later. Little things like that keep a big notebook from turning into a mess. Then there's a discover option. And this

one's a gem a lot of folks skip right past. Instead of hunting for sources yourself, you type in a question and Gemini Notebook goes and finds real sources on the web for you. Each one with a citation so you know where it came from. You look at what it found, pick the good ones, and pull them in with a click. So even if you're staring at a blank notebook with nothing to add, you're never really stuck. Next up, the

middle. That's chat. This is where you actually talk to your notebook. You ask it anything about your sources and it answers, but only using what you gave it. Ask for a summary. Ask it to explain

a hard part in plain words. Ask it to compare two documents side by side. Ask it to pull out every action item, whatever you need. And to get you started, it even suggests a few questions you can just tap on so you're never sitting there wondering what to ask first. Now, here's the part that really matters. Every single answer

comes with little citations. These small numbers you can click, and when you click one, it jumps you straight to the exact spot in the exact source the answer came from. So, you're never taking its word for it. You can see the proof in one click. No guessing, no madeup nonsense. That grounding is the

whole reason people trust this thing for real work. And when you get an answer you love, you can save it as a note so it's parked right there for later. You can even tell the chat how you want it to talk to you. Ask it to keep answers short and simple or to go long and detailed or to explain things like you're brand new to the topic. It will shape itself around how you learn. And

the chat remembers where you are. Ask a follow-up and it builds on the last answer so you can keep digging without repeating yourself. And it's not just for questions either. You can ask it to actually write things for you. Draft an email, build an outline, pull together a summary, all grounded in your sources so it never just makes stuff up. Quick

question before we move on. Can you guess which panel does the heavy lifting for actually building content? Keep watching because it's this next one. And that brings us to the star of the show, the studio panel over on the right. This is where your boring pile of documents turns into something you'd actually want to use. With one click, Studio can spin

your sources into an audio overview. That's the famous one where two AI voices chat about your content like a real podcast, breaking it all down in a way that's easy to follow. And it got even better. There's an interactive mode where you can actually join the conversation. You hit a button and you can talk to the hosts and ask them questions live right in the middle of the show and they answer using your sources. You can also pick different

languages so you're not locked to English. But that's just the start. You can make a video overview where it narrates your content with visuals pulled straight from your sources. even a short vertical video like the kind you'd post on your phone. You can make mind maps that lay your ideas out visually so you see how everything connects. Reports like study guides,

briefings, FAQs and timelines, flashcards and quizzes to help you actually learn the material. Infographics, even slide decks and data tables. And a lot of these you can actually use, not just look at. The flash cards and quizzes are interactive. So you flip through them and test yourself and it checks your answers.

Everything you make gets saved right there in the panel, so you can come back to it anytime. You can even peek at the prompt it used to build something, which is a great way to learn how to steer it yourself. And here's a tip. Before you hit generate, you can usually customize it first. There's a little option to steer it, so you can tell it what to focus on or pick the format and language you want instead of just taking whatever it gives you. Then once it's built, you

can share it or send a report straight into Google Docs and a data table straight into Google Sheets. All of it built from your sources. All of it grounded with citations and all of it in basically one click. This right here is the build and automate part everyone keeps talking about. Now, you might be thinking, why not just ask a normal AI chatbot instead? Great question. And

here's the difference that really matters. When you ask a regular chatbot something, it pulls from everything it ever learned. And sometimes it just makes things up and says them with total confidence. Gemini Notebook doesn't do that. It's locked to your sources. It

will only answer from the files and links you gave it. And it shows you exactly where each answer came from. So if you're working with your own research, your own documents, your own notes, you get answers you can actually trust and check. That's the whole point of it. It trades knowing a little about everything for knowing your stuff deeply and honestly for real work. That trade

is worth a lot. Now, before we build one, let me show you a few things you can actually do with all this because this is where it gets really handy. Take that audio overview. You're not stuck with one version. You can make it shorter if you just want the quick rundown or longer if you want it to really go deep. You can speed it up or

slow it down while you listen. And you can download it so you can pop it on your phone and listen to your own notes like a podcast while you're out on a walk. Same idea with the other outputs. That mind map isn't just a pretty picture. You can click any branch to open it up and you can click a point and turn it straight into a question. So you

dig deeper into just that one idea instead of the whole thing at once. Then there's sharing. And this is a big one. People forget about any notebook you build. You can share with someone else.

Send a teammate a link and they can open it, read through it, and ask their own questions against the same sources. So, this stops being a solo tool and becomes something a whole team can use together. It's great for onboarding new people, group projects, or just getting everyone on the same page fast without you having to explain the same thing 10 times. And here's the best part for most people. You can do all of this for free. You

just sign in and start. There are higher limits on the upgraded plans if you're a heavy user, but the free version is plenty for most folks to get real work done. So, don't let that stop you. Just jump in and start building. Speaking of which, let's do exactly that. All right,

let's actually build one because this is where it gets fun. Back on the main page, you just click new notebook. Give it a clear name, something like AI research or client project, whatever you're working on. Then you head over to that sources panel on the left and you start adding your stuff. Drop in a few PDFs, paste a website link, add a YouTube video, or use that discover button we talked about, and let it go find sources for you. Here's my one big

tip on this. The quality of everything you get out depends completely on what you put in. Feed it good, focused sources, and your answers, your audio, your reports, all of it comes out sharp. Feed it junk and you get junk back. So, spend an extra minute picking the right sources. It matters more than anything

else you'll do. So, what do people actually build with this? Let me give you a few ideas to get your wheels turning. Students drop in their lecture notes, their textbook chapters, and a few articles. Then turn the whole pile into a study guide, a set of flashcards, and a quiz to test themselves before an exam. Researchers load up a stack of

long PDFs and use the chat to pull out the key findings across all of them at once instead of reading each one cover to cover. If you run a team, you can drop in your onboarding docs and your process guides. Then hand new people a notebook they can ask questions to so they're not stuck waiting on you for every little thing. Writers and creators feed in their old posts, transcripts, and notes. Then spin out summaries, outlines, and audio versions of their own work. Even for something simple like

a dense report, you can drop it in and just ask in plain words, "What does this actually say?" The pattern is always the same. Gather your sources, then let the tool do the heavy lifting on top of them. Now, remember that upgrade I promised to come back to? Here it is.

Every notebook now comes with its own secure cloud computer built right in. In plain words, that means Gemini Notebook can write and run actual code for you right inside your notebook without you ever touching a single line of it. Say you've got a messy spreadsheet full of numbers in your sources. Before the tool could talk about it, now it can actually crunch it, run the analysis, and hand you back real results grounded in your own data. That's the leap. It went from

a tool that just reads your files to a tool that actually works with them. And because it's running real code, it can go further than a quick answer. It can spot trends across your numbers, build a chart from them, clean up a messy table, or pull the important figures out of a long report and lay them out clearly. All of it still tied to the data you gave it, so nothing is guessed or invented. This is the part that turns Gemini Notebook from a research helper into something closer to a research assistant that can actually do the work.

This is rolling out step by step, starting with the top plans and reaching more people over the coming weeks. So, if you don't see it in your account yet, don't worry. It's on the way. A couple more things that make this really powerful. Your notebooks now sync with the Gemini app, so the same sources and notes follow you across Google. And

Google's even bringing this into search, so your research isn't stuck in one little spot anymore. It travels with you wherever you work. And speaking of taking it everywhere, don't sleep on the phone apps. Gemini Notebook works right on your phone on both iPhone and Android. So you can create a notebook, add sources, and chat with them while you're away from your desk. But the best

part on mobile is the audio. You can play your audio overviews on the go, even in the background. So you can lock your phone, drop it in your pocket, and listen to your own notes turned into a podcast while you drive, walk the dog, or do the dishes. It's a really easy way to finally get through your reading when you never seem to have time to sit down and read. And here's another one people miss. You're not limited to sharing a

notebook with just one person. You can open a notebook up more widely so a whole group can view it and ask their own questions against the same sources. Think of a class, a book club, or a whole department all working out of one shared, trusted set of documents. That's when this really starts to feel less like a note tool and more like a shared brain everyone can tap into. Now, let me leave you with three quick tips to use this the right way. One, keep each

notebook focused on a single topic. Don't dump everything into one giant notebook or your answers get fuzzy. Two, always check the citations. They're right there for a reason. Click them and trust but verify. And three, once you've

got good sources in, try every single studio output at least once. Make the audio, make the mind map, make the report. You'll quickly find the one or two that just fit how your brain works and those become your go-tos. And a couple of bonus tips. Four, use the check boxes we talked about. When you

want a really specific answer, turn off the sources you don't need so the tool only looks at what matters. And five, don't be afraid to start messy. You can always add more sources later. Remove the weak ones and regenerate your outputs. This thing is built for you to tinker with. The more you play with it,

the faster you'll find your own way of working. Now, quick pause because I know some of you are watching this thinking about your own brand or your own website. Here's something that can really help. We're running a free AI brand visibility session right now. It's a one-on-one with a real strategist.

They'll build you a custom visibility plan and show you exactly how your brand shows up or doesn't show up across Google, across AI overviews, and across the AI tools people actually ask now like ChatGpt, Perplexity, and Gemini itself. You'll get a competitive gap check so you can see where others are beating you, and you get to ask your own questions live. It's 100% free. No strings, no obligation. If you want to actually get found in this new AI search world, this is where you start. The link

is down in the description. And if you want to go even deeper and really master tools like Gemini Notebook, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. This is our community where we get properly hands-on. Inside you'll find full walkthroughs on Gemini Notebook step by step so you're not just poking around guessing. We run live coaching calls where you can share your own screen and ask questions about your exact setup.

There are road maps that show you what to do first, second, and third. and you get ready to use prompts so you pull great outputs out of this tool way faster. It's honestly the quickest way to stop just watching and start actually doing. And I'll tell you exactly how to jump in at the very end. Okay, now let me explain everything inside the studio because here's the truth. Most people

open Google's notebook, drop in one file, read the little summary at the top, and close the tab, and they walk straight past the best part of the whole tool, the studio. It's the same tool, same idea, just a new name. And the studio is that panel on the side of your screen where the real magic happens. It's the part that takes your boring files and turns them into things you actually want to use. So, let me show you what's in there. Because the menu is

bigger than most people think. Inside the studio, you've got audio overview, video overview, slide deck, mind maps, reports, flashcards, quiz, data table, and infographic. That's a lot of tools in one little panel, so I'm not going to rush through all of them. Today I'm slowing down and going deep on all of them. Audio overview, video overview, slide deck, mind maps, reports, flashcards, quiz, data table, and infographic. By the end of this, you'll

know what each one does, exactly how to make it, and when to use it in your own work. And stick around because the fourth one, the mind map, is the one almost nobody talks about, and it might be my favorite. But first, let me show you what I loaded in because this next part is the whole secret to this tool. I dropped in a PDF. It's my 200 plus best free AI SEO and chat GPT prompts, the exact ones I use myself. I also added

the link to my community, the AI profit boardroom, and my free strategy session page. Those three things are my sources. And here's why that matters so much. Everything the studio makes today comes straight out of those sources. That's the whole point. It only uses what you

give it. It doesn't go wandering off across the internet and grab random stuff. It reads your files and it builds everything from them and it shows you exactly where each line came from. You'll see little clickable chips and when you tap one, it jumps you right to that spot in your file. So, think about what that means. A normal chatbot pulls

from everything it ever learned. That's powerful, but it can also get things wrong and say them with a straight face. Gemini Notebook doesn't do that. It stays locked to your material. So, when you build something with it, you can trust it. It's grounded in your stuff,

not made up. And you're not stuck with PDFs either. You can feed it word docs, Google docs, webpage links, even a YouTube video. You paste it in and now it's a source you can build from. So when you go to notebook.google and load

your own files, whatever you put in is what shapes everything you get out. Good stuff in, good stuff out. And this works for pretty much anyone. If you're studying, you drop in your notes and readings and it builds your study material. If you're doing research, you drop in a stack of reports and it pulls out what matters. If you're running a

brand, you drop in your own guides, your content, your notes, and it reshapes them into whatever you need to share. Same tool, totally different jobs. The only limit is what you feed it. So, think about the one file or the one folder that you've been meaning to actually understand and imagine dropping it in here. That's the mindset for all five of these. All right, let's start

with the slide deck. This one is brand new and honestly kind of magic. So, what is it? The slide deck turns your files into a full presentation. real slides with titles, key points, and pictures.

And it does it in about a minute. Something that used to take you an afternoon of dragging text boxes around. Gone. One click. Here's how you make one. You go into the studio panel and

you click create slide deck. Then it asks you a simple question. Do you want a detailed deck or presenter slides? And this choice matters. So, let me break it down. The detailed deck is packed with

more text on every slide. So, it reads well all on its own. Even if nobody is standing there talking, that's the one you want if you're going to send it in an email or hand it to someone to read on their own time. It explains itself. The presenter slides are the opposite.

They're clean, just the key talking points, big and clear, not too crowded. That's the one you want when you're the one presenting live. The slides support you. They don't do all the talking. You fill in the gaps with your voice. Then

you get to customize it. You can set the language. You can set the length. So, a quick five slides or a longer deep one. And you can add a little style note, something like keep it simple or use earth tones or make it feel bold and modern. And the pictures it puts on the

slides are made by Google's Nano Banana Pro, which is their newest image model. So, they actually look sharp instead of cheesy clip art. Now, here's the part I love. Let's say slide three comes out wrong. Maybe the wording is off or it's too busy. You don't redo the whole

thing. You just type fix slide three and it fixes only that one. or make slide five shorter and it trims it. You can even line up a few of those edits at once and then let it redo them together so you stay in control slide by slide and when you're happy you can export the whole deck to PowerPoint so it's not trapped inside the tool. You pull it out, open it in PowerPoint, tweak whatever you want and you're done.

Google has also said editing straight in Google Slides is coming which makes it even easier. So here's how I use it. I take my 200 plus prompts PDF. I hit create slide deck. I pick presenter slides and out comes a clean deck that walks through the prompt categories in that file. If one slide looks off, I

type fix slide three and it's sorted. Then I export it to PowerPoint and it's ready to share. And here's a little tip. Make two versions from the same file. One presenter deck for when you're talking live and one detailed deck to send to people who missed it. Same file,

two clicks, and now you're covered both ways. That's the kind of thing that saves you a whole afternoon. Okay, next one. Audio overview. This is the one that made this tool famous. And once you

try it, you'll get why. Audio overview turns your files into a podcast, not a robot reading your notes out loud. An actual conversation. Two AI hosts talking back and forth in natural voices about your material. They joke a little.

They build on each other. They explain things like two smart friends breaking it down for you. It genuinely sounds like a show. To make one, you click audio overview in the studio and you wait a couple of minutes while it builds. That's it. But you can steer it.

And this is where it gets good. You can pick the format. There's the normal one where they walk through everything. There's a brief version if you just want the quick take. There's a debate version where the two hosts actually argue different sides of your material, which is amazing for seeing the weak spots in an idea. And there's a critique version

where they pick your stuff apart, like reviewers. You can also set the tone and the length and tell it what to focus on. So you can say focus on the beginner prompts and it leans that way. And it's not just English anymore. It now does full proper conversations in over 80 languages. So if you learn better in

your own language, that door is wide open. Here's the feature that blows people's minds, though. You can interrupt it. While the podcast is playing, you hit a join button and you ask a question with your voice. The two hosts stop, answer your exact question using your file, and then carry right on with the show. It's like being able to

raise your hand in the middle of a podcast and have them actually answer you. So, with my prompts PDF loaded, I get two hosts talking through the best prompts in that file. And anytime I want to go deeper on one, I jump in and ask and they explain it pulling straight from my file. Where this really shines is when your hands and eyes are busy on a walk, in the car, doing the dishes. You turn your files into a show and you learn while you move. And here's a tip.

If you've got a big file with lots of parts, make a separate audio for each part. One podcast per chapter. Now you've got a whole playlist to learn from, all built from one upload. Now, let's talk video overview. Because sometimes you don't want to just listen, you want to see it. If audio overview is

a podcast, video overview is a narrated slideshow. You get slides on the screen with a voice walking you through them, explaining your material as the visuals move along. It's the same helpful summary, but now you're watching it, which sticks better for a lot of people. You make it the same easy way. Click video overview in the studio, and it builds you a little video presentation.

And there's more than one kind now. So, let me lay them out. There's the standard one, which is the narrated slideshow. And the good news is it works even on the free plan, up to three a day. There's a short version, a 60-second vertical clip built for your phone, perfect for a quick review on the go. And on the top plan, there's a

cinematic one, which is a whole other level. Instead of static slides, it's a proper animated video with smooth motion and rich visuals that tell the story of your material. Google's model makes hundreds of little style choices to make it feel like a real film. That cinematic one is English only for now for grown-ups, and it's limited to a couple a day on the top tier. With any of them, you can add a steering note to point the video at the angle you want, like explain this for a total beginner. And

when it's done, you can play it, download it, or share it with a link. So, with my prompts, PDF, I hit video overview, and instead of a podcast, I get a walkthrough video of those prompts right there on screen. If I want something quick to review on my phone later, I make the short vertical one. So, when do you pick video over audio? Easy rule. If you need your eyes free,

make audio. If seeing the words and the layout helps it click, make video. Try both from the same file and keep whichever one you actually finish. That's the one that's working for you. All right. This next one is the one

people sleep on, and I want to fix that. The mind map. A mind map takes your whole file and turns it into a picture of how everything connects. It scans all your material and lays out a branching map. The big main idea sits in the middle and then branches shoot off it, one for each topic and smaller branches off those for the details. So in one

glance you see the whole shape of your material. You make it by clicking mind map in the studio. And here's the thing that makes it special. It's not a flat picture you just stare at. It's clickable. You tap a branch and it opens

up and shows you what's underneath. You keep tapping and you keep going deeper. And you can even click a topic on the map and ask about it and it will pull the answer straight from your sources. Why do I love this so much? Because it's the fastest way to understand something big. Instead of reading 40 pages front

to back, you look at one map and go, "Oh, that's how this all fits together." You see the whole forest before you go looking at the trees. It's also brilliant for spotting gaps. When you see it all laid out, you notice the branch that's thin, the part you don't actually understand yet. So, when I run mind map on my prompts PDF, it groups the prompts by theme and shows me how the different types connect to each other. In about 10 seconds, I can see

the whole layout of that file without reading a single page in order. And here's my real tip. Make the mind map first before anything else. Use it to get the lay of the land. Then go make your report or your audio or your slides. Now that you actually understand

the shape of what you're working with, it makes everything else easier. If you're a visual person, this tool alone is worth the whole thing. Okay, reports. This is the workhorse. Reports takes your sources and turns them into clean written documents. Real, useful,

organized writing. You click reports in the studio, and you get a few ready-made options to pick from. There's the briefing dock, which pulls all the key points and important quotes from your files into one tidy overview. Great. When you need to get the gist fast or catch someone else up, there's the study guide, and this one is loaded. It

doesn't just summarize. It comes with a quiz, suggested essay questions, and a glossery of the key terms. So, it's basically a ready-made revision pack. There's a blog post format if you want your material shaped into an article. And there's an FAQ style, too, which turns your stuff into simple questions and answers. But here's the clever bit

that most people miss. Reports doesn't only give you those default options. It reads your sources and suggests report types that actually fit your topic. So, a health notebook and a marketing notebook won't get the same choices. It looks at what you uploaded and offers formats built for that subject. It's

like it thinks about what would actually be useful for your material. And if you want full control, you can go custom. You set the structure, you set the style, you set the tone, and you set the language from over 80 of them. So, you can make it formal or casual, short or detailed, however you need it. And like everything else in here, every point links back to the source it came from, so you can always check it. So I hit

reports on my prompts PDF, pick briefing doc, and it pulls the best prompts and ideas into one clean write up I can skim in a minute. Or I pick study guide, and now I've got a quiz and key terms to test myself with from the same file. One click and my messy PDF becomes something I can actually learn from or share. This is the one I'd use when you need something on paper. A reference dock, a study pack, a first draft of an article.

It takes the raw material and gives it a clean, usable shape. Before I show you how to stack these together, let me give you a few quick tips that make every one of these come out better. They're small, but they make a big difference, and most people skip them. Tip one, clean up your sources first. The studio is only as good as what you feed it. If you dump in

a messy halffinish file, you get a messy result back. If you drop in a clear, focused file, you get something sharp. So, give it good material to work with, and it rewards you. Tip two, use the steering note every single time. Almost every tool in here lets you add a little instruction before it builds. Don't

leave it blank. Tell it who this is for and what to focus on. Say, make this for a total beginner. Say, focus on the SEO prompts. Say, keep it short and simple.

The more you tell it, the closer it lands to what you actually pictured in your head. Tip three, make more than one version. This tool is fast and it's free to try, so don't settle for the first thing it hands you. Make a short version and a long one. Make one for yourself and one to share. Make one in plain

words and one with more detail. Then keep the best. You'll be surprised how different two versions from the same file can be. Tip four, trust the citations, but click them. Everything in here links back to your source. When

something looks important, tap that little chip and check that it lands where you think it should. It builds real trust in what you're making and it catches the odd thing that slipped through. Tip five, match the tool to the moment. Don't make an audio just because it's cool. Ask what you're actually doing. Sharing with a team, slide deck,

learning on a walk, audio, getting your head around something new, mind map, need it written down, report. The tool should fit the moment, not the other way around. Okay, so let me pull it all together because here's where it gets fun. These five tools aren't meant to be used one at a time. They stack. Here's

the workflow I'd give you. Load your file once. Start with a mind map so you can see the whole shape and understand what you're dealing with. Then make a report to lock the key points down in writing. Then make an audio overview or a video overview for when you want to learn it on a walk or on the screen. And

finally, a slide deck for when you need to share it with someone else. That's a full learning system built from one single upload. And remember, you can make as many versions as you want. Three different slide decks, a short audio and a long one, a report in English and one in another language. You build a whole little library out of one file and it works from almost anything you feed it.

PDFs, docs, links, even YouTube videos. Whatever you're trying to learn or explain, you drop it in and the studio reshapes it into whatever form helps you most. So that's the five. Slide deck for presenting and sharing. Audio overview for learning on the go. Video overview

for watching it click. Mindmap for seeing the whole picture fast. And reports for clean writing. You can use all of it grounded in your own sources. All of it a click away. Go to

notebook.google. Load a file you've been meaning to understand and try just one of these today. I promise it will change how you work. Now, if you want real help using this in your own brand, I've got something for you and it's completely free. I run free AI brand visibility

sessions. On that call, you get a custom visibility plan built just for your site. We look at how you actually show up or don't show up across Google, AI overviews, chat, GPT, Perplexity, and Gemini because being invisible on those is the quiet thing holding a lot of people back. You also get a competitor gap analysis so you can see exactly where others are getting picked and you're not. and you get to ask a real strategist your own questions and get straight honest answers. It's 100% free

and there's zero obligation. To grab your spot, head to go.jangoldie.com/strategy session. That's your next step. And it's

the fastest way to get a plan made for you. And once you start playing with these studio tools, you're going to run into little questions. Which format should I use here? Why did my deck come out like that? How do I make this whole thing faster? That's exactly what my

community, the AI profit boardroom, is for. Inside, you get full walkthroughs of the exact tools I showed you today. We run live coaching calls where you can share your screen and ask me about your own setup in real time. There are road maps that tell you what to do first, second, and third, so you're never staring at a blank screen. And there's a whole stack of prompts and tutorials ready to go, so you're never starting from zero. We're over 4,000 members

strong now, all learning this stuff together and helping each other move faster. If that sounds like what you need, come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com. Four left. All right, let's keep it going. Next up on our list, flashcards.

So, flashcards live inside the studio panel of your notebook. And out of everything in here, this is one of the simplest tools to fall in love with because it does something we all wish we had more time to do. It turns your material into study cards for you in a few seconds without you lifting a finger. But here's the part that actually makes them worth using. Notebook LM builds the flash cards straight from the sources you upload.

It's not pulling from some generic version of the topic that lives in the model's head. It's pulling from the exact document you put in front of it. So, if you drop in your own notes, a long PDF, a training dock, or a whole guide, the cards you get back are grounded in that material and nothing else. Now, why does that matter so much? Think about a normal set of flash cards you'd find online. They review any old

version of a subject. Some of it might be right, but a chunk of it might have nothing to do with what you actually need to know. With Notebook LM, that problem goes away. The cards quiz you on your material, your notes, your syllabus, so you're never wasting time memorizing stuff that's correct but completely off topic for you. Everything ties back to what you uploaded. Using

them is about as simple as it gets. You open the studio panel, you click the flashcards tile, and it generates a deck for you in seconds. A question shows up on the front of the card. You think about your answer, then you click to flip the card and see if you got it right. When you generate a set, it opens up in a clean full screen view.

Honestly, it feels a lot like the study apps you might already know. So, there's no learning curve. You just start flipping and you don't have to take whatever it hands you. You can guide it before it builds anything. Just click the little pencil icon first. From

there, you can set the number of cards, fewer, standard, or more. You can set the difficulty, easy, medium, or hard. and you can point it at one specific topic instead of the whole document. So instead of a random pile of cards, you could tell it to make a bigger deck, keep the questions on the hard side, and focus only on one chapter or one subject you're weak on. You can even guide it with a plain text instruction, like asking for shorter fronts on the cards so they're easier to memorize at a glance. Say you uploaded a long training

dock, you'd get a tight study deck built around just the parts that matter to you at the exact difficulty you want. And here's a nice upgrade that landed in 2026. For a long time, the cards were locked once they were made. You couldn't fix a wrong answer or add one that was missing. That changed. Now the flash

cards are fully editable. You can rewrite a question, tweak an answer that isn't quite right, delete the cards you don't need, and even build brand new cards from scratch. So, if the AI misses something, you're not stuck. You just fix it yourself and keep going. Now, here's the feature that really turns this from a quick demo into a serious study tool. The deck remembers you as

you go through. You sort your cards into got it and missed it. And it saves that sort between sessions. So if you work through your cards on Monday and come back on Wednesday, it picks up right where you left off on the ones you missed, not the ones you already knew cold. That's basically spaced repetition, doing the heavy lifting for you in the background. You don't have to

track your weak spots by hand. The tool just quietly keeps serving you the cards you keep getting wrong until they finally stick. And it got even smarter after that. Once you run through a set, it gives you a quick topic summary so you can see where you stand. It suggests what you should study next. And there's

a regenerate button that drills straight into your weak spots. So instead of guessing what to review, the tool points you at it. It also works on the mobile app, which means you can review a few cards while you're waiting in line or riding the bus. It's built for short bursts, not just long sitdown sessions. One more thing, because they're editable now, they're also easy to share. So, if

you're studying with someone else or you made a great deck you want to pass along, you can let me paint the full picture of how this fits into a real routine because that's when it clicks. Imagine you've got a big set of material to get through. On day one, you upload it, generate a deck, and run through all of it. You mark what you knew and what you didn't. On day two, you open the same notebook and it's already sorted.

You go straight to the cards you missed. On day three, you check the topic summary, see which area is still shaky, and hit regenerate to drill just that. You're not rebuilding anything. You're not making a study plan on a whiteboard. The tool is handling the structure of your review while you just show up and do the reps. And every single card,

every step of the way, is pulled from your own uploaded material, so you never drift off into stuff you don't actually need. Let me give you a quick piece of advice on flash cards before we move on, because this one tip makes a real difference. only keep the sources selected that you actually want tested. Inside the studio, you can temporarily check and uncheck your sources. So, the deck is built only from the material you care about right now. If you leave a

bunch of extra stuff checked, the cards can get muddy and off topic. So, trim it down first. And one thing to know going in, there's no native export button. You can't push the deck straight into another app with one click. So, if you want to keep the cards somewhere else, like an Anki, you'll need to copy the questions and answers out into a spreadsheet and import them from there or just grab a quick screenshot. It's a

small catch, but worth knowing before you build a huge deck. Now, flash cards are great for pushing facts into your memory. But memorizing something and actually being able to use it are two different things. So, if you want to test whether the information really stuck, that's where the next tool comes in. The quiz. The quiz works a lot like

the flash cards, but instead of flipping cards, you're answering real questions. You head to the studio panel, click quiz, and it builds a set of questions straight from your sources. You pick your answer, and it tells you how you did. When you finish, you get a score and an overview of the whole set, and you can go back and review the questions afterward or run the quiz again to see if you've improved. So, it's not just a oneanddone thing. It's a loop you can

keep coming back to. The real strength of the quiz is that it tests your understanding, not just your memory. Flashards check whether you remember a fact. A good quiz checks whether you actually get it. And just like the flashcards, you can shape it before you generate. You can set the number of

questions, the difficulty, and the topic you want it to focus on. But the quiz really opens up when you write a custom instruction for it. And this is where most people leave value on the table because they just click generate and take whatever comes out. Let me give you a couple of real examples of the kind of thing you can type instead. The simplest version is something like this. Ask it

to generate a hard quiz with 20 questions covering one specific chapter or unit from your uploaded sources. Just that little bit of direction gives you a focus challenging set instead of a random grab bag. But you can go a lot deeper. You could ask it to build a 20 question quiz in three tiers. Tier one, the first several questions tests basic recall the key facts and definitions.

Tier two, the middle chunk, tests whether you understand how the ideas connect and compare. And tier three, the last few, tests whether you can actually apply what you've learned to a new situation. On top of that, you tell it to include the correct answer and a one-s sentence explanation for each question. Now, you don't just have a quiz. You've got a proper study tool that walks you from basic memory all the way up to real usable understanding. And

the quiz plays beautifully with the smart features I mentioned earlier. After a round, it summarizes the topics you struggled with. So, your next move can be really targeted. You could tell it to generate a fresh quiz focused only on the concepts it just flagged as needing more practice. Crank the difficulty up and then compare your performance to the last round. That

creates a closed feedback loop. You quiz, it shows you your gaps, you drill the gaps, and you watch them close over time. That's a genuinely powerful way to learn and it's all grounded in your own material. There's also a smart trick that happens before you even generate the quiz and that's using the chat. Before you build anything, you can talk to your sources in the chat and ask it to pull out the main themes or even tell it to act like a strict professor grilling you on the material. The chat

can take on a role or a voice like that, so you can turn it into a tough study partner that pushes back on your answers and points out where your thinking is fuzzy. That little bit of pre-work helps you figure out what's worth quizzing on in the first place, so your quiz comes out sharper and hits the stuff you're actually unsure about. And think about how much time this collapses. Normally, building a good practice quiz means reading everything, deciding what's important, writing the questions, writing plausible wrong answers, and then writing out why each answer is right. That's hours of work. And

honestly, most people never do it. They just reread their notes and hope. Here, you get all of that in a few seconds, tailored to your exact material at whatever difficulty you choose. The barrier to actually testing yourself just about disappears. And testing yourself is one of the most proven ways to make information stick. And like the

flashcards, the quiz works on mobile, too, so you can test yourself anywhere. My advice on the quiz is short and simple. Don't just hit generate and settle for the default. Spend 10 seconds writing a custom instruction like the tiered one I described. That one small step is the difference between a basic quiz and one that actually teaches you something. Do a little theme digging in

the chat first if you've got a big set of sources. And a quick heads up, same as the flashcards, there's no clean export, so screenshot anything you want to keep for later. Okay, so those first two tools are all about studying and remembering. This next one does a completely different job. It's not about memorizing. It's about organizing and

comparing. This is the data table. The data table takes messy wordy information and turns it into a clean, structured table. So instead of reading through paragraph after paragraph, trying to hold five different comparisons in your head at once, Notebook LM lays it all out in neat rows and columns for you. It reads the qualitative stuff, the descriptions, the writeups, the explanations, and it pulls out the actual data points and organizes them.

You'll find it in the studio panel, same as the others. Click data table. And here's the part that makes it powerful. You can tell it exactly which columns you want. So, you're not stuck with whatever it decides to give you. You

define the structure and it fills in the rows from your sources. And it's genuinely accurate at this. It reads across your material and drops the right details into the right boxes, which saves you a huge amount of manual sorting. Here's a clear example of when this really shines. Say you upload a handful of documents, and each one describes a different tool, a different product, or a different study. On their

own, they're just separate walls of text, and comparing them means flipping back and forth and taking notes by hand. But run a data table across all of them, and it lines everything up side by side. You could ask for columns like name, main features, strengths, and weaknesses, and suddenly you've got a full comparison chart you can read at a glance. You could also use it to build a timeline table, pulling every key date and event out of a long document and stacking them in order, or to extract a specific set of facts scattered across a report into one tidy grid. And it's not only for comparing separate documents.

You can point it at one long, dense source and ask it to pull out a specific set of details into a clean grid. Say you've got a big report full of numbers buried inside paragraphs. You can have it lift every figure out and organize it by category. What would take you an hour of hunting and copying, it does in a moment. And it does it accurately. And

this is the one tool of the bunch that solves a problem the others have. The data table can be sent straight to Google Sheets. So unlike the flash cards and the quiz where you're stuck screenshotting, this is the one you can actually pull out of the notebook and keep working on. Once it's in sheets, you can sort it, filter it, add your own columns, or hand it off to someone else. That makes it really handy when the table isn't the end of your work, it's the start of it. My advice for the data

table comes down to two things. First, be specific about your columns. The clearer you are about what you want in each one, the cleaner and more useful the table comes out. Vague instructions give you a vague table. Second, like everything else in the studio, only select the sources that belong in that comparison. Leave the rest unchecked so

the table stays focused and doesn't get cluttered with details that don't belong. And since it exports so cleanly, get in the habit of pushing it to Sheets whenever you've got something you'll want to build on later. Now, quick pause because I know some of you are watching this thinking about your own brand or your own website. Here's something that can really help. We're running a free AI brand visibility session right now. It's

a one-on-one with a real strategist. They'll build you a custom visibility plan and show you exactly how your brand shows up or doesn't show up across Google, across AI overviews, and across the AI tools people actually ask. Now, like Chat, GPT, Perplexity, and Gemini itself, you'll get a competitor gap check, so you can see where others are beating you, and you get to ask your own questions live. It's 100% free, no strings, no obligation. If you want to actually get found in this new AI search world, this is where you start. The link

is down in the description. And if you want to go even deeper and really master tools like Gemini Notebook, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. This is our community where we get properly hands-on. Inside you'll find full walkthroughs on Gemini Notebook step by step so you're not just poking around guessing. We run live coaching calls where you can share your own screen and ask questions about your exact setup.

There are road maps that show you what to do first, second, and third, and you get ready to use prompts so you pull great outputs out of this tool way faster. It's honestly the quickest way to stop just watching and start actually doing. And I'll tell you exactly how to jump in at the very end. And the last one on our list is probably the most fun to look at. The infographic. The

infographic turns your sources into a single visual summary. One image that captures the main points, the key numbers, or the way different ideas connect, all in a format that's easy to take in at a glance. It's perfect when you want to understand something quickly yourself, and it's even better when you want to share it with other people. A good infographic can do in one picture what a whole page of text struggles to do. Now, this is the one tool where I really want you to slow down for a second before you click. In the studio

panel, you'll see the infographic option, but do not just hit generate. Click that pencil icon first to customize it. This matters more than anything else I'll say in this section. If you skip the customizing and let it run on its own, it picks random settings for you. And that's exactly where most of the disappointing results come from.

A minute of setup is the difference between something you're proud to share and something you delete. So, what can you actually set? Quite a lot. You can choose your output language. You can pick the level of detail, concise, standard, or detailed. You can set the

orientation, square, portrait, or landscape depending on where you plan to use it. There are visual styles you can pick from, or you can let it auto select to look for you. And then there's the most powerful control of all, the text box, where you describe in your own words exactly what you want the infographic to show and how you want it to feel. Let me give you some real examples of what you can type into that box, because this is where the magic happens. On the content side, you could say, create a timeline of the key events described in this source, or compare the pros and cons mentioned in the documents. Those instructions shape what

information ends up on the page. Then you can layer on the look. You could say, "Use a blue color theme and highlight the three key stats." Or push the style further with something like bento grid layout, clean design, professional colors, minimalist icons. You can even ask for very specific aesthetics, a soft, high-tech look, a handdrawn whiteboard style, a chalkboard feel, whatever fits your message. That

text box is where your infographic goes from looking like everybody else's default output to something that actually stands out and feels like yours. Here's something worth knowing before you even generate. The quality of your infographic depends heavily on how clear your source is. If your original document jumps around, skip steps, or mixes up causes and effects, the infographic will look confused, too, because it's only working with what you gave it. So, if you're getting messy results, don't blame the tool right away. Take a look at whether the source

itself is well organized. Clean input, clean output. That's true for every tool in the studio, but it shows up the most with visuals because you can literally see the confusion on the page. Once you've set it up and hit generate, it builds in the background. So, you can keep working on other things while it does its thing. You don't have to sit

and stare at a loading screen. It usually takes a couple of minutes. When it's ready, you can open it up in a bigger viewer, zoom in to check the details, download it as a PNG file, and share it. And if it's close but not quite right, you can iterate on it, tweak your prompt, and run it again until it lands. There's one important thing to understand about the output though. The infographic comes out as a

static PNG image. It's a generation tool, not an image editor. So, inside the notebook, you can't fix a small typo. You can't move a block around, and you can't drop in your own logo. If you need to make those kinds of edits, the move is to pull the PNG into a design tool like Canva and clean it up there. A

quick pro tip for that, if you know you're going to edit it later, ask for a plain white background in your prompt. Editing tools handle a clean white background way better than a busy textured one, so your cleanup goes a lot smoother. Here's my advice for the infographic. If you're planning to share it on social media, use the concise setting. It cuts down the text and gives you a cleaner, easier to read image that people can actually absorb while scrolling. The detailed setting packs in

a lot of text with tiny fonts, which gets rough to read on a phone. Next, only select the sources you actually want in the visual. If you leave irrelevant material checked, it confuses the design and dilutes the message. And finally, don't sleep on that text prompt. The default settings are fine, but the people getting great unique infographics are the ones writing a clear description of the style and focus they want. That's the whole game. Let me

tie it all together because they each do a different job. And once you know which is which, you'll always reach for the right one. Flashards and the quiz are your study pair. Flashcards push facts into your memory. And the quiz tests whether you can actually use them. The

data table is your organizer, turning messy text into a clean comparison you can export and build on. And the infographic is your sharer, wrapping the big ideas up in one visual you can send out into the world. And the best part, they're grounded in your own sources. So whatever you get back always ties straight back to your material, which means you can trust it. So, that is how you use Gemini Notebook from the very first click all the way to building your own outputs. Take a second to let that

actually sink in because you've just learned the whole thing. You feed it your sources on the left. You talk to them in the middle with the chat. And on the right in the studio panel, you turn all of it into something you can really use like an audio show, a mind map, a study guide, or a full report. Three panels, one simple flow. That's the

heart of it. And now you know it. And the best part is you don't need to be technical at all to make this work. If you can drop a file into a folder and type out a question, you already have every skill you need. There's no code to learn. There are no messy settings to

fight with. You just add your stuff and you start asking. And remember all those little extras we covered along the way because they really add up. You can turn sources on and off with those check boxes to keep your answers tight and focused. You can share a notebook with a teammate or even open it up to a whole group. You can listen to your notes like

a podcast on your phone while you're out walking the dog. And with that new cloud computer feature, it can even run real code to dig into your data. Put all of it together and you've basically got a research partner that never gets tired, never gets bored, and never loses track of your notes. Not bad at all for something that's free to open up and start using today. Now, let me answer the question I get asked more than almost any other. Who actually needs a

tool like this? And my honest answer is way more people than ever realize it. See, it's really easy to look at something called Gemini Notebook and just assume it's built for engineers or data nerds. It isn't. So, let me paint you a few pictures instead. Picture the

student who's got a whole semester of lecture notes, three fat textbooks, and a pile of PDFs with a big exam on Monday morning. They can drop all of it in and walk away with a study guide and a quiz by tonight. Picture the business owner who's drowning in reports, contracts, and neverending email threads and never has time to read any of it properly. They can ask plain, simple questions and get straight answers back in seconds. Picture the researcher going through 50 different studies trying to find the one finding that ties them all together.

Picture the writer or the creator sitting on years of their own old work, hunting for fresh ideas that are hiding in there somewhere. And it really doesn't stop with the busy professionals either. Think about the person learning a brand new subject completely from scratch who just wants things explained to them in plain simple words. Think about someone who speaks English as a second language and needs a dense, complicated document broken down gently and clearly. Think about a team leader who's trying to get 10 new hires up to speed without having to repeat themselves a hundred times a week. All

of these people have the exact same problem sitting underneath. Too much information and not enough time to deal with it. And that is precisely the problem this tool was built to solve. Here's the funny little truth I've noticed over time. The busier and the more overwhelmed you feel, the more a tool like this actually gives back to you. So, if any of those pictures looked

even a little bit like your life, then yes, this is absolutely for you. Okay? But before you rush off and start building, let me protect you from the mistakes because I've watched a lot of people trip over the same handful of things. And a few small slip-ups can stop you from ever reaching the really good stuff. So, let me save you a whole week of frustration right now. The first

mistake is cramming everything into one giant notebook. People throw a work project, a school subject, and some random hobby all into the same place, and then they wonder why the answers come out fuzzy and confused. The fix is dead simple. One notebook, one topic. Keep them separate and clean, and your answers get sharp again. The second

mistake is trusting every single answer without ever checking it. Now, this tool is grounded in your sources, which is fantastic, but you should still take a quick glance at those citations. They sit right next to every answer for a reason. One little click shows you exactly where that answer came from. Make that a habit and you'll always stay accurate and confident in whatever you share with others. The third mistake is

treating it like a normal chatbot and asking it about things you never actually gave it. Remember, this isn't a search engine for the whole entire internet. It only knows what's inside your notebook. And I know that sounds like a limit, but honestly, that limit is its single greatest strength. It's the whole reason it doesn't just make things up the way other tools sometimes do. The fourth mistake is being scared

to change your sources once they're in. People add a couple of files, get an okay result, and then they just stop. But you can always go back, remove the weak sources, add some better ones, and then generate your outputs all over again. This thing is built for you to tinker with it and shape it. The more care you put into picking your sources, the better everything you build on top of them turns out. And the fifth

mistake, the one that quietly costs people the very most, is never once touching the studio panel. So many folks only ever use the chat and then stop right there. That's a bit like buying a whole toolbox and only ever using the hammer. The real magic is turning your sources into audio, into a visual mind map, into flashcards and study guides. If you skip all of that, you're missing the best half of the entire tool. So,

please go and explore it properly. Now, all of this leads me to something I really believe deep down and I want to take a moment to share it with you. When you use AI the right way, it is not here to replace you. It's here to make your work easier. And I say that because I know a lot of people feel a little nervous about AI, like it's somehow coming for their job or their creativity. But that is not what a tool

like this does at all. So let me explain exactly what I mean. Just think about your typical day for a second. How much of it gets eaten up by slow, boring, repetitive stuff. Reading long pages just to find one little fact, sorting through folders full of files, writing the same kind of summary over and over again, copying notes from one place to another. None of that is the real work.

That's the busy work that piles up in front of the real work. And that busy work is exactly what a tool like Gemini Notebook can swallow up in a matter of seconds. So when it takes all of that off your plate, take a good look at what's left behind. The interesting parts, the creative choices, the big decisions, the genuinely good ideas that only a human like you can have. That's the part you actually care about. And

now you finally get to spend your energy right there instead. A job that used to eat your entire morning can now be done before your coffee even gets a chance to go cold. And here's the thing so many people forget that save time doesn't just vanish into thin air. It flows right back into your day. You can use it to create more, to learn more, to rest more, or to finally get to those projects you keep pushing off week after week. That to me is what using AI the

right way truly looks like. It's not about doing less that matters. It's about doing more of what matters with a whole lot less strain and stress on you. You stay completely in charge. The tool just quietly carries the heavy bags for you. And honestly, once you feel that

shift happen, working the old slow way starts to feel a little bit silly. So, let me send you off with this one last thought, and I really do mean it. The pace of AI right now is honestly a little wild. It feels like every single day there's a fresh update, a new button, another feature that simply wasn't there the day before. And Gemini Notebook is right there in the thick of all of it. Quietly getting better month

after month after month. New source types, new kinds of outputs, that new code feature rolling out to more and more people. It never sits still for a second. And I know that can feel genuinely overwhelming. It's so easy to look at the sheer speed of it all and think that you'll never possibly keep up. But here is what I really want you

to hear me say. You do not have to keep up with everything. That was never the game. The people who actually get ahead with AI are not the ones who somehow know the most or the ones who chase down every shiny new thing the second it drops. They're the ones who pick one single tool and actually use it for real in their day-to-day life. That's it.

That is the whole secret right there. So, let this be your one. Let Gemini Notebook be the tool you actually start with today. Please don't let this be just another video that you watched, nodded along to, and then closed and completely forgot about by tomorrow morning. that helps absolutely no one.

Instead, do this right now while it's all still fresh in your head. Open up a new tab. Head straight to notebook.google.com.

Sign in with any Google account you've got and build your very first notebook today. Don't overthink a single part of it. Just grab two or three sources you genuinely care about. A couple of PDFs, a website, maybe a YouTube video. Drop them all in and start asking questions and clicking around that studio panel.

Give it 10 honest minutes of your time. That is truly all it takes to feel exactly why so many people are completely hooked on this thing because the best time to start with a tool like this was probably yesterday. But the second best time, the one that actually counts is right now, today. So go and take that first step. Try Gemini Notebook while everything you just learned is still fresh in your mind. And

then watch how quickly it turns into a tool you genuinely cannot picture working without. Trust me on this one. Once you feel it click into place, there is really no going back. Thank you so much for watching this all the way through. I really do appreciate you being here and I will see you in the very next one. Now, if you want real

help using this in your own brand, I've got something for you and it's completely free. I run free AI brand visibility sessions. On that call, you get a custom visibility plan built just for your site. We look at how you actually show up or don't show up across Google AI overviews, chat, GPT, Perplexity, and Gemini because being invisible on those is the quiet thing holding a lot of people back. You also get a competitor gap analysis so you can see exactly where others are getting picked and you're not. And you get to

ask a real strategist your own questions and get straight, honest answers. It's 100% free and there's zero obligation. To grab your spot, head to go.jangoldie.com/ juliangoldi.com/st

strategy session. That's your next step. And it's the fastest way to get a plan made for you. And once you start playing with these studio tools, you're going to run into little questions. Which format should I use here? Why did my deck come

out like that? How do I make this whole thing faster? That's exactly what my community, the AI profit boardroom is for. Inside, you get full walkthroughs of the exact tools I showed you today. We run live coaching calls where you can share your screen and ask me about your own setup in real time. There are road

maps that tell you what to do first, second, and third, so you're never staring at a blank screen. And there's a whole stack of prompts and tutorials ready to go, so you're never starting from zero. We're over 4,000 members strong now, all learning this stuff together and helping each other move faster. If that sounds like what you need, come join us at ariprofrofitboardroom.com.