---
video_title: "GPT-6 Astra Just Changed AI Forever"
video_id: s-dG_A73jkM
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s-dG_A73jkM
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  00:00 Intro – Why Astra changes everything
  00:41 The GPT-5 Era – And why we stopped paying attention
  00:58 Astra Is Here – OpenAI declares the "AGI era"
  01:24 Computer Use – It clicks, types & works for you
  03:00 Real Work – Docs, decks & the best coding model yet
  03:39 Safety First – First model at "critical" cyber level
  04:35 The Benchmarks – 98% math, 99.9% reasoning
  05:03 Live Demos – Circuit boards, 3D worlds & games
  05:33 Who Needs This – Save hours on busywork
  05:54 Why It Matters – AI that *does*, not just talks
  06:18 3 Pro Tips – Start small, be clear, use effort levels
---
GPT-6 Astra just changed AI forever. Ever feel like AI took a giant leap while you blinked? Well, it just happened again. OpenAI dropped a brand new model, and this is not a small update. It can run a whole computer all by itself faster than you can click, and that changes how we work. Stick with me

because this one is really different. Hey, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie. My whole job is simple. I help you learn AI tools and actually use them in your real work. No hype, no fluff, just the stuff that saves you time. And

in this video, I'll show you the wild demos OpenAI just released, the one benchmark score that made people stop and stare, and three pro tips to get the most out of this new model. One of those tips, most people will completely miss it. So, don't skip out early. Let's back up for a second. For the last year or so, we all got used to GPT-5. It was

smart. It could write code and answer almost anything. And honestly, most of us thought that was the peak. Like, how much better can it really get? We hit a point where each new update felt small, a little faster here, a little smarter there, nothing that made you sit up in your chair. So, a lot of people stopped

paying close attention. Big mistake. Because on September 3rd, 2026, OpenAI released GPT-6 Astra. And they're calling it the world's most intelligent and aligned model. That's a bold claim, but here's the part that got my attention. OpenAI's own president, Greg

Brockman, told reporters, "Welcome to the AGI era." That's not talk from some random account. That's the company itself saying we just crossed into a new chapter. And when you look at what Astra can actually do, you start to understand why they're this confident. So, what makes Astra so different? The headline

feature is something called computer use in plain words. Astra can use a computer the same way you do. It can open apps, click buttons, fill out forms, move between web pages. It can update records in your customer system, sort your calendar, dig through the web, and drop a clean summary right into your email or your doc. Think about that. You're not

just asking it questions anymore. You're handing it the keyboard and the mouse. Now, before I go deeper, let me quickly help you take this to the next level in your own work. If you're using AI to speed up your content, your research, or how you show up online, there's a free thing I want you to grab. It's a free SEO strategy session. We call it your AI

brand visibility session. Here's what happens. A real strategist looks at how your brand shows up today across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. Then you get a custom visibility plan, a competitor gap analysis, so you can see where others are beating you, and straight answers to your questions. It's 100% free, no pressure, no catch, because a model like Astra can create content and research faster than ever.

But that only helps if people and AI search tools actually find you. So book that free strategy session and let's map it out together. And if you want to go even deeper, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. This is our community where we break down every big drop like this one. When a model like GPT-6 Astra lands, we make walkthroughs showing you exactly how to use computer use in your day. We host live coaching calls where

you can ask about your own setup and get real answers. You get roadmaps, ready-to-use prompts, and step-by-step tutorials built around the newest tools. So instead of watching from the sidelines, you're one of the first to put it to work. Everything you need is inside. Okay, back to Astra. Let's talk

about what it's really good at, because computer use is just the start. Astra is built for real professional work. It can build documents, spreadsheets, and slide decks that actually follow your template and your style. That's huge. Most AI tools give you a messy draft you have to fix. Astra tries to match how your

business already does things. It only pulls in the details that matter instead of padding everything with filler. On top of that, it's OpenAI's best model for coding so far. And with the coding tool Codex, it can keep notes across long sessions, so it doesn't forget why something broke three steps ago. Now, here's the part you really need to understand, and it's the biggest reason this launch is a big deal. It's called

the path to Astra. OpenAI has this thing called the preparedness framework. It's basically their safety rulebook, and Astra is the very first model they've ever labeled as hitting the critical level for cybersecurity. What does that mean in plain terms? With the right tools and access, this model can find hidden security flaws in strong, well-protected systems and figure out how to break in without a person guiding each step. That's powerful and a little

scary. So, OpenAI didn't just hand that power to everyone. They locked the most advanced cyber features behind a small testing group. The version most people get can help defenders review and patch their code, but it will refuse the more dangerous offensive stuff. They also added monitoring, which watches the model's actions and can stop it if it goes off track. And here's an honest bit I

respect. OpenAI admitted that Astra's reasoning is harder to watch than the older model when it's pushed to hide its thinking. They flagged it themselves. That kind of honesty matters when the tech is this strong. Now, let's talk numbers because the benchmarks are wild.

On a superhard math test called Frontier Math Tier 4, Astra scored around 98% on a tough reasoning test called ARC-AGI-3, it hit 99.9%, basically human level. On a computer use test setup, it finished tasks in almost half the time compared to the last model. And it even helped push forward real math problems that experts have been stuck on for years. These aren't small wins. This is the model pulling

ahead across the board. Want to see it in action? OpenAI shared some demos and they're worth your time. In one, Astra designs a real circuit board layout inside engineering software, turning a plain schematic into something you could actually build. In another, it models a house in Blender, then turns it into a walkable 3D scene in Unreal Engine so you can walk through a space before it's built. It builds full slide decks from a

template. It fills in complex forms. It even creates playable games from a simple prompt. You can find all of these on OpenAI's Astra page. Go watch them.

It really clicks when you see it move on its own. So, who actually needs this? Honestly, more people than you think. If you spend hours on boring computer tasks like data entry, form filling, or research, this is for you. If you're a developer, it's the strongest coding partner OpenAI has made. If you run a

business, it can handle multi-step work and hand you polished results. And if you're a creator like me, it speeds up the messy middle work so you can focus on your ideas. Why does this matter so much? Because the jump from AI that talks to AI that does is the real shift. For years, AI could tell you how to do something. Now it can just go do it.

That saves time. It removes busy work. And it means the people who learn to guide these tools well are going to move way faster than everyone else. This isn't about replacing you. It's about you getting a tireless helper that handles the parts you hate. All right,

let me give you three quick pro tips to get the most out of Astra. Tip one, start small. Don't hand it your biggest, scariest task on day one. Give it one boring job first, like sorting a spreadsheet or filling out a form. Watch how it works. Build a little trust

before you go big. Tip two, be clear with your instructions. Astra is good at filling in gaps, but it's even better when you tell it exactly what you want. Give it your template. Give it your style. The clearer you are, the more

usable the result you get back. Tip three, and this is the one most people miss. Use the different effort levels. Astra lets you pick how hard it thinks from low all the way up to max. For quick jobs, keep it low and fast. For

deep, tricky work, crank it all the way up. Matching the effort to the task saves you time and gives you sharper results. Most folks never touch this setting. Now you will. Before you go, let me point you to your next two steps.

First, if you want expert eyes on your own brand, book your free SEO strategy session. Astra makes it easier than ever to pump out content, but content only works if you actually show up in search and inside AI tools. In your free strategy session, a strategist maps out exactly how to get your brand seen across Google, AI overviews, chat GPT, Perplexity, and Gemini with a custom plan and competitor insights made just for you. It's free with no obligation. That's the fastest way to turn what you learn today into real results for your brand. And second, come join us inside

the AI Profit Boardroom. When you you testing Astra, you're going to hit questions. What should I automate first? How do I write better instructions? How do I keep it safe? That's exactly what

we help with. You get live coaching calls, hands-on tutorials, clear road maps, and ready-to-use prompts, all built around the newest tools like this one. You'll be learning right beside over 4,000 members who are doing the same thing. Come get the support and move faster. Join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.