---
video_title: "NEW Celeris 1 Magnus is Crazy Good"
video_id: Lmc_wrLHqms
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lmc_wrLHqms
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Celeris 1 Magnus: The New Speed King for AI Agents
  
  Celeris 1 Magnus is a game-changer for business automation, outperforming leading models in speed and multi-step task completion. This video breaks down its unique diffusion architecture and shows you exactly how to use it for lead qualification and content creation.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Magnus vs GPT Benchmarks
  00:40 - Why Magnus is Built for Agents
  01:46 - Diffusion Architecture Explained
  03:04 - The Configurable Reasoning Dial
  04:51 - Lead Qualification Workflow
  05:50 - Content Pipeline Workflow
  07:55 - Final Verdict & Summary
---
New Celeryus 1 Magnus is crazy good and in this video I'm going to show you exactly why this matters if you're trying to grow a business with AI. Two numbers, 41.2% and 55 seconds. Celeryus just published benchmark results for their new model Celeryus 1 Magnus. On the towel cubed bench banking test, 97 real banking tasks, Magnus hit a 41.2% solve rate

with a 55 second median task time. GPT-5.6-solve hit 38.1% and took 79 seconds per task. One benchmark doesn't tell you everything, but the speed gap is the part worth paying attention to and I'll show you exactly why in a second. Most

people think about AI like this. Ask a question, get an answer, done. Magnus is built for something completely different. It's built for agents, for workflows, for tasks that have multiple steps, multiple tools and need the AI to keep going until the job is actually done. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst

he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Here's what that actually looks like. The AI gets a goal. It reasons about what to do. It calls a

tool. It looks at what came back. It reasons again, calls another tool, reasons again, takes an action. Every single step involves the model thinking and if the model is slow at each step, the whole workflow drags. Celeryus' own documentation makes this exact point.

Latency compounds across agent steps. So, when Magnus completes the same workflow in 55 seconds versus 79, that's not just a number. That's the difference between automation that feels like a real system and automation you're constantly waiting on. Now, let's talk about what actually makes Magnus different under the hood because there are a few things here that are genuinely interesting. First, the architecture. Most AI models

generate text one token at a time, like typing one character then the next, then the next in a strict sequence. Magnus uses a diffusion-based approach. It starts with a rough version of the output and refines it in parallel passes rather than one token at a time. More like sculpting a rough shape and sharpening it than typing from left to right. Celeris has published research on this approach and it's part of what lets Magnus move fast through complex multi-step reasoning without losing quality on the way. Second, the context

window. Magnus supports 131,000 72 tokens of context. That's a massive amount of information it can hold at once. In a multi-step business workflow, that matters. It means the agent can keep the full picture in mind, the original goal, every tool result, every intermediate decision without losing track of where it is in the process.

That's what lets it complete long workflows reliably instead of drifting halfway through. Third, the output capacity. Magnus supports up to 16,384 tokens of output. So, if you're asking it to generate a full content pipeline, a detailed lead report, a multi-section email sequence, or a structured onboarding plan, it has room to actually produce the whole thing in one pass. Fourth, the reasoning dial. You can

control how hard Magnus thinks on any given task. There are configurable reasoning levels, low, medium, and up to extra high. Turn thinking all the way up and Celeris says it adds around 13 benchmark points for roughly 6 extra seconds of reasoning time. The point is you don't need maximum reasoning on everything. A simple task gets lower effort. A high-stakes decision gets deep

thinking. You match the depth to what the task actually needs. If you're a business owner trying to use AI to get more leads, save time, and grow, the AI Profit Boardroom is where you need to be. Right now, we have business owners building agentic workflows, exactly the kind of stuff I'm about to walk you through. Every week, there are four live coaching calls where you can bring your actual setup, share your screen, and get real feedback on what you're building.

There are daily tutorials showing you step-by-step how to implement AI automation in your business, not theory, actual builds. There's a 30-day roadmap, so you're not guessing what to do next with tools like Magnus. You've got a clear sequence to follow. A prompt library built around real business workflows, and a member map so you can find and connect with people near you doing the same thing. If you want to actually implement agentic AI in your business, not just watch videos about it, link is in the description or go to AI Profit Boardroom.com. Also, if you

want more people finding your business through Google and AI search, we offer a free SEO strategy session where we build you a custom plan to rank your website and bring in more leads from search. One-on-one, tailored to your specific business, completely free. Go to goldie.agency or click the link in the comments and description to book your session. Now, let me show you exactly how Magnus works in practice. And I'm

using the AI Profit Boardroom as the example throughout because it's a real business with real workflows, and this stuff a- plies directly. Workflow one, lead qualification agent. This is for automatically qualifying and responding to new leads who express interest in joining the AI Profit Boardroom. So, no lead goes cold and no one has to manually process each one. The prompt you'd give Magnus looks like this. You are a lead qualification agent

for the AI Profit Boardroom. A new lead just submitted this form. Lead details. Check the CRM for any previous interactions with this contact. Based on their message, business type, and intent signals, classify them as high, medium, or low priority. Write a personalized

reply that addresses their specific situation and explains which part of the AI Profit Boardroom, coaching calls, tutorials, roadmaps, or community would help them most. Update the CRM with lead status and log your reasoning. The result, Magnus reads the lead, pulls CRM history, writes a personalized reply built around that specific person's problem, classifies their intent level, updates the record, and queues the next follow-up. Nobody touches it manually. Every lead gets a relevant, thoughtful response within seconds. Workflow two,

coaching call content pipeline. This is for turning each AI Profit Boardroom coaching call into a full week of content. So, one conversation becomes posts, emails, and video ideas without anyone spending hours doing it manually. The prompt, you are a content agent for the AI Profit Boardroom. Here is the transcript from this week's coaching call. Transcript, identify the top five

questions members asked. Find the three most common problems discussed. Generate five YouTube video ideas based on real member pain points. Write one LinkedIn post based on the most interesting insight from the call. Write a follow-up email to members who missed the call summarizing what was covered and linking to the recording. Log all outputs into

the content database. The result, one transcript goes in, YouTube ideas, a LinkedIn post, a member email, and a populated content database come out. The content is built on real conversations, so it connects with the exact people the AI Profit Boardroom is trying to reach. Also, if you want more people finding your business through Google and AI search, we offer a free SEO strategy session where we build you a custom plan to rank your website and bring in more leads from search. One-on-one, tailored to your specific business, completely free. Go to goldy.agency or click the

link in the comments and description to book your session. And if you're ready to build agentic AI into your business, not just understand it, but actually implement it, the AI Profit Boardroom is where to do that. Right now, we have members building lead qualification agents, content pipeline automations, onboarding sequences, and member support workflows using exactly the kind of models we covered today. Four live coaching calls every week where you can bring your Magnus set up and get real feedback. Daily tutorials showing you how to build these workflows step-by-step in your actual business. A

30-day roadmap, so you know exactly what to implement and in what order. A prompt library full of agent prompts built around real business use cases. And a member map so you can connect with people near you doing the same thing. There's always someone online. Link in the description or go to ai-profit-boardroom.com.

Celeris 1 Magnus, 41.2% solve rate, 55 second median task time, built for agents that finish. Now, you know what it does, how it works, and exactly how to use it. Go build something with it.