---
video_title: "NEW Google Update Changes AI Search! 🤯"
video_id: Fu-U_nGr8fA
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fu-U_nGr8fA
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  New Google Update: How to Rank in AI Search with 1 Click
  
  Google just released the Preferred Sources button, allowing users to manually trust your site for AI Overviews. Learn how to install this one line of code to double your click-through rates and dominate the future of AI search.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The New Google AI Update
  00:12 - What Are Preferred Sources?
  01:15 - How This Changes SEO Forever
  02:34 - Growing Your Audience With AI
  03:56 - How to Install the Button
  05:03 - Big Changes to Google Discover
  06:26 - Customizable AI Audio Briefings
---
New Google update changes AI search. Google just released a button that any website can add. One click from a reader and your site starts showing up inside their Google AI answers. Not sometimes, every time they search your topic going forward. This dropped August 20th. It's

called preferred sources. And if you haven't added it to your site yet, you're already behind. Here's what it actually does. A reader lands on your page. They click the button. Google

registers your site as their preferred source. From that moment on, when that person uses AI overviews or AI mode, your site gets a visible badge inside their results. They get sent back to your content over and over. Before this button existed, readers had to dig through their Google settings to manually mark a site. Almost nobody did it. In May, around 345,000

sources had been selected across the entire web. Since the button launched and removed that friction, it's jumped to over 600,000. That's nearly double in days. Google's own data says people are twice as likely to click through to a site they've marked as preferred. So, the button doesn't just get you visibility, it gets you clicks from people who already want to hear from you. Hey, if

we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Now, think about what that actually means for SEO. For 2 years, AI overviews have been answering questions right on the results page. Sites lost clicks. The algorithm decided

who got cited. You had no say. This button is the first time that's changed. Your readers can now tell Google directly which sites they trust and Google listens. Nick Fox, who runs this area at Google, put it plainly. He said,

"News is personal. Every person has a different set of sources they trust. Preferred sources lets you set yours." That's Google saying, "Reader trust now shapes what shows up." And the badge matters. When your site shows up inside

a preferred reader's AI answer, it shows your name marked as trusted right inside the AI response. Everyone worried AI search would erase brands. This does the opposite. It puts your brand in front of your reader every time they search a topic you cover. Now, here's the part that compounds. Let's say a small slice

of your readers click the button this month. Every one of those readers now sees you inside AI overviews going forward. Next month, another slice clicks. It stacks. Six months from now, you've got a growing pool of people using AI search who see your site with a trust badge every time they search your topic. A core update can't touch that.

The reader chose you. Google's just honoring it. And right now, 600,000 selected sources sounds like a lot. Spread across the entire web, your niche is probably wide open. If you want to get ahead of this and actually put preferred sources to work, the Agent OS inside the AI Profit Boardroom has the full system ready to install. It's a

complete zip file built specifically around Google's preferred sources update, so you can deploy it fast, set up the workflows that grow your site's visibility in AI search, and start collecting preferred readers before everyone else catches up. We've mapped out exactly which pages should carry the button first, how to structure your content so readers actually want to click it, and how to get your site appearing inside AI overviews even for people who haven't preferred you yet. You can grab the full Agent OS zip file inside the AI Profit Boardroom right now. Link in the description. And if you want a custom plan built specifically for your site, book a free SEO strategy session with our team.

We'll map out exactly where your site stands inside Google's AI overviews right now, show you which of your pages are closest to getting cited in AI answers, tell you where the preferred sources button should sit for maximum clicks, and give you a step-by-step content plan so readers who land on your site actually want to press that button. It's a one-to-one session, completely free, and you'll walk away with a real actionable plan for getting more traffic from Google and AI search. Link in the comments and description, or go to go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session.

Now, here's how the button actually works on your site. Google published the code in its Search Central documentation. It's one line, you paste it in once, the button appears on your pages. A reader clicks it, Google adds your site as their preferred source, and sends them straight back to where they were. No settings menu, no friction, one click. There's also a deep link format

if you can't use JavaScript on your site. You insert your website URL into the link, point any button or link at it, Google's own page handles the rest with your site pre-filled. It works at the domain or subdomain level. So, the whole site gets preferred, not just one section. Where you place it matters.

Google recommends putting it next to your other calls to action. Right after someone has read something that genuinely helped them, that's the moment they'll click. The speaker behind this transcript has it at the bottom of every page. The readers who scroll all the way to the bottom and actually found the content useful are the ones most likely to hit it. If you want more clicks on it, put it at the top, too, or use it as an exit intent trigger. Marie Haynes,

one of the most respected people in SEO, flagged this within hours of launch. She said it directly impacts your visibility in AI overviews and AI mode. That's not a small thing. AI mode passed 1 billion monthly active users in May. Now, the second thing Google announced the same day is quieter than the button, but it tells you more about where search is heading. Google is changing how the

Discover feed works. Discover is the article feed inside the Google app that millions of people scroll every day. Until now, you could tune it with blunt tools, tap not interested, and hope Google figured out why. Starting now, you can tap the three-dot menu on any item and tell Google what you want in plain words. Kitchen renovation ideas, but eco-friendly only. Weekend road trip

videos, no camping. You type it like a text message. The feed adjusts, and it remembers. Roger Patel at Google called this his personal favorite of the whole release. Why does that matter for site owners? Because Discover traffic has

always been hard to predict. A post would take off for no clear reason and then vanish. Sites built whole strategies around curiosity headlines to game the feed. Now readers can type what they actually want. Anything misleading gets filtered out person by person.

Content people genuinely ask for gets pulled in. Put that next to the preferred sources button and the pattern is obvious. Google is moving away from the algorithm deciding everything toward the user telling Google what they trust and Google waiting that. The sites that win are the ones whose readers would actively choose them. Reader loyalty is now a literal ranking input, not a metaphor, a mechanical input inside Google system. The third thing from the

same announcement is audio. Google News audio briefings on Android are now customizable. You pick the topics. Each story comes with clear source attribution and links out to full articles. Google handed every website owner a direct line into AI overviews and AI mode powered by reader trust. The

button code is live in Google's documentation right now. The deep link works today. The readers who would click it are already on your site. Get the full Agent OS inside the AI profit boardroom and grab the complete zip file ready to install. It's built around exactly what Google just released, preferred sources, AI overviews visibility, and the content workflows that make readers want to click that button on your pages. We've included a

step-by-step setup guide, the full preferred sources workflow, and everything you need to start showing up inside AI answers for the readers who already trust you. This is a system we're running across our own sites right now and rolling out with our clients. Full install file ready to go the moment you're inside. Link in the description or head to the AI profit boardroom now. And to get a personal plan built around your site specifically, book a free SEO strategy session with our team. We'll

look at your site together, show you exactly where you stand in Google and AI search right now, map out where the preferred sources button should sit across your pages, identify which content is closest to getting in AI overviews and give you a clear publishing plan so your readers actually want to press that button when they land on your site. One-to-one, completely free. You'll leave knowing exactly what to do next to get more traffic from Google and AI search. Link in the comments and description or go straight to go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session.