---
video_title: "Hermes Agent OS FREE Course (3 HOURS)"
video_id: qMvkdMzuYjs
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qMvkdMzuYjs
video_date: 20260814
video_description: |
  Get the Hermes Agent OS 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  ---
  
  This is the FULL Hermes Agent OS course.
  
  You'll learn how to build ANYTHING with Hermes Agent inside one operating system.
  
  One dashboard. Every agent. Shared memory.
  
  Inside this course:
  ✅ Hermes Oracle – pulls the latest trending news and publishes SEO content in one click
  ✅ Hermes Jarvis – a real-time voice agent that controls your computer
  ✅ The Lead Machine – find, verify and enrich leads automatically
  ✅ The Outreach Engine – fully automated cold email with Hermes Agent
  ✅ The Learn Anything Engine – teach Hermes Agent new skills with one command
  ✅ Computer Use – Hermes Agent clicks and types in the background (Mac, Windows, Linux)
  ✅ Memory Galaxy – an Obsidian memory layer that makes every agent smarter
  ✅ Mission Control – orchestrate Claude, OpenClaw and Hermes Agent as one team
  ✅ AI SEO System – rank on Google, AI Mode, ChatGPT and Perplexity from one prompt
  
  ⏱️ TIMESTAMPS
  0:00 – Hermes Agent OS Overview (Oracle, Jarvis, Goal Mode, Memory Galaxy)
  12:38 – The Hermes Lead Machine (1-Click Lead Generation)
  22:09 – Hermes Email Agent + Outreach Engine
  33:03 – Hermes Agent Pets (Sidekick Update)
  40:08 – Agent OS Q&A + Community Builds
  59:33 – Hermes Oracle Full Tutorial (Never Fall Behind on News)
  1:12:40 – The Learn Anything Engine (/learn Command)
  1:24:23 – Computer Use on Windows, Linux + Mac
  1:35:04 – Hermes Jarvis Voice Agent Demo
  1:45:32 – Mission Control Deep Dive
  1:55:20 – Why You Need an Agent OS
  2:06:12 – Hermes Desktop vs Agent OS
  2:16:39 – AI SEO System (Rank #1 Multiple Times)
  2:24:52 – Build a Full AI Team + Deploy to VPS
  2:36:15 – Live Agent Build From Scratch
  2:44:56 – Agent OS Q&A (Memory, Obsidian, OAuth + More)
---
Today I'm going to show you our Asian operating system, what I've built into it lately and exactly how powerful this is just to inspire you and to show you what's possible when you actually really build a great system around Hermes agent. Now Hermes agent is probably, you know, the most powerful AI agent in the world, but only if you use it properly. So for example, we take a look at the Hermes Oracle here. What this can do is it's got this animation here. We can click on any of these news headlines that it's got. And then what it can

actually do from here is it's pulling in the latest news. You can see this was just consulted an hour ago. We just consulted the Hermes Oracle an hour ago. And then from here we can pull in the latest most trending news. So if we open this up for example, this is a trending news post. And from there we can either

draft a social media post using this oneclick button or we can actually publish to WordPress. And this is something where we can publish to three different websites. SEO optimized content. Uh actually gives us the links of what we've created. And you can see that the social media post has been created here as well. Right? And that's

done um for all of this section. Now this is just one tiny little fragment of the Hermes agent OS system. Basically what an agent OS is is an agent operating system. So it's a place where you can have all of your agents. you know, whether you use, for example, Claude Seite, whether you use anti-gravity, even if you just use one of these things. And then from there,

what you can do is you can, for example, categorize all of the news as well based on what's trending, and you can see the date, how many posts it got, who it came from, what the topic is. So, we actually published a guide on this this morning, just in like one single click, and it's all fully customized to us, all completely unique. And we can draft the social media content and publish it to WordPress in like one click. So, the speed really wins here. And if we need to refresh the topics, well, because it's running on a scheduled crown job with Hermes agent, it will refresh daily. But if we need to get new news

in, like even newer, we can just click on consult the Oracle and it will refresh the page for us, which is pretty amazing in itself. So you can see how powerful this is. Now that's just one tiny little fragment of this. What we also have over here is Hermes Jarvis. This is a voice activated version of Hermes that we can talk to and we can take get it to do real things. So you

can see here that we've got the full conversation. We can actually do a daily briefing on it as well. And it can also, for example, show us and build stuff in real time. So this these are all builds that we've created with Hermes uh via the voice activated engine. And we can plug this on wall mode as well. So it

sits on a a monitor and we can have a wake word or we can have it in real time where we just get it to do things in real time. So if we open this up, we say, "Okay, real time. Open up Google. Open up Google." And you can see it just opens up right there. Right. Uh we can

also turn that off or on. We can switch it off or toggle it back on as well. We could also say, "Okay, open up julianoldie.com." And it just opens the website for us.

And this is working in real time. Now we can switch it on and off. We can also get daily briefings. We can change the voice as well from the drop down. And so we've got Hermes Oracle, we got Hermes Jarave. Now what we also have and these

are new features I've just added this morning is this outreach agent. And this is pretty powerful because what we can do from here is we can turn Hermes into an outreach tool. Now imagine for example if you were using inside the terminal Hermes agent like this, you just couldn't use it in the same way. You couldn't segment all the cool stuff that it can do. Whereas if we go to this section here, we have basically a full outreach tool created with Hermes agent. So it can

send emails and it can find leads for us. Plus, it has a dashboard that breaks down everything that we've done. So for example, it's like, okay, here's a number of leads, here's how many have validated, here's how many people replied, here's who you recently contacted, recent activity. And if you go to the lead section here, for example, if I type in like I need a list of SEO agencies, it will find the relevant domain, the relevant email address, the status, so whether it's enriched as a lead or where it's not verified. And then also the notes on that topic, right? So for example, the

notes about that company. Now, if we don't want to contact them, we can delete that. And also what it does is it hides the big companies. So, anything that's, you know, any company that's just too big to contact, it doesn't make sense to reach out to them. I can just delete off the list. And then we've got

a list of uh companies that we can reach out to here. We can click on validate email addresses and then we can start sending emails to them. Now, we can also, for example, add our API keys inside the settings section here. And we can set set a cap in terms of how many emails we send. We can add our H hunter API key and our firecrawl API key as well to find the details on the leads and um enrich them. Then we have our

inbox as well. We have our scent items. We have the campaigns currently running. And we can also edit these as well or cancel them. And depending on the topic, it will actually come up with some ideas on how to do the outreach itself. So it

will give us the first email and then the follow-up email as well. And we can preview it here. So it's pretty insane. Like you can do all this stuff with Hermes agent. Just 99% of people don't even realize it. We

also have goal mode set up over here. So, what this means is basically you can give Hermes a goal and it will loop round and the judge will quality control the work for like 20 turns and if it's not fully completed or if the work is not up to par then it will just keep looping around in the background autonomously as an agent until the job is completed. And then the difference here between doing that inside like terminal and doing that inside here is that with this workspace we can actually see our history and what we've done previously, right? It's all saved in which brings me to my next point. We have a memory galaxy plugged in here too. So every time we're using

for example like Hermes Jarvis is automatically logged into our memory galaxy so that our our AI agents automatically update the system and then we get the memory galaxy even richer, even more powerful, even more useful. Okay. And so the brightest stars are the memories that we worked on the most recently. And then we can also for example see that everything is interlin. So we can see for example my decisions log. We can see our funnel strategy. We

can see our notes about Claude. Everything is plugged into one organized system which not just plugs into Hermes but also goes to Claude and all of our other AI agents inside the system too. Now additionally we have a camb board here where we can orchestrate multiple different profiles of Hermes. So if we switch to our content studio, we can give this a task. And you can see here that it's created a fully edited video and a blog post on the done section. And basically what we

do is we can give it a task here. It gets triaged as a task. Then that moves to the to-do ready running or blocked. And our agents can work together as multiple different profiles. So for example, you could have like one Hermes profile, this SEO writer, one that's a quality controller, one that does research, and they all work as a team to create the outputs. And then you can

actually preview them over here, which is pretty insane. We can also link Hermes agent to Notebook LM. And so what this does essentially, as you can see right here, is that it uses an MCP and it links Notebook LM to our assets here. Right? So these are all different things that we've created. like for example

infographics or PDF reports, research reports, videos, podcasts, etc. All gets pulled into our asset session inside notebook. So we can easily connect with notebookm. We can organize it. We can get it to do stuff etc. And then finally

we have like a video agent. This can easily like in one single prompt research, edit and create videos in like one single click with uh avatar. We have for example the loop engine where we can have two different Hermes agents working together and looping around until the job is done. We have the SEO engine where we can basically research from our Google search console, find relevant keywords and then from there based on the keyword of research we get we can use that topic. We can plug in a keyword, plug in a relevant case study for information gain and just quickly publish that content to our website like you can see right here, right? And so

the main point here is like anything that you think you can automate with Hermes, you can. But you just want to make sure that you actually have a system where you can come back to it because if you set up a workflow with Hermes agent, very hard to come back to it inside the terminal, very hard to come back to inside uh the desktop even. But if you have it segmented inside these sort of sections here, everything is customuilt and ready to use whenever you need it. You can even link MCPS in one single click as you can see over here. So, we've got the MCP section. We

can add a custom one or we can pull in an existing approved one from Hermes agent. We have the workspace with everything we've created with every single tool as well over here. So, we can preview stuff that we've built and easily come back and test it, which is pretty cool. Yeah, we have the studio with images, videos, and voice. Um, one final thing I would say is that we have paperclip, right? So, paperclipip is

another way of orchestrating your agents. So we can have a team of Hermes agents working together in an organization. So you can see the org structure here. They can get stuff done like 24/7. We can preview everything that built with them. We can create

multiple different companies like that and they can all run on local models or free APIs and then just build and ship things for you. Final thing that I would say is like if you have an idea, you can drop an idea into the idea system here. And I know this because like so many people want to build stuff but they just don't have the time to sit down. So this takes you from idea to implementation like two clicks. So for example, you can drop an idea over here. You shape it,

you approve or decline it, and then it gets shipped and filled as you can see, right? So if you want my system, it's all inside the air profit volume. I just want to show you what's possible with this stuff and how powerful it is. I mean, building out a full SAS tool that can do outreach is unbelievable. Building out a full tool with Hermes agent that can do lead generation for you is insane, right? um creating an SEO

tool with Hermes agent that can basically pull in the latest trending news and then create social media content and also generate SEO blog posts in like one click. Insane. And this just automatically loops around every single day. So all this sort of stuff is is unbelievable. Um and I just want to show you the power of what you can do with Hermes agent and how powerful actually is. So if you want to get my setup, you

can. If you want to build it yourself, you could do that as well. I spend about 3 to four hours building this out. And then what I actually do is inside the AI profitable boardroom, I update the system daily and share it with the community inside the agent OS section here. So you can see the agent OS system, you get the video tutorial, get the last update date, you get a full guide on how to install it. And then you

get the zip file where you can quickly install it, right? And every time there's a new update with Hermes, for example, like uh Hermes email agent or v0.17 or loop engineering or even the shopping assistant that came out recently, we just show you exactly how to use it with new daily tutorials. We answer your questions inside the community daily. So, I personally answer these questions and so does the community to to help each other. There's

always people online 24/7 and you can jump on four weekly coaching calls to get help and support in real time. Plus, inside the map, you can meet people locally who are building with AI agents just like you are. So this is all inside the air profit boardroom link in the comments in description or go to the air profit.com if you wanted to build your own sort of custom version of this or you got two options. So number one you could take my setup and then just customize it how you want. The other option is like you could

begin to build it inside claude. But what I will say is it takes a lot of time because you have to tweak you have to test everything. Sometimes you change one thing over there and it breaks over here. And so really that's why I build it and then share it with the community. Like you can see also if you're wondering okay like is this stuff technical to set up or how easy is it to set up etc. You can see we have 188

pages of testimonials and wins from members inside the air puffer boardroom. For example, like Rick, he joined and within 30 minutes he had the Asian operating system set up and wired, right? Already got the superpowers built in. And Mateo as well, he said, uh, I've just got my agent OS via the air profit boardroom. It's amazing. Just really

learned everything I can do with it. Learning Hermes direct his paper clip for tasks. Uh, you can see, for example, people actually share what they're building. So Jose, he built his out in a day. He said one day here. I've already

had a big operation system, which is crazy. So like there's so many people using this and then use customizing it how they want as well. That's the other thing. It's like you can take this system, you can change UI, you can change the setup, you can uh you know tweak it how you want and then build on it if you want with it. So hope to see you inside the air volume. You can get

the system there. Thanks for watching. Today I'm going to show you the Hermes lead machine. So if you're using Hermes agent, I'm going to show you what I've built. Basically, it's a system to generate leads for us in like one single click. So we have this whole outreach

engine over here. If you want to generate leads, you can just navigate to the lead section. This is what I've set up here. And then from here, we can type in exactly what we want to find. And I'll show you exactly how it works in a second. But basically, from here, we can

find the leads and type in what we want. Now, we can paste in leads as well if we already have a list that we need to enrich. Or what we can do from here is we can type in leads that we want and find and enrich them. So either way you can use this for lead generation which is pretty powerful. The way this works is with Hunter API. So for example if we

type in okay I need to find SEO agencies interested in link building. We'll click on find and enrich now. And you can see over here that is beginning to find relevant leads based on our topic. Now, I actually ran this before just as a little demo. And you can see if we scroll down here, it actually finds the domain. So, these are all the leads

we've added. So, the domain, the email, the size of the company, whether it's enriched or not, and then details about the company itself. So, we can basically quickly find relevant leads in our industry on whatever we type in over here. and it quickly gets enriched automatically with Hermes agent and the APIs that we set up and then actually segments them all. So we got like uh new, enriched, valid, contacted, replied, etc. And over

here we can actually delete or remove anything that's not relevant as well, which is pretty cool. So it's a powerful lead generation machine that we've plugged into Hermes. And I think this is the way to use Hermes agent because for example if you were just going inside your terminal to do this well none of these custom workflows would exist. You could create a skill for it but it would be kind of messy and also it' be very hard to come back to the work that you've created. And additionally you wouldn't be able to manage what happens next after you set up the lead machine. So as an example of

this we have a look at this whole system. We can see the dashboard with who we've contacted, how many leads were sent. Uh we can edit our settings. So it's kind it feels like a SAS tool but it's running on Hermes agent and also with Hermes agent you can also plug in a free brain or a free API or a local model as well and then you can generate leads whenever you want which is pretty crazy in itself. So this was the example run that we did. The way that this works

is you just describe find verify and write and I'll talk you through exactly how this works. So if we look at this example where we type in SEO agencies, it finds real people, it verifies them, it's actually scores them. So if if if a lead's not the right fit in the back end, it actually scores the lead and then just removes anyone who doesn't um fit into what we're trying to look for from there. It writes a personal outreach email and then you can start sending the emails as well, which is pretty cool in itself. So if you look at the old way, you know, when I started my SEO agency, Goldie Agency, we were doing a lot of outreach with link building, but finding relevant clients or finding relevant websites to reach out to was super timeconuming. You know, you

couldn't really automate it back then. You'd have to do everything by hand. Sometimes the emails weren't right. Sometimes they would bounce. And then also, you've got like a bunch of different tools that are all segmented.

And you know, for example, I might be going to Hunter in one side and then I'm going into like pitchbox in another or I'm going into my emails to manage everything and it's like everything is kind of duct taped together. With this system, we plug it all inside one place and then we can automate and have things running 24/7 for us which is pretty crazy. So this is the lead machine. Now it is experimental. You know, we've just built it. But I mean it looks pretty

cool and it actually works as I've shown you. So I can just type one sentence the kind of client I want or the kind kind of website I want to reach out to. It finds people we match. No list is needed, but we can plug in a list if we want to. It checks every email actually land before I send. It writes a personal

first line for each one. And then we will wake up to replies, not bounces, right? And you can have this too. It's the same same system, but the old way is super slow and timeconuming. The new way faster and fully automated. And you

know, we've seen loads of people inside they are profitable bottom get results with stuff like this. So, you know, agency owners, ecom owners, coaches, etc. loads of great testimonials from people winning with this stuff as you can see. And so, if you're thinking, ah, this is just for you, Julian, or this is great for you. Well, actually, anyone can set this up. You know, Hermes is an

open source project and it's quite easy to customize. I'm not technical, but I can build this sort of stuff out. So, you know, if you're watching this, just promise yourself one thing that you'll finish this guide and describe your dream client in the machine today because the moment you switch this changes the way you can get clients or the way you do outreach forever, right? It's a really powerful system that I've not seen anyone else implement. So, how does it work? Well, there's six moving

parts and you only ever touch the first one. Here's what each part does for you. So, you describe who you want to reach in plain English. That could be, for example, SEO agencies in the US. And this works for any industry. I'm just

showing you SEO agencies because that's our niche for our Goldie agency. And that's the job. You don't need to use any filters. You don't need to use any spreadsheets or anything like that. From there, you can find them. So, this can

actually find real companies and real people that match. You don't need a list. You describe who you want and it goes off and gets them. From there, it verifies. So, it checks everything before you send so you avoids uh bounces and that sort of thing. It also ranks each lead 0 to

100 on how well they fit and it removes the ones that aren't the right fit. So you spend your time on the people most likely to say yes or to reply to you. It then writes a personal opener and a short email for every single lead by name and company. So you don't need to worry about personalization. This is all automated. And then it sends it through

your own inbox. Now, with the inbox system, I actually use a separate email address from my Hermes agent that's not connected to my personal stuff. And I would recommend that you do the same just to keep it sandboxed and away from anything else. And again, this is just an experiment to test what's possible, but it's pretty powerful so far. And it is fun to use. So,

if you look at the old way, you know, you'd be finding lists by hand. You'd be guessing people's email addresses. Uh you'd be using several different tools, duct tape taping them together. Your outreach emails wouldn't be very personalized and the results are like a lot of hours wasted. And then you reach out to websites that are not relevant or the right fit. With

a new way, you just type what you want. It finds the right people, checks everything, scores everything, writes a personal email, and the end result is like you get actual good leads, and you've automated the outreach, which is insane in itself. And this is basically how it works, right? Everything gets checked first, and if it's deliverable, we can send it out, right? If it's not, we don't. And we can delete everything

or we can remove anything, we can pause any campaigns, however we want to do it. So, in one sentence, you get a whole pipeline where you find the leads and then you do the outreach. You might also say, "Will this even work for my kind of business?" I mean, if you can describe what customer you want to reach, it works. You know, that could be, for example, like agencies, could be ecom stores, could be local services, whatever you want to use. Could be fully

customized to you. Now, some people say this stuff takes hours to find good leads, but I think that's with the old way because with this machine, it does all all of that in one single click. That's it. Other people say, "Well, this is too technical to set up." Literally all you need to do is you get the agent OS if you want our system or you could build it yourself and then inside the settings section here you can add your API key and that's pretty much it and then you just set up your email address as well which is in the installation guide. Other people say well you know AI

outreach what's that like? So you can approve everything before it goes out and just check it. So that's basically it. If you want the full lead machine running for you with Hermes you know I built this inside the agent OS. a dashboard where Hermes, Claude, and the rest of your AI agents share one memory, one screen. The lead machine is just one

small part of it. So, you get the full agent operating system with every agent in one place. The lead machine wired in, a full 30-day road map to go from zero to finding leads, four coaching calls a week with people um getting clients with this sort of stuff right now, and a room of 3,700 founders. So, there's always someone online ready to help you. Now, if you want the agent operating system, we update it daily inside here. So, if

you go to the agent OS, you'll find the video tutorial, the last update date, the zip file, and a full guide on setting up. We also have, for example, full guides on how to use email with Hermes agent, how to set up. We've got new stuff dropping all the time based on the new useful things that actually come out. Inside the community, you can ask questions and I personally answer these community questions every single day with a video tutorial. And also, there's always someone online 24/7, so you can get help and support whenever you need it. And then also inside the calendar,

you can jump on four weekly coaching calls. So you can share your screen, you can meet other community members, you can ask questions, you can come with problems that you have and also inside the map, you can meet people in your local area who are building with AI agents just like you. So feel free to get that link in the comments description or just go to the apiprofitborn.com. Thanks for watching.

Today I want to show you this powerful new email agent that I've set up with Hermes. And this is basically like a full custom tool that you can use with Hermes for email outreach. Right? So I want to break down exactly how it works step by step how it works. Um what I've built it is quite experimental at the same time but I'm just building it into the agent operating system. I want to

show you just what's possible with this sort of stuff. So you can see here basically we have this outreach section inside Hermes. So I've got an agent operating system as you can see right here. If you go into Hermes, we got like Hermes Jarvis, which is a a voice activated version of Hermes. We have the Hermes Oracle as you can see right here.

But one of the most interesting things that we built is the outreach section. And so what we can do with here is we can train Hermes agent to do email outreach and then we can organize all the data that it comes back with. So we've got our dashboard here with the number of leads plugged in, um, how many are validated, how many are sendable. If there's any companies that are too big to outreach to, you know, it doesn't make sense because they're just not going to reply, then we skip those. And really, the reason that I created this is because we want to use it for, you know, link building, link building outreach for our SEO agency. We do a lot

of link building for clients and we want to build like our own sort of custom tool. And with Hermes agent, it's actually possible to do this. So, you can see the recent activity over here and it gives you the date, who we contacted, etc., um what the topic was and then we have this section for lead generation. So we can find new leads. We

can type in what we want. So if I type in SEO agencies, it pulls up a list of SEO agencies, the domain, the email address, the size of the company, the status, whether the lead is enriched or not. And then it has notes on each lead, right? And we can choose whether we want to select those and start using them inside a campaign. It actually hides the companies that are too big. We can

delete any that we don't like. So if we're like right okay we shouldn't reach out to them we can delete them off the list and also we have the campaign section. So if we want to find leads literally we just type in what type of lead we're looking for and then from here it finds it and enriches it. Now inside the campaign section you can see that we can design a campaign. So we already have one over here for backlink outreach. This shows us how many sent,

how many drafts we did, uh how many bounces we got and how many people we contacted. And so over here we've got the email copy. We've got the audience who we could reach out to based on those leads I just generated. And from here we've got the send items as well. So we can see who we sent to. Now emails are

hidden here. If we want to unhide them we just click on that. And also it has a system where if like email bounces too many times then we just don't send you know and it stops the campaign and just make sure that we verify them first. And then over here we have the system inside our settings where we can add an API key. Right? So for lead generation we

can plug in uh Hunter as an API key. We can add firecrawl as well as another API key. We can see which systems we've got set up and we can also connect for example our email address. Now, when you're using something like Hermes, because it's an agent and it's connected to your systems, I would recommend that you have a separate inbox for Hermes agent so that you know, number one, it doesn't have access to your main inbox. And number two, it's clear that it's an AI agent when you're reaching out to people. You know, you can put that

inside the email copy as well. Again, this is just an experiment that I'm working with right now, but it's pretty fun and interesting what you can build with this. And also already it looks really, really cool. So, how does this work? Well, you find who you want, then you can enrich it. Then you can verify

the email address actually works using Hunter. You can filter so you can skip like the, you know, the the companies that are too big. Then it sends and you can track who replied, right? So you get leads in, replies out in each step. Uh removes a reason that a cold email would would fail from this system. So pretty

interesting. I would call it the Hermes outreach engine. And there's really six moving parts. So you can describe who you want to reach. For example, like if I if I have an SEO agency and want to sell white label to agencies, well then we can put like okay, I want to contact SEO agencies who are interested in white label link building. Then we can enrich

it. So what this means is basically it turns each company it finds into a real person, right? And finds the details for them. Then it verifies this. So it it checks whether the email address is actually valid or not. It filters it. So

it will remove you know giant companies that are just never going to reply. So number one you don't you get a better deliverability and better reply rate as well. Then you can send it. So with one message you get the drafted email campaign and then you can track so you can track you know all your dashboard all the settings all the analytics and everything else. So pretty cool system right there and uh it lives inside the agent operating system.

So, you know, if you think about it before, you'd have to do all of this manually or you'd have to, for example, find a good tool for it. So, we've used Pitchbox. We we currently use Pitchbox as well, our SEO agency. But now, we can like type who we want to reach. It finds a real person. It checks the email address

before every send. It skips the giant companies that never reply anyway, and it sends from an agent inbox. And it's it's the same sort of system, but now it's fully automated with AI. Bear in mind, like you can get the system to write the email campaign for you as well. Now, you can also track what it actually does step by step. So,

you see the people you're going to send to. You can check the address before I send. And also with all your leads, it actually does a size check. So, whether it's realistic, you know, small to medium websites are much more likely to reply than ones that are too big. It writes it, then you can preview it, and then you can send it to everyone. So you

can write one message, you get a live preview, and then the interesting thing here is like the engine fills in all the details for you. From there, it sends out. And also, you can have draft mode, so you can review every message first before it sends out. Nothing sends out before you approve it, which is pretty cool. And you can read your inbox here, which is great. So,

it's connected to the email inbox that we've plugged into the system. There you can see exactly who got what, who replied. You can stop it as well. So, you know, if there's anything that's wrong with the campaign, you could delete it or stop it or pause it. You can see what emails were sent as well.

It's pretty powerful stuff. So, that is the Hermes outreach engine. The way that we set it up, if you're wondering, okay, like how did you do all this? Well, basically, I got Claude to help me build it out inside Claude Desktop. just gave you the idea that we're working on and then I plugged it into this agent operating system where I just add all the automations and all the workflows I work on day-to-day and then from here we just connected it to Hunter API and we give access to Hermes agent we give it access to Himalaya which is a skill where it can read the email inbox and it can reply anything else and then finally as well we make sure that it has access to Google workspace API so that it can access and send emails and read emails else from the inbox. So with those four

things, Hunter, Google Workspace, Himalaya, and Hermes agent, you can have this running however you want, which is pretty powerful. And also, you could use this with like a OATH login. So it could be, for example, you could be running this with something like Grock Oorth. That's pretty good. Mini max coding plan would work as well.

Anything that you want. Now, some people say, well, cold email doesn't work anymore. But actually, you know, we build a lot of backlinks with cold email and there's there's a lot of people getting awesome results with outreach. I mean, there's so many people inside the profit boardroom who have asked for something like this. It was like, right, let's actually build it out. Other

people say, well, you know, I need expensive tools to do this properly. But actually, no, cuz you can use this system inside our agent operating system, which is in the in the AI profitable volume, or you could just build it yourself like I did. Other people say, "Well, I'll set up outreach later when I have time." But every week you wait is a week of not making progress on the system. So, I would definitely recommend setting up ASAP. If

you're wondering, okay, like does he, you know, is the agent operating system technical or do you need to uh be super technical to use it? You can see, for example, Rick set up in like 30 minutes. AOS absolutely loving it. Uh, we got loads of people inside our list of wins and testimonials who are running the a agent operating system and and so many people getting great results with it. I know it works for pretty much anyone at this point. You don't need to

be technical. So, what did you learn today? Well, you learned how to stop guessing because now Hermes can actually find the leads for you. You learned how to avoid bounces because you can verify the emails with Hunter API. You learned how to stop wasting time on outreach as well. So you only contact like the small

medium companies. You learned how to basically automate the actual email itself with Hermes. So it can write the email for you. And you can pause, you can delete campaigns, you can see it working in real time. It's inside a tab that's inside your agent operating system as well. So it's all plugged in

with all your workflows. Right? So if I'm like, yeah, okay, I need to do some outreach. I just go here. Right? If I'm

like, right, okay, I need to check my memories. I've got my second brain over here, right? If I'm like, "Right, okay. Well, I need to generate a video here. I can do it. If I need to do SEO, here we

go." Right? And so everything's just plugged into one system where we can come back to it at any time we need to. So that's basically it. That's a whole system. I will keep evolving it. It's

pretty simple at the minute, but I think sometimes the simplest systems are the best. So if you want to grab my agent operating system, it's inside the AR profit volume. The outreach engine is just one tab inside it. And every other tool I build lands in there, too. So you get the full zip file, every prompt, the memory setup, coaching calls where we set up your outreach together, 3,600 members, daily tutorials, and a member map. And this is all inside our AI

profit boredom community link in the comments description or just go to the profitab.com. Inside the community, you can ask questions and I personally answer them every single day with video tutorials. There's always people online so you can ask questions and get help and support whenever you need it. Inside the classroom, you can get access to all of our best training. So if you're a

complete beginner with this stuff, you can go from beginner to expert here. If you want the agent OS system with the outreach engine, we've got it here with a video tutorial. You can see it's updated daily and you get a zip file as well. And then we add new lessons based on what's just dropped as well. So if you really like Hermes, for example, we've got a full tutorial on the email agent, how to set it up. We have a full

guide on the new update from Hermes, and you can jump on weekly coaching calls where you share your screen, ask questions in real time, etc. Inside the map, you can meet people in your local area who are building with AI agents like you. And that's all inside the aircraft boardroom. So, hope to see you inside there. Cheers for watching.

We have a new member of the squadron, my friends. Hermes agent have added a pet. I'm going to show you how to set up, what it's used for, what it means, and how to use the Hermes agent sidekick system. So, let's get straight into this. Your agent now has an animated pixel pet that reacts to everything it does. Resting, thinking, done, or stuck,

so you can read its status in a single glance. This was a brand new update that just dropped a few hours ago. And so, your Hermes agent can now adopt an animated pet. This is a small sprite that reacts to what the agent is doing. Idle, running a tool, thinking, waiting, finishing, or failing in the GUI or TUI, or in your agent operating system, like you can see we have added right here.

And you actually have nearly 3,000 pets to choose from via the pet decks gallery, or you can actually submit your own, which is pretty cool. So, how does this work? Well, basically you have your agent working away. The sidekick changes the pose to match and in just one glance you know exactly what's going on. So whilst your agent works, the sidekick changes pose to match and you read its status in one glance. Kind of like easy

to figure out, okay, where is your agent up to? What is it doing right now? So for example, if we choose this pet and I'll show you how to set up in a second. You have the same pet but five faces and one for whatever your agent is doing. This is a magic. The pet isn't

decoration. It's a status light with a personality. As your agent moves to work, the pet swaps pose to match. So you stop reading spinners and log lines. You just look at the little guy and go, "Right, he's doing this, he's doing that." And these are the five real poses

straight from my dashboard. So you can see that we have the pet setup over there. And you can see we've got idle, thinking, done, failed, waiting, and each one of these changes. So for example, when it's failed, you can see it crying right there. You might also say like, what is the actual point of this? So the point is peripheral

awareness. You don't watch your agent every second, but you can just glance over whilst doing something else. So a spinner tells you nothing. Like for example, if he's just working inside the terminal. Um, but a pet sort of waves when it's done or cries when it failed, tells you the one thing you needed without reading a word. So it's just

kind of like an easy way to figure out, okay, where's your agent up to? Now, how can you set this up? There's three ways. You can use the command line, you can use the desktop, and we've got an agent operating system dashboard set this up as well. So you can have one pet, same agent, same stat, and then you just look and glance whenever you're working. You

might also say, does this work outside of Hermes own apps? So the pet ships with Hermes in the command line and TUI in the desktop app. They're all built in. We actually added it inside the agent operating system dashboard as well. Took a little bit of wiring, but if you run it the normal way, it just disappears. So you don't need to wire

in. We've done that for you. So let me show you an example. If we say, okay, what you doing? It's now going to start thinking and it changes its pose. That's how easy it is

to use. Now you might be wondering, okay, how do you actually do this? Let me show you an example of that thinking. So what you can do is you can run Hermes updates. You need to get the latest version of Hermes as this just dropped.

Once you've done that, you've got the pet engine. Then you can actually browse the gallery. So if you run inside your terminal Hermes pets list, as you can see right here. So if we do Hermes pets list, you can see all of the different types of characters that we can pull in. Then you can install whichever one you want. So for example, if you wanted to

install Boba, you would do Hermes Pets install Boba select. And you can see once that's done, by the way, it's got the response right here. So once it's idle, we get idle back. Then you can watch it react. So you open a chat with your agent, the pet sits in the corner, changes poses as the agent works, and then you can also make it yours. So you can actually resize it

with Hermes pet scale. You can swap pets at any time, or you can turn it off with Hermes pets off. Nothing is permanent. You can just switch it around and change it however you want. So the way this works is it's just a sprite, so it can't touch your code, your files, your agents work, etc. You get nearly 3,000 pets to

choose from, including otter, dragons, cats, robots, characters, and you can search the pet decks for your favorite. And it's one command to undo. So, if you just type in Hermes pets off, it will remove it instantly if it's not for you. And it comes free with Hermes in the installation. Again, you might say this a pointless gimmick. It's just like a

status light that you actually look at it, right? So, when you're looking at the terminal, you don't really know what's going on, but this is a better way to see what's happening. Also, you might say, "Well, anything on screen that moves will distract me." But it's pretty quiet, as you can see right here. Other people say, "Well, little touches like this don't matter." I don't

know if I would use it all the time, honestly. But the tool you enjoy opening is a tool that you actually use every day. So, making your agent feel alive isn't really like a fluffy nice add-on. It's kind of what turns you into someone from just using agents to someone who customizes and makes the agents feel like is their own. In the same way that for example we've got a Hermes Oracle and it's just sitting there ready to go and we can see what it's doing. Like if

we consult the Oracle, it will actually change color and it will totally change its state depending on what it's doing. So it's pretty useful for just seeing, okay, where are we up to with this current setting and there's so many to choose from as you can see right here. So once you've picked one, you can just change the settings anytime you want to. So that's basically it. What did you actually learn today? How to check your

status on Hermes in like one single glance. The pose matches work. Idle thinking done. Failed waiting. You stop watching the terminal and you don't need to tap back to read a spinner that says nothing. You don't

miss a failure because the crying pose flags a broken run from across the room. An agent that's yours. You can pick from 3,000 pets and the tool you enjoy is the one you use the most, right? Uh and then it's free so you can just try it. See what you think. Now, if you want to get

our full Hermes agent operating system with this system, as you can see right here, we've also set up an outreach email agent with Hermes lead generator. We've got Hermes Jarvis, which we can actually speak to in real time. It can build stuff for us, and it can even use computer use browser for us. We have Hermes Oracle, which actually pulls in the latest news and then can generate social media content for us and even publish directly to our website, like you can see. So, if we pull this up, this can actually pull in the latest news and then create awesome blog posts about it. So, you can see it's pretty

insane. So, if you want to get this plus the memory galaxy that plugs into all of this, you can get this inside our AI profit boardroom link in the comments description or just go to the apiprofitboom.com. Inside the community, you can ask questions, get help and support. I personally answer them every day with a video tutorial inside the classroom. You

can actually get access to all of our best trainings. We have loads of trainers on Hermes, Hermes agent, the new learn update that just came out that basically turns any guide into a new skill. We've got the Hermes email agent guide right here, the agent OS system. And every time there's something useful that comes out from Hermes, we create a video tutorial and a full step-by-step guide on how to use it. Inside the calendar, you can jump on weekly coaching calls. Inside the map, you can

actually meet people in your local area who are using AI agents like you. And this is all inside the ARI profit boardroom. Link in the comments description or just go to the arprofit.com. Thanks for watching.

Cheers. Bye-bye. So, today we're going to be answering some of the latest questions on our agent operated system about Hermes Oracle. We've got, for example, Hermes Javis, which is a a voice activated version of Hermes. We can, for example, like take the latest trending news and then we can publish an SEO blog post about it to our WordPress in one single click. We can pull in the

latest news right here. We even have like an outreach tool now for doing outreach with a Hermes agent. And if you don't have the leads, you can actually use the system here to generate more leads on the spot. And we built in goal mode. So there's some really cool stuff that we built in lately. Show you some

other cool stuff like we built in for example um a Fugu from Sakana, right? Which is on benchmarks apparently better than using Fable 5. Now test it for yourself, but what you can see here is like it can generate some pretty nice stuff. like this is like real world open world stuff as you can see right here. Um and it it's pretty simple and easy to use. So

we've already built this into our systems where basically what we can do here is we can use Fugu and Sakana inside the chat and then just generate anything you want. We also have like loop engineering built in. We got a full video agent, a music agent, all sorts of crazy stuff. Um, but what I want to do today is just run through some of the latest FAQs I've had inside the air profitable boarding because I know like if people are posting about this stuff, you probably have questions about this stuff as well. And so we can all learn and we can grow and we can help each other together. So

I'm going to run through like some of the latest wins, what people are posting, um, what's been useful, what people have learned, etc. So let's have a look today. This is pretty cool. So Joe's built out a new tool with Codeex and Hermes where basically it can automate based on a topic the images and the blog post itself. So it's kind of like an SEO workflow where you can take a topic and then plug it directly to your website right here. And

he's actually posted an example tutorial of how it works. The thing I love about this is like, you know, people are just sharing and learning and growing together. And, you know, there's nothing held back inside this community. It's just a way of like saying, "Hey, we built this cool stuff. Maybe it'd be useful for you to build it, too." And it

sparks a lot of good ideas between us. A lot of my best ideas for the agent operating system that we've built and share inside the air profitable volume comes from the requests and the stuff that comes up inside the community. Let's see what we got here. So Patrice has basically built a three layer omni channel CRM an automation hub that powers his travel websites and newly launched mobile app which is pretty insane right and bear in mind like a lot of these people are not coders or technical people I'm not a technical person but you know people are building like this crazy stuff like you know the full-on software or apps or like multiple websites that can automatically publish SEO content for them and then they break down like the full stack and how it works step by step. It's pretty insane. Now, this is a

good question which is from Mark and it's like you know as a new AI builder should you learn NAN which is good for building out like multi-step workflows or should you focus on MCP or what's the best way to learn and build with it stuff right so if I had a choice I'd go with NAM because it's more of a platform whereas for example something like an MCP you can actually use in your NAN workflows so it's kind of like a little bit like comparing apples and oranges and And I would say that N10 is better to learn than just focusing on MCP servers. However, if you ask the question, should you focus on, for example, Hermes or Claude or NAN, I'd probably recommend at this point that unless you're an absolute beginner, unless you're starting from zero, learning something like Claude or Hermes is going to be way more powerful because it's basically a no code version of NA10. So, those are the two options I'd recommend. If you have a choice between NA10 and MCPS, go with NA10. If you had a choice between Claude, Hermes or NA10, then I'd go with Claude Hermes because these are like no code versions. They're

easier to build automation workflows. So Jay Parson's absolute legend in the AI profitable room. He's sharing what he's been building with his own agent operating system. And basically what a lot of members do is they get our agent operating system from the classroom as you can see it right here. and it comes with a video tutorial. You can see when

it was last updated. This was just updated today. And you get the zip file to install it, too. But the great thing about that is you can also customize this exactly how you want. So, if you have a look at what Jay's done here, and this is just in one single day, right?

Uh, and he's been working on his his agent operating system for a few weeks, but today everything clicked for him. And this is quite often the case is, you know, you're learning AI, you have a few problems here and there, you have to learn a few things along the way, which everyone does. you know, we're all starting from scratch, but at the same time, eventually everything clicks. It's kind of like learning a language, I would say. So, he's actually built his own team of AI agents with paperclipip and launched a co CEO agent that autonomously defined a three pillar business strategy, hired two specialist agents, and built a live taskboard. Now,

if you're not sure what paperclip is, you can see an example inside my agent OS where basically we've got a team of agents. They can work 24/7. They can build and complete tasks as you can see right here. And we get a checklist of what they've done. And then once it's all completed, we can view it inside our gallery as you can see right here. And

so it's a a powerful way of having agents being orchestrated together when you've got multiple agents. So if you've got Claude, you got OpenClaw and Hermes. It's like, well, how do you get them working together? Well, one of the best ways to get them working together is to plug them into a team like this with paperclipip. Then they can complete tasks for you and then you can see everything they've built in one place, which is pretty cool. He's also created

a content producer and yeah connected paperclip inside mission control and also this is pretty crazy he's using local clawed code for everything which we've built in. So you can see free clawed code over here. Basically what this means is that you can use local or free APIs with your clawed code harness. So you can still get the benefits of clawed code but you use a free API inside it. Pretty powerful stuff. So Thomas was

asking about free clawed code and how to set it up or which lesson it is inside the air for boardroom. So this is the open- source project that we use for free clawed code and we've already built it inside the agent operating system if you go to this section here. You can even control it with your voice and you've get you get a chat and a workspace as well. So you can run it with local agents too or free APIs. And if you want to get a full lesson on how to use it and how to set it up, we've got that right here too.

So there's two options really. You can go straight to the GitHub and you can use free claude code and we have a full training on it as well or you can get it inside the agent OS and it's already plugged in. So it's up to you which one you prefer to use. We got a pretty cool win here from Gulam. Sigulan was saying like, you know, he didn't want this to sound like a sort of this changed my life comment, but basically he said 3 weeks ago he was just, you know, checking if this was real, checking if it was actually useful and stuff. And he

said, "What got me wasn't like the trainings or the courses. It was realizing this community runs on something most people don't, which is people actually show their work." And I've shared a couple of examples of that earlier today, but I think this is just really good. Like the whole point of the community is that we learn, we grow, we keep it positive, and we just keep learning on this journey. You can see Mike as well, he was saying the same thing. It's like it's such a fantastic

way to learn. And also, I think a lot of people join for the trainings, but they stay for the friends cuz we all connect together. We all share what we're working on. There's a lot of like regular members who post cool stuff all the time. So, it's a great place to be.

I think, you know, when you're learning AI, it can be super lonely because it's very hard to find people who are deep into it. If you're watching something like this, you're probably quite deep into learning AI. And so, this is a great place to connect and just learn and grow together. This is pretty insane. So, you can see here Jose has he's now on day five of building his own operating system, and he's been using our setup, but then tweaking it and customizing it exactly how he wants. So

you can see he said I've learned how to make a fully functional agentic OS and not only that I'm still in about it for my college. Now I want more ideas and to learn how I can build better workflows for self-hosted N10. And you can see what is built here. So he's taken our idea on the Obsidian vault and then plugged that into his own setup. And you can see here as well he's plugged in the notebook MCP setup as well which we've got inside the agent OS. So you can see

an example right here. If we go to the memory layer, we've got obsidian ready to go. And then we have notebookm over here too, right? And you can see like we can just generate full research reports. We can generate infographics, videos, podcasts, whenever we want for free using the notebook MCP. So for the

next setup, I would start wiring in with NA10 the MCP. So if you want to use NA10 inside your agent OS, you can actually use the MCP connection and then you could have for example something like Claude building in your NAN workflows for you inside the CLI for making the pipeline better or adjusting the keyword. You can go straight to the agent that set up for you and just request it to change something. Also, one thing I'd say on the notebook section is like you could probably make that even more visual, which would be super interesting. That would be quite a cool cool tweak to see. This is

something I've seen as well. Like Claude, it hasn't actually today it's not broken on me, but like every day I've seen like some sort of situation where it says the model isn't available or this isn't working. So I've seen this every day. I think the great thing about having an agent operating system is like if one model goes down or it gets taken down as we saw with Fable 5, you can just control the system and then switch to something else. So for example, if Claude goes down, no problem. We're

going to change to Hermes. If Hermes and Claude were both down, which I've never seen before, then we could switch to like GLM 5.2. So that's the best thing about having uh separate CLIs inside your Asian OS. So Kenneth is asking about AI automations and basically a setup where he could, for example, automate a morning brief automation. And I'll

show you what we've done in two different ways in a second. So basically, the idea is to create a digest. He could look at your inbox or current news or that sort of thing, but he doesn't want to over complicate it. So, there's two things that I've built recently that I think would interest you a lot, and I've included a link down here as well to it. So, one of the things that we built recently was Hermes Oracle. And basically what

this can do is take like the latest trending news on Twitter. It automatically refreshes every day. is categorized by which news is trending the most and the most important and then also it links directly to the post about it as well on Twitter which is pretty cool. And then what we can actually do from there is we can draft a blog post to WordPress directly on our WordPress websites without logging in based on the new news update. So we can rank it for SEO and then also we can easily draft like a social media post as well quickly too. And the thing that I learned from

that is that Twitter is probably the best for getting the latest news and information. And you can use Grock API with that or I used Grock with her. In terms of what I learned to keep it simple is yeah try and simplify as much as you can. So, for example, if I was building this out from scratch, again, what I would do is just go to Claude and say, "Hey, can you schedule in a daily morning brief using this API from Grock? Search for the latest news in my industry." And give it

news about your industry. Search for the latest emails in my inbox and connect it to your emails. And then just go from there. There's a connector button inside your settings to connect your emails to Claude so that it can read your inbox too. The other cool thing about that is when you ask Claude to set it up, it will just guide you through the steps based on your idea. Pretty simple. So,

I'd recommend starting MLA on that because it will be the simplest, easiest place to quickly build it out. Kenneth was saying about like how to get the value out of a community and what he does, he actually keeps a running notepad on the classes and homework. This works really well. Actually, one thing that I learned from studying, you know, I learned five different languages. So, I learned Chinese, Spanish, Thai, and Italian.

And one of the things that helped me the most was using Anki flashcards. So, if I really need to learn something and embed it in my memory, what I do is I create a flash card from that with a setup where I have to guess a word and then every day I run through that flash card deck. And the cool thing about that is is based on repetition, spaced repetition, which means that if I need to learn anything, I can quickly remember it with Anki flash cards. So for example, you could take your notepad and then plug it into Anki. That's something that worked really well for me. This is an

interesting question from Ryan who says, you know, with the Javis voice system, has anyone set it up so we can access more of their computer? So the way that we did this and I'll pull up Hermes Jarvis now. Hey Javvis, could you open up julianoldie.com? And you can see here it opens up the website, right? Could you open up

Google? And you can see here it opens up Google, right? Um, now it can even, for example, open up computer apps. Hey Javvis, could you open up Obsidian? And there you go.

So it's working in real time. So we have this set up already with Hermes Jarvis based on the latest updates where it can basically operate in real time using chatb and its latest API for audio. And then it can open things up but it can't really edit things unless we switch to agent mode. So you'll see a button for auto and agent and you can switch between them like that. You can click between them. And basically what that

means is if you switch to agent mode, then it has more control. It's a bit slower to reply, but you can edit things locally. You can actually change and adjust the permissions based on what you want it to do. And I think the key here is like don't let it do anything you're not comfortable with. So if you're unsure, don't do it basically. And you

can set clear rules and guard rails with the agent that helps you set up this whole system. So we got a good question from Rabbit here which is basically where he switched from tool to tool and so for example he started using openclaw then he tried Hermes agent and then he likes the idea of clawed code and anthropic but he doesn't want to use APIs and then also what happened is when he was migrating from a VPS he actually couldn't use claude anymore and then he started checking out genpark and this is very very common Like some people will be watching this and going, "Yeah, that's me." Like I've spent so much time switching between tools, testing different things. I think from what I can see, you probably just want to focus more and lock into one tool. So, for example, if you like Claude, then I would just stick to Claude. If

you can't use Claude anymore, then I would switch to something like Hermes and just master Hermes. The key here is like you don't need to build your own agents and you don't need to switch from tool to tool. You just need to master and focus on one. So like even for example inside the agent OS we have all these different CLIs and tools that you can use but honestly 99% of people are just going to use one or two which is great. I think it's always better to simplify and focus and move in one direction because that's how you improve your skill set. Whereas if you're

switching from tool to tool and model to model, then it can get a bit messy and you don't really build a skill set because you get shiny object syndrome. So personally looking through everything that you've done, just pick one. If I had to pick one of those, I would go with Hermes myself if you can't access Claude anymore. And then my second pick would be Gen Spark. But the main point here is like focus on one thing and just build from there. This is a good

question from Alex. So Alex is saying, you know, Jarvis is taking a while to to reply back, but as you saw a second ago, it's really fast for me, right? It can literally run in real time. And this is a recent update that we've added. So recently, we added it and you'll see it inside the new updates. We added chatbt

and it's new API for real time talk and it's way faster to respond. So I'd recommend using that instead if you can. This took the response time from like probably about 10 to 15 seconds down to like maximum one to two. And also you can switch between agent modes and auto mode. Auto mode is a lot faster. All

right. And we've answered every single question inside the air profit boardroom today. So you can see the power of this stuff. You can see what people are building. You see how useful the community is as well. If you want to get

my setup with the agent OS Hermes Oracle, we got Hermes Jarvis over here. We have, for example, outreach tools. You can see we've even plugged in an idea to implementation idea generator because I know those people have ideas for apps and stuff they want to build, but they're like they they just don't have the time to build them. So, what we set up here is like a system where you can just drop an idea in, you approve the plan, and then it just gets shipped and you can see what was actually built in the end, right? Which is pretty cool.

Plus, the great thing about this is whether you're using Hermes or whether you're using Claude or like you saw before, whether you're using all of them, it doesn't matter because you can plug them all into an agent operating system like that. So, if you want to get my full system, you can get it inside the AR profitable border link in the comments description or just go to the arrum.com. If you go to the classroom here, go to new daily updates, you will find the latest version of the agent OS for a video tutorial, uh last update date, so you know it's update today and also the zip file to install it fully. Now, we also have new tutorials daily based on the new cool stuff that comes out. So, you can see some new stuff

that's come out recently and we just add it inside the community. I answer your questions personally as you can see today. Every single question gets answered by me with a video tutorial every day like you can see today. And also, the great thing about this is there's always people online. So, if you're stuck with something, as you can see right now, there's 123 people online, which means you can get help and support whenever you need it. And people

are just sharing amazing stuff as you can see. So, feel free to get that. all my best trainers inside the classroom. We've got four weekly coaching calls where you get help and support in real time, share your screen, ask questions inside the map. You can actually meet people in your local area who are building with AI agents like this and you can also connect with me personally and direct message me too. So, thanks

for watching. So, today I'm going to show you Hermes Oracle, which is a powerful way to use Hermes to basically search the web. you can consult it and then what you can actually do is get the most updated news and you'll never fall behind again. And I think this is one of the biggest issues that a lot of people face is like they struggle to use number one AI for actually staying up to recent news and to get the latest headlines in. And I'll show you the solution that we came up with which is more powerful than anything I've ever seen. Number two, to

do it in a way in a system where you can come back to it all the time. And then number three, to actually build it in a place where you've got all of your agents plugged in and to get the most out of Hermes. And bear in mind as well, like if you were using, for example, the terminal to to do this or Hermes desktop, this is Hermes Oracle over here. If you're using Hermes desktop or Hermes terminal, the difference in in the UI is huge, right? Like this is going to be way more fun, way more interesting. you're way more likely to

come back to something like this versus for example if you check the terminal like that is going to just run out pretty quickly. And the other thing is well like where's your history? Where's all the stuff that you've researched recently? You can't find it right? Whereas with this system I'm going to show you a powerful system that we've actually created to basically save the results that you come up with and then you could look back on that and use it to train your AI agents. So you could

use this for anything. It could be for example news in your industry. It could be, for example, coming up with content ideas. It could be also just helping you personally make sure that you never fall behind with AI again. Or this could be for anything. You know, if you're, for

example, like running a marketing agency, you could run this for your agency. If, for example, you have clients, you could actually build this for clients, right? It's very, very flexible. So, let's talk about the Hermes Oracle system and how this works. This is based on Hermes agent, which is the AI that's basically the number one on the planet right now. We basically

use that system to come up with this and visualize it in a powerful way. So every morning what happens here is that we have a system where it's going to look for new ideas. Then it's going to rank them by which ones the most useful. From there it's actually going to come up with new angles for our content and from there it will actually ship the whole update. And this is pretty interesting because previously when we were using something like this, you know, if you went into, let's say, I mean, there's a lot of people watching who still do this, but I'm pretty shocked by it. But

if you were going into, for example, Claude and saying, you know, latest AI news, for example, and we wait for that to load. Number one, you've got to wait for it to load. Number two, it's not really going to give you useful links. Number three, it doesn't give you the most relevant, useful stuff. So, if I have a look at these headlines, I'm like, well, how can I actually use this?

I can't. These are all like not really tool updates, not really actionable advice um that I can use. Whereas, for example, if we look at this, it's like, okay, here's what's being released. Here's the link. Boom. Shack lacker.

There we go. We've got the latest news updates ordered by relevance and how practical it is. So, this is the old way, which is not useful at all. This is the new way, which is 10 times more powerful. And that's the power of Hermes Oracle and how you can use it to get way more out of Hermes agent. And the other

problem that a lot of people face as well is like, you know, they might go into X, start scrolling to find what's useful, spend 20 minutes trying to research, then 40, and half the time, you know, you might post about something and find out the wave has already finished. You know, you're behind before you even try to get ahead. And then the other time you try and guess the angle of like let's say for example, the content you were creating or the idea or you know, whatever you're producing here and that again would create problems. So for example, what we've got here inside each update where we get the latest news is we have a system where basically it shows us okay here's the angle and how we can frame this to help us. Here's a quote. We can actually generate a draft

to post. So we can click on draft this and come up with an idea. And then it gives us a news headline. Tells us how many posts it got, when it was released, who released it. So for example, this news release is from OpenAI. And then we

can actually open that up and see the post itself. Right? That is how powerful this is. And so I I actually wish like Twitter had this feature directly. That would be way more useful. They do have

like a trending feature, but it's it's not that useful compared to this. This will literally find the latest most useful updates. And then it will give you the angle. It will tell you it will give you an option to draft the social media post or whatever content you're trying to create around this. It will tell you why it's useful. And it will

also rank it in terms of you know how important this is. So you can see for example this scores 91 and then if you scroll down this scores 88 and this is all like super recent relevant news. And the reason that we connected it to X is like you know Twitter is probably the best place to find out about the latest stuff and this is how you can stay updated with whatever you want to create. And so you know when I wake up now the Hermes Oracle has already swept through Twitter. It's already found the latest trending articles and it's ranked them by how big the conversation actually is. So each one comes with the

real source, my angle and a hook that we can use for our content as well, which is super powerful in itself. So this is how we're using Hermes Oracle. And you know, if you look at the new way versus the old way, the old way was like you're just scrolling trying to find something useful, guessing if it's actually big, finding the old news and trying to find the new news and it's a lot of work. The new way is like you could just quickly pick and find stuff and it will just quickly sort of filter down all of the headlines and find the most relevant stuff to you. You see in this Hermes Oracle and so the way that I look at this is it's a framework where it's sweep, rank, angle, and ship. So

sweep is it finds the latest news. Rank is it basically sorts by how big and how useful the update is. Angle is basically for each potential topic. It will find interesting angles that you can create content around. You don't if you're not a content creator that doesn't matter.

This tool is still going to be useful. But if you are a content creator or if you're for example trying to get more leads for your business, whatever, this is a fantastic way to stay ahead of the news and to drop this into whatever industry you're in. And then ship, right? So you can open up the source tweet. You can read the hook and then you can actually post around it. All

right. So let's have a look at this example. So it's drafting the post here in real time based on the angle that recommended. We've got the original post here. We can quote that.

Now we've got the post as you can see. And then you can just drop in the post like that. Boom. Shakalaka. Right. Um

and that's how easy it is to like stay ahead and stay trending and everything else. So basically how does this work? Well, one agent does all of it. So with Hermes Oracle, you know, here's the part that actually makes it reliable is that the whole thing runs on one agent which is Hermes. And we've used Grock Af. So

if you already have a Twitter subscription, the great thing about this is you can actually log into Hermes with Oorth using Gro and then you don't need any API keys. You don't need any extra subscriptions and you can just build this system straight into your existing workflows. And the great thing is when you do that, Hermes has a built-in Twitter search tool that basically can search and find the latest stuff. So basically you have like a fire hose of information, right? Too much information you can handle that's just running 24/7.

So what Hermes does is it filters that down and it finds the latest signals of what is the most important things and it finds six signals at a time and then also it logs that information inside your Obsidian memory galaxy. So if we go back to our memory galaxy which is Obsidian and this is the memory system for our Agent OS. Basically, all of these lift different stars inside the galaxy are memories that are tied together and this is basically context for our agents to work with. Now, every time we use that tool, it gets automatically plugged inside our AI news section of the Obsidian Vault. We can see all the news here. And what

does that mean? Well, number one, we don't lose any updates. Number two, the agent gets trained on what's going on inside your industry and he gets more and more context automatically. Number three, when you're generating more news ideas in the future, what it's going to look at that previous context and then know what to use and what to ignore. And number four, you're just improving your memory layer because the more context you plug into that with relevant stuff like this, the more useful your memory layer is going to become. And so with a combination of

Hermes Oracle and the memory galaxy that we've plugged in right here, it's just becoming way more powerful. And again, this only takes like 3 minutes to to do a response, and it's running automatically as a scheduled task with Hermes as well. So, I've shown you an example of what it came up with, and these are all way more relevant. I've shown you side by side how, for example, with Claude, Claude didn't find anything anything near as um as useful as this. So, this is the difference right here.

And yeah, it's great for coming up with content. It's great for finding the latest news in your industry. And it's something that I think a lot of clients would be interested in as well. So, here's an example of the Obsidian Vault and what it writes. Everything plugs into your memory system and that's basically it. Now, you might say, "Okay,

why why not just scroll manually and try and do that?" Well, the thing is with this system, you're actually first and you get the latest news ASAP. You could actually schedule this to hourly if you wanted to or to um a few times a day as well. Number two, you actually get the signals um so the the links to the news, right? So if we go back to Hermes Oracle over here, we have the latest news and we can just click on link to find the most relevant news to that, right?

Pretty useful. And then number four, it's one agent doing everything and it compounds, right? Because it everything gets added to your memory vault. So your content radar becomes a searchable archive of everything that's happened in the year, which is pretty amazing itself. Now also the other thing I would say here is that it plugs into a full agent operating system. So this is one

tiny piece of our agent OS and we have for example Hermes Jarvis which we can organize in real time and have a conversation with. We can see all our conversation. We've got the full preview over here. We have for example the chat with our different agent profiles with Hermes. We have the talk. We have the

studio here as well where we can generate um videos. We can generate AI images, voice notes, etc. We have everything saved into our workspace. We have the memory galaxy that's plugged into Hermes as well. And then we have every single workflow that I work on day-to-day, I've just plugged into this system as well, right? Even loop

engineering and for example our SEO systems that auto deploy content to our website. So whatever we need to automate, we've got it inside one system. Whatever AI agents we use, not just Hermes, we have it plugged into one system. If we want to orchestrate multiple different agents at a time, we can use paperclipip or we can use the AI agent mastermind group chat or the pipeline where we go from idea to build in literally one click. So this is the power of this stuff. When you build a

system, it just gets better and better every day and we just keep building it up and improving it. And I think that's how you build something absolutely amazing, which is why you want like an agent OS instead of just relying on the terminal or something like that. It's way more customizable. So, in terms of what you've learned, well, you've learned how to basically use something like Homies Oracle to stay updated of everything. You've learned how to build that into your memory system so it improves. You learned how to get the

latest um news in whatever industry you're in. And you also learned how to do that with just a you know a Twitter subscription so that you don't need to pay per API. Now if you want to get my full system I mean you could build this yourself. If you want to get my full system you can get the agent operating system inside the AI profit boardroom and it hands you the Hermes Oracle which is wired in and running on your own Grock plan. So tomorrow you can just wake up holding the train instead of chasing it. You also get the full agent

OS with the Oracle Hermes every other system inside one dashboard. You get the setup walk through done with you step by step. You get four weekly coaching calls with daily tutorials and a 30-day road map. You get 3,700 members inside there. And if you're thinking this stuff is too technical to set up, don't worry. For

example, we had Rick. Rick joined a couple of days ago and he's already set up his agent OS in 30 minutes. You can see, for example, Rachel was absolutely loving the AR profit border community. You can see all the wins and the positivity here. Just a great group of people having a great time learning, growing together. You can also connect

with me personally, too. You can ask me any questions that you want to. You can also customize the whole system and change it however you want. And this is all inside the AI profit boardroom. Now, if you want to grab that system, it's inside the Asian OS section over here.

We also add new daily updates and video tutorials based on what's working inside the community. You can ask questions, get help and support in real time, and I answer those for personal video tutorials. Inside the calendar, you can jump up weekly coaching calls and share your screen, meet the community, ask questions, etc. You can also meet people in your local area from the map and this is all inside the AI profit boardroom link in the comments description or just go to the arprofitboard.com. Thanks for

watching. Today we have a brand new update from Hermes agent. So Hermes agent can now learn from anything. So you can feed it for example like a blog post, you could feed it some of your PDFs, whatever you need to learn it, it can distill it and learn from it into a verifiable reusable skill. And I'm going to show you exactly how it was. It actually is super easy to

use, which I'm absolutely loving. And I'll break it down exactly. I've called this the learn anything engine. And if you're wondering, you know, what does that look like in practice, let me show you an example here. So what we did over here, and I thought this would not work at all, but it seems really, really smooth. So what we said is forward/arn.

So you just go inside your Hermes chat. You'd say for/arn, and then we actually plugged in a guide from my website. So this is a guide on our website about the agent operating system. I wanted to teach Hermes and create a skill around the agent operating system that we've created. And so we went back into the chat here for/arn. That's it. Make sure

you update on the latest version. And then you can plug in the URL. And look at this. Like this is crazy easy um and also powerful. So it says learned it and saved it for future sessions. What it is

agent operating system is your dashboard and everything else. The six pillars to it. Here's the main surfaces. Here's the setup path and how to connect it. Here's how to do it, etc. And then this is the

most important part. So, not only did it learn from this, but it also saved it as a skill. So, let's say, for example, you were trying to break something down that you don't really understand or you need to master as a concept. Well, you could easily give that to Hermes and then it can learn it as a skill and help explain it back to you. The other thing that you could do here is the you could actually for example if you had like an article and you're like you know I want to implement this system but I don't know how to automate it with AI. Well the

great thing about this is you could give it a guide about that particular topic. So you could give Hermes that guide say forward/arn plug in the topic and then from there it can actually learn as it skill and you see here it's saved as a skill. So it tells you exactly where it is. And if you want to load it, the skill that we just created, we just go, we just do skill hy uh for/skll agent- operating hyphen system and then it's good to go, right? And that's basically it. But also, it will pull in that skill

if we mention agent OS, mission control, memory galaxy, or the air profitable boarding stack design, right? That's how easy it is. Um, and so this is a really powerful system that we can basically use to number one learn anything and number two to teach Hermes new skills. So basically with the learn anything engine, Hermes can now learn a skill from anything that you show it. That could be a document, it could be a folder, it could be something that you just did and then it keeps it forever.

So you can see here you can feed in like a folder of code. It could be a document page like I gave it. It could be a job that you just did. It could be notes that you have and then you use for/arn and you reference what you're using and then it's a skill that's kept together forever. So it's plugged into something called a skill MD markdown file that stores a skill and then you can come back to it and use it whenever you want.

And so you can point Hermes at anything forward/arn reads it and writes a skill and then keeps it forever. Pretty amazing stuff. And this literally just came out a few hours ago. So if we have a look at this post, uh this just dropped about 5 hours ago. So it's brand brand new stuff. You know, go easy on me

if I haven't explained it properly, but this is basically the whole system. And it is super useful because now you can teach your hermies to learn stuff. And the great thing about this is, and I know a lot of people struggle with this, is like every session sometimes you'd have to reexplain how you do things. You publish a guide, uh the agent would do it, but then it would forget the whole recipe. the moment we were done. So the

next time you have to start from scratch, you have to explain it all over again. You're the only one who remembers how your workflows run. Sometimes now if Hermes can learn, well, you can show it one thing once. You can point it at a workflow and say one word forward/arn. It writes itself a skill, a clean, reusable recipe, keeps it, and next time I just say do the thing and already knows how to do it, which is pretty powerful. And I've seen a lot of people

using Hermes like it's a fantastic AI agent. These are all uh you know we we've got like so many testimonials from people loving the agent operating system and Hermes agent itself. So I know that if we can all learn it you can use it too as well. Now the learn anything engine it works in five simple steps. So it learns from anything you teach it once it keeps forever. It writes its own

recipe. It loads only when needed and it works everywhere. And this means like you can show it the workflow once and say learn. It writes itself clean reusable skill. Next time you just say do the thing. You don't

need to code. Hermes will offer the skill itself. The recipe lives inside the agent not inside your head. And so if you're spending time on a workflow you repeat weekly. Or if you're reexplaining it every session, that is a nightmare. But if you just do

forward/arn you learn it once and you're good to go, right? You can install it in 5 minutes. So it's 5 minute once instead of a few minutes every single time you run it. That's the difference here. Now, if you're thinking, okay, I already use skills from other people or MCP servers.

Isn't this just the same? These bolt on tools, these the bolt on like tools the agent can call. But for/ learn is different because it captures how you do things into a recipe the agent keeps. So, your workflows, your steps, the the stuff that you typically quality control for, you you can't download that anywhere. Only your agent can learn really from watching it from you. And

bear in mind, this stuff is so new. It's like it's pretty hard to find documentation or useful notes on this. Whereas if you use for/arn, well, it's one command. You give it a source, Hermes does the rest using the tools it already has. And there's no separate learning engine. No extra setup. So you

say learn, Hermes gathers it, it writes the skill, and the skill MD file is saved in one command. And here's an example what this looks inside the terminal if you're using terminal. So you just say, okay, for/arn the the daily win log workflow. and then it just learns it. This is an example of an actual skill that we wrote using this system. I didn't touch a line of it.

This is what Hermes created. So, inside the skill MD file, it's got the name, the description, the version, what it does, when to use it, the procedure, and the pitfalls to avoid. So, if you're wondering, okay, does it actually work in practice? I've shown you an example of that inside the chat here. So yes, it actually does work in practice and it worked first time around as well, which is amazing and unusual.

We also plugged it into Hermes Jarvis as well, so it can learn via Hermes Jarvis too. If you've got a for example, if you if you've got a voice activated agent like me, you can also do the same thing, which is pretty cool, too. And so you got the dashboard, you got the command line. You could do this with Hermes Jarvis, you could do this with messaging apps, and you got one learn agent where it can learn a skill that's used anywhere. So here's what I'd recommend.

I mean, it takes about 5 minutes. You can update Hermes run Hermes update. So you've got the learn command. Then you can open a chat with your agent, point it at a source, type/arn, and then the thing that could be a doc URL or folder or how I just did that, plain words are fine. You let it write the skill. So

Hermes reads the source and offers a clean skill.mmd file on its own. You approve the write and it's saved and then you can use it forever cuz next time just ask for the task by name. The skill loads on demand and your agent already knows how to do it. Few things to worth uh worth knowing. It uses the

tools it already has. So there's no separate engine, no extra installs. You just have to make sure you have the the latest version of Hermes. Number two, you approve the right skill. So the skill file only saves after you save yes if you've got the approval gate on. I

don't have the approval gate on. That's why it worked so quickly on mine. But if you have the approval gate on, then it'll ask you, is this okay to install. If you have a clear source, you're going to get a better skill. So if you point it at something specific or root/arn to a stronger model for tricky jobs. Just

something to note. And skills are also sharable cuz you can publish them and install other people's command. If you've got a skillmd file that you've created like I do, I could give that to my community. I could share that with people as well, like I've shared inside this guide. You might also say, well, what if it writes a bad skill? Will you

actually see the file before it saves and you can edit or delete it like any other note? It's just a markdown note. So, if a skill's off, you fix one line or run learn again with a clearer source. Nothing's locked in and a wrong skill can't break anything else. So, three things may be holding you back.

Some people have limited beliefs are holding back on stuff like this. So, the wrong belief here is like some people say, well, teaching an AI skill means writing code or config. No, you just say one word, learn, and describe the thing in plain English. Hermes writes the skill itself. You know, I watched a free local model do it in like 25 seconds.

Other people say, "Well, my agent forgets everything, so why bother?" But that's exactly what this fix it this fixes because the learned skill is kept. It stops being the goldfish and starts building muscle memory, so you can teach it once and it knows forever. Other people say, "Well, I'll wait until the tools are perfect." But an agent that learns gets further ahead every week, use it. Waiting just means a bigger gap

between you and the people teaching their agent today. So this compounds you want to start using it now. So what did you learn today? You learned how to stop reexplaining. You teach a workflow once.

The agent keeps the recipe for good. You stopped writing skill files. One word learn and Hermes offers the skill itself. You can learn from anything. A doc, a folder, a job you just did or pasted notes. You can use it everywhere.

So that could be a dashboard command line could be Hermes Jarvis you know like voice agents and then it could be for example the messaging inside the agent operating system and you start improving daily. This is a system where every skill you teach makes your agent more capable for good. So the way that I would look at this is stop reexlaining yourself to a tool and just teach it once through this whole system. And you could you know teach your agent it first skill tonight. You know you've seen it run one word a real skill kept forever.

If you want Hermes set up to learn from your workflow step by step, we've got Hermes, Claude, GLM, and more plugged into one dashboard inside the AI profit boardroom agent operating system. So, we actually have a full tutorial on how to use for/arn to turn your daily workflow since skills agent keeps. You get a 30-day road map, daily tutorials, and four weekly coaching calls a week, and a room of 3,700 builders doing this every day with someone online 24/7. Right? So, if you want to get this full setup with the chat, you can switch between profiles. We have the talk mode. We have

Hermes Jarvis which is voice activated and can actually build stuff as you can see right here. We have Hermes Oracle that can take the latest news, create social media content about it and also publish articles directly to WordPress using the same system. We can generate images, videos, voice notes, etc. with Hermes Jarvis. We even have a camb section here where we can manage the camb boards and orchestrate our agents together. And this is all inside the

agent operating system from the AI profit boardroom. So, if you want to get this link in the comments description or go to the app forborn.com. If you go to the classroom and then go to new daily updates, you'll find the agent operating system right here with the whole setup. You can see it's updated daily. Plus,

you get a zip file to quickly install it. And also, every time there's something new or useful that drops, we add a new tutorial on it as you can see. So, every time something useful comes out, we create a video tutorial, full step-by-step guide. Plus, you can connect with the community. I answer all the questions inside the community with video tutorials every single day.

There's always people online 24/7 which means you can get help and support whenever you need it. You can also get all of my best trainings inside the classroom. Inside the calendar you can jump on weekly coaching calls. We have four per week so you can ask any questions in real time. And then also inside the map you can meet people in your local area who are building with AI agents like you. So I'll see you inside

there. Cheers for watching. So, there's a brand new update from Hermes agent which is computer use and you can now use computer use on Windows and Linux as well and also there's been improvements on the Mac OS. So, if you're not sure what this is, basically this means the Hermes agent can now control your computer. Let me show you an example.

So, we got Hermes Jarvis over here inside our agent operating system. And for example, if we switch on real time and we'll say, "Hey, can you open up Obsidian for me?" Boom. Look at that. It literally opens up Obsidian. Hey, can

you open up Julianoldie.com? Boom. Shakalaka. It opens up juliangoldoldie.com.

And then we're going to switch that off. And what we can also do is switch over here to agent mode. Now agent mode is pretty powerful because now we can actually have it improving and building stuff directly inside our computer. So not only can we get Hermes Javvis to for example open websites, control a computer, open up Obsidian, whatever, we can also have this working in the background working on task with agent mode inside Hermes Jarvis as well. So if we say, hey, can you open up notes and just write a quick note saying hello?

Look at that. It just opens it up instantly. Pretty crazy stuff. Um, also this can speak to us as well and it's pretty powerful. So, let me explain exactly how it works in a second. And

then just to show you as well that it can like talk back and that sort of thing. If we switch on real time here and we've got the sound on now. >> Hey, are you there? How's it going? >> Quite well, sir. Ever ready to assist

you? How may I be of service today? >> Can you open up Google for me? >> Google is now open, sir. >> So, we can see how that works basically.

And if you're wondering, okay, how does this whole system loop around? How do you get Hermes agent to control your computer like this? Let me walk you through the whole system. And this is using something I call the Hermes takeover engine. And essentially what you can do is you can get Hermes now to click and type on your computer in the background with its own cursor. Yours doesn't move. So for

example, when we created that note before that says hello, it doesn't interfere with what you're doing on screen. So you can work on something at the same time and it will just work in the background. And this just landed on Windows and Linux too, which is pretty awesome. So you can say, okay, you ask uh you can say, "Do this for me." It reads the screen. It clicks

and types. It does it in the background. Everything gets done. And then you can keep typing or doing whatever you're doing whilst it's working on all that other stuff. Now, you might be worried here like, "Wow, it can take over my screen. These AI agents can take over my

screen. Like, won't this lock me out or something like that?" Well, that's really the whole point of this one is it doesn't. It works in the background. So your real mouse doesn't actually move.

Your windows don't jump to the front. Your desktops don't switch. Your agent is just working in the background with this system. This really changes everything. So the way this works is in five steps with the Hermes takeover engine. So it's a

quiet takeover, right? It's driving your desktop in the background. Your cursor stays where it is. Your windows stay put. Nothing pops up in the front. You

and the agent just work on the same machine at the same time. You can hand it any OS. So, Mac, Windows, and now Linux. Whatever you run, Hermes can click and type on it. Same simple commands, same background magic. And we

have two options. So, you can have ultra fast inside Hermes Jarvis or you can have agent mode. Agent mode can do a lot more. It's a lot more powerful in the background. Auto is just like super fast, like literally real time as you saw before. And then it can do basic

things as well with this. So it depends you know what you're automating with computer use and how powerful you want it to be. Now you can do this with any brain you want which means for example you could plug in uh we've got local models we've got free APIs we have oorthth like for example grock working with Hermes Javis whatever you want to work with this you can have it working and there's also a stop button whenever we want as well. So we can click this on and off if you want to or we could refresh a page and it's pretty powerful stuff. And so how this works is you've got like two people operating the same machine you whatever you're doing and also Hermes that's working in the background and both are happening at once and it's handsfree when you use something like this. So this is now available on

Windows and Linux as well. So Mac OS, Windows, Linux, they all work through one Hermes and they can all click and work in the background which is pretty amazing. So, you know, some people say, "Ah, you only can do this on Mac." No, you can do it on everything now because of this new update that's just dropped today. And the cool thing about this is that any AI can drive this. So, most

computer use tools only work with one model, but Hermes doesn't care which AI you bring. So, it could be Claude, it could be GPT, it could be Gemini, could be a free API as long as it's got vision. Um, you can use the one you already have set up or you could use a free API. So, you don't need to pay for like Claude or something like that to do this. And then there's one command to switch it on which you can see here. So you

just use per hermes computer use install and then you can go from there. Other people say well I'm not technical. Is this going to be a nightmare to set up? So it's literally like three commands inside your terminal or inside Hermes directly. It's pretty chill to use. Bear

in mind like our actual agent operating system where we've built in Hermes Jarvis which is kind of like a customized version of this which you know is voice activated and everything else like people have joined our AR profitable boredom community got the agent OS set up and set this up within like 30 minutes. So if they can do it and I'm non technical and I can do it then you can do it too. So if you want Hermes computer use wired into a full agent operating system where you have Hermes you can have a a live chat with it here. You can jump inside the studio, generate images, videos, voice. You can have a workspace. We even got goal mode

and all sorts of crazy stuff here. Like for example, we have a loop engine system for agent loops with Hermes. And we also have a memory system here where basically all of our memories are visualized inside the Galaxy. Plus, you get four coaching calls a week. And I do daily tutorials and answer your questions daily as well inside there.

You can get that all inside the air profit boardroom with the agent operating system. Now, you might be wondering, okay, what if this tries to do something crazy on my computer as well? You know, what about that? Well, basically, it will actually ask before it touches anything. So, handing your computer to an AI sounds pretty scary, but actually isn't because every click or keystroke stops at a wall, your yes.

And you know, anything that might be destructive, for example, like deleting or editing a file, the agent will wait for your approval and then it will act, which is pretty good. So, if you look at the old way, you got hours of clicking, repetitive clicking, renaming, copying, and pasting. Sometimes you would let a tool grab your mouse, you know, like an AI computer use tool, but it would freeze you out until it's finished. Close use does that. It's quite annoying. and you kind of watch

your mouse move around the screen whilst you have to wait for it to finish. And sometimes like computer use is super slow. So it's not that powerful when you're using clawed. So if you're using for example claw computer use well number one you can't operate your screen at the same time and number two it gets a lot of stuff wrong. Whereas with this setup it actually works as you've seen and it's super smooth as as you've seen today as well. So you can just tell

Hermes to task once in plain words. It clicks and types in the background. Your mouse never moves. your windows don't jump and it runs a Mac, Windows or Linux and any model can drive it, even a free local one as well. Some people say, "Well, I tried a computer use tool before and it was useless." Same. Most

of them are. The thing that made them useless was usually because it just takes over your screen and also it was super slow. Whereas, as you've seen today, like it works smoothly on all the demos and it's pretty powerful stuff. So, some people say, "Well, letting an AI control my computer, it sounds a bit crazy. but it asks before it does anything that could be, you know, slightly destructive, like deleting a file, that sort of thing. Other people

say, well, wait until this stuff is more mature. But honestly, if you're early, you're one move ahead, so you should start learning it right now whilst you've got the head start on everyone else. Other people say, well, this is only for coders and techies. Actually, no. You can set it up in three words from the terminal, as I've mentioned before. And also, the great thing about

this is that I'm non technical. I've tested it and it works. So, if I can do it, anyone can do it. So, what have you learned today? You learned how to stop clicking. You learned how to keep

working whilst computer use runs in the background. You learned how to use this even if you're not on a Mac because it works on Windows and Linux. You stopped being locked into one single model. You stayed in control because it asks before it acts. And you stopped having to um pay for models because you can just use a free local model, right? And the agent

finally has hands. and it's working in the background. So if you want to test this out, if you want Hermes computer use actually doing things for you, not just another tool that you test once, you can grab Hermes Jarvis with the agent operating system inside the air profit boarding. It turns Hermes cla open claw into one system with shared memory. So the agent driving your screen already understands you as well. I mean

Hermes Jav is pretty powerful like we can see everything that was spoken with it about before. It's got previews of everything that we've built. It's got a workspace where we can actually see everything that we've created previously and we can also jump inside the studio and this is all voice activated and it works in real time which is crazy stuff. So if you want to get that it's inside the AI profitable link in the comments description or go to the AI profitboarding.com inside the community you can ask questions get help and support. If you

want the stuff that I've shown you today that's inside the agent OS system as you can see and we update this daily with a new video tutorial a zip file and everything else. You also get new updates as things come out, which is super useful as well. And if you're a complete beginner at this stuff, you can go from beginner to expert inside this training in the classroom. You also get four weekly coaching calls. So if you need to jump on a Zoom call, ask questions, share your screen, speak to someone, you can do that on four coaching calls per week. Inside the map,

you can meet people locally in your area who are building with AI agents like you. And we've already got 187 pages of testimonials and wins from people getting awesome results with this stuff. So if you want to join us, link in the comments description or just go to the aiprofit.com. Thanks for watching. Hermes Jarvis is

blowing my mind. This is a voice activated version of Javvis is really really fast. Let's just open this up. Hey, you there Jarvis mate? How's it going?

>> Very well indeed sir. Ready to assist you with anything you need today. Open up Obsidian for me. >> Opening Obsidian now, sir. >> Open up Google for me.

>> Google is up and running. Sir, >> what do you think we should work on today? >> Might I suggest refining the next YouTube title formula? >> Stop. Or >> Understood, sir. We'll leave it there

for now. >> Carry on. >> Very well, sir. Perhaps we could refine. >> Of course, sir. Standing by. Teach me

some Japanese. >> Certainly, sir. Let's start with something simple. Konichiwa means good afternoon or hello. >> Certainly. No trouble at all, sir. Ready

whenever you are. >> Can you build a snake game for me? >> A snake game, sir. An intriguing little challenge. I can certainly help guide you through that or draft some code.

Where shall we begin? >> Can you build out a snake game in real time for me, please, mate? I can certainly guide you through building it step by step, sir. Let's start with the basics. >> Actually, stop there.

>> Understood, sir. We'll hold off for now. >> Give me a daily briefing. >> Certainly, sir. Today is the 20th of June, 2026. Your YouTube channel's views

are strong, and we've got the Open Claw ecosystem at your fingertips. Anything particular you'd like to focus on today? Good morning, sir. The day is light on meetings, but rich in housekeeping. The Vault LLM wiki restructure and your atomic note layer await alongside a fleet of SEO keyword sets you've been circling. Before any video goes out, the

transcripts need attention. Clawed AI, Anthropic, and Clawed Code have all been mangled, and your export is still stamped with the Buddhist calendar, which rather upsets date sorting. On the wires, 60% of US consumers now find AI and brand messaging a turnoff. Worth bearing in mind before your next headline, sir. >> So, I'm just going to switch off real time there, but you can basically see that we can talk to Hermes agent. We can

get it to open stuff up. is it's the fastest I've ever seen computer use. And this is something that we've just built in and improved and, you know, worked on over and over again. And I just show you this to inspire you and also to show you like having a really powerful voice agent. Like you can see it's really, really cool. So you can see if we scroll

down here, number one, we've got all the conversation history of everything we've done. Number two, it responds in real time. I can stop it at any time. And I can also ask it to open stuff up. Like if we say, for example, open up Google, it just opens up like really, really quickly. And then you can see everything

that we've built over here as well. So we've got all this stuff that we've built with Hermes Jarvis. And we can see that we've created stuff with voice activation like so which is pretty wild. And we can also open that stuff up later too. So if we click on this for example, we can open it up just as a preview and then we can open it up in full as well.

Like and the cool thing about this is you know usually when you're using voice agents, it's pretty hard to find like the history of what you've created and come back to it. Whereas inside this agent operating system that we've built, you can just get Hermes Jarvis ready to go. We've also kind of tried to give it that butler vibe as well when we're speaking to it. We used uh chat chubet real time which seems to be like the fastest for responding to us. And the great thing is like we can switch on real time on or off. We can have that

inside wall mode as well. And also before I show you wall mode, look at this. So what we can see here is it basically has a look at my Obsidian memory. It looks at the suggested focus, what's open and to-do, the notes that we've recently touched, what we've recently worked on. It tells me, it knows like the day and everything like that. Then also, it's got these open

action items. Now, if we click on one of those, we can actually go straight to Obsidian to see the open action items. So, it's all plugged into my memory and my context. And if you're wondering, how do we set up? We have a memory galaxy here. Now, the great thing about this is

number one, it's got a lot of context on me. And that's one of the other issues with voice is like you either have a voice agent that doesn't know a lot about you or you have a voice agent that knows a lot about you but it's really really slow. And we've tried to create a really fast version of that. And this is by far the fastest I've ever seen. It's literally real time. And then any

conversations that we have with Hermes as well, they get logged inside our obsidian memory. So you can see those right here. 3 minutes ago, 23 minutes ago. I don't have to touch those. they just get automatically logged which is great because then the next time we use Hermes it's going to be smarter it's going to have more context it's going to understand us and also you can see here it uses a combination it understands like inside our memory system like here's my protein target here's how many steps I target each day uh here's what I'm working on so it blends personal and business together inside the system we can go straight through to any of these memories as you've seen already with obsidian which is pretty cool then we've got the themes so in terms of like what we're working on, what we've recently worked on. So, it

actually knows the projects we've worked on recently, which blows my mind. So, for example, if you see here, it's got like keywords agent OS guide. Why is it thing that because we've set up this website recently that we literally just updated today with all these guides on everything that I'm working on and and so like it's creating this universe where it understands me and I I think this is the future of where everything's going because if you look at agents, the easier they can be. So, for example, if you can just talk to it, kind of like Alexa or Siri, and you can just have a quick chat with it, and it responds faster. I mean, literally, this is faster than uh my Alexa that I have at home, which is kind of embarrassing. Um,

but yeah, this is way faster, way easier to use, way more agent, way more powerful, and we've built it ourselves. So, I show this just to inspire you, but also to show you like, okay, this stuff is really, really powerful. I mean, that's a fantastic use case. Now also what we can do here is we can plug it in wall mode. What happens in wall mode as you can see here is that it has our daily briefing. We can also click on

weekly. We can see the history of previous briefings as well like so. We can close that if we want to. And then we can see the full history and also we can have this real time sat in the background. So what that means for example is like I could have like three monitors. This could be on one monitor

just sitting on the wall listening to me and then whilst I'm doing something else I can speak to Hermes and get it working on different things and pulling in the context. So it absolutely blows my mind and and people say like what's the point of these agents? What's the use case? How do you actually use them in reality? Well, you can see here it's it's a voice powered AI agent that can control your computer that can do tasks for you that can give you daily briefings that can sit in the background kind of like Alexa but it's way more powerful that you can build stuff with. versus I showed you

inside the preview that responds in real time that can even for example like teach you languages and that sort of thing and also understands every single memory to use to the point that you've probably forgotten a lot of the me I mean personally I've forgotten a lot of the memories inside here but this system is fully set up so that it knows everything about me better than I know myself I don't remember the conversation I have 5 minutes ago genuinely I don't remember every single line but my obsidian memory system and Hermes Jarvis does. And so that's the power of this stuff. It's like, you know, it's something where you can build a system. We I literally made this from scratch. And also some people say, well, why don't you use Hermes desktop or Hermes terminal? But you can't organize

the interface like this, right? This is absolutely mind-blowing when you think about it. This is way more customized and personalized. And the way that I would look at this is like what are you spending your time on? And then how can you automate that? So like one of my

next steps for this project is to basically automate my SEO. So I'll be able to go into Hermes Javis and say, "Hey, here's the keywords that I'm focused on. Can you just look at my Obsidian memory, pull in my case studies and recent information, and then use that to publish this to my websites?" And I think with that sort of system, like you could automate your SEO, you could automate um you could create videos with AI, you could build your memory and everything else. And you could make this way more powerful. So

this is something where if you saw like the previous tutorials a few months ago, this was super basic, but now it's just getting better and better and better. So I just say it to inspire you. We've also built inside the Hermes agent operating system like the chat, the talk, the Hermes Jarvis, of course, the studio where we can generate images, videos, voice notes, etc. We got a workspace where everything built with each individual model is inside the system too as you can see. So grock build, GLM 5.2, to Kimik K217. And then

we've also got like all of the stuff that I work on day-to-day. So for example like loop engineering with Hermes with plugs in here, SEO, video agents, music agents, even fusion which fuses five different models together to get a better answer in frontier level technology. All of this is just built in one system. So I've got it live ready to go and I can just open it up and automate whatever I want whenever I want. So if you haven't already checked this out, feel free to get it. I I mean

you could build this yourself. It's taken me a lot of time and a lot of effort to build this out. You could make it yourself, you know, and that's kind of fun to do. But if you want to get my setup, you can get that inside the AR profitable boardroom. So, if you go to the agent OS system right here, we update this daily. We'll add a new

version today. We updated it yesterday already. You get video tutorial, the full guide, the zip file, and every new release that comes out, which we update daily, you'll get inside here. Now, you can also ask questions inside the community. I answer these personally with video tutorials very quickly. So

you can see for example here uh Dan asked a question four hours ago about nobook with the agent OS. We already replied to him and gave him the full details here. So if you want quick answers, if you want an amazing community, if you want the help and support um and also my personal advice, you can get that inside here. Also add new daily tutorials and new lessons as you can see inside the calendar. You can jump on weekly coaching calls, get help and support in real time, share your screen, inside the map. You can meet

people locally who are building with AI agents like Hermes and all this other stuff. And this is all inside the AI profit boardroom. Link in the comments description or go to the aiprofit.com. Thanks for watching. So, this is a

powerful mission control center that you can use to control your agents to get anything done and automate almost anything. So, as an example of that, if we check out some examples of what we've built here, we can preview everything that we've created. We can create tools. We can create even like flashcard apps etc. We can even build out tools for my agency. And not only that, but we can

also generate videos. And Hermes has a free agent for creating videos built directly inside its skill set. Now, one of the biggest differences here is like if you're using Hermes normally, really Hermes is just a messenger, right? It's literally just a messenger. It's very difficult to control if you don't have a good setup. And the problem is as well

that you can't really see what you've created previously. So, let me show you an example of this. If we go into our terminal here, this is how you would typically handle your Hermes agent. This is what most people look at. If you look at the screen, it's not easy to manage.

It's not easy to see what you've created. It's not easy to control and it's not easy to sort of showcase and preview what you've previously built with Hermes agent. Now, let's compare that to the system we've got over here, which is the Aentic OS. And you can see a huge difference between everything, right? You can see how we can preview everything inside the chat. We can see

what we've created here. We can see how Hermes has responded to us and what we've built previously. We can even connect MCPs in one single click. And we've got this amazing control room where we can actually see what we've built, what we've connected the tools to, what skills we've got plugged into our system, and what plugins and everything else. Now, that's not just it. So, for example, inside this

operating system, we also have a camb board here where you can assign tasks and then your team of agents can get it done. So if I say okay build a keyword strategy, I can just plug in a mission inside the task section here and it will assign it to different agents and then go off and implement everything, right? And you see how it's got this beautiful UI dashboard for pretty much everything that we've built. We've even got different assets that we've connected Notebook LM to and then we can operate Notebook LM directly with Hermes Agent and preview it inside this beautiful UI. So if you're using Hermes agent, this is the most powerful way to really build it in. Now the reason that I recommend

having an agent operating system like this is that most operators in 2026 are running the AI like it's 2024. You know they have a tab open for claw the tab open for chat GPT a terminal for Hermes another tab for openclaw and files scattered across finder with no memory shared between any of it. Now if you compare that side by side with the agent OS system it's a totally different experience and one that makes using all of your AI agents 10 times more powerful. I mean again for example if we want to for example have a look at what we've built with open core even we can pull in all of our agents on the side here and just check and preview everything which is pretty awesome. So this was like a beautiful UI that we built previously. We've got our main

workspace with our soulm files, all of our videos that we've created, everything set up right here with even and this is what I really like about this setup is like if you wanted to create a video with Hermes agent using some of the skills that you've trained it on. Well, inside the terminal, it would be number one difficult to remember what skills you've created and therefore call them back and number two difficult to organize and preview what you've built, right? Very difficult to really see and visualize what you've created. Whereas, for example, inside the mission control in agent OS, we can go inside here, type a prompt, click create, and it will actually go off and start creating a video for us. So, here's some examples of different videos that we've built using this whole system, and we can preview, we can check what we've created, we can watch it back. We have everything set up inside a

beautiful UI. So, this is one of the biggest differences. The other thing that I would say here is like you really need a good system for managing your AI agent simply because if you look we've got a full memory set up as a a knowledge graph that we can preview inside our system. Now if we go to open claw we go to Hermes agent we can use that to build better things in the future. Whereas for example if you're using Hermes agent inside the chat here you don't really have that visual element to your memories. You can't really see what

you've created. you can't see and look back at what you've built. And the other thing that I like as well is that with the mission control set up here, we can view our agents. We can see what the status of all of them is. And if we build something with Hermes, we can then use that and adapt it inside openclaw.

And so they all link together. Now, we've also got the details on our obsidian vault here. And if we go to the recent section, you can see that this is automatically synced. And we can see our memories inside the setup, too. So, everything is loaded. Everything is

ready to go. We can even use claude code for free inside the setup too. You know that can generate images, it can create videos as well using this whole setup. So really powerful system. Now if you compare the old way versus the new way, you know, the old way was having everything in one terminal, you know, four different tabs, four different terminals, etc. And then you've got

every agent just starting cold. Like 20% of every prompt is you just reexplaining your context. Additionally, everything that you create, if you're doing inside the terminal here, everything you create just kind of disappears, right? The stuff that I've created inside the terminal with Hermes agent that just can't preview anymore. I can't see anymore. And that's simply because it's

very difficult to manage everything like where are all your files? Where are all the apps you built? And and so how do you recollect it? You can't, right? Also, the other thing I would say here is there's no persistent memory history across everything. So if I go into chat

GP or I go into claude in a different tab, well, how do I have the memory connected? It's very difficult to do that. Whereas if you have an agent operating system that's running locally, it's also connected locally to your memory systems that help you build and automate anything as well. The other thing I would say here is this is a constantly evolving system. So for example, if you have a look at at everything that we built here, we just add and layer new things in. So for

example, if you look at Hermes Miniax M3 just came out very recently. We plugged it into this system within hours of the announcement and I can do that very quickly. And so you can adapt and evolve your agent operating system based on what you want to have. So for example, if I do a lot of SEO, I'm going to add an SEO system inside here, which you can see right here. Right? If I do a lot of

video, great. Let's create a video agent. And so you can add in new workflows and new systems and new setups. And the cool thing about this is you can share it with a community. You can share what you've built. You can

have different customizations inside your own agent operating system and just really make it your own, which we like as well. You know, you can customize every And that's something we've done with loads of people inside my communities just to help them really like set up their own sort of custom AI dashboard that automates every single element of all of their workflows. The other thing I like here too is like if we for example see the anti-grafty CLI comes out for sure we're going to set that up inside the agent operating system too. And then we can plug in our goals. We can add a daily journal in here. We can have the camb board

orchestrating all of our agents together. And we have a build guide here too. So I can look back and reflect on this in terms of how have I built everything out together which is great. Also this kind of sync two ways. So if you look at Hermes agent for example when we're using this we can switch between different modes right so we can use goal mode which allows Hermes agent to run for hours autonomously without us we can also use the chat we can have a look through the workspace we've got the MCPS in the control room right and so if there's any sort of element or new layer that comes out to Hermes agent like for example last week they brought out the MCP connection where you can easily install MCPS we can just set that up in hours so that's what I love about this whole system whereas is for example, you know, the old way with eight tabs open and no memory. Wow, I'm glad I don't

have to do that anymore. Now, when you're doing an agent operating system like this one, basically the cool thing about this too is that you've got one dashboard and every agent connects inside one sidebar. So, we've got all of our agents here. Additionally, we've got the Obsidian memory layer. So, every agent reads your business, your clients, your invoice, every session. Then,

you've got the workspace tab where you can view everything that you've previously created. And you've also got persistent history per agent. So for example, if we go inside the chat here, we can scroll up and see everything that we've created previously, which is awesome. And you can also plug in a free API into something like this. So for example, our alpha on open router is a free API. You can plug it in. Mini maps

with alarm in the cloud is free up to certain token limits as well, which is pretty cool. And then you can actually change different agents depending on what you're doing. The result is you just have an agent operating system. They get smarter every day you use it. And that's the power of all this stuff.

So that's basically the power of an Asian operating system. Why Hermes agent OS is so powerful. How to use it, how to set up, the benefits, why it's so much better. Literally, you're going to get 10 times more out of your agents by doing something like this instead of relying on the old way. If you want to get my setup, you can get it inside the AI profit boardroom. If you go to the

classroom here, we've got the full setup tutorial, the video guide step by step, and we've also got the files that you can load as a zip file to install this. You can also ask questions inside the community daily. And with the community, what we actually do is we create video tutorials for you based on the new stuff that comes out. And additionally, you can jump on weekly coaching calls. You get four coaching calls a week where you can ask questions, get help and support in real time.

Inside the map, you can actually meet people in your local city who are using AI agents like you. And this is all inside the AI profit boarding link in the comments description or just go to the aiprofitboarding.com to get access to it. Thanks for watching. This new agent operating system for Hermes is absolutely wild. I'm going to show you

exactly what I built, but this is basically what you need with your Hermes agent if you really want to get the full power of it. And the reason that I say that is because the way that I see people using AI agents, and you might have experienced this yourself, is like nobody knows the actual use case. Nobody knows why they're using it because they don't have a good system to manage their Hermes agent or any sort of agent in general. And the problem with that is that they don't really get the most out of it. Now, bear in mind like this is the most powerful technology we've probably ever had as human beings, right? And it's totally changing the

face of the planet. But the biggest issue is nobody really understands it. And the reason for that is if you're using Hermes agent. Let me explain. If you're using Hermes agent, normally you're going to be using Hermes inside the terminal like so. And then you've

got this terminal window and you're just operating on a single chat basis. You plug in a prompt here, you get something back, but that's all. And that really is just a glorified chat GPT. If you're using Hermes agent, there's no point you even using Hermes agent at that point. You're just wasting your time. Now, what

I think, and this is what's worked for me and totally changed everything in terms of the way I manage my AI agents, is having one dashboard, one mission control with all your agents built in. And every time something new comes out that's actually useful with, for example, Hermes, you can plug it in. Let me show you an example here. For example, Miniax M3 comes out, probably the most autonomous Aentic model that's ever been released. It can run for 24 hours on its own. So, what do we build

in? We build in a goals mode into our agent operating system. We plug in a goal and then it can go off for 20 12 hours, 24 hours. I can go to sleep, come back and it's getting work done. Plus, it's all saved inside my workspace. This

is another powerful use case for an agent operating system is that you can actually save everything in one place and preview everything that you've created. So, here's some examples of what we've built, right? And you see the quality of the websites as well. It looks super nice. You can even, for example, do like trailers, voiceovers, podcasts, videos, and everything is in one place. Now tell me how are you going

to find that if you're using the terminal you're not right now you might say okay Julian Permy's desktop has just come out let's do that instead but the thing is you're going to have the same problem which is where are your other agents where's your team where's Claude and also how do you preview your artifacts so as an example of this what are you looking at here how's it going to help you so for example if we click on this markdown file we've created we can't really preview it inside the app right you're not going to get a full preview it's not going to help You can't really see any images you've previously created in Hermes desktop unless you start creating them in the future. Right? Whereas for example, you compare that to an agent operating system and it's just a mission control. You are the captain of the ship. You are the one managing everything, keeping everything in one place and you do it in a beautiful design that you can custom make anytime you want. That's the thing.

I have made this. This is something that I've built from scratch and it's customized exactly how I want it to be. The reason it looks like this is because I've decided it looks like this, right? And it's the same for you. You as a business owner, probably one of the reasons you got into business because you want control and also you want freedom. You're not going to get that if

you're using the terminal, right? Unless you're a coder and then maybe you have a bit more freedom. You have some skills and some chops with Hermes agent that you can use inside the terminal. But most of the time, 99% of the time, this is going to be something that gives you way more power, that's going to make you feel way more in control of your agents, that's going to help you get the most out of them, right? And the other thing I would say here as well is that if you're using Hermes directly inside the desktop, quite a lot of the things that should be working aren't working. I'll

give you an example. So if we want to do voice mode here, we have to allow a microphone, but there's no option to allow my microphone, right? So how do I do it? I have to figure it out and spend 20 minutes googling it or going inside chat GPT or cla or whatever. Whereas for example, if I go inside Hermes on my agent operating system, I can just click this button. Boom. Shakalaka. We can

start having a conversation. How are you today, Hermes? >> Boom. Shakalaka. right back at you. I'm

great. Thanks for asking. Ready to chat whenever you are. >> You see the difference right there? That is what we're talking about. Now, also

one of the big things that I would say is like whether it's with Hermes, whether it's with Claude, whether it's with Open Claw, you can switch between them. You can create and organize things like you see here, you can add new features in the functionality, but also the reason that I'd recommend organizing your agents with an operating system is that you can add new features. So, Claude just dropped this new feature called Ant CLI and it came out about 5 hours ago. And guess what we did? We plugged it straight in as a CLI into the agent operating system that we have. And

the great thing about that is that it makes it 10 times easier to see and organize and add new things in. So we can take advantage of that new system. Whereas for example, if I was trying to figure out an CLI on my own, what a nightmare that would be because I'd have to look at the update here. I'd scroll down the page looking at all the demo videos a bit overwhelmed and then I click on the API documentation. And if you're not a coder, tell me how you're going to understand that. Tell me how

you're going to use that. Right? It's going to be very difficult and very timeconuming. It's the same with news research. Like when they released, for example, Hermes with MCPS and the MCP catalog, most people didn't use that because they didn't understand how to use it. Whereas, for example, if you

plug it into an agent operating system, this is a beautiful thing about CLIs and also stuff like Hermes with the open source projects is you're like, "This sounds cool. I don't know how to use it, but let's plug it into the agent operating system." so they actually can use it in a very quick way. Let's say something comes out, 10 minutes later, boom, you can plug it in. And so this is why I recommend using Hermes with an agent operating system. And also how

powerful this is. This stuff is crazy, right? The other thing I would say here is like if you've got, for example, lots of stuff going on, which I'm sure you probably do, then you probably want a memory system. Right now, how do you get a good memory system set up? We have an obsidian vault, which you can see here.

All these are different things about me and different notes and that sort of thing. So you can see that we can plug in and look at these memories and everything that I've created. And then my AI agents can plug in the dots and use those to get good information. So if we go back over here, you can see, for example, we have all of the memories inside our vault that my AI agents can pull from. Why is that useful? It's

useful because it helps my Hermes agent take that information, understand how it can apply all of that context and then also it saves me time and energy because I don't have to reexplain myself about 100 times which I normally do if I'm having to go into Claude or chat cheapy and give it context. So for memory, for context, for UI, for speed of use, for efficiency, and also just for breaking super technical stuff down and turning into something that's actually useful, basically being the bridge between new updates and actually implementing those updates, I would recommend an agent operating system. The old core thing I like is just in general being able to switch between the sessions and the skills and the plugins and seeing everything. And then the final thing I would say and this is particularly important for Hermes agent is that having an agent operating system with a cambard you can control is great if you wanted to use a cam normally let me show you how to do that. So you'd have to go into Hermes news research and look through this tutorial which is again I think in the modern age most people are not reading blog posts most people are not going to spend an hour trying to understand all the terminal commands and everything else. So how do you condense

that into something you can actually use? How do you take this technical information and make it implementable? What you can do is you just for example set something like this up where it's like okay I just have to type something in and then we get it running right. So I type in building AI SEO keyword research strategy. Boom. We have that

built in. That's what you want. That's how easy this stuff can be if you have the right systems in place. And that's the final thing that I would say is you don't want an agent. Agents come and go, right? You don't want API. APIs come and

go. You don't want a new model. Models come and go. What you want is a system. You want a system where you can organize everything. And this is something I've

learned from running my own business is like when you've got I'll give you an example. So if you look at Google and the way that Google has become so successful as a company is because they have amazing systems. The people they come and go, right? The CEOs and the directors and the teams and the amazing talent that they actually hire, they will come and go over the years. But the system aka for example just going into Google. This system has been there since

day one and it will be there for the probably the rest of the history of Google, right? And so why is that? It's because you need a system and that's how powerful agent operating systems are. That's why they're so useful. If club mythos comes out next month, no problem.

We plug it in. If Hermes agent releases version one instead of v 0.15, no problem when you plug in. So everything is interchangeable and that's why you want it as well. And then also you're going to have positive feedback loop.

Whereas, for example, you test some of this stuff out and you're like, there's something here that I don't like. No problem. Let's tweak it, make it better for the next time, right? So, you can have this positive feedback loop where the more you try it, the better it gets because you're giving it more feedback on how to improve it. And so, it gets better and better. And it's this

positive cycle that goes up. So, thanks so much for watching. If you want to learn more about building agent operating system, you can actually grab mine from the AI profit boardroom link in the comments in the description or just go to the profitboom.com. So, you have the agent operating system right here. We have a video tutorial on how to

use it. And not just that, we have updated daily new zip files for all the new features that we build in. So every time we build in, we add the new last updated date. We give you a video tutorial on how to use it. We have a community that's building with this stuff and you can get the zip file right here. And the one thing I would say

about this is that some people are going to look at all this and think it's too difficult for me, too technical for me. It's not. If you can message a friend, you can use AI agents. If you can text a friend, then you can build an mission control. Or you can just grab mine and install it. But you can see for example

Mike, he's from the aircraft aboard him. He's got his mission control running and he said it's absolutely amazing. Right? You can see for example Ravit as well built out an agent operating system, integrated it with NA10 and now he just has it command and it builds the automations for them. Right? Same for

David. David built out a beautiful agent operating system too. My point here is that anyone can do this. I've seen so many people who have never touched AI get amazing results with AI when they have the right systems in place. So, thanks so much for watching. If you want

to get the system, get it inside the air profit boardroom link in the comments description. Go to the air profit.com. We have an amazing community of 3,300 business owners where you can ask questions, get help and support, etc. Inside the classroom, you can get all my best new tutorials. We actually update

this daily with new trainings as you can see. Every time something new comes out that's actually useful, we will break it down into a full step-by-step guide as you can see with a 30-day road map, 100 prompts for implementing it in a video tutorial. Plus, you can connect with me personally. We have weekly coaching calls. We have four week calls where you can jump on a call, ask questions in real time, get help and support, meet other cool people as well. Inside the

map, you can actually connect with people in your local city who are building AI agents like you. So you can see that across every major city, we have people all over the world building out and you can connect with them personally too. And you can get that all inside the AR profit board. Thanks for watching. See you inside there. Cheers.

Bye-bye. Today we have a brand new update from Hermes agent. They've released Hermes desktop. Now, how does that compare to having an agent operating system? Which one should you pick? Should you go with a Hermes

desktop app, or is it better to have a full agent operating system for your team of agents? Let's get into it. I'm going to compare them side by side today and see how they perform. This is my agent operating system. You might have built your own mission control for AI agents before and you're like, "Okay, Hermes have just released this new desktop app. Do I need to switch? Do I

need to keep an agent operating system? which one is the best for managing agents. Let me get straight into it and show you the exact difference here and what it means. Now, just to explain this very clearly, Hermes desktop app, the new one that just came out, is like the official desktop app from Hermes where you can plug in your AI agent and start using it. So, you can see, for example, we can use this right here. We've got

our artifacts and what we've created and this is an app that works on our desktop like and then of course you've got an agent operating system. Now, if you're not sure what an agent operating system is, essentially this is having a full command center of AI agents working together, right? So, for example, you got Claude, you got Open Claw, you got Hermes, you got Gemini, and in the same way that you'd have a desktop app, you've also got all of your multiple agents. So, it's not just limited to Hermes. So, which one is the best? The

first thing that I would say is if you run multiple agents, Hermes desktop application isn't going to be that useful because it's another tab. It's another window and it doesn't really solve the problem of switching between windows and tabs and different AI agents. So, for example, inside here, we can only operate Hermes directly. Whereas, for example, if we go inside an agent operating system, we can manage all our agents in one place. We got claw, we got open claw, we got Hermes all next to each other, all running together as a team. That's what we want.

This is one of the reasons that tools for example like paperclipip have become so popular because it's a team of agents, right? And I think that really is a future. I think last year was a year of AI agents. This year has been heavily focused on Hermes and OpenClaw. But really, if you look at the full power and how to unlock the full power of these AI agents, you want them working together as a team. And that's

what an agent operating system looks like. Now, the other thing that I would say here is if you actually look at the desktop app, it's very difficult to customize. So, you can change some of your settings, you can change the theme, you can change the models, that's all great. You can change the appearance here, which is perfect. But one of the biggest issues is that when you're using this, you can't really make any big changes. And what I mean, for example,

is if we go back into the agent operating system, this looks and feels exactly how I want it to look and feel because I control how it looks. And that's really a huge difference. It's going to help you a lot. It's going to make managing your AI agents more fun because when you open up, it's fun to use. Whereas, if you look at the UI of Hermes desktop, it feels a little bit retro. I think that fits with their

brand. Hermes agent has that kind of retro vibe. But at the same time, for me, if I'm using something for a few hours a day, I want it to look and feel exactly how I want it. And that's why I'd recommend using an agent operating system instead. And the other thing I would say here is if there's something new that comes out in a different tool, obviously you can't just plug it into Hermes desktop, right? You can't just

control it and change it and mold it the way that you want. You can't customize it in that way. Whereas, for example, let's say an CLI just dropped this morning, which it did from Claude, that was literally released 5 hours ago. and we can already plug it into an agent operating system. So I've already set it up right here. We can manage all our

agents. We got the files and everything like that. We can switch between different tools and it's already connected. And so what I'm saying here is number one, you can move faster. Number two, you can customize it more.

And number three, if something new comes out, it's just plug that in. The same for example with Hermes agent. If you look at the way the manage media inside Hermes desktop, let's say for example, whether that's images or videos or that sort of thing, you could potentially see it inside the images section here. But you see how there's no videos tab. And also, you can't really preview stuff inside the section here. So, it's not

that useful. Whereas, for example, if we go inside the studio, we can switch between images and video and voice. So, I would say if you want something super basic and you're not really you just want almost a little app siloed away for your Hermes agent, then maybe you would use a desktop. But I think if you want something that's really powerful, really useful, helps you automate a lot of stuff, and also helps you manage and organize and orchestrate agents in a much more efficient and fun way, then you would use something like an agent operating system, right? For example, if I just want to create an image and preview it, I can just do that right here. So I can plug that in. Hit

generate. Boom. That's going to generate in a few seconds. Way faster than for example if I want to generate an image here. Let's say create an image of a cat for example inside Hermes directly. And

you can see that it's thinking about it. But in that space we've already generated the image that we just prompted inside the agent operating system. Whereas if you go inside the Hermes desktop we actually it hasn't picked up that we can use image generation with Hermes which we obviously have already configured because we just did it over here. Right. It's a big difference right there. And

also not synced quite right. I'll show you another example. So again, we have that image generation and that video generation model plugged into Hermes agent inside our agent operating system. But when I actually installed the desktop app, for example, if we want to have a voice chat, it doesn't seem to work. So if we click on start voice chat here, it doesn't seem to work here. and

it says that you know access is denied but it doesn't give you an option to actually set up or it doesn't tell you how to fix that. Right? Whereas for example if you go inside the agent operating system that you've built, you can click on talk here and just have a conversation in real time. Hey, how's your day going? >> Pretty smooth so far. Thanks for asking.

How about yours? >> So you see how everything's just synced and linked together and it's easier to organize and customize. So some big differences right there. Other things that I would say is like if you've got some custom workflows like for me for example I like having a tab inside my agent operating system where I can quickly go and do some SEO right and I can deploy stuff to my website like you see right here when we do that inside the agent operating system the tabs right there right notebook limp we've got a tab right there for generating podcasts or videos or infographics we've got the video agent where we can plug in my AI avatar we can create videos and we've got the workspace ready to go whereas for example if you go inside let desktop. Again, you can't really customize it in that way. However, what

I will say, fair play to Hermes, is like they're moving in the right direction. They're creating some cool stuff. I think as well that in the future, this app is only going to get better. So, this is like day one of the app. Imagine what it's going to be like after month one or month two, month three. I'm

excited to see that. And also, if you look at the trajectory and the growth of Hermes this year, like they've already overtaken open core in terms of their popularity, which is amazing. And also they only launched in February. I think they're still on like V 0 V 0.15, right?

Whereas imagine what it's going to be like at version one of or Hermes agent version two. I'm excited for that. It's going to be awesome. So the final thing I would say is the one of the best things about Hermes is that you can have agent teams. You can have multiple profiles, multiple different agents working together. There doesn't seem to

be like an obvious way to use that inside the Hermes desktop app, right? So, I can't really organize the camb board of my AI agents working together. And I'm sure they'll build that in. Whereas, for example, you can see here, look how beautiful this Hermes camb board works. We can just plug in a mission here. We can switch between our

different profiles for Hermes. And we can launch a team of sub agents and agents working together to get whatever tasks we have done. And we can also see the history of what we've done over here as well. So again, I think if you want freedom, if you want customization, if you want multiple AI agents and if you want teams of Hermes profiles working together as well as custom workflows and new updates like daily, you would go with an agent operating system. Whereas for example, if you just wanted I it feels like just chat GBT, but for Hermes, then I would go inside Hermes directly here. But I just I don't see

myself using it dayto-day, honestly. So thanks so much for watching. That is Hermes desktop versus the agent operating system. Which one to use, which one to build, which one to go with? Again, you know, the old way you've got one agent in a desktop app, which is it's smart and it's open source, but it's just one agent. You

still drive it by typing. You have to manage to set up again. And I when I say manage to set up, for example, like you still have to plug in the voice, the image generation, you have to make sure it's synced properly. It doesn't seem to do that. Whereas, for example, the new way I would say is the agent operating system method where you've got multiple different agents, one screen, one mission control dashboard. You got

Hermes and all your other AI agents working together. You can build in your custom workflows. You got voice agent that actually works and live workspaces where you can actually build stuff as well. And if you look at the difference here, Hermes, it lives in desktop app whereas the agent operating system will live in a dashboard. With Hermes desktop, it seems like you only really got one agent inside each chat. Whereas

with agent operating system, you've got like as many as you want inside one. You can have your custom workflows. You can see everything at once with an agent operating system. You can't do that with Hermes. And then beginner friendly.

Hermes is beginner friendly inside the desktop app, but one of the biggest issues is that you still need to sync everything yourself, right? I would expect that it would get automatically synced because you're using Hermes official desktop app with the Hermes setup you have locally, but it didn't seem to as you saw with the voice and image generation test. So that's basically it. And if you want my full setup for the agent operating system, we've got it inside the AI profit boarding. This is my community for AI automation where you can learn, you can ask questions, you can connect with 3,300 business owners automating their business with AI. If you want my full

agent operating system, you can get that inside the community section here. So, inside the classroom, we have a full setup video tutorial. We show you when we last updated the operating system. You can get the zip file down here as well for the new version. And then we add new daily tutorials based on what comes out as well. So, we show you all

the cool stuff. As you can see right here, we have step-by-step road maps, 30-day plans, 100 prompts for each as well. So, you can get the most out of all this stuff. And inside the classroom, you get all of my new daily trainings. Inside the calendar, you can drop weekly coaching calls, ask questions, get help and support, meet of cool people who are doing stuff like this with you. Inside the community, you

can ask questions, too. You can connect with me personally. And it's all inside the AI profit boarding. So, see you inside there. Thanks for watching.

Cheers. Bye-bye. Today I'm going to show you the exact system I use to rank number one on Google multiple times for the same keyword with Hermes agent OS and not just on Google. The same content ranks on Google AR mode chat and Plexity all at the same time. One keyword, one prompt, five unique articles deployed automatically to your websites. And the

best part is Hermes agent can do all of it for you. In this video, I'm going to show you the full system step by step. So, by the end, you'll have a full SEO machine that can create content that actually ranks across every major platform automated. There's one thing I have to show you inside the system, too, that most people have no idea exists. And I'll get to that later, but stick with me to the end because this changes everything. Let's get into it. Today, I

want to show you some of the most powerful systems I've built for ranking number one for your target keywords inside Google. So, you can see us ranking for this keyword right here multiple times. And this is also across multiple different platforms like you can see right here. Also, if we scroll down the page, you can see another website of mine that's ranking for the same keyword, which is perfect. And then also, if we go over here to AI mode, you can see that we are ranking as the most recommended platform here as well, right? You can also see us ranking

inside here. So you can rank multiple times inside Google, inside Google AI mode, inside chat GPT, inside perplexity using this same process. You can also see inside chat GPT for this keyword also rank in here and it actually pulls us with our website inside the search results too. So the great thing about this is you can create content that ranks multiple times across multiple different platforms and you can do it using Hermes agent OS. So let me talk you through how the system works. So the

first thing that we need to do is we need to find some good keywords to rank for. How do we do that? The way that I like to do this is I will use my memory system which is obsidian and that pulls in all the stuff that I've worked on recently, all the projects I have and it will give me relevant recommendations based on that. So as an example of this, I said based on my Obsidian vault, what keywords would be good for AI SEO for the AI profit boarding? And then you can see it says recommended AI SEO keywords.

And then it gives me some core ones, some high intent keywords as well. We've got value stack related keywords, tech and workflow keywords, and also growth and keywords, right? So many different keywords from many different angles. But the main point here is I don't even have to explain my context and what I'm trying to do or what my goal is. Hermes is already locked in, already knows exactly what it wants me to do and what I'm currently focused on as a project.

How does it know that? Because of this system right here, the memory system. It's an infinite context engine. This is a powerful system where it knows, okay, this is the AR prof. This is everything he's working on. These are all his

notes. We actually click on that. You can see here it's got this information about me. And this is plugged not just into Hermes, but into all my agents, right? If I go into, for example, Claude, Claude knows the same thing and how to work on that. So, we've got the

keywords. Perfect. Now, what we need to do is plug that keyword into our system along with a case study. So, as an example of that, we come back to those keywords we found before, like this one, for example, we can go back into the target keyword section here, and we can add some new information as a case study to plug into this system. Why do we want to do that? Because we want to make sure

this content is unique, personalized to me, optimized to convert, and also has something new and interesting to say. We don't want to just go with generic chatb fluff. So let's say for example I've got this information here. I can plug that into our case study section. If you want to add anything inside there as well, you can like this. So we can copy that.

Then we're going to go back into here and just add that too. Right. So we've now got interesting things to embed inside there as well as the full case study to add. Perfect. We've also got the keyword that's fully optimized to me and it's already come up with the relevant URL. Now what we're going to do

is we're going to click on generate five articles. And what this will actually do is generate five articles as you can imagine across five different websites all related to this topic. Why do we want to do that? Because we want number one, multiple pieces of content with unique angles. Number two, it makes it easier to rank. And number three, like I

was saying before, you want to rank across multiple different platforms, of course. Right? So this is what we're doing. Then once it's completed, so you can see it's being worked on right now. You can see the status. So it's running.

Once it's completed, then we will see the actual content itself on the website and it's neatly formatted. It's got internal links, external links, relevant blogs on the same topic on my other websites which you can plug in. And what's interesting about this as well is like the whole system uses the API for indexing the content faster, which means that Google actually makes sure it shows it faster to people, right? So we've actually used something called indexional which is a tool for getting our content indexed and that API plugs into this system to get the content indexed faster. And so we literally go from keyword which is you know takes one click one prompt to five articles plugged in and automatically deployed to our websites. The other great thing

about this as well is you have everything in one place. So if you haven't built out a system like this already make sure you do. If you want mine it's inside the profer boardroom but either way it's a super powerful system. Now, some people are going to say, "This sounds technical. I don't know how to use AI." Like I've

mentioned, all you need to do is just give one document to your AI agents about you, who you are, what your goals are. Then you can give Hermes a keyword and relevant case studies to go and create content with, and from there, it's automatically deployed and indexed to our website. So, you can see one of five articles has been written. Once all five have been written, they'll be deployed to our website. So, you don't need to be technical. If you can drop a

keyword in the box, you can do this. Other people say, well, you know, AI content doesn't rank. But you can see the trajectory of this website. Bad content doesn't rank. Good content will rank. And that's what we're trying to do

here by having a really good system. The other cool thing about this is Hermes agent improves every time you use it. So, it gets better and better at quality controlling its content so you get the best content possible. And that's one of the best things about this system is that because Hermes Agent has a built-in self-improving loop, it only gets better the more you use it, which means better quality control, better content, better writing, etc. Best better SEO optimization. So, you don't need to be

technical. This does work for websites as you can see. And also, some people say, well, you know, in 2026, are people still searching? So actually what Google revealed last week at their Google IO event is that more people are searching more than ever because it's easier to use AI. AI gives better answers than normal search engines and also you can go more in depth on the questions you have because it can create answers on the spot versus normal search engines.

So that's the biggest difference and that's why SEO is becoming so important right now. And also more and more people are going to be searching via search engines using AI than ever before because that's the way the trend is going. That's the way technology is going. So that's basically the system that I'm using right now. If you want a free one-to-one SEO strategy session where we can look at your website, show you how to rank. You'll discover the

secrets SEO link building. We answer any questions you have onetoone. You'll learn the best link building strategies for your website plus how to outrank your competitors with link building. Feel free to book in a call at goldie. Agency link in the comments in description. And if you want to get my

full agent operating system, it's inside the AI profit boardroom. You can get a video tutorial on how to set up. You can see the last update right here. And you can also get a zip file to install it quickly as well. Plus, we add new daily updates and tutorials so you never fall behind. You always get the new stuff

that helps you inside the community. You can ask questions, get help and support whenever you want. You also get four weekly coaching calls. We have a full section on AI SEO and how to use it to rank your website and that's all inside the AI profit boardroom link in the comments description or just go to the aiprofitboarding.com to get access. Thanks for watching.

Hermes agent is now one of the most powerful free tools on the planet. In this video, I'm going to show you how to make it work like a full AI team inside an operating system. Agents building, reviewing, and automating work automatically 24/7. and I'll show you how to run Claude and Chat GBT inside this operating system for free. I'll show you how to deploy Hermes agent to VPS in one click. And I'll show you a

readymade setup that you can get right now and have it running in minutes. There's one thing I'll actually show you later in this video that most people spend weeks trying to figure out and it changes everything about how to get your AI agents working and building together. Don't skip to the end. You need the full picture to make this work. Let's get into it. So one question we actually got

was from Jonathan Richard was basically I have open claw VPS how do I do the VPS install for Hermes step by step. So if you've never used Hostinger before they actually have a setup for this already and what you can do is you can deploy Hermes agent in like a one-click install and you can see the package here and how it works. So you can go to hostinger they have Hermes agent ready to go and it's a oneclick install. So, for example, if we wanted to install it like so. Obviously, you've got different packages for whichever setup you prefer.

You can click on choose a plan and then get set up from there. So, that's like a super easy way to set up. Even has like a daily auto backup section here as well. And you can choose the location, how long you want to sign up for, and everything else. So, that's how you can deploy it in one click. Another question

we got from Manish was, is there like an agent operating system package that you can just install and put together and it's ready made and ready to go. So we actually have that for open claw for Hermes for Gemini and everything else all packaged together all with my existing setup. So for example, we even have like a video agent here that's linked to Hyperframes and Hermes agent. So if you don't want to create your own, you can get the agent operating system over here. The zip file was there and we've got a video tutorial on how to set that up too. So you can see for example

Brad got his agent operating system set up pretty quickly using a similar process. Same for Lawrence and Dr. John Mesa. So that's the easiest way I know to set up. The next question we have is from Eggbert, right? So he was asking

after he installed the agent OS like how to dispatch different workflows across each one, right? So for example, agent A builds a module, agent B reviews it, how do you orchestrate that all together? So here's the way that I do it. I actually build that into a skill so it works as a workflow. So for example, if you look at this SEO content pipeline, it's multiple different steps put together in one workflow, right? So for example, we have

to get the keywords, then we have to add case studies. After that, everything has to be optimized. And there's 12 steps inside this process. It's quite a long batched workflow to the point where we even have to index everything too and deploy it to our websites. So, the way that I would recommend you doing this if you want different agents to interact with each other is just have like a skill like that, right? In fact, you

don't even need multiple agents. You can just have one agent that runs through a skill for that workflow. Now, if you wanted, for example, Hermes to set that up, or if you wanted, for example, Claude to set up, you can explain exactly what you want, like I did here and say, right, for example, I want agent A to do this, and I want agent B to edit it, and then I want agent C to add more research, etc. And it will build that into the workflow. And you just say add that inside my agent operating system so that everything works as one skill and save the skill.

And so when you do that, everything works together as a beautiful workflow where you can have 12 or 15 different steps all linked together. But the beautiful thing is if I wanted to run this workflow with 12 different steps, I can just click a couple of buttons and then we're good to go. Right? The agent handles the rest. So you want to stop orchestrating by hand, express a pipeline as one skill file and then Hermes or Claude or whatever you use can run the whole skill file as multiple different steps in one workflow. Now

we've got another question here from Brian which is basically like how do you get Hermes to take an idea or a workflow or something it's learned and then implement it? Right? So the way that I do this is I would put it into a markdown file inside my Obsidian vault. So for example, let's say we've got this information on chat GPT and SEO. Once it's in a markdown file like this, Hermes can read the Obsidian vault and from there it can turn it into a workflow. Right? So I can say, okay,

based on this file inside my Obsidian workflow, set up the automation or use this to come up with ideas. But the first thing you need to do is make sure that you put the idea or the case study or the information about it into a markdown file because that will train Hermes on exactly how to use it. And once Hermes has the knowledge, you can go off and start setting everything up for you. Now, we got another question from Yazim, which is like, you know, which agents you use and when. How do you decide when to use Claude or Hermes or NAN or Codeex or Manus, right? And I

would say they all actually work. It comes down to your personal preference. So the way that I try and do everything is keep it very very simple. You don't need to, for example, even use NA10 anymore, right? Because Claude and Hermes can do everything that you do inside NA10, but they can do it no code.

And then when it comes to deciding which of these to use, personally for me, if I had to pick between all these, I would just go with Claude and just stick with that one, right? It's better to master one tool than it is to try and master all of these different things at once, right? And then also that way you know, okay, if I'm only going to use Claude, it helps you focus and it helps you become a master on that thing and it helps you stop feeling like you have shiny object syndrome. So this way you save time, you move faster and you don't get distracted. Bear in mind, like for example, if you look at Manus, Manus is just like an easier way to use Claude Code that's hosted in the cloud. NA10 is

like a more technical version of Claude Code. And then codeex is basically like claw code but it's just a different model that you're using inside it right and so for me personally I would just stick with this. Now another question we got here is you know can you run for example claude or chat etc with ooth instead of using APIs for each one and this is a great question. So for example, if you look at my agent operating system here, Claude is plugged in with OOTH, right? We're just talking to the CLI. The same with anti-gravity,

the same with Gemini, the same with codeex. And so those four different systems you can all use inside your agent operating system, and you don't need to plug in a separate API. Right now, for example, if you wanted to use openclaw, you can also use oalf with chat GBT. Hermes allows you to run o with chat chbet or grock. And then for free clawed code, you don't even need to to pay for an API. You can use a free

API like our alpha on open router. And that way everything requires less resources. You don't need to manage loads of different APIs. You don't need to manage all the API tokens. And you can just use a or free API, right? Makes

everything simpler. So that's the way I would handle that. Now we got another question from Rad, which is, you know, based on all these AI agents are out there, what would clients be interested in, especially like local clients? This is a great question. So for me personally, I actually have a SEO agency, Goldie Agency, and a lot of our clients are interested in AI SEO, right?

So for example, creating content, creating really good quality content with context, but also making sure that they do it in an efficient way with AI. And so AI SEO is something that clients are interested in. Also, another option is AI avatar videos, right? So for example, we have a setup over here for AI avatar videos. And the cool thing about this is like clients want more leads. How do they get more leads? Well,

content marketing is great for that. How can AI help with that? Well, this is a whole system that helps clients get more leads because they have better content marketing which means they reach more people. So, that's a really powerful system. And then also as well as this and these two systems here which are ready to go. The other option that you

have is setting up Hermes or for example Claude custom for people who know the power of it but don't have the time to set up. Right? So, for example, if you look at Hermes, if you can set this up for someone and then link it to their website so it can create content or for example, it you set up a daily schedule where it looks at all of their recent work and then helps them figure out new automations for that on a daily schedule, that's something that business owners would value, but they don't know how to do it and they don't have the time to learn it and do themselves, right? And so, if you can go off and set them up for them, that's really powerful, too. The same thing for Twitter, right? So, for example, if you

can reach more people on Twitter and help them reach more people, for example, like yesterday we reached 246,000 people in one day. Well, using a system like this, you can see clients will be interested in that because again, it generates leads. It helps them reach more customers. It saves them time, right? And so, all of these different systems are really valuable and the systems that are ready to go.

The final thing that I was going to say is a lot of clients actually need like a decent landing page or a decent website. again they don't have the time to set up something like this but you can easily automate it with AI and so that's how you can help them right so for example we've got this system right here which helps you automate landing pages and websites based on what's already worked for us now was asking about agent orchestration how can you orchestrate your agents so the system that I use when it comes to doing this is the goal section inside the camban of Hermes right so cam camb with her is a camban board and basic Basically, you can set up a task here, drop it in. And what Hermes does is it orchestrates that and assigns tasks to multiple different profiles of your agents. And so, it's a very simple way to see what's happening, get one agent to look at a task, break it down into subtasks, and then once it's completed, it's going to move to the done section. Right? So for example,

if we look at this task where we said create a keyword research plan for my AI automation blog, it mapped out four different subtasks inside the main task and then assigned those tasks to our agents to our sub agents. And then what we can see here is the workspace with the files completed and we can manage and orchestrate everything in one place. Now I actually don't think it's necessary for you to orchestrate for example having Gemini, Claude and Hermes working together all in one single task. You can just have Hermes with multiple profiles, which is what we've got here, to orchestrate and organize your team. And that way, you keep things simple.

It's easy for you to organize. And it's also very easy for you to come back and see what happened because you've got the workspace here with all the tasks and all the deliverables inside each task. So, I've answered all of the questions from today. Lots of cool questions coming in there. If you want me to answer yours, we have a video tutorial dedicated. just ask a question inside

the AI profit boredom community and I'll get it answered for you. The reason that I do this is because I know if you have this question other people will and that way we can help more people at the same time on the typical sort of questions that people have when it comes to building out with Hermes agent. So you can see for example Lawrence he asked a question about Obsidian and notion recently within 6 hours we'd already created a video tutorial for him breaking down exactly how to implement it. So that's the sort of stuff we do inside the profitable boardroom. You also get access to my agent operating system with a zip file to get this installed. And this is updated daily so

you get the new latest stuff that I've built in. You get four weekly coaching calls where you jump on a call, ask questions, get help and support in real time. You can meet people in your local city who are using AI automations just like you. And you can get access to all of my best trainings on this stuff. So feel free to get that link in the comments description or go to the AI profiter.com. Thanks for watching. Today

I'm going to show you how to automate anything with Hermes Agent OS. And this is the most powerful AI agent in the world right now. And this framework shows you exactly how to use it. So you can automate anything, your work, your life, your side projects, whatever is eating up your time right now. This can handle it. And by the end of this video,

you're going to have it set up running for you, saving you hours every single week, and giving you your time back. I'm going to do a real live agent build right now with Hermes agent in front of you today. You're going to get a full automation built from scratch so you can copy it and use it on anything you want. And stick with me because later in this video, I'm going to show you the one thing that makes a Hermes agent OS so powerful that once you see it, you'll never go back to doing things manually again. It's a reason some people have AI handling everything for them right now whilst everyone else is still doing it all manually. Let's get into it. All

right, so today we're going to be setting up a custom automation for an air profit boarding member. And Julian Boss has said, "Real word example with all the various AI tools out there. Could you create a tutorial on how to build something super useful? For example, like an AI powered personal travel agent, right? So, here's a real world use case. He's planning a trip to

Manila. Travel windows between these dates, wants to stay for exactly 9 days at this place. What's the most practical way to build a travel agent? Right? So, here's how you can do it. So, if we

wanted to use Hermes agent to help us build this, we can open up the terminal window here. And we're just going to run this with Hermes agent. By the way, I do this for members every day inside the air profitable boarding if you want me to do it for you, too. And what we're going to do from here is we're going to say, okay, help me automate this, right? And we'll plug that in. And then we'll

get Hermes agent to help us set this up and to start automating this workflow. Right now, the first place I will start with this process is I'm using the Hermes agent OS system. right? Which is my framework for building an AI powered agent or process that runs itself. Right? And this is the framework behind

every automation that I build, every agent that I deploy, every real world use case that I show on this channel, right? And so the first thing you want to do is really look at, okay, what's before you build anything, find the task that's using up all your time, right? It could be research, could be outreach, whatever you're spending most of your time on, right? You want to find it, name it, and own it. Right? Then you're

going to engineer the agent. So you're going to build a Hermes agent with one specific job, right? Like you can see right here. So you can give it a goal. For example, you're a travel agent specialist. You can give it a role.

Sorry. And then the goal would be like find the cheapest flight, right? You can give it the tools. And now it knows exactly what to do, right? So you can see it's beginning to build out that project structure over here. If you have

any questions as we go along, by the way, feel free to ask. So you can see it's beginning to build this. We could also do this with Claude as well. Claude is another way to set that up. So we can go inside Claude here and do the same sort of thing. So whatever you prefer,

you can roll with it. We can run both tasks inside Claude and Hermes at the same time. Just see what happens. And then from here, you want to run it in the real world, right? So you deploy the agent on a real task, which is what we're doing over here. You run it, you

watch what happens, and then you catch the gaps, right? So with these sort of things, it's not going to be perfect first time you use it. Just bear in mind with that, but you're going to catch the gaps when you test it out. So done is always better than perfect. And running agent that's 80% right beats a perfect one still being desired, right? So

that's what we're doing with the hurries agent OS system that we've got here

and we're going to set up as a skill inside Hermes which means that anytime we use Hermes, you know, whether that's on Telegram or anything like that, a skill inside Hermes and then call upon it. Now, whilst we're waiting for this to be done, the other thing to note here is like you can multiply this with agent stacks, right? So one agent is good, but you could have a team of agents that's unstoppable and you can connect them together, right? Agent one could be, for example, like a SEO research agent. Then you could have a separate Hermes agent profile for creating content. You can

have another one for creating avatar videos, but you can have multiple of them, right? You can see how Hermes is now creating the skill wrapper for this AI travel agent planner. Claude is doing the same thing, but it's approaching it in a separate way, right? So you can see it's actually building the files in parallel setting all of this up as you can see. And then we can say you can see here it's actually built the back end of it as you can see right here. Right. We

do need to get some APIs for this but we can do that in a second. And then you can actually set up like a simple mini app on a website where we can use this. Right now for travel related stuff we just need to get an API key. We can get Amodus API. So let's go off and do that.

And now you can see for example we've got this agent ready to go. Right. So we've set this up. is right here's the trip monitor here's the details then we can put the details in here and just start using that right obviously you need to plug in your API key from from Amdus to get this working but that's essentially how you can get an app running for whatever you want right and you can see it's hosted locally here so no one else has access to it and that is the setup with the trip monitor details and so you can build and automate anything that you want with Hermes agent especially using this operating system that we've talked about and it's pretty simple and And the final step is just expand to new cases, right? Once the workflow is running, what else could you automate? What else could an agent

handle? What else could you offer clients or what niches would be interested in this? Right? You can expand, you can duplicate, and you can grow from there, right? And then you just systemize it, right? The main thing

here as well is as you go off and you start building SOPs and that sort of thing, you want to systemize it so that you can come back to these SOPs whenever you want to. That's actually one of the reasons that I built out the AR profit boarding is because everything is organized and I can just if I need like the SAP for example for Hermes and computer use I can just type that in here and then get access to computer use agents inside here. Or if I'm like I need to get the SAP for open web UI here it is boom I can just get access and type it into the search bar. So whatever you want to build and learn you can do it using this process but just make sure you organize it into SPS as well right and the goal isn't just to automate one task. The goal is to build like an entire operating system for everything that runs on AI and automates in the background. That is the Hermes agent OS,

right? And everything is just built on top of it. Now, some people say, I need to learn how to code to build AI agents. As you saw today, it was pretty easy to set up, super fast, right? And Hermes agent just lets you build powerful automations in plain English. So, you

type what the agent wants to do, what you want the agent to do. It figures out how to do it. No coding required, no Python, just clear instructions. Right? Also, some people say agents are only useful for tech companies and developers. The biggest wins right now

happening in the most ordinary stuff. I've just shown you how to automate a travel agent. It could be real estate. It could be ecom, could be freelancing, etc. Marketing agencies. Other people

say it's too complicated to set up, right? The first working agent, as you've seen today, could be running in 30 minutes or under 30 minutes. So, it's not days, it's not weeks, it's 30 minutes and a good API. That's literally it. So, if you want to get the full framework of how to use this, 100 prompts and a 30-day road map for implementing this into your business, feel free to check this full guide out.

I'll put it inside the AR profitable room classroom over here in the daily update section. It's called the Hermes agent OS system. And that's basically how you can automate anything with Hermes agent. Pretty amazing. So, I've created that custom automation for Julian. If you want me to do stuff like

this for you as well, then I do it for free for members inside the air profit boardroom. This is just like a little bonus I give members to help them and hopefully that helps you understand how you can automate anything with Hermes and the Aentic OS. Right? This is my AI automation community that helps you save time, grow and learn and scale with AI agents and AI automation. Inside the community, you can ask questions, get help and support. It's a really active

community with loads of cool people, lots of cool posts, very interesting stuff that people working on as well. You can go inside the calendar here and jump on four weekly coaching calls. Share your screen, ask questions about your setup, etc. Inside the classroom, you get access to all my trainings, all my best courses, etc. And we have a new daily updates here if you like advanced tutorials like you've seen today. Inside

the map, you can connect with members in your local city and area so that you can meet other cool people doing similar things to you. And that's all inside here. Link in the comments description or go to the aircraft. Let's see what questions we got here. Brian says, "Yes, I'm obsessed with AI. I don't know if

I'm learning this much to you." Thank you though. Trying to make a dream come true. Thanks for the tips. Happy to help. Christopher says, "Hey, that's my

floor. waiting to ship until perfect. Yeah, as you've seen today, like that setup will not be perfect. Obviously, you need to connect the APIs as well. But you can see you can see that we can quickly build something create like a first prototype and then just test and improve it from there. I says, "What

models are you typically using when creating these systems apps and agents?" So, Hermes agent is the one that I use for this and then we use that with the free API step 3.5 flash. And if ever in doubt, ask AI. There you go. Is the

digital is this? This is the real Julian Goldie. Yes, I'm currently using open router with free models then letting it switch to auto on its own. Is that one way to build stuff like this with flexible model? Absolutely. Yeah, you

can switch between APIs like you've seen today. So today we have a lot of questions about the agent operating system for Hermes that we've built out and this is basically like a mission control where you can control all of your AI agents in one place. So we've got like codecs, anti-gravity, we got clawed code over here, we have Hermes, openclaw, claude, etc. We have all of our tools built in. It's a really powerful system, but we get a lot of questions about this, which is what I'm going to answer today, right? And so,

these are all the questions we've had recently inside the AI profit boardroom, and I'm just going to work through them and also help you as much as we possibly can on this. So, let's talk about this and have a look where we're up to. For example, we got one question here from Scott who says, "Hermes on my personal machine. How to use it?" And he says, "New to the space. Look forward to

making connections. Silly question. How can I install Hermes on my personal machine or do I need a separate machine etc. So number one, welcome Scott. But the short answer is yes, you can run Hermes on your personal machine. Most of

us do, right? The you the user separate machine comes from people who get nervous early about touching the agents and the main file system, which is fair, but the way Hermes is built is like you can scope it to a project folder and that's all it sees. So it's not like running rampant across all your files, right? And you can have, for example, openclaw sandboxed as well. So that's a totally separate flow. But yeah, you

don't want to quarantine the tool. Just quarantine the folder, right? And start small. You can have one project, work inside it, and expand as you trust it essentially. Let's have a look at the next question here. So browser is

saying, "Hey guys, I'm trying to find the full setup for the skill and setup guide for SEO essentially when he said the whole agentic operating system you built has grown to a beast level. I'm trying to build the base for it." So basically the agent operating system is really improved and the one that we created 7 days ago isn't nearly as powerful as where it is right now. Right now for the SEO content pipeline specifically the full readalong is over here. And for the setup I would just give yourself a bit of time right now.

If you're focused specifically on AI SEO with Aentic OS we actually have a full zip file for that over here right in this section. So, if you want to get that, I'll link to it directly over here for you. Next up, we have a question from Andreas, which is, "Where's the productivity board from Trello?" Right? And so, if you want to get access to that, let me find it for you. So, this

is what it looks like. This is basically my productivity system that I use. And let me just test it out here. I'm just going to check this out. And you can get that right here. All right. So, you can

get the Trello productivity board if you want that, too. Let's see what else we got here on the questions. Oh, this is interesting. So how do you build an agent operating system in the cloud? Right? So if you have an agent operating

system and it's running locally, how do you share it in the crowd cloud and that sort of thing, right? So you can use like a VPS, you could also use a container and you could also use remote access, right? So you could actually use like cloudflare with tail scale and that lets you use mission control in the cloud. But just be careful with this stuff as well because you don't want to uh you want to make sure this fully secure, no one else can access it. So when you set this up, it's awesome for accessing remotely. Just be careful that

you don't share it anywhere you wouldn't. All right? And don't give it access to anything that you wouldn't feel comfortable giving access to. Let's see what else we got here. This is pretty cool. So could you build a

backlink builder with Hermes? Right? So if you're using Hermes agent, how can it build backlinks for SEO? And if you're not sure what backlinks are, basically the clickable links from other websites to yours, the more relevant authoritative backlinks you get, the more likely you are to rank on Google and everywhere else. So there's three ways you can do this, right? And you can

pick whatever helps you the most, right? So number one, you could do outreach automation. So Hermes can actually draft personalized emails from a list of prospects. You approve, you send, and the personalization is really what you want there. Then you've also got guest post pipeline. So Hermes could actually

find blogs in your niche, contact editors, draft angled pitches, and that's probably more likely to be accepted, right? Then the final step is like you could actually, for example, have Hermes monitor opportunities on Harrow draft responses in your voice and then you reach out to more people daily, right? And then of course like you don't want to you don't want to focus on anything that's outside of those three things, right? We got another question here which is how can you generate content for ecom websites using agent operating systems. Right? And so this is

a really good example of how you can use the agent operating system but I would use agent operating systems not right. So Adam said but how do I generate content? Should I use NA10 etc? And so the flow that I would do is like you plug a CSV of titles and the products you have into agent operating system whether that's Hermes or Claude. The agent operating system can then read each role. You can generate SEO

optimized titles and descriptions for each product and then you can upload that to Netlefy or just get a CSV out and upload that. Right? And then you could generate this for all your products. So that's basically what I'd recommend for doing this. You could actually use the I think there's a Shopify CLI as well. So you could

connect your agent to Shopify if you want to upload directly. Next question here. Best model for Hermes. Would it be Chat GPT? Would it be Grock? Gemini and

the Tropics. So shout out to Tony for asking this question. So honest answer is here. Like it does change every few weeks, but here's what I'd recommend. So right now my current favorite is Grock for Aentic Tasks. So it's got the best

speed to to quality ratio of everything that I've checked out, right? So for example here we've got Hermes plugged into Grock and then if we go over to studio we can generate videos test speech images and it's pretty fast as well and also it can search Twitter claude is pretty powerful but it's expensive as an API chat GPT is awesome because you can use the OF so if you already got a subscription and then if you want free you could go with our alow for an open router right and that's pretty easy to set up as well and then Tony was asking should you use a warful API so you can use a war on chat GBT and grock Those are the ones you want to focus on, but you can't use chat. You can't use Claude on Oof with agents, just so you know. Next up, we got a question from Asive who says, "I'm a newbie in the community. Just had a question about connecting Hermes to Claude, right? Can you do that with a

wolf, etc." So, you actually can't if you're using a with Claude. So, Claude was actually stopped with using a wolf a few weeks ago, so this has changed. But you can use grock oorth with Hermes and you can also use chaty oof with Hermes. So either of those would work and you can log in directly into Hermes and use those instead. By the way, if you want

me to answer your questions just like this with video tutorial and also a step-by-step breakdown of each one. Then you can join the AR profit boardroom link in the comments description or go to the arprof.com and I answer these questions every single day like you see right here just to help people as much as I possibly can. And also I know if these people have questions like this then probably everyone watching has these questions too. So Fei says the new anti-gravity is good. Do we still need

Hermes? And I love this question. Right. Anti-gravity is great. It's highly agentic. It's browser native. It's fast.

Google created a really good product there. But here's the frame that I'd offer. Right? Hermes is open source right? So you can pick the model, you pick the host, you pick the uh the way that you use it, etc. And I would say

anti-gravity is great for generating for example websites and that sort of thing but Hermes is more agentic right. So if you look for example anti-gravity it's better for generating coding projects whereas if you have a look at Hermes it's more for actually doing stuff. So for me personally I prefer both but I'll use anti-gravity for coding and building out websites and apps and tools and then I'll use Hermes agent for actually just going off and doing tasks. So, anti-gravity for coding and building stuff. Hermes more for actually doing daily tasks on a schedule. And also,

Hermes is open source, which means it's more customizable. We got another win here from Clovis who said he's using the Obsidian vault on his Agentic operating system. So, a lot of people are actually using the agent operating system and then sharing what they've built inside the Profit Born 2. For example, like John as well, he built out his own operating system and you can see here Clovis too. So pretty awesome system and basically you got it to integrate inside itself. Now what this means basically is

like you get more memory inside your agents and you get better memory. So for example if you look at all of our agents plugged in here they can all link to our memory system over here. And so all the knowledge all the context we have is linked to our obsidian vault. And so if it's linked to our obsidian vault then it can create better outputs for us. It understands us better. It has better

context. And that's what the game is really about if you want super smart AI agents. We got another question here from Ryan who says Obsidian as a memory layer for AI agents which is what I was just talking about here. And so he's saying like he's exploring the idea of having a second brain with Obsidian as a memory layer. A few things that he's trying to figure out what vault structure actually works. How do you

give access to your AI agents to Obsidian? Any sort of tagging conventions that work well? And how do you stop AI agents from giving the Obsidian vault like low value content? So these are my answers, right? And basically we have something called the infinite context engine that I use and that basically gives me the best possible outputs I can get, right? You

can see it over here. So this is the infinite context engine. We have a full video tutorial and setup guide on this. But basically here's a way that I would look at it. Right? So in terms of the

vault structure when you start writing into it, you can use either par or zet or casten. Those are two good options. They're built for humans browsing manually. Right? For agent readable, you probably want a flat structure. So, one

folder per project plus a tags based discovery layer. And then agents can use tags way better than nested folders, right? So, it depends. If you're using it for your agents, then just a flat structure is pretty good. How to expose the vault? So, you can actually just

have this stored locally or you can use the MCP server which is obsidian MCP. But tagging conventions, you can have basically ones for each part of your project. So if we have a look over here and we look at the tags that we've used and let's say for example we have a look at this system here right you can see how we tag these depending on the project. So for example, if something is related to the AI offer boardroom, my agents will tag it as that. And then you can also have a review agent that runs nightly if you need to improve the outputs, right? So it can read new

notes, it can flag low signal ones, and that's a good system for monitoring it. It's quite advanced, but if you really want to go in granular detail, you can do that. Let's see what else we got here. So John is asking about like how to basically get an AI as a voice agent to call your leads. Now, obviously, your leads need to opt in if you're going to call them with AI, right? So, that's

really important, but yeah, this could work. You could use something like V API, right? And then the trigger could be a web hook where they get a call within 30 seconds. And but it's always going to help if you get in contact with your leads as well, right? And then also, you want some time of day rules as well for that, right? So, that's the way

that I would look at it. And also, I think if it's good enough, like the lead doesn't really care if it's AI, they just care that someone showed up fast. Next one from Jason which is about how to use agent operating system on docker or as a mobile app which is a really cool one. So Jason was asking about to go through the setup process and stack agents. I would be careful of just giving it remote access but if you do want to set this up but you could use docker or something like that.

Cloudflare tunnel and tail scale might be a better option as well. And then for the mobile app you could I think you could do that through tail scale actually. That could be a good option. And I think a lot of people are using hostinger for this. That's what I've seen. Memory and context in larger AI

agent systems. So Tony was asking how are people handling memory systems and that sort of thing. So here's the way that I do. I have a short-term way. So you can have per session context just lives in the conversation. Then you can

have midterm which is you could have obsidian for example. And that's the way that I would look at it is like on Obsidian Vault with Meldown files which is easy for AI agents to query and humans to read is probably one of the best ways to do this right and then also if you don't want to update it too much every 10 to 15 turns your agent can then summarize a conversation or you can do this daily as well. So that's a good way to do it and we also have a full setup inside the infinite context engine system which I'll link to you in a sec. So you can see the infinite context engine here. This is the full setup that we use or just one daily summary as well from your Agents to the memory system could work really well too. Next

question. So Augustian was saying agent operating system. A lot of people want to sync this with the clawed app and that sort of thing. So the way that I would probably do that is sync it to my Obsidian vault with the conversation summaries if you don't want to use the API, right? So if you try and sync like Claude inside the terminal to your agent operating system, it doesn't work so well. But if you want to just use Claude

directly inside the agent operating system, you can do that instead. Right? So for example, if I go to the Agentic mission control here and I try and speak to Claude, that's not going to sync to my terminal and vice versa. Right? But the cool thing about this is that we can just have it summarize to our Obsidian vault and then the conversations get logged and synced between them as a context and memory. So that's the way

that I would do it. And you don't really want to sync sessions. You want to sync the memory. That's the most important part. I think we've got one more question now. All right. So this is from

John Messo. He's an absolute legend and he was saying how do you transfer chat GPT and Plexi knowledge over to Obsidian, right? How do you do that? Right? So let's say for example you're on chat GPT and you want to sync all of the knowledge inside chat GPT over to your agent operating system or to your obsidian vault, right? How do you do

that? So here's the way that I would do it, right? You can actually migrate your old AI history into obsidian so Hermes can read it all in one day and start from scratch. So the way that you can do that is you can export from chat GPT directly. If we have a look at that and you can do this with a prompt as well.

So you can actually ask like chat to just tell it everything you know about you or if you go to this section here you can export your data from chat cheap and any other tool right and so that's where you can do it. And then once it's in obsidian Hermes can read that vault locally or via MCP. All right so we've answered all the questions. There's 15 different questions from the air profit boardroom. This is literally just like the last 24 hours as you can see right here. Like I just all the questions that

we have. I know that everyone has them. It's not just the people who have asked. And so that's why I answer these videos in tutorials like this just so that I can answer in granular detail everything that we've talked about today and just get you the best information you can on this stuff, right? And so if you want this sort of stuff, you can bring your question, get it answered, and every Q&A is built from questions members posted inside the air profit boardroom. So if

you got one maybe that's Hermy setup agent operating systems obsidian SEO pipelines anything drop it in the air profit boardroom and we'll cover it in the next session right so this is all designed for people inside the community you can connect with me personally you can ask questions inside here you can also jump on weekly coaching calls you get all of my best systems including a new version of the agent operating system that we've just dropped the this morning with all my new updates you can connect with people inside the map here as and everything is right there for you, right? And uh you've seen all the wins here as well, right? We got so many cool testimonials and wins from people who've never done this stuff before and I've just learned how to do it. So that's what it's about. link in the comments description or go to the app for bond.