---
video_title: "Gemini Notebook + Obsidian is INSANE!! 🤯"
video_id: XEIX1Rm5NYk
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XEIX1Rm5NYk
video_date: 2026-08-14T09:30:13+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Gemini Notebook + Obsidian Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Gemini Notebook + Obsidian: The Ultimate AI Memory System
  
  Learn how to link Gemini Notebook with Obsidian to create a permanent memory for your AI that never forgets your brand or goals. This simple setup automates content creation and builds a compounding system that gets smarter every time you use it.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:25 - New Gemini Notebook Features
  01:40 - Obsidian as AI Memory
  02:25 - Content Multiplication Examples
  03:12 - 5 Business Use Cases
  04:05 - Automating Team Onboarding
  05:08 - How to Build Your First Vault
  06:11 - The Compounding Effect of AI
---
New Gemini notebook plus Obsidian is absurd. Today, I'm going to show you something wild. I wired a free Google tool into a free notes app, and now my AI never forgets me again. It's fast, it's free, and anyone can set it up. Stick with me because by the end you'll know exactly how to build it yourself.

You might know this tool as notebook LM. Google just renamed it. It's now called Gemini notebook. Same tool, new name, and it just got smarter, too. Now, every notebook gets its own little cloud computer built in. That means it can

write code and dig into your files, not just summarize them. Over 30 million people use this tool already. Most of them are using it wrong. Here's what it actually does in plain words. It's a free tool from Google. You make a

notebook. A notebook is just a box that holds stuff. You drop things in it. A website, a PDF, a video, a doc. The tool reads it all. Then it turns it into 12

different things for you. Audio, video, slides, a mind map, an infographic, flashcards, all three. 12 pieces of content from one file. But here's where almost everyone messes up. They open it, they type one thing, they close the tab.

That's maybe 10% of what this tool can do. Why does that happen? Because on its own, Gemini notebook forgets you. Every time you open it, it's a stranger. It doesn't know your business, it doesn't know your last chat. You have to explain

yourself again and again. That's the wall everyone hits in the first week. So, I fixed it. And this next part is the part that changed everything for me. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Now, let's get back into it. I connected Obsidian as the memory for my AI. Obsidian is a free notes app. It saves your notes as plain text files right on your own computer.

That's it, nothing fancy. But because they're plain text files, an AI agent can read them. It can write to them. It can search them. So, I made a vault. A

vault is just a folder of notes. Inside it, I keep my goals, my projects, my ideas, all in one place. Then, I plug that vault into my agent as its memory. And here's the part that's wild. Now, Gemini notebook knows me. My agent knows

me. Every agent I run reads from that same folder. So, what one agent learns, they all learn. They share one brain. Think about what that means for your day. You sit down in the morning. You

don't explain anything twice. Your AI already knows what you're working on. It already knows your last decision. It just picks up right where you left stuff. Let me give you a real example of how this works. Say you drop a long

customer call into Gemini notebook. In a few clicks, it can turn that one call into a short audio show, a video, a set of slides, and an infographic, all ready to post. Now, plug that into a memory vault. The AI already knows your brand voice before it even starts. It gets things right the first time. Here's

how the whole loop works together. You feed in new information. Your agent reads it. It makes content. That content feeds back into your vault. Now, your AI

is a little smarter. Do that again and again, and the system gets better every single day. It never forgets. It never starts from zero. Picture it like this.

Most people using AI are still workers. They type, they wait, they copy, they paste, over and over. This setup makes you the owner of the factory instead. You feed it, the machine runs, the content comes out. You just keep it fed.

Now, let me show you five ways this helps a real business. First, content multiplication. Second, getting found online. Feed it your case studies, and it writes articles. Those articles help people find you. And because your vault

knows your brand, they sound like you. Third, lead magnets. Take one guide and turn it into a video, an audio show, and an infographic. Now, you've got one resource showing up everywhere at once. Fourth, sales help. Drop in a call

recording, it turns into a clean summary your team can actually use. New team members get up to speed fast. Fifth, courses. Upload what you know, it builds slides and flashcards for every lesson. You build a course while you sleep. And

here's the one that saves the most time. Research. Feed it 50 articles. It gives you one mind map showing how everything connects. That's hours of reading gone.

There's a sixth way to, and it's the one I use the most. Onboarding. Say you bring on a new team member. Normally you'd spend hours explaining how things work. Instead, drop your training docs, your calls, and your process notes into one notebook. It turns all of that into

a short video walk-through and a simple set of slides. Your new hire watches it once and they're caught up. You didn't repeat yourself. The notebook did the explaining for you. Now stack that with the memory vault and it gets even better. The next time you make training

content, your AI already knows your tone. It already knows your process. It already knows what worked last time. So the second piece of training content takes half the time the first one did. The third one takes even less. That's

the compounding effect showing up in a place most people never think to look. If you want to see this exact done for you with the memory vault ready to go, that's something we walk through step-by-step inside the iProfit boardroom. Learn how to save time and automate your business with AI tools like Gemini notebook using our exact playbooks and live coaching calls. You can check that out at the link in the description. Now let's keep going because there's more you need to see.

Let's talk about how to actually set this up without overthinking it. You don't need a huge vault to start. You don't need years of notes. You need five files. Your goals, your offer, your last three decisions, your customer questions, your brand voice. Drop those

five files into Obsidian first, then connect that folder to your agent. That's the whole starting point. Everything after that is just feeding it more day by day. Most people wait until they have a perfect system before they start. Don't do that here. A messy vault

that gets fed every day beats a perfect vault that sits empty. Now maybe you're thinking, "I've tried AI tools before and they didn't really help." I hear that a a Here's the truth. One tool by itself doesn't save you time. A system does. A hammer alone doesn't build a

house. A hammer plus nails plus wood plus a plan builds something. Gemini notebook plus your memory vault plus your agents is the plan and the materials in one place. And maybe you're thinking, "This is for coders. I'm not technical." You don't need to code for

this. If you can open a browser and type into a box, you can run this. Gemini notebook lives in your browser. The dashboard has buttons you click. That's it. The people who set up a real memory

system this year are going to pull way ahead. Their AI will know them better every single day. Meanwhile, most people will still be typing into a fresh chat that forgets them every time. That gap is going to get big and it's going to get big fast. A year from now, your AI could know your business better than a brand new hire. But only if you start

feeding it now. Day one, you save a little time. Day 30, you save whole days. A year in, it knows you cold. So, here's what I do if I were you. Go make

one Gemini notebook today. Just one. Drop in five things about your business. Watch it turn them into a video and an audio show. Just to see it work with your own eyes. That's your first step.

Let me leave you with one more thing I've noticed since running this setup. The best part isn't the 12 pieces of content. It's the compounding. Every note you save, every call you drop in, every idea you capture, it all stacks up in that one vault. And your agents read all of it. So, the work you did 3 months

ago is still helping you today. Most people throw away their best thinking the second they close a tab. With this, your best thinking stays. It builds. Six months in, your AI is working from a mountain of context you didn't even remember giving it. Here's what that

really means for you. You stop being the person who explains everything twice. You stop copying and pasting the same background into every chat. Your AI just knows your goals, your voice, your customers, your last decision. So, you get to spend your time on the actual work instead of babysitting a tool that forgets you every morning. If you want

to see this exact setup done you with the memory vault ready to go, that's something we walk through step by step inside the iProfit boardroom. Learn how to save time and automate your business with AI tools like Gemini notebook using our exact playbooks and live coaching calls. You can check that out at the link in the description. Now, let's keep going because there's more you need to see. If you want the full process, the step-by-step guides, and over 100 more AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. It's free. Links are in the

comments and description. You'll get all the notes from this video in there, plus access to our community of 38,000 members who are crushing it with AI. Start using your AI like a system, not a search box. I'll see you in the next one.