---
video_title: "Stop Paying for AI APIs... Use This Instead!"
video_id: US_jHqfS4tQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=US_jHqfS4tQ
video_date: 2026-09-05
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Tired of hitting free-tier limits on every AI tool? There's a free, open tool that stacks 34 AI providers into a single endpoint — 600+ models behind one key, adding up to roughly 7.4 billion free tokens a month. This walkthrough shows how it auto-routes to whatever model is healthy and under its limits, falls over automatically when one runs dry, and plugs straight into Claude Code, Cursor, Aider and more with one command.
  
  00:00 Intro – 34 free AI providers, one key
  00:55 Stack the Free Tiers – ~7.4B free tokens a month
  01:13 Free LLM API – 600+ models, one endpoint, self-updating
  03:42 How Routing Works – auto-fallover so you never hit caps
  04:14 Fusion Mode – blend multiple free models into one answer
  04:48 Coding Tools – Claude Code, Cursor, Aider in one command
  05:46 Reality Check – built for learning, not production
---
Stop paying for AI. APIs, use this instead. What if you never had to hit an AI limit again? Not once. There's a free tool quietly stacking dozens of AI providers into one, 34 of them, behind a single key. Most people have no idea it

even exists. And the wild part, it keeps getting stronger on its own. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and I help people actually learn and use AI tools in their real work. Today, I'm walking you through a free tool that pulls a huge pile of AI providers into one clean endpoint. So, you stop running into caps and locked doors. And stick

around because the way this thing keeps updating itself, all by itself, might be the best part of the whole video. So, here's the problem it solves. Almost every AI lab out there gives you a free tier. A few M tokens a month, a few thousand requests a day. On its own, each one is tiny, a toy. You burn

through it fast and you hit the wall. But, here's the thing nobody tells you. If you stack all those free tiers together, they turn into something big, really big. We're talking around 7.4 B free tokens every single month across 34 different providers. That's a lot of

room to build, test, and learn without stopping. The catch used to be that stacking them by hand was a nightmare. 34 different setups, 34 different limits, 34 different ways for a request to break. This tool, called free LLM API, folds all of that into one, one OpenAI style endpoint. You point your app at it and it quietly roots across whatever providers you've added all on its own. Over 600 models, 635 free model

endpoints, one key. And your keys are locked down and encrypted, stored right on your own machine. Now, here's what I mean by it keeps updating itself. The free tier world changes every week. Providers add new models. They drop old ones. They quietly

change the limits. Normally, you'd have to chase all that yourself. This tool doesn't make you. It pulls a fresh, signed model list on its own. So, your setup keeps itself current without you touching a thing. One honest note here,

all on the free build, the very newest models tend to show up about a month after they go live. Nothing's crippled or cut off, they just land a little later. And even with that, having it update itself puts it way ahead of doing this the hard way. Now, before I show you how it actually works under the hood, let me tell you who I built this next part for. If you're using free models to pump out content, do keyword research, or draft your on-page structure, you're already halfway to winning the search game.

Because that same content is what decides whether you show up in Google, and whether you show up when people ask Chat GPT, Perplexity, or Gemini for an answer. But, most people are guessing at how they actually look out there. So, here's what I've got for you. My team runs a free AI brand visibility strategy session. On this strategy session, you get a custom visibility plan, a real look at how your brand shows up right now across Google, AI overviews, Chat GPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. A full

competitor gap breakdown, and straight answers to your questions from an actual strategist. It's 100% free, and there's zero obligation. The link is in the description below. And if you want to go deeper and actually build these free model setups with people walking you through every step, that's what the iProfit Boardroom is for. Inside, we've got full walk-throughs on wiring a free routing setup like this one up to your coding tools, live coaching calls where you can bring your exact setup and ask questions, ready to use prompts, and step-by-step tutorials. And here's the

big one. You can get the full zip file inside, ready to install through the Agent OS, plus the complete 30-day roadmap we built to walk you through it step-by-step. So, if you're watching this and thinking, "I want to actually get this running, not just watch." That's where you get your hand-held through it. I'll tell you exactly where to go a little later.

Okay, so how does this thing actually work? It's simpler than you'd think. One request goes in, and the best free model comes out. Here's the flow. The router looks at every provider you've added a key for. It picks the highest priority

model that's healthy and still under all its limits. It unlocks your key in memory just for that one request and calls the provider. And if that model is busy or maxed out, it quietly slides over to the next one in your chain and tries again. You never see the mess. You just get your answer. It even tracks how

much you've used on each key, so it always stays under every free tier cap for you. And it goes way past plain chat. There's a feature called fusion where you ask for one special model and it fans your prompt out to a whole panel of different free models at the same time. Then another model reads all their answers and blends them into one clean, stronger reply. It's like getting a second, third, and fourth opinion, then having someone smart pull the best of all of them together. On top of that, it

does images, video, and speech all through the same single endpoint. So, it's not just a text tool. It's kind of a full free workshop. Here's the part I love. It works with the tools you probably already use. Claude Code,

CodeX, Cursor, Ada, Klein, Continue, Open Code, and a bunch more. For most of them, it's literally one command to set up. It backs up your current settings first, and it never wrecks what you already had. You point your tool at your local server, drop in the one unified key, and suddenly your favorite coding tool is running on a giant pool of free models instead of one locked provider. So, who is this actually for? Honestly,

pretty much anyone. It runs anywhere. Windows, Mac, Linux, even a little Raspberry Pi sitting in the corner. It uses any power to sit there running. If you're comfortable in a terminal, there's a one-line install and you're going. And if you're not a coder at all,

don't worry. There's a desktop app that lives right up in your menu bar. No account, no password to set up. You just open it, grab your one key from the little tray pop-up, and you're ready. There's even an app on the Google Play Store for your phone. The dashboard

itself speaks 60 languages. So, wherever you're watching from, it's built for you, too. But, I want to be straight with you because that matters more than hype. This tool is built for personal experimenting and learning, not for running a big live product. Those free tiers exist so people can prototype, tinker, and learn against them. They're

not meant to hold up a real business app that thousands of people hit at once. So, if you build something real and serious on top of this, swap in a proper production grade API before you ship it to the world. And one more honest thing, each provider still has its own terms and you agreed to them when you signed up. Those rules still count when your traffic goes through this. So, keep it to yourself for your own use and don't throw it open to the public internet.

All right, let me leave you with a few tips to actually get the most out of it. First, add more than one provider key. This is the big one. One key on its own is still a toy. The magic only kicks in when you stack a bunch of them because that's what powers the automatic fall over when one runs dry. Second, let it

choose for you. There's an auto mode where you just tell it pick the best available model and it handles the rest. You can even set up different chains like one for coding and one for images and switch between them. Third, if you're not technical, skip the terminal completely and grab that desktop menu bar app. It's the fastest way in, no password, no fuss. Fourth, remember what

it's for. Use it to learn, to test ideas, to build your skills, not to run something huge and live. Keep the right tool for the right job. And fifth, a real heads-up, late in the day the top free models start hitting their daily caps so the quality can dip for a while. It all resets at midnight UTC. So, if

you've got heavy work, do it earlier in the day or just lean on that fall over chain to keep things moving. That's really it. A single key, a giant pool of free models, and a setup that quietly keeps itself up to date for learning and building your skills is honestly hard to beat. Now, before you run off and try it, let me point you in the right direction so you don't waste hours guessing. If you're serious about turning what you make with these free tools into real visibility, book that free strategy session with my team.

Here's the fresh angle on it. It's one thing to produce a ton of content with free models. It's another thing entirely to make sure that content actually gets you found on Google and inside the AI answers people trust. On the strategy session, a real strategist maps this straight to your own site, your keywords, your gaps, your competitors. You walk away with a clear custom plan and simple next steps. 100% free, zero

obligation. Grab it from the link below. And then, when you're ready to actually build this stuff with support instead of figuring it out alone, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. Look, you're about to try this yourself. You're going to hit little snags. Which providers to

add first? How to wire it into your coding tool? What to do when the quality dips late in the day? Inside the Boardroom, that's exactly what we solve together. You get the coaching calls, the walkthroughs built around tools just like this one, the road maps, and the prompts. So, you get through the rough

parts fast instead of stuck. And you can get the full zip file inside ready to install through the Agent OS with the complete 30-day road map we built to go right alongside it. With over 4,000 members already in there learning this stuff every single day. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.