---
video_title: "NEW Perplexity Computer Update is AMAZING!"
video_id: MjNv9_jb5ug
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MjNv9_jb5ug
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  NEW Perplexity Update: Use AI Safely With Your Private Files!
  
  Discover how Perplexity's new Hybrid Compute feature allows you to use powerful cloud AI and private local AI simultaneously. Learn how to protect your sensitive business data with the built-in Privacy Gate while leveraging the smartest research models available.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Perplexity’s Huge AI Update
  00:39 - What is Hybrid Compute?
  01:39 - How the Privacy Gate Works
  02:30 - Local Models and Speed
  02:59 - Hardware and Setup Guide
  03:27 - Business Use Case Example
  05:07 - Remote Control via iPhone
  06:34 - The Future of AI Agents
---
New Perplexity, computer update is amazing. Today, I'm going to show you a brand new AI update that lets your computer think in two places at once. It's brand new. It's kind of wild. It's stupid easy to set up, and it might be the safest way yet to use AI with your private files. Stick around because by

the end of this video, you'll know exactly how to use it to grow your business. Let's get into it. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. While he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian reads every single comment, so drop a comment below and say hi. Today's update is called hybrid

compute. It just came out from Perplexity, and it's a new feature inside their tool called computer. Here's the big idea. Normally, when you use an AI agent, you have to pick one of two things. You pick a super smart cloud AI, but then your private files have to leave your computer, or you pick a private local AI that stays on your machine, but it's not as smart.

Perplexity just said, "Wipe it." Now, you can use both at the same time in the same task. Think about it like this. The cloud AI is the smart one. It goes out and does research. It reads the news. It

searches the web. It plans things out. Then, the moment the task touches something private, like your own files, it hands that part of the job over to your own Mac. Your Mac does the private work right there on your machine. Then, both pieces come back together to give you one final answer. One task, two

computers working together. This is huge for anyone running a business because most of us have private stuff on our computers. Client documents, business plans, numbers we don't want floating around online. Now, you don't have to choose between smart AI and safe AI. Let's talk about how it actually decides what stays private. This is called the

privacy gate, and it lives right on your Mac. Before any of your private information gets sent to the cloud, the privacy gate checks it first. It looks for things like names, addresses, account numbers, and secrets. If something looks extra sensitive, like a password or an ID number, it gets even more protection. Here's what the privacy gate can do. It can keep the information

on your Mac and never send it anywhere. It can hide or mask the sensitive part before sending the rest. It can flat-out refuse to send it, or it can stop and ask you first. So, it's not just one rule for everything. It's smart about it. Now, I want to be fair here. This is

not some magic shield that makes everything 100% safe, no matter what. What it is is a system built to spot sensitive stuff and handle it carefully right there on your device before anything leaves. That's still a big deal. Let's talk about what's actually running on your Mac. Perplexity built this to work with three local models.

There's Gemma 4E4B, there's Qwen 3.6-35B-A3B, and there's a model made by Perplexity itself. These run right on your Apple computer chip. Perplexity also built their own engine to make this run fast, called Lily. On a high-end Mac, Perplexity says Lily runs noticeably faster than other tools doing the same job. So, this isn't some slow, laggy,

local AI. It's built for speed. If you want to try this yourself, here's what you need. You need an Apple silicon Mac. You need macOS 15 or newer. You

need at least 24 GB of memory, but 32 GB is what they recommend for the best results. And setting it up is honestly simple. You open the Perplexity Mac app. You download a local model with one click. You open the model picker. You

choose hybrid. And you pick which local model and which cloud model you want working together. That's it. This is available if you're on the Pro Macs or Enterprise plan. Now, let's talk about the part that really shows you why this matters. Let's say you're running

something like the AI Profit Boardroom, our community where we teach business owners how to use AI automation to save time and bring in more customers. Say you have a private folder on your Mac with your community strategy, your member notes, and your growth plan. All private stuff you don't want floating around the internet. You could type this prompt. Research the latest trends in AI automation for small businesses, compare them with the strategy documents in my community folder, find the gaps, and write me a short brief on how to improve the AI Profit Boardroom. Watch what happens.

The cloud side goes and researches what's happening right now in AI automation. The local side on your Mac reads your private strategy documents, keeping them right there on your machine. Then it puts both pieces together and hands you one clean brief. That's the whole point of this update in one example. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. It's the place where

we break down exactly how to use AI automation to save time, bring in more customers, and stay ahead of updates just like this one. We walk through real prompts, real workflows, and real ways to plug tools like hybrid compute straight into your business, so you're not just watching AI news, you're actually using it. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book an SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. On that call, we'll look at where your content stands right now, show you what's actually holding you back from ranking, and map out a clear plan to get your business seen by more of the right people. No pressure, no pitch, just a straight conversation about your SEO. Okay, let's keep going

because there's more to this update, and one part is honestly kind of crazy. Perplexity says you can start a task from your iPhone, and the private part of the work still happens back on your Mac. So picture this. You're out away from your desk, and you send a task from your phone. The cloud part kicks off right away, but the moment it needs your private files, it reaches back to your Mac at home and finishes that part there. Perplexity even talks about

setting up a Mac mini as an always-on machine you can control from your phone. So your Mac becomes this always-ready private AI brain, and your phone is just the remote control. Here's something else worth knowing. Just days before this, Perplexity released something called portable computer, and it works the opposite way. Instead of starting in the cloud and moving private work to your device, Portable computer starts local first on hardware from Nvidia and only reaches out to the cloud when it actually needs more power. So, now

you've got two different approaches from the same company. One starts smart and protects your private stuff. The other starts private and only asks for more brainpower when it truly needs it. Both are trying to solve the exact same problem. How do you get powerful AI without handing over all your private data? And that's really the biggest

story here. Think about how fast this stuff has moved. First, we just had chatbots you could ask a question. Then we got agents you could give a whole task to. Then we got computer user agents that could actually control your screen for you. Then tools that could

work with your personal files. And now we've got this, an AI that decides on its own which parts of a job belong in the cloud and which parts belong on your own machine. That's not just a small feature update. That's a shift in how AI agents are going to work going forward. If you're running a business, here's why I think this actually matters for you.

You don't have to be scared to hand private business stuff to AI anymore. And you don't have to give up on using the smartest AI models just to stay safe. You can use both at the same time and let the tool figure out the split for you. That's a real unlock, especially if you're dealing with client work, internal numbers, or anything you'd normally keep locked down. Before we wrap up, I want you to think about your own business for a second. What's

one private document sitting on your computer right now that you wish AI could help you with, but you've been scared to upload it anywhere? Drop it in the comments. Julian reads every single one and it might just become the topic of a future video. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. It's the place where we break down exactly how to use AI automation to save time, bring in more customers, and turn updates like this one into something you can actually use in your own business instead of just scrolling past it. And

if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book an SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll take a real look at your content, show you exactly what's stopping it from ranking, and give you a clear next step to start showing up in front of more people searching for what you do. That's the full breakdown of Perplexity's hybrid compute update, smart cloud AI, private local AI working together on one task at the same time. I'll see you in the next video.