---
video_title: "Grok 4.6 Just Got a MASSIVE Upgrade"
video_id: vk5gUVdQoEM
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vk5gUVdQoEM
video_date: 20260814
video_description: |
  Get the Grok Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Grok 4.6 didn't add a bigger brain — xAI retrained the same base and caught the frontier anyway. It ties GPT-5.6 on intelligence, sits just behind Anthropic's best, and finishes long agent jobs in roughly half the steps. Here's what actually changed, where it still trails, and how to start using it today.
  
  00:00 Intro – the upgrade nobody noticed
  00:42 What changed – retrained, not bigger
  01:06 Ties GPT-5.6 on intelligence
  01:37 500K context + thinking control
  03:01 Half the steps to finish
  03:34 Where it still trails
  04:01 Where to use it
---
Grok 4.6 just got a massive upgrade. What if a small update just caught the biggest AI models on the planet? No brand new giant brain behind it. Just a smarter version of one you already know.

It ties the top names on the hardest test, and it finishes the job in half the steps. Almost nobody caught how big that really is. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and my whole job is helping you actually learn and use AI tools in your real work. Not just hear the hype, actually use them. So, here's what happened. xAI, the team behind

Grok, just dropped Grok 4.6. And the story isn't it's a little better. The story is where it landed and how it got there. Stick with me because in a bit I'll show you the one number that matters way more than any benchmark score. And it's the thing most people

are ignoring. Let's start simple. What is Grok 4.6? It's the newest version of Grok. It came out on August 12th. And

here's the part that surprised me. It's not a bigger model. xAI didn't build a huge new brain from scratch. They took the same base that powered Grok 4.5 and trained it harder and smarter. Same

foundation, way better results. And the results are real. I'm not just repeating xAI's own charts here. An outside group called Artificial Analysis tested it on their own. On their main intelligence test, Grok 4.6 scored a 61. That ties it

with GPT 5.6 Soul, one of OpenAI's top models. It sits just behind Anthropic's very best. So, think about that. A tuned-up version of an older model is now shaking hands with the frontier, the best of the best. And it did that

without getting any heavier to run than the last version. Same weight, bigger brain. That almost never happens at this level. So, what can it actually do? First, it reads text and images going in and writes text back out. Hand it a

screenshot, a design, a chart, and it works with it. Second, it has a huge memory for a single job. It holds up to 500,000 tokens at once. In plain words, that's a giant pile of notes, docs, and instructions all in one go without forgetting the start by the time it reaches the end. Third, there's a new setting to turn its thinking up or down.

Simple task, keep it light and quick. Hard task, let it think deeper. You control how much effort it spends, which is one of those small things that saves you a ton of wasted work. Now, before I show you the rest, let me tell you where I break all of this down step by step. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, I don't just talk about a model like Grok 4.6. I

show you how I put it to work. There are full walkthroughs where I sit down and run Grok 4.6 on a real task from start to finish. So, you see every prompt, every click, every fix. We run live coaching calls where you can put your own setup on the screen and ask me exactly how I'd use Grok 4.6 for what

you're building. And there's a simple roadmap that tells you which tool to reach for and when, so you're never staring at a blank screen. If you're watching this thinking, "Okay, but how do I actually use it?" That's the whole point of the AI Profit Boardroom. It's built for people who want to do the thing, not just watch it. Okay, here's

where Grok 4.6 gets really interesting. It's strong at long multi-step work. The kind of job where an AI has to plan, do a step, check it, do the next step, and keep going for a long time without falling apart. A lot of models start to wander off on jobs like that. Grok 4.6

stays on track. And here's the number I promised you, the thing most people skip right over. That same outside group measured how many steps Grok 4.6 takes to finish a big job. On average, it wrapped up long tasks in about 53 steps.

One of the top competitors took around 103 steps for the same kind of work. So, Grok 4.6 reaches a similar answer in about half the moves using a fraction of the tokens along the way. That's the real headline. It's not just smart, it's efficient. It doesn't waste your limits

wandering in circles. It gets in, does the work, and gets out. And that matters more than a leaderboard score because in real day-to-day use, the tool that finishes faster and lighter is the one you'll actually keep reaching for. Now, let me be straight with you because I don't do hype. Grok 4.6 isn't number one

at everything. On a couple of the hardest pure coding tests, it still trails the very top models. XAI's own charts show that. So, it's not Grok beats everyone now. The honest read is this, it caught the frontier on overall smarts, is one of the best at long agent style work, and it does it while staying light. That's the win. That's what's

actually new. And it's easy to get to. Grok 4.6 is already live in a bunch of places. It's the default now in Grok build. It's in Cursor, the coding app,

on every plan. It's on Grok bot on X, and it's on the big model marketplaces like Open Router. So, if you already route your tools through one of those, you can switch to Grok 4.6 without changing anything else. If you use Grok on X already, the new version just rotates in for you. There was even a

demo going around where someone gave Grok 4.6 a single prompt, walked away, and it worked on its own for about 22 minutes, and built a small interactive project, custom visuals, and its own little map and all. One prompt, 22 minutes of real work. That's the long-run strength I keep pointing at. So, let me show you how I actually put this to work. I've been running Grok 4.6

to build out a full content series for the AI Profit Boardroom. I hand it a big list of topics that AI Profit Boardroom members keep asking about, and I let it draft the outlines, the hooks, and the captions in one long run. Because it holds the whole brief in memory, it doesn't lose the thread halfway. Everything stays connected. That's exactly the kind of content that pulls the right people into the AI Profit Boardroom. Here's another one. This is

what I do inside the AI Profit Boardroom to map out the whole path a new AI Profit Boardroom member walks through on day one. I point Grok 4.6 at the goal, and it plans the welcome message, the first steps, and the resource walk-through all in one flow. Because it's good at long jobs, I don't have to baby sit every single step. New AI Profit Boardroom members land inside and instantly know what to do next. And

here's one I'd set up next. I'd use Grok 4.6 inside Cursor to build a clean, simple landing page that pulls the right people into the AI Profit Boardroom. Since it reads images and writes code, I could hand it a rough sketch of the layout and let it turn that into a working page. It plans the sections, writes the code, and I just steer. That

means less time fiddling, and more of the right people finding the AI Profit Boardroom. All right, a few quick tips so you get the most out of this. Tip one, match the thinking level to the job. Quick, simple task, keep it light, so it stays fast. Save the deep thinking setting for the hard messy stuff. Don't

spend effort you don't need. Tip two, lean on its long run strength. Don't just ask it one tiny question. Give it a real multi-step job and let it run. That's where it shines and where a lot of other tools tap out. Tip three, feed

it the whole picture. It holds a huge amount at once, so give it all your notes and context up front instead of drip feeding it. It does better work when it can see everything. Tip four, try it where you already work. If you're in Cursor or you use Grok on X, it's right there. You don't need a whole new

setup to test it. Just switch it on and hand it a real task today. So, who's this actually for? If you do long involved work, planning, drafting, research, building, and you want a model that stays sharp and light across all of it, then Grok 4.6 belongs on your short list. It's also a great pick if you're

already deep in a tool like Cursor and you just want a stronger engine behind it without changing your whole way of working. And why does this matter? Because it shows you don't always need a giant new model to reach the top. Sometimes you just train a good one better. The gap between the best models and the rest keeps getting smaller and that's good news for anyone who actually wants to build. That's a shift worth

watching closely. Now, if you want the full process behind all of this, the step-by-step SOPs and over 100 AI use cases just like the ones I showed you today, come join the AI Success Lab. The links are in the comments and the description. You'll get all the notes from this video in there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are all learning and building with AI together. And if you're ready to actually roll up your sleeves with Grok 4.6, here's where

I'd point you. The second you start running it on a real long task, the questions show up. Which thinking level? How do I keep it on track across a big multi-step job? How do I plug it into what I already use? That's exactly what

we work through together inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You get the hands-on Grok 4.6 walkthroughs, the live coaching calls where I look at your setup, the road map that tells you what to do first, and the ready-to-use prompts, so you never start from a blank page. It's over 4,000 members getting through this stuff faster together. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.