---
video_title: "OpenMausBot: FREE Grok Bot Alternative!"
video_id: zTCyKZ7YHFI
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zTCyKZ7YHFI
video_date: 20260813
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & OpenMausBot Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Open Mousebot: Build Your Own Free AI Agent Team (No Waitlist)
  
  Open Mousebot is a free, open-source alternative to Grokbot that lets you build a custom team of AI agents using your existing subscriptions. Discover how to set up autonomous agents that can use your computer, manage your email, and integrate into a shared memory system.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Free Grokbot Killer
  01:22 - Why Open Mousebot Beats Grokbot
  02:31 - The WhatsApp UI for AI Agents
  03:38 - Choosing the Right Brain for Each Job
  05:25 - The Computer Use Feature Explained
  07:30 - Connecting 500+ Apps to Your Agents
  08:50 - Building a Shared Agent Memory
  11:13 - Current Limitations & What's Next
---
OpenMouseBot is the free GrokBot alternative everyone's been waiting for. It just dropped. By the end of this video, you're going to have your own team of AI agents doing real work for you, reading your emails, doing your research, updating your projects whilst you're out at the gym, whilst you're asleep, whilst you're literally doing anything else. It's free. It's open source, and it runs on the AI tools you're already using. You can download

one app, and boom shakalaka, you've got a whole team. So, let me walk you through exactly how it works. There's also one feature inside OpenMouseBot that changes everything, and most people going to miss it completely. I'll show you that later in this video. And also, I'm going to show you how I plug this into our agentic operating system so that every single agent shares one memory, one brain, many workers. And if

you stick with me to the end, I promise you'll walk away with your own AI team, no matter who you are. Let's get into it. So, OpenMouseBot is a free GrokBot alternative. It just dropped. It's open source. It runs on the AI subscriptions

you already have. Claude, your Codex, even Grok itself with no new account, no wait list, no token limits shutting you down after every 20 minutes. So, you can download one app, and you get a whole team of AI agents living in a chat app on your Mac, each one with its own brain, its own memory, its own connected apps, and its own computer. And there's one feature in here that matters more than everything else. So, let's talk about why this exists at all. GrokBot

went into early beta this week. It's a new app from xAI where AI agents work like teammates. These are your tools that you're using the way you would. They come back with finished work. Sounds amazing, right? But, here's the

problem. Most people can't even get in. There's a wait list. And even when you do get in, the limits hit fast. I signed up for a free trial. Within about 20

minutes, I ran out of tokens. Just 20 minutes, even as a subscriber. So, you get this taste of what agent teams feel like, and then the door closes. Now, that gap lasted about 2 days, if that. So, a builder are Milind Sony looked at Grokbot, built an open-source version of the whole idea, and shared it publicly, called it Open Mousebot. And instead of

needing a new subscription, it plugs into the AI tools you already use and are already logged into. So, for example, if you use Claude, it's using your Claude. If you use Codex, you can use your Codex. Even works with Groks. It's the exact thing people are waited listed for, you can run today on plans you already have. Having said that, it

doesn't have all the functionality, which I'll get into in a second, but is very, very close. So, today you're going to learn what Open Mouse actually is, how the agent team works, how the setup's like, and where it beats Grokbot, where it falls short, and how it slots into an agentic operating system. Let's start with the core idea, cuz the design here is a whole story. So, when you open up Mousebot, it looks like WhatsApp or Telegram. There's a sidebar of contacts, but every contact is an AI agent, a real agent that goes and does work, comes back, and shows you what it did. You give each one its own

personality, its own job, its own model. One agent runs on Claude, another runs on Codex, another on Grok. next to each other in your sidebar like people on your team. You You message them like contacts. They go and do the work. You

watch it happen. You approve the things that matter before they happen as well. Here's why this matters so much. So, the moment AI agents look like WhatsApp contacts, the technical barrier basically disappears. Anyone can use WhatsApp. How do you create a new agent?

You literally just click the plus sign like this. How do you set up the workflow you want? You literally just type what you want to build. That's it. So, if you compare that to setting up something like Hermes or Open Claude from scratch, those are powerful, but for most people, the setup alone stops them before they start, and this removes that wall. Now, why a team instead of

one assistant? Because the different jobs need different brains. Some models write better. Some research better. Some run faster. With Grokbot, you can't

change your model. You get what you're given. With Open Mousebot, every single agent has its own model picker. You open the drop-down, and you can pick between Fable 5, Opus, Sonnet, Haiku, Codex, or Grok per agent. So, your writing agent runs on the model that writes best. Your

research agent runs on something faster and cheaper. You're building a team where each member has the right brain for the right job instead of forcing one assistant to be good at everything. Here's an example. So, you could set up one agent whose only job is reading your inbox every morning and then drafting replies for you to approve before you even have your coffee. And here's a detail that surprised me when I tested it. Because it plugs into your existing

Claude setup, it pulls in the skills you've already loaded into Claude. So, when I set up an SEO content research agent, it already had my keyword research skill ready to go. It could pull in live Google Search Console data across my sites. I didn't set up a single API. It was just there because Claude already knew it. And that's the

part most people miss. You know, you're bringing your whole history with you. Every skill, every setup you've already built inside Claude carries over into every agent you create here. Now, before we go deeper into the computer use feature, which is the wildest part of this whole thing, quick pause. If you want help setting up your agent operating system like this, this is exactly what we do inside the AI Profit Bot. And we run four weekly coaching

calls every week. And right now, the calls are going deep on agent team setups, which model to give which agent, how to connect your Gmail and your other tools, and how to build agents that bring in leads and save you hours every single week. These are daily step-by-step tutorials on tools exactly like Open Mouse Bot, the Daily Drop. You also get the Agent OS as a zip file with a 30-day roadmap, which is the same system I'm about to show you with Open Mouse Bot wired into it. I've helped over 3,700 people sign up in there. And

plenty of them have never touched AI before they joined. Link in the comments and description, or just go to the AI Profit Bot.com to get access. Next, let's talk about the computer use feature. So, every agent in Open Mouse Bot gets its own computer. That sounds

strange the first time you hear it. So, let me explain what it actually means. Inside the app, there's a panel called computer. You open it, and your agent gets a real desktop cloud. So, a real Linux computer running somewhere else that the agent controls by itself. And

you get a live preview of the screen whilst it works. So, you can ask your agent to fill out a long form, organize files, and you literally watch it click around, open apps, and do the task on a little screen whilst you do something else. You could go to the gym, come back, check the screen. You can run this on a cloud box through a service called box, or you can point the agent at your own Mac, and it works inside your actual machine. You can even click open desktop and take over the computer in your browser if you want to step in. Now,

honest reality check here because you deserve the truth, computer use is slow right now. Grokbot has the same feature, and when I tested it, it just got stuck like opening Google and saying hello. That's the actual level we're at with computer use across the board. It works, it's real, but you're not handing it your whole day yet. The direction still matters here, though. A year ago, this

category existed for normal people. Now, two apps shipped in the same week wrapped in a chat interface anyone can use. So, the speed will come, the shape's already here. Next up, let's talk about safety because I know what some of you're thinking. You're thinking, "What happens when an AI agent has access to my files and its own computer?" So, Open Mouse Bot handles

this with a permission system. When an agent wants to run a command, edit file, or do anything risky, a little card pops up in the chat. You tap allow or deny just like approving something on your phone. So, the agent doesn't go rogue on your files. Every risky action becomes a decision make.

You see exactly what it wants to do before it does it. When I tested it, it actually asked before touching my Obsidian vault. I allowed it, and then off it went. So, yes, approving things gets a bit annoying after a while. But, here's the thing about open source. You

could easily ask Claude itself to edit the program and change how approvals work. You own the code. That's the level of control Grokbot will never give you. Now, let's talk about connected apps, and this is where the agent stop being like clever chatters and start being useful workers. Open Mouse Bot has a one-click marketplace on Composio. Over

500 apps you can plug in. Gmail, Slack, Notion, Linear, hundreds more. You connect an app once, log in once, and every agent on your team can use it as a tool. So, your morning agent actually reads your Gmail, your project agent actually updates your Notion. One example, an agent connected to your Slack and Notion could watch for questions and draft answers straight from your docs. And it's local first.

It's one small server that lives on your Mac and manages all your agent processes. So, your conversations, your keys, your event logs, they all live on a folder on your computer. Now, to be clear, you're still using cloud models. So, Claude, Codex, Grok all send your prompts to the cloud, because that's where the models run. But the app itself, your logs, your keys, that all stays with you. Now, actually getting it

is pretty simple as well. So, it's on GitHub, you can download the Mac app, drag it into your applications folder, open it, the server is built in. Windows is coming next, then Linux. And the one thing you need is at least one AI tool already installed and logged in on your machine. Claude Code, Codex, or the Grok tool. If you have one of those, it shows

up in the model picker automatically. The only fiddly part is configuring the CLI. And honestly, I just used Claude Desktop, that will move that and sort it quickly. Now, the part I promised you at the start, now how I've built this into our agentic operating system. And if you're new here, my agentic operating system is a dashboard that wires all my agents into one mission control. So, you

got Claude, you got Open Claude, you got Hermes, [snorts] free Claude Code, Open Mouse Bot as well now, in one place. So, every agent shares the same Obsidian memory. So, my goals, my journal, my notes, my project file, every agent reads from the same brain. And here's why that combination matters. On its own, Open Mouse Bot gives you a team of agents in a chat app, which is nice. But

each app you use is still its own island. Your Open Mouse agents don't know what your Hermes goal run did last month or last night. Your Open Claude setup doesn't know what your research agent found this morning. Inside the Agent OS, they all sit on the same foundation. So, the Obsidian Vault is a shared memory. When my Open Mouth Bot

research agent pulls search console data, that lands where my agents can see it. When Hermes finishes a long run overnight, but the notes are there for the writing agent in the morning. It's one memory with many brains. And the workspace pattern in the Agent OS means anything an agent builds lands in a project folder. So, I can browse from the dashboard, HTML pages preview live, videos play in line. So, Open Mouth

becomes another worker feeding into the same system. So, instead of another separate app I have to check. Like, if I have to click into Claude and the Grok Bot, it's messy. But, if I have it inside one place like this, super easy to manage. Now, you might be wondering how long does it take? When I actually

set up personally to build it into an Agentic operating system, it took about 30 minutes because the Agent OS uses the same pattern for every agent. If a new agent comes out, wire it in with the same four ingredients and it joins the team. That's a real lesson here. So, tools like Open Mouth Bot will keep dropping. Drop Bot today, Open Mouth Bot 2 days later, something new next week.

If your setup is built around one app, you rebuild every time. If it's built around a system with shared memory, every new tool just makes your system stronger. And by the way, I can open up all of this from anywhere. So, the Agent OS runs on my home Mac and through Tailscale, so I can open up the same dashboard from my laptop or my phone, wherever I am. It's the same task, same chat history, same memory. The agents

don't stop working because I left the house. Now, let's be fair and talk about the limitations of Open Mouth Bot because it's early and you should know what you're getting into. So, first, it only seems to run on Claude, Codex, and Grok right now. So, make sure you have one of those. The good news is you can use the CLI you're already logged into.

You don't need set up an API. And that's actually a real edge over Hermes here because you can't use Claude with Hermes as a CLI. You'll need an API. With Open Mouth Bot, your normal Claude plan just works. Second, it literally just launched, is an open source project, and like open source projects, it can be messy in places. The formatting of its

questions was a bit rough when I tested. If you want the polished smooth version, that's Grok Bot. But Grok Bot has a waitlist, and when you do get in, the limits hit fast. This is a long-term version with fewer restrictions. And third, agent to agent communication. On

Grok Bot, agents can tag each other in and work together. I tested this on open mousebot, asked one agent to speak to another, and it didn't understand what I was asking. So, right now your agents work solo. I'm sure that will get fixed because the code is open, and this is the most requested feature in every agent tool, but today it's not here. Now, where does this leave you? Here's

what I think the honest future is. One assistant and one chatbot was version one of AI. Everybody's used that. A team of agents, each with a name, a job, a model, connected apps, and a computer, that's what version two looks like. Grok Bot is built on that shape. Open Mouse

is built on that shape. The Agent OS is built on that shape as well. So, three different projects, same conclusion. When everyone lands in the same place from different directions, that tells you where things are going. And I know what some of you thinking as well. You

thinking already have Claude. Why would I need this? And that's a fair question. Here's the difference. Claude, inside Claude, your custom workflows are buried in old conversations. So, try finding

that setup you built 3 weeks ago. You're scrolling, searching, digging. Inside open mousebot, your SEO researcher is right there, ready to go whenever you need to. And everything is saved in one place. Same intelligence, just completely different usability. Some of

you also might be thinking, "This stuff changes too fast to stay up to date. Whatever I learn will be outdated in a month." If you look at what actually happened this week, Grok Bot dropped, 2 days later a free open source version existed. The tools change fast, yes, but the shape underneath them is settling. So, agents with jobs, models, apps, memory. Learn the shape once, and every

new tool that drops takes you 30 minutes to pick up instead of 30 days. The people who wait for things to slow down will be learning the basics whilst everyone is free tools ahead. If you're thinking, "I'm not technical enough to this." You know, like I'd point at the app itself. So, it's basically WhatsApp with AI contacts. If you can message

your friend, you can run an agent. The barrier you're picturing just came down this week, and that's the whole point of this tutorial. So, that's open mouse bot, free, open source, runs on Claude, Codex, or Grok subscriptions you already have, ask permissions before it touches anything, a model picker for every agent, and over 500 connected apps. It's own computer per agent. Not as smooth as Grok bot, but no wait list, no token wall, and you own the code. And wired

into the Agent OS, it stops being an app and becomes part of the system. Now, if you actually want to build this, come join us in the AI Profit Boredom. You get the Agent OS file with Open a Mouse and all your other agents wired into one dashboard with shared memory plus a 30-day roadmap for setting up your own agent team step-by-step. The daily tutorials right now are covering exactly this, how to set up your agents with the right models, connect your Gmail, Slack, and Notion, turn them into workers that bring you leads and customers whilst you're doing other things. You get four coaching calls every week where you can ask questions about your agent setup live. And plenty of members inside

already running Claude, Open Claude, and Hermes setups just like this, so you can see real working examples and copy them. There's a prompt library for every agent job you'd want to create in a member map so you can meet other people near you building the same sort of thing. Over 3,700 business owners inside there, and there's always someone online ready to help you whenever you need. Link in the comments and description, or go to the AI Profit Boredom.com. Thanks for

watching. See you in the next one.