---
video_title: "I Found the Best AI Tool for Architecture Diagrams"
video_id: dAMuzOcmSsc
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dAMuzOcmSsc
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Your system diagram is probably wrong right now—drawn once, then the code kept moving. Archifi is a free, open-source agent skill (32k+ stars) that builds architecture diagrams and refuses to render until it's checked its own work, linking every box back to the exact line of code that justifies it. Install it into Cursor, Claude Code, or Codex CLI in one command and turn a chat description into an interactive, shareable diagram.
  
  00:00 Intro – Why your architecture diagram is already wrong
  00:31 What Archify Is – One-line install as an agent skill
  01:32 Source Evidence – Every box links to real code
  02:14 Five Diagram Types – Pick the right one
  04:03 Self-Checking – Repair receipts, not error walls
  07:11 Architecture Delta – See exactly what a PR changed
  08:11 The Limits – What it deliberately won't do
---
I found the best AI tool for architecture diagrams. When was the last time your system diagram was actually correct? Be honest, it's probably wrong right now. Someone drew it once, then the code kept moving. There's a free tool with over 32,000 stars that fixes this. And almost nobody in the AI space

is talking about it. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and I help people learn AI tools and actually use them in real work. Today, we're looking at Archifi. And stick with me because this tool does one thing I've never seen a diagram tool do. It refuses to hand you a picture until it has checked its own work first. I'll show you exactly

how that works in a minute. So, what is Archifi? Archifi is not a website. You don't log in. You don't drag boxes around a canvas. It's an agent skill.

That means you install it into the AI coding tool you already use, and then you just talk to it. It works with cursor, clawed code, codec cli, and open code. You can also upload it to claude.ai as a zip file under settings, then capabilities, then skills. There's a community integration for the Deep Seek harness, too, and one for a harness called Raven. Installing it is one line.

You type npx skills tt- a1iarchify with a dash g on the end. That's it. The -ash g makes it global so it works in every project. Here's what happens when you use it. You describe a system in chat.

Your agent turns that description into type JSON. Archify then compiles that JSON into an HTML file with SVG graphics. That's a fancy way of saying you get one single file that opens in your browser and contains the whole diagram inside it. Nothing to host, nothing to install for the person you send it to. And you don't need a code repository at all. You can literally

type use archify to draw browser arrow API arrow reddis cache arrow postgress sql fallback. It'll build it. But it gets more interesting when you do point at real code. The team behind archifi pointed it at a public repository called mco.org/mc.

They pinned it to one exact commit 9F1 A1CF and had it map the runtime architecture. What came out isn't a guess. When you turn on source evidence, nodes in the diagram get marked with a little src tag and a number. Click one and it opens the actual file and the actual line range in that exact commit. That's the part I want you to sit with.

Most AI diagram tools make something that looks right. This one links the box on your screen back to the line of code that justifies it. And if you don't ask for source evidence, ordinary diagrams stay source free. It doesn't shove it in. Now, Archifi doesn't just make architecture diagrams. There are five

types, and picking the right one matters more than people think. Architecture is for components, services, storage, and boundaries. Workflow is for CI and CD approvals, tool calls, and runbooks. Sequence is for API calls, cache fallback, authentication, and async traces. Data flow is for pipelines, lineage, personal data, and who consumes it. Life cycle is for states, retries,

weights, and final outcomes. If you're not sure which one you need, there's a guide command built in. You type node, then the archifier binary, then guide, then describe what you want in plain English. It tells you which type fits. The project publishes something called the proof lab. It's a gallery of 11

scenarios and every single one is a real generated artifacts, not a mockup. 99 structural checks pass across those 11. You can open any of them and click around. Let me give you two that show what it can actually do. The first is called agent tool call. It's a workflow

diagram with 12 nodes and 11 connections. It traces a policy aware agent loop across four lanes. What the user does, what the agent runtime does, what the policy and recovery layer does, and what happens during tool execution. If you're building agents right now, that's the exact picture you keep trying to draw on a napkin. The second is called production deployment ownership.

It's an architecture diagram, also 12 nodes. It shows regions, private networks, who owns which workload, where state lives, cross region replication, audit evidence, and named boundary crossings. And there's a rule attached to it. Archifi has an optional deployment ownership profile that fails closed, meaning if you haven't said who owns something or where it sits or which crossings are named, it won't render and pretend it knows. It stops. The other

nine cover things like a cache miss request, a release delivery workflow with build gates and roll back, an incident response runbook, product analytics with consent and personal data isolation, an async job round trip, event stream topology with dead letters and replay agent run life cycle, deployment release life cycle, and a classic three- tier web app. Now, let's talk about the thing I teased at the start, the checking. When Archify builds a diagram, it doesn't just render and hope. It runs a set of checks first. schema checks, layout checks, HTML and SVG structure checks, root checks, and a label to root clearance check, which is a smart one. That's making sure your

text labels don't sit on top of your arrows. All of those have to pass before the new diagram is allowed to replace the last good one. If something fails, you don't get a wall of red error text. You get what they call a repair receipt. It's machine readable, and it tells you the exact rule that broke, the exact thing that broke it, the measurement it took, and only the fixes that are actually supported. Your agent reads

that and fixes it. No guessing. There's also a live preview mode. It watches one file on your own machine on a local only address and refreshes the moment a new version passes every check. If you save something half finished or broken, it keeps showing you the last good diagram instead of flashing an error at you.

Once you've got the diagram open, it's genuinely interactive. And this is where it stops being a picture and starts being a tool. Press the forward slash key to find and focus any node by name. Focus one, then hit upstream or downstream to trace what feeds into it and what it feeds. Press R to probe a route between two things and see the exact path. Press L for lens mode, which

lets you compare one or two roles, like all your backend nodes against all your database nodes. Press M for a live overview radar. Press P to play a guided story, which walks the viewer through named chapters of the diagram. Press F for presentation mode. Press T to flip between dark and light. Press S to cycle

visual styles. Plus and minus to zoom. zero to reset. And every one of those states has a sharable link. You can send someone a URL that opens on the exact node, the exact route, or the exact view you want them looking at. Exporting is

just as clean. Press E, and you can copy a PNG straight to your clipboard, or download SVG or webm if you want the motion. There's also a share card export of 1,200x 630, which is exactly the size you want for a readme or a post. After you trace a route, you can export that specific path as its own share card and it keeps the full diagram behind it for context. Now, if you're watching this and thinking, "Okay, I can see how this helps my documentation, but how do I actually get people to find my business through all this AI stuff?" I've got

something free for you. We're running free AI brand visibility sessions. You get on a call with a real strategist and they show you exactly how your brand shows up or doesn't show up across Google AI overviews, Chat, GPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. You get a custom visibility plan built for your site. You get the competitor gap analysis so you can see who's being recommended instead of you. And you get to ask your own

questions and get straight answers. It's 100% free and there's no obligation on it at all. The link is below this video. And if you want to go deeper on the tooling side, come join us in the AI profit boardroom inside there. We run live coaching calls where you can bring your actual setup and ask questions about it, which is exactly what you need when you're installing agent skills like Archifi and Cursor or Claude Code and something doesn't click first time.

There are full walkthroughs on the agent tools. This plugs into a library of prompts you can copy and 30-day road maps so you're not just collecting tools and never using them. Over 4,000 members are in there already. Head to apiprofitboardroom.com.

Right back to it because there's one more feature that I think is the real reason to install this. It's called architecture delta. Here's the situation it fixes. Someone opens a pull request. It changes how the system is wired. You

read the code changes, but you can't really see the shape of what moved. So, you approve it and hope. Archify lets you take two validated snapshots, one from before and one from after, and compare them. You run the compare command with your base file and your head file, and it produces a before delta after view. It tells you exactly what was added, what was removed, what changed, what moved, and what got rerouted. And it gives you a machine

receipt for it. You can also play a short viewer only review of the change. But here's the honest bit, and I like that they say it out loud. It does not tell you if the change is safe. It doesn't infer risk or impact. It just

tells you the facts of what moved. That's a tool that knows its own limits, and that's rare. Same with everything else in there. The interactions only ever reuse nodes and relationships you actually authored. It won't invent a connection to make the picture look better, and it won't claim something happens at runtime when all it has is your description. Let me be equally

straight about what Archify is not. So, you don't install it expecting the wrong thing. It's not a drawing editor. There's no click and drag canvas. It's not a mermaid theme. And it doesn't pass

mermaid files. There's no general purpose auto layout. Because the whole point is that the agent makes real layout decisions about hierarchy, spacing, and emphasis instead of letting an algorithm scatter boxes. There's no hostage sharing service, and there's no what you see is what you get editing. Those are all deliberately out of scope right now. So, who should actually

install this today? If you're documenting a system and the docs keep going stale, this is for you. If you review pull requests and you want to see the structural change instead of imagining it, this is for you. If you're building agents and you keep reexplaining the loop to people, build it once as a workflow diagram and send the link. If you're on boarding someone new, hand them a diagram they can search, trace, and play through instead of a flat image. And the way to start is

honestly very small. Install it. Open a project you already know well. Then ask your agent to analyze the repository and build a highle runtime architecture diagram with 8 to 12 core components, one primary path, external dependencies, and trust boundaries. Ask it to put the extra detail in cards rather than adding more arrows because that's what stops diagrams turning into spaghetti. Then

just refine it in chat. Add reddice. Move al to the left. highlight the roll back path. It keeps the typed source around, so small changes stay small and don't blow up the rest of the layout.

The whole thing is MIT licensed, so you're free to use it, change it, and pass it on. Before you go and try it, two quick things that will speed you up. First, book your free AI brand visibility session. If you've just spent an hour making your system legible to your team, the next honest question is whether your brand is legible to AI search. On that call, you'll get a custom plan, a clear read on where you're showing up across the AI tools people now search with, competitor insights, and specific recommendations you can act on the same week. Free, no

obligation. Link below. Second, join us in the AI profit boardroom because here's what's going to happen when you install Archifi. The first diagram will be great. The second one will fail a check, and you'll want to know why.

You'll wonder which of the five types you should have picked. You'll want to know how to wire the Delta Compare into your review process. That's exactly what the live coaching calls are for. Plus the tutorials, the prompt library, and the road maps that keep you moving instead of stuck. Over 4,000 members.

Come join us at AI profofitboardroom.com.