---
video_title: "New Gemini Notebook Update Is CRAZY!"
video_id: 8lNDIsbe5xc
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8lNDIsbe5xc
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Gemini Notebook Update: AI Short Videos in 70+ Languages!
  
  Discover how the new Gemini Notebook update allows you to turn documents into 60-second vertical videos in over 70 languages. We cover the step-by-step process for generating global content, the transition to compute-based usage limits, and how to build an automated AI content factory.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:24 - New 70+ Language Support
  01:13 - How Gemini Notebook Works
  03:27 - Explainer vs. Short Video Formats
  04:38 - Step-by-Step Video Generation
  05:38 - New Compute-Based Usage Limits
  06:36 - The New AI Content Queue
  07:21 - Best Practices & Quality Control
---
New Gemini notebook update is crazy. Google just made Gemini notebook speak more than 70 languages. Not for text, for short vertical videos. Drop in one document. Get back a 60-second video in Japanese, in Spanish, in Hindi, in German. Same document, same button,

different language. And there's a second change that landed today that decides how many of these you can actually make. I'll get to that. It's the part most people are going to walk straight past. So, let me tell you exactly what happened. Yesterday, September 1st, the

Gemini Notebook team announced that short video overviews now work in over 70 languages, plus three new English variants, turning your sources into roughly 60-second vertical videos in the language you pick. It's rolling out on web, Android, and iOS for Google AI Pro and Google AI Ultra members. Here's why that's a big deal. This feature is new. The short format only showed up at the end of June this year. Google announced

it on June 30th, and when it launched, it was English only. So, for 2 months, if you wanted a quick vertical video out of your own documents, you got English. That was it. Google's own help page still says the short format supports English only, and it's for users aged 18 and up. That page hasn't caught up yet.

The feature has 2 months. English only now 70 languages. That's the jump. Let me explain what this thing actually does. Because if you've never touched it, the name tells you nothing. Gemini

Notebook is Google's research tool. You feed it your stuff, PDFs, Google Docs, web pages, YouTube links, your own notes. It reads all of it. Then it only answers from what you gave it. That last part matters. It doesn't wander off and

invent things from the internet. It stays inside your sources. Then there's a panel called studio. That's where it turns your sources into things. Audio, video, slide decks, reports, infographics, flashcards, quizzes. Short

video overview is one of those outputs. You pick it and it builds you a vertical video about 60 seconds long shaped for a phone screen. Vertical. 60 seconds. That's a real. That's a short. That's a

Tik Tok. And now it talks in the language your audience actually speaks. Let me give you a real example of how I'd use this. I'd load up everything about the AI profit boardroom into one notebook. The onboarding guide, the coaching call notes, the agent OS setup docs. Then I'd say, "Make me a 60-second

vertical video explaining what a business owner gets when they join the AI profit boardroom and make it in Spanish. One notebook, one prompt, a video for a whole different audience. Then I do it again in Portuguese, then Hindi, then German. Same sources, same message, four videos, four audiences. That used to be four scripts, four translators, four voice recordings, and four edits. If you want the actual step

by step on turning your documents into short videos in 70 languages, come into the AI profit boardroom. Inside, we run four coaching calls every week where we go deep on exactly this. How to build a source notebook for your business, what to write in the steering prompt so the video sells your service properly, and how to turn one document into a week of content in multiple languages. There's a daily tutorial showing you the click by click. There's a prompt library built for this kind of workflow. Business

owners in there right now. And plenty of them are already running Gemini notebook for their content. Links in the description and comments. And if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if

it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Now, let

me show you the part people get wrong. Gemini Notebook has more than one video format, and they are not the same. There's explainer. That's the standard one. Structured connects your sources together. It's been available in 64

languages for a while now. It's the long horizontal teach me format. There's cinematic. That one uses Gemini 3, Nano Banana Pro, and VO3 together to make actual animation and rich visuals with Gemini acting like a creative director, picking the story, the style, the format, and then going back over its own work to keep it consistent. It's beautiful. And it's still English only,

still 18 plus. And there short vertical 60 seconds, built for phones. Until yesterday, short was English only, too. Now, it's the one that just went global. So, if you were planning to make content for people who don't speak English, you had one option before, explainer, long and horizontal. Now you've got the short

vertical one as well, which is the format almost everyone actually watches on their phone. One more detail worth knowing, the short format doesn't give you a visual style picker. With explainer, you can choose looks like classic, whiteboard, watercolor, retro print, heritage, papercraft, kawaii, or anime, or let it pick for you or describe your own style. Short skips all that. It decides the look. You decide

the words and the language. That sounds like a limitation. In practice, it's faster, fewer decisions, quicker output. Okay, how do you actually make one? Step one, open a notebook and add your sources. You can add web pages, YouTube

videos, files, Google Drive documents, pasted text. Load it up with the real stuff, your service pages, your best emails, your training docs. Step two, go to the studio panel and pick video overview. Step three, choose your format. Pick shorts. Step four, pick

your language. This is the new bit. Scroll and choose. 70 plus options. Step five, there's a steering prompt. You

either select a suggested topic for the video to focus on or you type your own custom topic. Do not skip step five. That's where you control what the video is actually about. Here's what I type. Focus on the three biggest time wasters a business owner deals with every week and show how AI automation inside the AI profit boardroom removes them. Same

notebook, different steering prompt, completely different video. Step six, hit generate and then go do something else. Because here's the honest part. Google says the video generates in the background. So you can make other things at the same time or go to another screen and it can sometimes take more than 30 minutes, 30 minutes, sometimes more.

plan for it. Now, that second change I mentioned at the start, today, September 2nd, Google changed how usage limits work in Gemini Notebook, and it hits video harder than anything else. Google's support page says that from September 2nd, Gemini Notebook moves to compute-based usage limits, and those limits factor in how complex your prompt is, which models and features you use, and how long your chat is. Before this, it was simple counting. You got a set number of things per day depending on your plan. Three audio or video

overviews and 10 reports or quizzes a day on the free tier going all the way up to 5,000 chat queries and 200 audio or video overviews a day on Ultra. Now it's a budget instead of a count. Google says your overall usage limit factors imprompt complexity, chat length, number of sources and the features you use. And it refreshes every 5 hours instead of daily. 5 hours instead of 24. That part

is better. You're not locked out for a whole day anymore. There's also a weekly cap sitting behind the 5-hour windows, so it's not unlimited. And they built in something genuinely useful for this. Gemini Notebook will suggest alternative outputs if your first choice goes over your limit. And there's a generate later

option to defer heavy things like video overviews or slide decks. Google creates them automatically once your limit resets and it's coming to web first. You can also turn on notifications so you know the moment they're ready. So, picture this. You queue up eight short videos in eight languages. You hit your

limit at video four. The other four don't fail. They sit in a queue and build themselves when your window resets and your phone tells you when they're done. That's a queue. You just built a small content factory. There's also a

bar on every studio generation showing you the expected usage cost. The more it's filled in, the more it will take. And a status line under the chat telling you things like you're almost at your AI usage limit. Limit resets at 3 p.m. So

you can see what's expensive before you click it, which changes how you plan your day. Now, let me be straight with you about the limits because I'm not going to oversell this. Google says clearly that video overviews, the voices and the visuals are AI generated and can contain mistakes or audio glitches. So, watch every video before you post it, especially in a language you don't speak. If you're making a Spanish video and you don't speak Spanish, send it to somebody who does before it goes live.

10 minutes of checking beats an embarrassing mistake in front of a new market. Second thing, the output is grounded in your sources so the quality of your video is decided before you ever click generate. Feed it a thin vague document and you'll get a thin vague video. Feed it your best material and it has something to work with. Third thing, 30 minutes of generation time means this isn't a same minute tool. Batch it, cue

it at the start of your day, collect it at the end. And fourth, this is on Google AI Pro and Ultra right now. When the short format first launched, Google said free users were coming later. So if you're on the free tier, watch that space. Where does this go next? So

here's what I'd do. If you want to actually build this into your business properly, the notebook structure, the steering prompts that make these videos convert instead of just describing things, the batching workflow so you're not sat waiting 30 minutes, and how to plug the whole thing into an agent that runs it for you. Come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You get four coaching calls every week where we work through your Gemini notebook setup live. Bring your notebook, bring your prompt, we'll fix it on the call. Daily

step-by-step tutorials showing you exactly how to turn your documents into short videos and get them in front of more customers. a prompt library you can copy straight into the steering box. There's a member map, too, so you can find and meet people near you doing the same thing. Business owners and someone's always online, link in the description and comments. And if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO

comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic.