---
video_title: "Antigravity Just Changed Everything"
video_id: 7SU8VZPAazs
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7SU8VZPAazs
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian 
  
  Google's New AI Agent Team: How "Boost" Changes Everything
  
  Google just dropped Boost inside Anti-gravity, moving from a single AI brain to a full team of agents working together. Discover how this new orchestration system handles complex business tasks like content planning and automated verification.
  
  00:00 - Intro: What is Google Boost?
  00:49 - Single AI vs. AI Agent Teams
  01:51 - Step 1: Strategy & Orchestration
  02:31 - Step 2: Building & Investigation
  04:03 - Step 3: Verification & Brand Voice
  04:51 - Boost vs. Standard vs. Teamwork
  06:09 - How to Use /boost Commands
  07:06 - When Not to Use AI Boost
---
Anti-gravity just changed everything today. I'm going to show you something new inside Google Anti-gravity called Boost. It's not just a smarter AI, it's a whole team of AI agents working together on one hard problem. It's brand new, it's kind of wild, and once you see how it works, you're going to start thinking about your own business completely differently. Stick with me because I'm going to show you exactly how it works and exactly how something like this could run in the background of a business like mine. So, Google just

dropped something called Boost inside Anti-gravity. And when I first saw it, I thought, "Okay, this is just another button that makes the AI think longer." But, it's not that, it's way bigger than that. Boost is a new way to hand off hard problems to a group of AI agents instead of just one. And every time I look at a feature like this, I don't just ask, "What does it do?" I ask, "How

would this actually run inside a real content business?" So, today I want to break down exactly what Boost does, how it works, and where I already see it fitting into a business like AI Profit Boardroom. Let's start simple. Normally, when you use an AI tool, you give it one task and one AI agent tries to solve it, one brain, one shot. But, with Boost, you type one command and Anti-gravity turns that one task into a full team effort.

It splits the problem into pieces, it sends those pieces to different AI agents. Those agents dig in, try out solutions, test them, and check their own work. Then, everything gets combined and checked again before you get your final answer. Hey, if we haven't met yet, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of Goldie Agency, an SEO agency. Julian reads every single comment, so drop one below, he will see it. Think of it like this. Old way, you

ask one person to fix a broken system by themselves. New way, you send in a full team, each person checking a different part before anyone hands you the final answer. That's the shift here, and honestly, that's the exact shift I want to see happen inside my own operations, too. Instead of one AI doing one shallow pass on a task, you've got a system that investigates, builds, and double-checks itself. Google breaks Boost down into three steps, and each one maps to something a growing AI education business actually needs. First step is

strategy. The main AI agent, called the orchestrator, looks at the whole project first and breaks the problem into smaller pieces it can actually test. Now, picture this inside AI Profit Boardroom. Instead of me manually planning out a full content calendar, breaking it into YouTube scripts, newsletter angles, and community posts one at a time, an orchestrator-style system could take one big goal, like grow engagement this month, and break it into the actual pieces automatically before that planning eats up hours of my week. After that planning happens in minutes, and my team spends that time actually talking to members instead of building spreadsheets. Second step is

investigation and building, happening at the same time. Different AI agents get assigned different jobs, working in their own separate space so they don't step on each other. Here's where it gets really interesting for a business like mine. Imagine AI Profit Boardroom gets flooded with community questions every single day. Instead of one AI trying to handle everything in one shot, one agent could sort every message by topic, one agent could draft replies to common questions, and one agent could flag the messages that sound like someone is ready for deeper coaching or a premium offer. Before, that means either hiring

a huge support team or messages sitting unanswered for a day. After, questions get sorted and drafted instantly, and the highest-value conversations get surfaced straight to a real person fast. Quick pause, because this is exactly the kind of shift I built the AI Profit Boardroom around. If tools like Antigravity and Boost feel exciting, but you're not sure how they connect to an actual content or coaching business, that's the whole point of the Boardroom. We break down automation systems, content scaling, and lead generation workflows built with AI. So, you're not

just watching cool tech, you're actually using it to save your team time and grow your community. Link is down in the description if you want to check it out. If you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody's finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly.

That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team, and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Third step is verification, and this might be the most useful part of all for content and community work. Once the agents finish, Antigravity puts it all together, checks it, and if something's off, it sends it back to get fixed before anything gets finalized. Now,

think about content production. Imagine a single YouTube script gets turned into a full package automatically, a newsletter version, a Twitter thread, and a short lead magnet for new members. A verification step means before any of that goes out, it gets checked against your actual brand voice and your actual facts, not just generated and shipped blind. Before, one piece of content stays one piece of content, and turning it into five formats is manual work for the team. After, one script becomes an entire content funnel, checked and ready without anyone pulling an all-nighter formatting Twitter threads. Now, here's

a question you might be asking. Wait, doesn't Antigravity already have sub-agents? Doesn't it already have something called Teamwork? Good question. Google actually puts out a comparison, and it explains where Boost fits. Normal Antigravity is best for

everyday quick tasks, and it's on every plan, including free. Boost is for harder problems that need real digging, and it currently sits on higher access tiers. Teamwork is for huge projects that might run for hours or days, also on higher access tiers. Translate that into a content business, and you get three levels, too. Level one, quick daily tasks like drafting a caption or cleaning up a transcript. Level two, the

harder stuff like researching a whole new offer, mapping out a full onboarding sequence, or auditing every touchpoint a lead has before they join the community. Level three, the massive stuff like rebuilding an entire content system or automation stack from scratch. One thing I want to be really clear on. Boost is not a new AI model. Google didn't build a smarter brain and slap a new name on it. Antigravity still lets

you pick from different reasoning models. Boost changes the process around the task, how the work gets planned, split up, and checked. That distinction matters because the real advantage isn't a smarter answer, it's a more reliable process, and reliable process is exactly what lets a small team run like a much bigger one. Where can you use it? Two places: Anti-gravity 2.0 and the

Anti-gravity command line tool. And using it is stupidly simple. You just type {slash} boost, then describe your task, no extra setup screen. Now, let's talk about when you'd actually use this. Google points to four kinds of problems where boost shines: race conditions, tricky algorithm issues, big multi-file refactors, and deep root cause investigations. Here's

the example Google actually uses: a concert ticket system with one ticket left and 50 people trying to buy it at the exact same time. Without protection, more than one person can end up winning that last ticket. That's a race condition, a genuinely messy problem that needs real investigation, not a quick patch. Now, flip that into a growth context. Picture a limited spot launch for a coaching program inside AI Profit Boardroom, where 100 people are trying to grab five open spots at once.

A system built with the same investigate deeply then verify mindset isn't just fixing code, it's the exact same logic you'd want behind a checkout system. So, nobody gets double charged, no spot gets sold twice, and the whole thing holds up under real pressure instead of quietly breaking during your biggest traffic spike. Okay, let's keep going. When should you not use something like boost? Honestly, for small stuff. A one-line

copy edit, a quick caption, a small formatting fix. You don't need a whole team of agents investigating a tiny task. That's like calling a full team meeting to fix a typo. Save the deep multi-agent process for the problems that actually deserve it: the big funnel builds, the full automation systems, the stuff that touches a lot of moving parts. And if tools like Anti-gravity feel exciting, but you're not sure how they connect to an actual content or coaching business, that's the whole point of the Boardroom. We break down

automation systems, content scaling, and lead generation workflows built with AI. So, you're not just watching cool tech, you're actually using it to save your team time and grow your community. Link is down in the description if you want to check it out. If you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in.

Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team, and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. See you in the next

one.