---
video_title: "Run DeepSeek V4 Flash For Free: Here's Exactly How!"
video_id: YWdHnB-GoH0
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWdHnB-GoH0
video_date: 20260816
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & DeepSeek V4 Flash Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  DeepSeek V4 Flash: Is the Free Model Better Than Pro?
  
  Discover why DeepSeek V4 Flash is outperforming its Pro version in AI agent benchmarks and how it can revolutionize your workflow. We break down side-by-side coding tests and show you how to implement this fast, lightweight model in your own agentic operating system.
  
  00:00 - Intro: DeepSeek V4 Flash
  00:24 - Flash vs. Pro Benchmarks
  01:26 - Why V4 Flash is Built for Agents
  01:40 - Building an Agent OS
  03:12 - Side-by-Side Coding Comparisons
  05:03 - Why We Test with Games
  05:54 - How to Get the Agent OS Zip
  06:45 - Join the AI Success Lab
---
Run Deep Seek for free. Here's exactly how. Deep Seek 5 4 Flash just came out of preview and I've been testing it non-stop, over 50 builds, so you don't have to. And what I found actually surprised me. This model was built to be fast, lightweight, small. It's not

trying to compete with the biggest frontier models out there. It's built specifically to work inside AI agent systems, to move fast, execute tasks, and get things done without slowing everything down. And here's what nobody expected. It's beating its own bigger pro version on every single agent benchmark, all nine of them. Same architecture, same parameter count. Deep

Seek just retrained it and the results jumped dramatically. On one benchmark, Deep SWE, it went from 7.3 to 54.4 on the same model. That's not a small improvement. That's a completely

different level of performance. On Terminal Bench 2.1, it scored 82.7. The pro version scored 72.1. The smaller,

faster, free model won. So, what does that tell us? It tells us the training pipeline is now the real competitive advantage, not the size of the model, not the parameter count, how you train it. That's where the gains are coming from and that changes everything about how fast AI improves from here. Now, hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. While he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Now, this model was built specifically for AI agents. It's got a 1 million token context window. It supports function calling, structured output, reasoning, and tool use and it plugs straight into agent frameworks without any rewiring. That's the whole point of it. It's not a chat model, it's

an agent model and that's exactly why we built our agent OS around it. This is our agent operating system. You can see it right here on screen. This is what we've built and this is what you can get your hands on inside the AI Profit Boardroom as a ready-to-install zip file. You've got Hermes agent running as the brain, Hermes Oracle, the voice agent, a full memory system plugged in, and DeepSeek V4 Flash running through open code completely free, handling the building and execution automatically.

There's a skill from new research, the founder of Hermes, that lets you automatically delegate coding tasks out to open code. So, Hermes thinks, DeepSeek builds, and the whole thing runs while you're doing something else. This is the system. Let me show you what it actually does. Here's the thing, we've already built this for you. Inside

the AI Profit Boardroom, you can download the full Agent OS as a zip file. Already built, already configured. You install it and you've got the complete agentic operating system running a DeepSeek V4 Flash as the brain, Hermes agent, Hermes Oracle, the voice agent, and the memory system. All of it ready to go. On top of that, we've got a full master class on DeepSeek inside there. Step-by-step tutorials

every single time something new drops. Four live coaching calls every week where you can jump on, share your screen, ask questions, and get help on your exact setup. There are 3,700 business owners in there right now building with AI agents. A prompt library, a member map so you can find and connect with people near you. If you want the Agent OS zip file ready to install, link in the comments and description, or go to aiprofitboardroom.com.

Now, let me show you exactly what we built with this because I tested over 50 builds side-by-side. V4 Flash on the left, V4 Pro on the right. And the first thing I'll say is out of everything I tested, V4 Flash 0731 is way better than the original preview. And it's even better than the pro version. The pro version is on the right side of the screen. And in this particular build, it

doesn't really do anything. Whereas V4 Flash, look at this, it's creating some amazing stuff. The new pro version is coming out soon, and that could be something else entirely, but right now, Flash wins. We did build some stuff that didn't work. I'll get to that in a second. But first, look at this game.

Way easier to control. Way nicer than anything the pro version made. Some really interesting 3D builds came out of this, and if anyone's saying you can't code with DeepSeek V4 Flash, you absolutely can. You can see it right here. Check out all the builds at GoldyBench. Now, look at the pro version

side by side. I can't even see what we're building. The camera angle is off, everything is off. Most of the builds with pro looked exactly like this. So, across the board, Flash wins. What

actually surprised me was this. When I was using it, it built stuff that was better than some frontier models I've tested. I'm not saying it beats everything at the top, it doesn't, but it can hold its own. The builds were smooth, they worked, which for complex 3D builds is genuinely impressive. Now, it's not always like this. Look at this

one. You can see through the floor. It's floating when it shouldn't be. The graphics are basic, the controls are off. So, yes, it fails sometimes, that's real. Just worth knowing. Now, look at

these other ones. The UI, the style, the graphics, the feel of Flash is just way nicer than anything pro produced. Even the parachute game, way nicer with Flash, super buggy with pro. Some stuff it totally failed at. Look at this pool game, really bad. So, it doesn't get

everything right, but so many cool things came out of this. You can see all the builds at GoldyBench. We've got builds for pretty much every model I've tested recently. Now, you might be asking, why do I test with games? Why not websites or landing pages? Two

reasons. Games aren't that interesting to watch side by side, but more importantly, building a game is a much better test of how a model reasons, how it handles logic, physics, UI, coding under pressure. And it tells me how fast it performs when building something complex. Speed is a massive factor when it comes to using AI models. There are models that can build better stuff than some of the top models when tested head to head, but if the speed isn't there, you won't use it day to day. That's just

the truth. Look at this one, the flight simulator. It worked with Flash. With pro, I don't even know what that is, it totally failed. If we look at the GoldyBench rankings, Fusion from OpenRouter is right at the top, but that's a council of models. As a

standalone model, Opus 5 is up there, but day-to-day it's not as smooth because it gets distracted and it can be slow. So, if you want to run this yourself, we've done the hard work. The Agent OS is fully built. You get the complete zip file inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Install it and you're running Deep Seek V4 Flash inside a full agentic operating system, Hermes Agent, Hermes Oracle, voice agent, memory system, all connected and working together. We've

also got a full Deep Seek Masterclass walking you through every single part of the setup, daily tutorials every time Deep Seek drops something new, four coaching calls every week where you can get on live, share your screen, and ask your exact questions about your Agent OS setup. 3,700 members already building with this, a prompt library built around AI Agent workflows, and a member map so you can meet people locally who are doing the same thing. The zip file is ready and waiting. Link in the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com.

And if you want everything from today's video in one place, join the AI Success Lab. It's completely free. You'll get all the video notes from this episode, the model comparisons, the benchmark breakdowns, and the exact setup steps we walked through today. On top of that, you get access to 87,000 members who are all using AI automation right now, sharing what's working, what's not, and how they're applying it to their businesses day-to-day. There are new tutorials going in constantly, use cases, workflows, real examples from real people. And because there are

always people online, you can get help and answers at any time, day or night. It doesn't matter when you're watching this. Someone's in there right now. If you want the notes, the community, and 100 plus AI use cases like the ones we covered today, link in the comments and description, go join the AI Success Lab. It's free.