---
video_title: "NEW Gemini Spark Update is Absurd"
video_id: OSlYz-jCV_I
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OSlYz-jCV_I
video_date: 20260817
video_description: |
  Free SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Get the Agent OS & Gemini Spark Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Google Gemini Spark 3.7 Update: The AI Agent Revolution
  
  Google has officially integrated the Gemini 3.7 Flash model into Gemini Spark, significantly boosting its ability to handle complex multi-step tasks across Google Workspace. Discover how these performance jumps in coding and automation can streamline your SEO research and business workflows.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:23 - The Gemini 3.7 Flash Update
  00:40 - What is Gemini Spark?
  01:43 - Why 3.7 Flash is a Game Changer
  02:28 - Benchmark Results & Performance
  03:35 - Real-World Business Use Cases
  04:56 - 4 Key Improvements Explained
  06:04 - Who is this Update For?
---
New Gemini Spark update is absurd. If you care about SEO, this update matters more than you think because Google just made its AI agent smarter at doing real work inside your business. Today, I'm going to show you the new Gemini Spark update. It's big, it's fast, it's already live, and it changes how you can research, write, and organize your SEO work without doing it all by hand. Stick around because by the end of this video, you'll know exactly what changed and how to use it. Let's talk about what just

happened. On August 13th, 2026, Google launched a new AI model called Gemini 3.7 Flash. This came out only 3 weeks after the last version, Gemini 3.6 Flash. That's really fast for a company

like Google. And here's the part that matters for you. Google put this new model straight into Gemini Spark. So, what is Gemini Spark? Spark is Google's AI agent. It's not just a chat box where

you ask questions and get answers. Spark is built to actually do things for you. Google first introduced Spark as a 24/7 personal AI agent. It can work in the background, it can work across your Google apps, and it can take action for you based on what you tell it to do. Think about the difference like this. A

normal chatbot tells you how to do something. Spark tries to actually do it. That's a big shift, and now that shift just got a smarter brain behind it. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. While he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads

every comment, so make sure you comment below. Spark is available if you're a Google AI Pro or Ultra subscriber, and Google says it's live in over 160 countries. With this update, Google says Spark now has better tool use inside Google Workspace, better accuracy, and better output quality. The big focus is on complex multi-step work. Things like pulling files together, writing emails, and updating documents. Now, let's get

into why Gemini 3.7 Flash is a bigger deal than it sounds. Google isn't calling this just a smarter chatbot model. They're calling it their most intelligent workhorse model yet for coding and agents. Google says the new model is better at a few key things. It

adapts better when it hits a roadblock. It asks for clarity when something is unclear. It follows instructions more closely. It plans out multi-step tasks better. And it makes fewer mistakes with tool calls, which means less back and forth and fewer retries. If you think

about SEO work, that list should get you excited. SEO isn't one task. It's research, writing, organizing, checking, and updating over and over again. An AI agent that's better at multi-step work is an AI agent that's actually useful for SEO. Let's talk numbers for a second because Google shared some benchmark results. Remember these are Google's own

reported numbers, not independent tests. So, keep that in mind. On a benchmark called automation bench, Gemini 3.6 flash scored 17%. The new Gemini 3.7

flash scored 30.4%. That's a huge jump. On another benchmark called GDP.pdf, the score went from 22% up to 34%. On

frontier code, it went from 34.4% to 43.6% and on deep SWE, it jumped from 49% all the way to 65.3%. These numbers point to one thing. Google

is pushing this model hard toward getting real complex work done, not just answering trivia questions. Quick pause here because I want to make sure you get real value out of this video, not just a Google update. If you want more traffic, more leads, and more customers finding you on Google, my team can help. Book a free SEO strategy session using the link in the description and we'll show you exactly what it takes to rank higher and let us handle your SEO while you focus on growing your business. Now, here's the part I actually want you to pay attention to because this is where it gets useful for growing a business.

Spark connects with Gmail, Google Drive, Google Docs, and Google Sheets. That means Spark can move information between all of these apps for you. Let's say you run a community like the AI Profit Boardroom where you're helping people learn AI and automation. You could tell Spark something like this. Find 20 tools that help small businesses automate their content and SEO work. Compare

their features, reviews, and support, and put everything into a Google Sheet. Spark doesn't just give you a list. It researches, gathers the details, organizes them, and builds the spreadsheet for you. That's the kind of task that used to take a person a few hours. Or, picture this one. You're

talking with a potential partner or a sponsor for the AI Profit Boardroom, and you had an email conversation with them a while back, plus a proposal sitting in your Google Drive. You could tell Spark, "Look at my last email thread with this contact in the proposal in Drive, then draft a follow-up email that moves the conversation forward." Spark searches your inbox, reads the document, pulls out the important details, and writes the draft for you. You still read it and hit send yourself, but the first draft is already done. Here's a third one that's great for anyone running a growing community or content business.

You could say, "Look at this week's documents and emails about the AI Profit Boardroom. Tell me what changed and update our project status document." Spark checks Drive, checks Gmail, figures out what's new, and updates the doc. That's Drive, Docs, and Gmail all working together in one request. Okay, let's get back into it. I want to walk

you through what's actually different with this new model, broken into four simple parts. First, precision. The model understands complex instructions better. So, when you give Spark a task with a lot of steps like the ones I just mentioned, it's less likely to misunderstand what you're asking for. Second, tool use. Spark is better at

picking the right tool for the job inside Workspace. That means less time wasted and fewer mistakes when it's pulling from Gmail, Docs, or Sheets. Third, planning. The model puts more thought into multi-step tasks before it starts. Instead of jumping straight in, it plans out the steps first. That

matters a lot for SEO work, where one task often depends on the step before it. Fourth, recovery. If something goes wrong along the way, the model is better at adjusting and figuring out a new path forward instead of getting stuck. Now, I want to be honest with you because I'm not here to hype something up that isn't true. This update does not mean Spark can do literally anything you throw at it. It's not fully autonomous. It's not

perfect. Spark is still an agent that works under your direction. Google has said Spark is early in its journey and you still stay in control, especially for anything important like sending an email or publishing a document. So, who should actually care about this update? If you're a business owner doing research on vendors, tools, or partners, this is for you. If you're a knowledge

worker jumping between documents and apps all day, this is for you. If you're a marketer who needs to go from research to a spreadsheet, to a written brief, to an email, this is for you. If you're managing a project and constantly updating documents based on new information, this is for you, too. And honestly, if most of your work already lives inside Google Docs, Sheets, Gmail, and Drive, you're going to get the most value out of this update because that's exactly where Spark operates. Here's the bigger picture I want you to walk away with. Google isn't just making its AI

chatbot smarter at answering questions, they're building a full stack. The model gets better, which makes the agent better, which makes it more useful inside Workspace, which means it can work with your actual documents and data, which means it can help you get real tasks done. That's the direction this is heading. For years, AI was about getting answers faster. Now we're moving into a phase where AI is about getting things done. And whether that's

researching tools for your community, drafting emails, or keeping your documents updated, that shift matters for anyone trying to grow an online business or a brand like the AI Profit Boardroom. Before you go, let's be clear about a couple of things so you don't walk away with the wrong idea. The jump in that automation bench score doesn't mean Spark itself is dramatically better at every single task. It's one benchmark reported by Google and it's a signal, not a guarantee. Also, this update is mainly the model underneath Spark getting an upgrade. It's not a brand new

product with a totally different set of features. And developers can access Gemini 3.7 Flash separately through other Google tools while regular users get it through Spark if they're subscribed to Google AI Pro or Ultra. If there's one thing I want you to remember from this video, it's this. AI agents are only as good as the model powering them, and the model powering Google's agent just got a serious upgrade for multi-step work. That's not a small

update. That's Google telling you where they think AI is headed next. Now, if you're building anything online, whether that's a content business, a community, or an SEO strategy, having a great AI agent to help you research and organize is only half the job. The other half is making sure people can actually find you. If you're completely new to SEO and want to build a solid foundation alongside these AI tools, things like how content strategy works, how to approach link building, and what a good keyword looks like, we've got a free SEO course in the description with over 260 lessons. It covers everything you need

to get started. Go check that out, too. The link is below. And if you want to go further and learn how to actually use AI to grow your business step-by-step, come join the AI Profit Boardroom. It's a community built around exactly what you saw in this video, learning how to use AI tools like Spark to research, organize, and get more done. The link

for that is in the description, too. Last thing, if you want more traffic, more leads, and more customers finding you on Google, book a free SEO strategy session using the link in the description. My team will look at your website and show you exactly what it takes to rank higher, and let us handle your SEO while you focus on growing your business. Thanks for watching. Drop a comment below and let me know what you think about this Gemini Spark update, and I'll see you in the next one.