---
video_title: "Grok Bot FREE Course: Beginner to Advanced"
video_id: 75dZVSEDYb4
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=75dZVSEDYb4
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Grok Bot turns your AI from a one-off prompt tool into a team of always-on teammates — each with a role, working on one shared cloud computer 24/7. This beginner-to-advanced walkthrough covers setup, self-coordinating group chats, reusable skills, automated routines, and a real example of a fully self-running content engine.
  
  0:00 Intro – Why most people are using AI wrong
  0:38 What Is Grok Bot – Multiple AI teammates, one shared computer
  1:36 Core Rule – Build roles, not tasks
  1:58 First Bot – Setting up a chief of staff
  2:49 Group Chats – Bots collaborate automatically
  4:50 Skills – Teach a workflow once, reuse forever
  5:44 Routines – Auto-run on schedule or trigger
  6:17 Real Example – Fully automated content engine
  6:40 Limits – Usage caps, no model picker, beta bugs
---
Grokbot free course, beginner to advanced. What if you stopped giving your AI little tasks to do and started handing it a real job instead? One that never clocks off. It works while you sleep. It reads your email. It plans

your day. Most people are still typing prompts one at a time. They have no idea this whole thing even exists. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help people learn and use AI tools in their real work. Today I'm taking you through Grokbot from scratch to advanced and I'll show you how I plug it straight into my Agent OS. So every agent I build

shares one memory. Stick around because near the end you the exact setup that writes and posts content to my site on its own every morning. Let me start with what Grokbot actually is because once you see the shape of it, everything else clicks. Grokbot comes from XAI and it launched in beta on August 11th. Picture a tiny company living inside one app.

You open it and it looks like a messaging app like WhatsApp. Every chat in the sidebar is a bot with a name and a job. One handles your inbox, one handles your content and you text them like teammates. And here's what makes it different. Behind all of them sits one cloud computer that belongs to your account. A real machine with a browser,

files, and a terminal running in a data center, always on. So your laptop can be shut, your phone off, and the bots keep working. Each bot gets its own screen, so five can work in parallel. One on its note, the marketing says each bot has its own computer, but XAI's own docs say they all share one. So don't treat separate bots like a wall between your logins. Right now it's early beta. It

started on the top Grok and Cursor plans, but they've been opening it up and there's a free trial, too. Though heavy use eats your weekly usage fast. It runs on Mac, Windows, and iPhone. There's no Linux desktop app and no Android yet, but the bot itself lives on a cloud machine. So you're really just downloading a way to talk to it. Okay,

now the single most important lesson in this whole course. Don't think in tasks, think in roles. With most AI tools, you think in jobs. Do this, then that. With Grokbot, you build a teammate around a theme and it owns that theme forever. So

you don't build a bot to write one email, you build an inbox bot that owns your inbox. You don't build a bot for one post, you build a content bot that owns your content. One bot, one job, done well. Cram 10 jobs into one bot and it gets confused and the quality drops. So, let's build your first one, a chief of staff, because this one changes how you use everything else. You click the

plus at the top, click create new bot, and it walks you through setup. You just talk to it. It asks what you want it for, and you explain. Something like, "You're my chief of staff, watch my calendar and email for anything urgent, handle my admin, and hand off anything that needs a specialist." The bot then names itself and writes its own description. That description matters

more than you think because it works like a job ad the other bots can read. When any bot hits a task outside its lane, it scans your other bots' descriptions, finds the right one, and messages it directly. Then you connect it to your tools. There's a plug-in section where you click to add Gmail, your calendar, whatever you need. One click, one sign-in. And because

everything runs on that one shared computer, connect Gmail once and every bot you make already has it. When there's no official connector, the bot opens its own browser and logs in like a person would, hands you the controls, and you type the password in yourself. It never sees it. Now, let me show you the feature that really separates this from a normal assistant, group chats. You can open one chat with two, three, five bots in it at once, and they work the task together. But, it goes further.

The bots message each other on their own without you asking, and you can read every single message. It's like sitting in on your own team's group chat and watching exactly how the work moves. So, I can drop my chief of staff, my content bot, and my research bot into one thread and say, "Come up with content ideas from today's notes." The chief of staff opens my Obsidian vault, the memory my Agent OS runs on, the content bot pitches from what's there, and the research bot checks what's worth chasing. And each one stays in its own lane based on the role you gave it. The

best part is the team grows itself. You can talk to just your chief of staff and let it hire and delegate for you. I asked mine to build a new image agent once, and it said on it, set the bot up, and told me I could message that bot directly or keep going through the chief. So, picture a whole week like this. You message one bot from your phone at the gym, ask for a status on something, and it pings the right teammate, which pings another, and the answer comes back before you finish your set. That's one sentence of effort from

you, and three teammates quietly handling it. And the whole time, you can open any bot screen and watch it work from your desktop or your phone. That's the real shift here. You stop doing the small stuff and you start managing a team that does it for you. Quick pause here because if you want real help applying this to your own brand, I've got something free for you. It's a free

AI brand visibility session. You get on with a strategist and walk away with a custom plan showing exactly how you show up or don't across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. You get a gap analysis against your competitors and straight answers to your own questions. 100% free, no obligation. And if you know yourself that you'll download GrokBot, mess with it for a week, and never turn it into anything real, that's exactly why the AI Profit Boardroom exists. Inside, we build with

agent tools like this one every single week. You get live coaching calls four times a week where you can share your screen, show your actual bot setup and routines, and get them fixed live. You get step-by-step GrokBot walkthroughs, prompts you can copy straight in, and a 30-day roadmap so you're never guessing what to build first. Plus, my full Agent OS zip ready to install with its own 30-day roadmap. So, every bot you make plugs into one shared memory from day one. Okay, back to building. Let me talk

about skills because this is where your bots get good. A skill is a saved repeatable way of doing something. Under the hood, it's just a text file with instructions. The same idea as skills in Claude or any other agent. Every skill is shared across all your bots and you run one by typing a slash and its name.

There are three ways to make one. First, you just ask tell a bot to turn a process into a skill and it writes the file. Second, you upload skill files, hand a bot a zip, and it installs them. So, a whole team shares one playbook and you can grab a skill file out of Claude and paste it straight in. Third, the fun one, you teach it. You open the bot's

computer, hit teach a task, and record yourself doing it once. Hit stop and it turns your clicks into a skill it repeats forever. Bots can even improve their own skills for next time. Your bots are only as useful as what they can reach. There's a built-in marketplace, Gmail, Calendar, Drive, Slack, Notion, GitHub, and more. One

sign-in each. And if the app you want isn't there, you can bridge in thousands more with something like Zapier's MCP or use Firecrawl to pull from the web. Then there are routines and this is where Grokbot stops being a chat app and becomes an operations layer. A routine is a saved job that fires two ways, on a schedule like every weekday at 7:00, plan my day from my calendar and email, or on a trigger when something happens instead of when a clock says so, like a Slack message, a GitHub event, or a new issue in your tracker. You don't build these in a settings panel, you describe them in the chat and the bot writes the routine itself. Half the time you don't

even ask, you just mention you want something weekly and it sets it up. Here's the setup I promised you at the start. I built an SEO bot, gave it a content skill, and connected it to Netlify where I host my site. Then I told it to look through my Obsidian vault each day, the same second brain my agent OS reads from, write a fresh article on a trending keyword I haven't covered, and post it to my AI Profit Boardroom site at 9:00 a.m. Now it

drafts, builds, and deploys on its own every morning. That's a whole content engine running from one routine. Let me be straight about the limits, too. The big one is usage. The more bots you run hard, the faster you eat through your weekly usage and some heavy users hit their limit quickly. So, start lean, one

or two bots, and keep only the ones that actually help. My honest advice is build one new bot a week and it stacks up fast without the overwhelm. There's also no model picker. Grokbot chooses which model handles each task behind the scenes and you can't override it. For most people that's a relief. If you're

technical and want that control, you might prefer an open-source setup like Hermes where you assign models yourself. And remember it's beta, it dropped in August, so it'll feel rough and break sometimes. But if you've never run an agent and the terminal has always been the wall keeping you out, this is the friendliest way in you'll find. You download an app, sign in, and you're talking to your first bot in about 2 minutes. So, let me leave you with your next two steps. If you want expert eyes

on your own brand, book your free AI brand visibility session. It's the fastest way to take what you just learned and map it to your actual site. You'll get a custom plan, a real look at where you're showing up across Google, and the AI tools people ask instead, competitor insights, and clear recommendations you can act on straight away. 100% free, no obligation, the link is in the description. And once you start building, you'll hit the same walls I did. Which bot to build

first? How to write the roles so the bots understand them? How to connect it all without it turning into a mess? That's what the AI Profit Boardroom is for. You get Grok bot walk-throughs, live coaching calls four times a week where you can bring your exact setup, prompts you can copy, and a 30-day roadmap for what to build and when. Plus

my full Agent OS zip ready to install so everything you make shares one memory from the start. It's over 4,000 members building this together right now. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.