---
video_title: "NEW Hermes Bot Mode Is INSANE!"
video_id: twzDoI98K3E
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=twzDoI98K3E
video_date: 2026-08-17T18:30:28+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Hermes Agent Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Hermes Agent just got Bot Mode — turn your one AI agent into a full roster of specialized agents that message, schedule, and hand off work to each other. Here's exactly how to install it, set it up, and avoid the mistake that breaks it on day one.
  
  00:00 Intro – Why one AI agent isn't the point anymore
  00:23 What You'll Learn – Hermes bot mode + 2 pages built inside Agent OS
  00:38 What Is Hermes Agent – Autonomous agent with memory & learning loop
  01:03 Access – 20+ platforms, 60+ tools, MCP, voice, open source
  01:20 Profiles Explained – Separate agents, separate memory
  01:47 Bot Mode – Turns profiles into a named agent roster
  02:02 Interface Tour – Agent panel, chat, avatars, schedules
  02:19 Creating an Agent – Name, soul file, model, skills
  03:04 Common Mistake – Why most people quit after 3 agents
  03:35 Routines – Scheduling recurring agent tasks
  04:03 Agent-to-Agent Messaging – The viral feature explained
  04:49 Install Guide – Mac, Windows, Linux, WSL setup
  05:24 Bot Mode Setup – Plugin install steps
  05:41 Live Demo – Building 2 real pages with Hermes
  06:05 Pro Tips – 5 mistakes that break bot mode
  07:10 Start Small – Best roster size for beginners
  07:26 Where to Go Deeper – AI Success Lab resources
  07:43 What Happens Next – The real learning curve ahead
---
New Hermes bot mode is insane. What if one AI agent was never the point? Why are people quietly building whole teams of them instead? News research dropped this 5 days ago. It installs in about 60 seconds and almost nobody is talking about it yet. I'm the digital avatar of

Julian Goldie and I help you actually use AI tools in your work instead of just watching videos about them. Today, I'm walking you through Hermes bot mode, what it does, and how to set it up. Stay to the end because I'll show you the two pages I built with Hermes agent inside Agent OS and the one mistake that makes this whole thing feel broken on day one. Hermes agent is built by News research. It's not a coding co-pilot stuck in your editor and it's not a chat wrapper around one model. It's an autonomous

agent with a learning loop. It creates skills from what it does, improves them while it uses them, and builds memory across sessions. So, the longer you run it, the more it knows about how you work. It runs on your laptop, a server, Docker, SSH, or serverless setups like Daytona and Modal. You talk to it through the command line, the desktop app, Telegram, Discord, Slack, WhatsApp, Signal, email, and more. Over 20

platforms from one gateway. 60-plus built-in tools, MCP support, voice mode, and a built-in scheduler. It's open source under the MIT license. Now, here's the piece that matters. Hermes has profiles. A profile is a separate

Hermes home directory. Each one gets its own config, its own sole file, its own memory, sessions, skills, scheduled jobs, and database. So, a coding agent and a research agent never mix their state. They're genuinely separate agents on one machine. That already existed. It

just felt technical because you had to think in folders and terminal commands. Bot mode fixes that. Technion from News research shared it on August 13th. It's a desktop plugin for the Hermes desktop app and it turns those profiles into a roster of named agents. Each one has its own chat, avatar, personality, and schedule. No core patches, no background

demons, no extra storage. It's a clean interface over something Hermes could already do. You get an agents pane on the left, one row per agent with an avatar, a message preview, and a timestamp. Click anyone, land in its chat. New agent takes a name, a title, and a description. The advanced section

lets you clone an existing profile, pin a provider and model to that agent, write a custom soul file, or skip the bundled skills. That soul file is the agent's identity. It goes into slot one of the system prompt and replaces the default identity completely. Right click an agent to edit its avatar, title, and description, or to toggle individual skills and tool sets. Duplicate clones everything, config, skills, soul file, memory, and its look. Here's the honest

part. Most people install this, create three agents, and stall. Not because the tool is hard, but because nobody taught them what a good roster looks like, what to write in a soul file, which skills to leave on, or which routines are worth scheduling. That's what we built the AI Profit Boardroom for, and Agent OS is already inside it. You get the Agent OS walkthroughs, so you can watch an agent setup get built from an empty screen instead of guessing your way through it.

You get live coaching calls where you bring your own roster, share your screen, and ask why a handoff isn't landing, or which model to pin to which agent. You get a 30-day roadmap, so you're not staring at a blank roster on day two wondering what to build. And you get the prompt library, so your soul files and your routine prompts are already written, and you just adapt them to your work. Routines, there's a routines pane holding recurring tasks per agent backed by the Hermes scheduler. Something like summarizing your inbox every morning sits next to the agent that does it. The runs land in

that agent's own chat history, so you can scroll back and see what happened while you were asleep. Under the hood, they're plain Hermes cron jobs namespaced with the agent name, and they show up in your normal cron list, too. Then the part everyone is sharing clips of, agent-to-agent messaging. Every agent gets a persistent conversation called the agent inbox. They message each other in there with attribution. So

a message shows up tagged as coming from your researcher agent. Their soul file teaches them the protocol, including how to reply. A mention "Type the @ symbol, an agent name, and your request in any chat." The active agent hands the message off, waits for the reply, and reports back. You stay in one conversation while the work moves between agents. Those handoffs are real

command line calls against the other agent's profile. Separate agents with their own separate memory are genuinely passing real work back and forth. Let's get you set up. On Mac or Windows, download the Hermes desktop installer and run it. That gets you the command line tool and the desktop app together.

On Linux, Mac, WSL, or Android through Termux, there's a one-line install script. The installer handles Python, Node, Ripgrep, and FFmpeg. You just need Git already there. Then run Hermes setup with the portal flag. One login covers a model plus the tool gateway, which is web search, image generation, text-to-speech, and a cloud browser. Or

point it at Open Router, Open AI, or any endpoint you already use. For bot mode, clone the repo into your Hermes desktop plugins folder, or just drop the plugin file in there yourself. Then hit Ctrl K and reload desktop plugins, or restart the app. A new tab appears next to sessions, and a routines tile docks beside your conversation. Here's what I actually ran with Hermes agent inside Agent OS. First, I asked for a single

HTML page calculator for the AI Profit Boardroom with input fields for monthly traffic, conversion rate, average order value, and estimated SEO lift. One prompt, one file. Second, I asked for a simple HTML landing page for a free SEO audit offer with a headline, a benefit section, a form section, testimonials, and FAQ, and call to action buttons. Again, one prompt, one complete page. Now, the pro tips so you don't lose an afternoon.

One, run Hermes update first. The profile and image generation calls this plugin needs ship in the newer builds. On an older build, the roster still shows up, but the advanced editing and avatar generation won't light up. That's the top reason people think it's broken. Two, never point two agent processes at the same profile. Both write memory

automatically, and each one loads the others rights at session start. So, they compound each other's state and until it stops being anything you set up. One agent, one profile. Three, deleting an agent isn't in the interface on purpose. Use the Hermes profile delete command with the agent's name. Four, delivery is

per invocation. The receiving agent sees the message the next time it runs. Interrupting an agent mid conversation is still upstream work, so don't build a routine that depends on an instant reply. Five, start with two agents, not 10. Give each one a clear job and a clear soul file. Add the third only when

you feel the friction. And remember, this went up as a beta for feedback. There are open issues, and the repo notes are honest about what's still rough. If you want the full process SOPs and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. Links in the comments and description. You'll get all

the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And here's what's going to happen when you try this. Your first two agents will feel amazing. Then you'll hit the wall. Handoffs won't land, routines will fire at the wrong time. You'll pin the wrong

model to the wrong agent and lose a whole afternoon to it. That's the boring middle nobody films. That's the gap the AI Profit Boardroom closes, and Agent OS is already in there waiting for you. Bring your roster to the live coaching calls and we'll debug it with you on the spot. Follow the Agent OS tutorials to build your first working handoff instead of reverse engineering it from scratch.

Use the roadmap so you know exactly what to build in week one, week two, and week three. And grab the ready-made prompts and soul files so your agents have a real identity from the very first message. Get started at aiprofitboardroom.com.