---
video_title: "PaperClip + Hermes Just Changed Everything"
video_id: FpUJAYDgZ1c
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FpUJAYDgZ1c
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  How I Run a Team of AI Agents While I Sleep (Agent OS Tutorial)
  
  Learn how to replace manual prompting with a fully automated AI Agent OS using Paperclip and Hermes. This command center allows you to manage an entire AI org chart that handles marketing, operations, and engineering automatically.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The AI Agent OS
  00:54 - Inside the Agent Org Chart
  01:27 - Tracking Live Progress & Tickets
  01:43 - Voice Assistant & Studio Features
  02:05 - How to Automate Marketing Tasks
  04:04 - Scheduling & Controlling Agents
  05:34 - How to Get the Full Setup
---
Paperclip plus Hermes just changed everything. Today, I'm going to show you my full Agent OS setup. This is the exact system I use to run a whole team of AI agents. No more chats, no more prompting all day, just a real AI team that works while you sleep. And today, I'm opening it up and showing you everything inside it. So, here's the

deal. Most people use AI the wrong way. They open one tab, they ask a question, they close it, then they open another tab and do it again and again and again. Pretty soon you've got 20 tabs open and no idea what any of them are doing. That was me, too, a few months ago. It's

messy, it's slow, and you end up explaining the same thing over and over. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Okay, let me actually show you what this looks like because seeing it is way better than me just talking about it.

This is my Agent OS. It's a full control room for AI agents. Right here, you can see the org chart. At the top, you've got a CEO agent, under that, a whole team, marketing, engineering, operations, all mapped out just like a real company. Each agent has a name, a role, and a boss. You can literally

click into any of them and see exactly what they built. Look at this live board here. This shows every agent what they're working on and when they started. It updates in real time, so you're not guessing what's happening. You're watching it happen. And when a

task is done, it gets attached to a ticket with the actual results, so you can open it up and see the real work, not just a promise that something got done. Now, here's the part I really want you to see. Inside this Agent OS, I've got way more than just Paperclip and Hermes connected. I've got a voice chat built in. I've got a full studio for video, images, and voice. I've got

sessions saved from everything I've built before. And I even built in a voice assistant that responds to a wake word, so I can just talk to my whole system out loud. This is not some basic dashboard. This is a full command center. Let's talk about how you'd actually use something like this to grow a real business, like my AI Profit Boardroom. You'd give your marketing

agent one goal, something like write five posts that explain how AI automation helps business owners save time and get more customers. Show real, simple examples people can use today. The agent wakes up, does the work, and drops it on the board. You didn't write a word, you just checked it and said, "Yes." Now, here's my honest call to action. This whole Agent OS system, the

org chart, the live board, the voice assistant, all of it. I built this out and I'm giving you the full zip file, ready to install inside the AI Profit Boardroom. This isn't a random tool I found somewhere. It's the exact setup I use myself and I've spent months tweaking it, testing it, and making it better piece by piece. You don't have to go through any of that. You don't have

to build this from scratch like I did. You just grab the zip file, plug it in, and start running your own AI team today, right out of the gate. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you also get step-by-step training on how to set it up, how to connect your own agents to it, and how to actually put it to work growing a real business. If you want this exact setup, the same one you just watched me use, join the AI Profit Boardroom. The link is in the comments and description, so go check it out. And

while I'm on the topic, here's something worth thinking about. You can have the best AI team in the world building content and pages for you day and night, but if nobody finds any of it on Google, none of that hard work pays off. Your agents can write, build, and publish non-stop, but it means nothing if the right people never see it. That's the piece a lot of people miss, and that's exactly where my team comes in. We help you rank higher, bring in more traffic that actually wants what you offer, and turn that traffic into real customers instead of just page views. So, if

you're serious about getting more eyes on everything your AI team is building, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the comments and description. We'll take a proper look at your website, figure out exactly what you need, and show you the fastest path to actually showing up on Google. Let's keep going because there's more I want to show you. See this part here, the schedule settings? This is where you decide when each agent works. You can

pause any agent anytime, and you set a limit on how much work each one can do, so nothing runs wild without you knowing. You stay in full control the whole time. Nothing goes live without your approval. Here's another real example. Say you want new lead magnet ideas for a community like the AI Profit Boardroom. You tell your content agent,

"Come up with ideas for free guides that show business owners how AI automation saves them time and gets them more leads. Make it simple enough for a total beginner." The agent researches it, writes it, and drops the finished piece right on your board. You just read it and either approve it or send it back. Let's talk mindset for a second because I know some of you are already making excuses. Some people think you need some

huge fancy setup to run something like this. You don't. You just need one dashboard and a few agents with clear jobs. Other people say managing a bunch of agents sounds like more work, not less. But that's the old way of thinking with 20 messy tabs. When your agents are

organized under one boss agent inside a system like this, they coordinate each other. You barely have to touch anything. And some people say, "I'll wait until this is more ready." Here's the truth. The people who start learning this stuff now are going to be so far ahead by the time everyone else catches up. This tech gets better every single

week. I've seen people inside our community who had never touched AI before start building stuff like this and getting real results. If they can figure it out, so can you. So, let's do a quick recap of what you just saw today. You saw my full Agent OS with the org chart, the live board, and the voice assistant all working together. You saw

how agents wake up on their own schedule and get tasks done without you baby sitting them. You saw how every task ends with a real result attached to a ticket that you approve. And you saw how you stay fully in control the whole time, so nothing surprises you. This is honestly one of the biggest shifts I've made in how I run my own business. It's not about having more tools, it's about putting the tools you already have into one system that runs like a real team.

And once you see it working, you're never going back to 20 messy tabs again. Now, if you want this exact Agent OS, the same one you just saw on screen today, the org chart, the live board, the schedules, all of it, I'm giving you the full zip file ready to install inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You don't have to spend weeks figuring out how to wire all this together, or how to connect Paperclip and Hermes yourself. You don't have to build any of this from scratch. Just grab the zip file, connect it, follow the training, and start running your own AI team right away, the same way I'm running mine. Come join us

inside the AI Profit Boardroom, where I'll also show you exactly how I use this system to grow a real business day-to-day. The link is right there in the comments and description, so go grab it now. And one last thing before you go, if you're building out all this content and all these AI agents, but you're still not showing up on Google, none of it matters as much as it should. That's where my team comes in. We help you rank higher, get found by the right people, and turn that traffic into real customers. So, if you want more leads,

book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the comments and description. We'll take a look at exactly what you need and handle the heavy lifting for you. That's it for today. I hope this showed you exactly what's possible when you put your AI agents inside a real system instead of just managing a pile of chats. Make sure to drop a comment below because Julian reads every single one of them, and I'll see you in the next video.