---
video_title: "NEW K2 Horizon AI is CRAZY GOOD! 🤯"
video_id: 8NHA2Dr1w1A
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8NHA2Dr1w1A
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  K2 Horizon AI: 6 New Models From Smartwatches to 375B Giant Brains
  
  Discover K2 Horizon, a revolutionary family of six AI models ranging from tiny smartwatch-ready chips to massive 375-billion parameter powerhouses. Learn how these open-source models use clever engineering like diffusion distillation to work faster and smarter for your business.
  
  00:00 - Intro to K2 Horizon AI
  00:46 - The 6 Models Explained
  01:30 - Tiny AI for Smartwatches
  02:16 - The Big Brain MOA Strategy
  02:51 - Flagship 375B & 512K Context
  04:42 - Speed & Diffusion Distillation
  05:41 - Open Weights & Transparency
  06:07 - Real Business Use Cases
---
NewK 2 Horizon AI is crazy good. that just dropped. It's not one AI, it's six AIs in one family. One is so small it can fit on a watch. Another one is a giant brain with 375 billion parts. And here's

the wild part, they're giving away the whole recipe for free. Stick around because this could change how you use AI to grow your business. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian reads every comment, so make sure you comment below.

Today, we're talking about K2 Horizon. This is a brand new AI family that just came out and it might be one of the biggest AI drops of the year. Let's get into it. So, what is K2 Horizon? It's not just one AI model, it's six AI models all in one family. The smallest

one has less than 1 billion parts. The biggest one has 375 billion parts. Think of parameters like brain cells. More brain cells usually means more smarts. But here's the twist, even the tiny ones are shockingly smart and I'll show you why in a second. The company behind it

is called the Institute of Foundation Models. They were started by a university in Abu Dhabi and they didn't just build one AI, they built a whole family that can run almost anywhere. The tiny model can run on a watch. The middle models can run on your phone or laptop and the huge model is built for big business use. One family, every size. That's the big idea. Now, here's

the first crazy part. The smallest model in this family is under 1 billion parts. That's tiny. Tiny enough to fit inside a smart watch. But get this, the company says this tiny model scored over 48 on a hard math test called AIME 2026. That's a test made for advanced

math and reasoning. A model that small is not supposed to be that good at math, but they're claiming it is. So, small does not mean dumb anymore. That's a huge shift. Then you've got the next two models. One has about 3.7 billion parts,

the other has about 7 billion parts. These are made to run on your phone or your laptop without needing the internet or a huge cloud computer. The 7 billion model is built for coding, deep research, and doing tasks on its own. This is the one most people will probably want to try first because it's small enough to run locally, but still strong enough to do real work. Now, here's where it gets really interesting.

There's a model with 36 billion parts, but it doesn't use all 36 billion every single time. It only turns on about 4 billion parts for each task. Think of it like a huge office building. You don't turn on every light in every room all day. You only light up the rooms people are using. That's what this AI does. It

saves power and stays fast while still having a huge amount of knowledge stored inside it. The company calls this trick Mover. You don't need to remember that name. Just remember the idea. Big brain, small amount turned on. That's smart

engineering. And now, the monster. The flagship model has 375 billion parts, but it only turns on about 23 billion at a time. Same trick, just on a much bigger scale. This is the model built for the toughest jobs, big reasoning tasks, business agents, heavy workloads, and it comes with something wild, a context window of 512,000 tokens. What

does that even mean? It means you could feed this AI a giant pile of documents, books, PDFs, an entire code base, long chat histories, and it can hold all of that in its memory at once while it works. Imagine handing an assistant your entire filing cabinet, and they remember every page while helping you. Now, before we go further, if a new AI family like this excites you, but you're not totally sure how to actually put it to work in your own business, that's exactly why we built the AI Profit Boardroom. It's a community made for business owners who want to use AI the smart way, not just play around with it.

Inside, we break down exactly how to set up AI automation step by step using tools just like the ones we're talking about today. We show you how to save time on the tasks that eat up your whole day, how to bring in more customers without doing everything yourself, and how to actually stay ahead while AI keeps moving this fast. We share real workflows, real tools, and real examples from real businesses, so you're never left guessing what to build, what to try first, or where to even start. Whether you're brand new to AI automation or you've already been using it for a while, there's a place for you inside. And on top of that, if you want help making sure the content you're putting out actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description below.

On that call, we'll take a real look at where your content and your website stand right now. We'll talk through what's holding you back from showing up in search, and we'll map out a clear, simple plan to help more of the right people find you online. There's no pressure on this call. It's just a genuine conversation about where you're at and where you want to go. It's completely free, and it only takes a few minutes to book. But wait, there's more.

This AI also uses something called diffusion distillation. I know that sounds fancy. Here's the simple version. Most AI writes one word, then the next word, then the next word, one at a time. This one can write chunks of words at the same time. The company says this

makes it about three times faster without making the answers worse. Faster answers, same quality. That's a big deal if you're using AI every day to save time in your business. And here's maybe the smartest idea in the whole launch. Since there are six models, the system doesn't need to use the giant model for every single task. Small, easy questions

can go to the tiny model. Normal questions go to the medium model. Heavy coding or business tasks go to the biggest model. It's like having a team of workers and giving each job to the right person instead of asking your most expensive expert to do every single task. That's exactly how I think business owners should be using AI tools, too. Use the simple tool for the

simple task. Save the powerful tool for the tasks that actually need it. Now, let's talk about the part that really makes this launch different. Most AI companies only give you the finished model. You can use it, but you can't really see how it was built. This

company did something different. They released the model weights, they released the training code, they released the training data, they released their whole method. That's a huge deal. It means researchers and developers can actually look inside and understand how this AI was built instead of just trusting a black box. Now, let's talk about how you could actually use something like this in a real business because that's what actually matters.

Say you run a business like the AI Profit Boardroom and you want to grow it with less manual work. You could use a small fast model to sort through customer questions and reply to simple ones automatically. You could use a medium model to help write follow-up emails to leads who haven't bought yet. And you could use the biggest model to research your competitors, build out content plans, or help write case studies that show exactly how AI automation helps businesses get more customers. Now, I want to be honest with you here because that's important. Right

now, most of the big claims about how good this AI is are coming from the company that built it. Independent testing is just getting started. So, I wouldn't go around saying this AI definitely beats every other major AI out there. That's not fair and it's not proven yet. What I would say is this, it's one of the most interesting and open AI launches this year and it's worth watching closely as more people test it in the real world. So, let's

bring this all together. K2 Horizon isn't one AI model, it's six models in one family from tiny enough for a watch all the way up to a massive 375 billion part system built for serious business work. The small models are shockingly capable. The big model has a huge memory window and can work faster thanks to some clever engineering tricks. And on top of all that, they're opening up the code, the training data, and the methods behind it instead of keeping it locked away. If you want to actually put a tool

like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. It's a community built for business owners who want to use AI the smart way. Inside, we break down exactly how to set up AI automation step-by-step, how to save time on the tasks that eat up your whole day, and how to bring in more customers without doing everything yourself. We share real workflows, real tools, and real examples, so you're not guessing what to build or where to start. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. On that call,

we'll look at where your content stands right now, talk through what's holding it back, and map out a clear plan to help more people find you online. It's free, it's simple to book, and there's no pressure, just a real conversation about your growth. Thanks for watching. Drop a comment below and let me know which model you try first, the tiny one or the giant one. Julian reads every single comment, so I'll see you in there.