---
video_title: "DeepSeek V4 Pro vs Claude Fable 5 vs Grok 4.6"
video_id: AsIDYGCfYuI
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AsIDYGCfYuI
video_date: 20260813
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS, DeepSeek V4 Pro, Claude Fable 5 & Grok 4.6 Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  DeepSeek V4 Pro vs Claude vs Grok: The AI Price Collapse
  
  Compare the top three frontier AI models—DeepSeek V4 Pro, Claude Fable 5, and Grok 4.6—to see which brain wins for your specific workflow. Discover why the cost of intelligence is plummeting and how to build a multi-model team for maximum efficiency. We also reveal the hidden pricing metric that makes DeepSeek 276x cheaper for automated agents.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Frontier Model Battle
  01:07 - Raw Intelligence: Is Claude Still King?
  02:00 - Grok 4.6: The Fastest Riser
  03:21 - The Hidden 276x Cost Advantage
  06:07 - The Harness Problem & User Experience
  07:20 - Unique Features: Grok vs Claude vs DeepSeek
  10:11 - The Winner: Multi-Model Strategy
---
Deepc V4 Pro versus Claude Fable 5 versus Grock 4.6 Three Frontier models all live right now. And for the first time ever, the gap between the most expensive one and the cheapest one is so thin on real work that picking wrong could cost you 50 times more than it should. By the end of this video, you'll know exactly which model wins for which job, where each one falls apart, and the one pattern that lets you use all three at once so you never pick wrong again. And there's one number in this comparison that almost nobody is talking about. It's not the intelligent score. I

actually show you when we get there. So, Deep Seek V4 Pro went full release on August 12th quietly. There was no launch video, no countdown, not even a tweet, and they updated their pricing page and just let the model speak. Grock 4.6 dropped a day earlier from XAI and Claude Fable 5 has been sitting at the top of nearly every leaderboard as the model everyone is chasing for months now. So, we have three frontier level

brains on the market at the same time. One is the smartest, one is the cheapest, and one is the fastest riser. And the answer to which one you should actually use is dependent on what you're actually doing. And that's what this is about. So, let's start with raw intelligence because that's where everyone starts. Claude Fable 5 is still

the smartest model you can buy. That's not really in dispute. On Deepswe, a tough software engineering task, Fable leads Deep Seek V4 Pro by about seven points. On the full stack benchmark, Fable leads by about six on humanity's last exam. With tools, Fable scored 63 against Deep Seek 60 on artificial intelligence, the main independent testing group. Fable sits one point

above Grock 4.6 on their intelligence index. When the work is genuinely hard, like messy problems, deep reasoning, long complicated builds, Fable wins. Anthropic built the best brain, and this week didn't really change that. And here's where it gets interesting. So, if

you look at how close the other two got, Grock 4.6 scored 61 on that same intelligence test, one point behind Fable, level with GPT 5.6 soul. And here's the part that should make you sit up. One month ago, Grock 4.5 scored 56.

XAI jumped full five points in about a month. Most labs take like 3 to 6 months to make a jump like that. In one independent blind test suite, Grock 4.6 actually tied Fable 5 on overall score, tied it. And because its costs are so much less to run, it took the number one spot on that cost adjusted leaderboard.

Grock 4.5 sat in 14th place on that same board a month earlier, 14th to first in one single update. Then Deepsee on Terminal Bench 2.1, which tests how well a model can work inside a computer and finish real tasks. Deepseek V4 Pro scored 87.9.

Fable 5 scored 88, one/10enth of one point. On Automation Bench, Deep Seek scored 31.8 8 against Fables 29.1. So Deep See actually won that one. Now

those Deep Seek numbers come from Deep Seek's own testing. So hold them loosely until independent testers finish confirming them. But the pattern across every benchmark they published points in the same direction and Agent work specifically Deep Sea closed the gap to almost nothing between them. So on intelligence fable first, but the podium is crowded now. If intelligence was the only thing that mattered, this video would be like 2 minutes long. It's not

because we now get to the number one I told you about at the start and it changes whole comparison. So Deep Seat V4 Pro costs roughly 23 times less than Fable 5 on input about 57 times less on output. Grock 4.6 sits in the middle around half of what other Frontier models charge. And some testers found it about a tenth of Claude's cost on output. But even that's not the number.

The number is 276. Because when an AI agent works on a task, it doesn't read your instructions once. It reads them over and over again every single step. So you want to think of an agent like a worker who checks the full job folder before every action. Open the folder, read everything, do one thing, open it again, read it again, do the next thing.

That folder gets read hundreds of times. When the model rereads something, it's already seen. That's called a cash hit. And cash reads on Deep Seat Vivo Pro cost around 276 times less than cash reads on Fable 5. On open route V4 Pro is shown a cash hit rate of about 92%.

On open route the deep sea v4 pro is shown a cash hit rate of around 92% which means for agent work the exact kind of work most of you want AI doing this reduces cost massively. So the headline says 57 times cheaper but for longunning agents the real gap potentially could be bigger than that. That's the number that nobody's talking about and it's the one that matters most if you run agents all day. Now Deepseek has warned of a significant price increase. So this could change. you

could change completely or dramatically. But right now, you could run agents all day on long horizon tasks without having to worry about costs right now. And people already doing this at scale. So the number one app sending traffic to Deep See V4 Pro on Open Router right now is Hermes agent, the open source agent from news research. Over 2 billion tokens. Hermes users quietly made Deep

Seek the number one brain within days of release. The agents are running the background and do real work. They're already on this model today. Now, if you're watching this and thinking, "This is exactly what I want. agents comparing models, running my business work, but I wouldn't know where to start. This is

what the AI profit boardroom was built for. This week inside the AI profit boardroom, we're running all three of these models headto-head inside the agent OS. That's our operating system where you can plug in all your agents, your Claude, Hermes, OpenClaw, swap the brain underneath without rebuilding anything. So, when a comparison like this one shifts, you switch models in minutes, not weeks. You get the agent OS zip file, a 30-day road map for setting up video tutorials, and daily updates as the new versions ship. plus four weekly

coaching calls every week where you can ask live which of these free models fits your exact workflow. I've helped over 3,700 business owners inside there and plenty of them had never touched AI before joining. Link in the comments description or go to the arpufferform.com to get access. So, we've covered brains and costs, but there's a third factor in this as well.

And honestly, it might decide more real world outcomes than the other two combined because a model isn't just a score, it's a thing you have to actually use. And this is where the three of them split completely. So Claude Fable 5 has the best home. Claude Code, the desktop abs, co-work anthropic built a full house around the model. You can hand Fable a long messy job and the whole system keeps on track. That polish is

real and it's part of what you're paying for. Grock 4.6 does have a bit of a harness problem. A harness is just the app used the model fruit. So Grock's options are scattered. Cursor is good,

but built for coding first. Grockbot is good, but it runs out of tokens quickly. And there's no single Grock app that really does everything the way Claude setup does. So it's a Frontier model without a finished wrapper, without a finished harness. Now Deepseek V4 Pro barely has a consumer wrapper at all.

It's an API model. So it expects you to bring your own harness. That could be Hermes, could be openclaw, whatever agent system you run, which sounds like a weakness. But if you already have an agent setup, it's actually the opposite because your setup is the harness. Deep Seek is just an extremely cheap brain.

you drop inside it. Same goes for Grock. The harness problem only hurts people who don't have their own system. For people who do, it disappears completely. Now, let's talk about what each model uniquely does that the others can't because this is where which is best turns into best at what. So, Gro

actually has one thing that no other model can copy. Realtime access to X. It's wired directly into the platform. There's no plugins. There's no workarounds. If your business depends on

knowing what people are talking about right now, and that could be trends, could be competitive research. um what's just dropped recently. Grock pulls that live. Fable can't do that. Deepc can't do that for anyone doing content or marketing. That's a genuine edge. Grock

also generates images and also turns them into video which the other two don't do natively. And it's fast, roughly 100 tokens per second in testing. You can hand it a task and it just gets on with it. Grock also did something in testing that matters more than any demo. So there's a trap test where models get 10 problems to fix and five of them are fake. Most models just

invent answers for the fake ones. They make things up. Gro 4.6 caught them. It said this doesn't exist and then moved on. Making things up is the number one

reason people stopped trusting AI with real work. So a model that admits when somebody isn't there is a model you could actually leave alone with a job. Data bricks confirmed the same pattern on their office QA benchmark. So reading reports, pulling numbers from files, making sense of messy data. Grock set the top score. It's office work by the

way that's not coding. So, Fable's unique edge is the hardest work. When a task is long, ambiguous, high stakes, planning a whole campaign, untangling a complicated client problem, designing the system from scratch, Fable 5 still the one you probably trust most. The sevenpoint Deepsw S. lead isn't a rounding error. On genuinely difficult

multi-step work, that gap shows up as fewer mistakes and fewer restarts. Now, Deep Seek's unique edge is volume. It's a mixture of experts model with 1.6 6 trillion total parameters but only 49 billion active at any time. So if you picture a company with 1.6 trillion

employees where only the relevant 49 billion show up for each task, that's how it stays cheap. The model is engineered for it. And it's not a company selling below cost to grab market share. 1 million token context window, which is roughly 10 novels at once up to 384,000 tokens of output in one go, is built to grind through enormous amounts of work without complaint. But Deepseek has three catches. It can't see images. So if your

workflow depends on screenshots or reading documents as pictures is out. Deepseek has reportedly said vision doesn't advance research goals they care about. So don't wait for it. Second, Deepseek actually posted a notice saying a significant price increase is coming across the whole API. No date amount. So

today's pricing is real, but it probably won't stay that way. That said, they'd have to raise prices many times over before the value on maths disappears. They know that. And third, Deepseek's terms let them train on what you send through their official API. So other providers will host a model without that condition and Open Routter says more are coming online soon, but day one that's a trade-off. Your work is sensitive client

data. Factor that in. So now let's answer the actual question head-to-head. Who wins? The honest answer is nobody wins at everything. And that's the most

useful finding in this whole comparison because the pattern the smartest operators have landed on doesn't pick one. It uses them all like a team. So for example, Fable is the planet. It runs once. It designs the workflow. It

makes a hard decisions. Reviews the final output. Then you might pay top price, but only for the moments that deserve top price. Deepseek is the workhorse. It runs thousands of times.

Research, drafting, sorting, monitoring, follow-ups, every repetitive high volume task, roots through the brain that costs 57 times less with cash pricing that makes long agent runs much more affordable. Grock is a specialist. real-time market awareness through X. Document and data work where it set the top score. Image and video generation.

It's a value pick for everyday frontier work when you want quality close to Fable at a fraction of the price. So you could for example use DeepSeek for your agents. You could use Grock for marketing. And then you could use Fable 5 for designing systems like we built the Agent OS with it. Also bear in mind that Elon says Grock 4.7 is a few weeks

away. Deepseek says they're chasing AGI and shipping relentlessly. They just jumped on their own Deepsw S. score from 12.8 in the April preview to 62.7 in

this release, which is a 50 point leap on the same task. And bear in mind like Anthropic will answer because Anthropic always answers. So this three-way contest is the new normal. And every round of it drives the cost of intelligence down further, which means every round of it makes your agents cheaper to run whichever model you pick. Claude is still the smartest model in the world with Fable 5, and it earned that. Gro 4.6 6 just proved XAI can

reach the frontier in a single monthly jump with real-time data nobody else has. And Deepseek V4 Pro just made Frontier adjacent intelligence nearly free for the work most businesses actually need. Now, if you want more training on this, come join us in the a profitable boardroom. This month, we're going deep on exactly this three model split. We've got coaching calls where we can walk you through routing your lead generation and client work between Fable, Deepseek, and Grock, and where you can bring your own setup and get it fixed live. If you get daily

step-by-step tutorials, including the plan with fable implement with Deepseek pattern from this video built out step by step. Plus, you get the full agent operating system where your Claude Hermes openclaw and your agents work run inside one dashboard with shared memory. And also, we'll walk you through all of this stuff as it lands. So, for example, Grock 4.7 will be dropping soon. And you

get a 30-day road map, so you're never guessing what to do first. You also get a prompt library covering these exact multimodel setups and a member map so you can find people near you already running all of these models in their businesses with support around the clock because there's always somebody online. We've got over 3,700 business owners inside there and many have started from zero with AI. Link in the comments description or go to the airbomb.com. Three frontier models, one

month the price of intelligence just collapsed. See you in the next one.