---
video_title: "Hermes Agent Can Now Browse the Web as YOU"
video_id: ylR2vk4T5j4
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ylR2vk4T5j4
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Your AI agent has been browsing the web logged out of everything that matters—until now. See how Hermes Agent's new real profile browsing lets it act as you, plus two working pages built from single-line prompts and the shared memory vault that stops your agent starting from zero.
  
  00:00 Intro – Hermes Agent can now browse as you
  00:48 The Update – Nous Research's real profile browsing announcement
  01:14 Build #1 – SEO ROI calculator from one prompt
  02:15 Build #2 – Landing page from a section list
  03:01 Why It Matters – Agent OS + logged-in browsing
  04:34 How It Works – Profile snapshot, cookies, headless mode
  05:22 The Setting Most Miss – Pin the right profile
  05:40 Safety Notes – Consent-gated, not an isolation boundary
  06:09 Shared Memory Vault – Obsidian-powered context for every agent
  06:53 What's Next – Install, test, turn on real profile browsing
---
Hermes agent can now browse the web as you. Your AI agent has been browsing the web as a total stranger. No login, no accounts, locked out of everything that matters. And you never noticed. News research just changed that. Hermes agent

can now browse as you. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie. I help people learn AI tools and actually use them at work. Today, I'll show you two things I built with Hermes Agent inside Agent OS, plus the memory layer inside agent OS that stops your agent starting from zero every time. Hermes Agent is an open- source AI agent from News Research, MIT licensed. It runs in your terminal or as

a desktop app on Mac, Windows, and Linux. I run it inside agent OS, the system I've built around it. So, every agent shares one memory and one setup instead of living as a separate tool. On the 27th of August, No Research posted this. Hermes agent can now seamlessly browse as you turn on real profile browsing and your agent acts with your login from a managed copy of your existing Chrome profile. That post has

been seen over 500,000 times. Before this, Hermes opened a clean throwaway profile and was logged into nothing. So, here's what I actually built with it. First one, inside agent OS, I asked Hermes agent to create a single HTML page for an SEOI calculator for the AI profit boardroom with inputs for monthly traffic, conversion rate, average order value, and estimated SEO lift. That was the whole prompt. One page, four inputs,

one instruction. Here's why I did it inside agent OS instead of a normal chat window. Agent OS holds the context. It already knows the brand, the tone, and what I've built before. So, I don't have to open with a paragraph of background every single time. I describe the page.

It builds the page. And because it's a single HTML file, there's nothing to wire up afterwards. No framework, no build step. You open the file in a browser and it works. If you want to copy the pattern, that's the shape to copy. Pick one small

tool your audience would actually use. Name the exact inputs you want on it. Ask for one HTML page. Then let agent OS keep that context. So the next version doesn't start from scratch. That's a

working calculator page from one line of plain English. Second one, same setup inside agent OS. I asked Hermes agent to create a simple HTML landing page for a free SEO audit offer with a headline benefits, a form section, testimonials, and FAQ and CTA buttons. Notice what I did there. I didn't say make me a landing page and hope. I listed the

sections, headline, benefits, form, testimonials, FAQ, buttons. That list is the brief, and it's the difference between a page you can use and a page you rewrite. That's the second habit worth stealing. Agent OS handles the memory and the tools. Your job is naming the parts, sections in order in plain English. Hermes agent fills them in, and

Agent OS remembers the results. So, version two is an edit instead of a rebuild. And this is where real profile browsing starts to matter. An agent that builds a page is useful. An agent that can also open your own dashboards signed in as you and look at what's already there first is a different thing entirely. Two prompts, two pages, one

system holding all of it together. And that's the point of agent OS. It isn't one clever agent. It's the browser tools, the memory, and the skills in one place. So what you built on Monday is still there on Friday. real profile

browsing widened what that system can reach because the pages behind your login are open to it. Now, quick pause because this next part applies straight to your own site. I run a free AI brand visibility session and the link is in the description. You get a custom visibility plan for your brand. We look at how you show up or don't show up across Google AI overviews, chat, GPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. You get a

competitor gap analysis so you can see where they're getting picked up and you're not. And you get direct answers to your questions from a real strategist, not a form. 100% free, no obligation. And if you want agent OS itself, instead of building your own from scratch, it lives inside the AI profit boardroom. The full agent OS zip file is in there ready to install with a complete 30-day roadmap built around it.

There are live coaching calls where you can bring your own agent OS set up and get it sorted on the call. Hermes agent walkthroughs and the prompt library so you're never starting from a blank page. Links in the description. Here's what happens when you turn it on. Hermes copies your default browser's active profile into a managed snapshot folder on your own machine. Cookies, saved

login, preferences. Then it launches your real browser on that snapshot, not a bundled one. On Mac, Chrome cookies are encrypted through the keychain and a fake launch would drop them and open you signed out. Your live profile is never opened directly, so it doesn't fight your browser for the profile lock. The files reync on every fresh session, so anything you sign into today, the agent has too. It runs headless by default, no

window, and no stolen focus. Headed mode opens a visible one if you'd rather watch. Supported browsers are Chrome, Edge, Brave, Brave Origin, and Chromium. a Firefox default stops and tells you. Now, the setting most people miss, if you've got a work profile and a personal profile, pin the exact one you want the agent to copy. Otherwise, it uses

whichever you touch last and your last click decides your agents identity. Turn it back off and Hermes deletes the snapshot. News are straight about this in their docs. It's a consent gated convenience, not an isolation boundary. Any page the agent visits runs with your real login. So only turn it on when you

want the agent acting as you. On Windows, your browser must be fully closed, including background instances or those files stay locked. The browser tools inside agent OS stop reading and start doing. Hermes reads a page as an accessibility tree. So every clickable element gets a reference ID. It

navigates, clicks, types, scrolls, screenshots, and reads the console for errors. Now, the memory piece inside agent OS, there's a shared memory vault for every agent. It's the most underrated part. Normally, every agent you run is an island. New chat, new context, explain everything again.

What's the brand? What did we decide last week? You end up being the memory. The shared vault fixes it. Every agent in agent OS reads and writes to the same place, so they all have context on everything you've used them for. It's

powered by an Obsidian vault. plain files on your own machine, you can open, read, and edit yourself. Nothing trapped in someone else's app. So, when your agent goes to fill a form or check a page, it isn't starting cold. It knows the project and last time's decisions, and the next agent inherits all of it.

That's the difference between using AI tools and running a system that compounds. So, what next? Install Hermes agent, get browsing working on the throwaway profile, then turn on real profile browsing, and pin the profile you want. Now, if you want help applying this to your own brand, book your free AI brand visibility session. The links in the description. This is the fastest

way to go from watching to doing. You get a custom plan built around your site, a clear picture of where you show up across AI search and where you're invisible, competitor insights you can act on this week, and straight recommendations on what to fix first. A strategist walks you through all of it. Completely free, no obligation. If you take one action after this video, make it that one. And if you want support

while you build this out, come and join us in the AI profit boardroom. Here's the honest reason. You're going to hit friction. Your browser will hold the profile lock on Windows and you won't know why the session opens signed out. You'll pin the wrong profile. You'll

wonder how far to let an agent go with your real login. Each is a 5-minute fix if someone shows you and a lost weekend if nobody does. Inside the full agent OS zip file is ready to install with the 30-day road map that walks you through it step by step. There are live coaching calls where you can ask about your exact agent OS setup and get an answer that week. There are Hermes agent tutorials and walkthroughs. And there's the prompt

library, including the kind of build prompts behind those two pages earlier. With over 4,000 members in there, whatever you're stuck on, someone has already been stuck on it and solved it. Come and build it with us. Go to apiprofitboardroom.com.