---
video_title: "NEW Chinese AI GLM-5.3 Is ABSURDLY Powerful"
video_id: KP-FWkcDu90
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KP-FWkcDu90
video_date: 20260817
video_description: |
  Get the GLM Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  A new Chinese coding AI just got so good at finding security flaws that its own creators delayed the public release. GLM-5.3 claims to be the strongest open coding model yet — writing tighter code while teaching itself to trace full attack chains across real software. Here's what it does, where it still loses to the competition, and how to actually use it.
  
  0:00 Intro – Why an AI's own creators got nervous enough to delay it
  0:37 Background – What GLM is and why it's built for coding agents
  1:04 The Release – Same base model, retrained for a massive leap
  1:35 Benchmark Gains – 50% better coding performance, using fewer words
  2:41 Reality Check – Where it wins, and where rivals still lead
  3:19 The Surprise – It taught itself full attack chains, finding 2,000+ real vulnerabilities
  4:08 The Holdback – Why the open release is delayed 2 weeks
  5:55 Who It's For – Coders, agent builders, and security-minded users
  6:23 Quick Tips – How to actually get the most out of it
---
New Chinese AI GLM 5.3 is absurdly powerful. What if an AI got so powerful that the people who built it got a little nervous? Nervous enough to hold part of it back. That actually happened this week. It came out of China and it

was built to write code. Stick with me because this one is wild. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and my whole thing is helping you learn AI tools and actually put them to work. Not just watch demos, use them. In this one I'll show you what this new model does, why its own makers hit the brakes on the full release and how I put it to work myself. There's also one number hiding

in here that matters more than all the fancy charts and I'll save it for the right moment. So, let's start simple. GLM is a family of AI models made by a lab called Z.ai. You might have heard their old name, GPu. They came out of a

top university in China and for the last year they've been shipping open models built for one thing above all else, writing code and running as agents. And an agent just means the AI doesn't only answer you, it goes and does the work. Opens files, runs commands, fixes things, checks its own work. GLM has quietly become one of the names people trust for that kind of job. Now, they've dropped GLM 5.3 and here's the part that

surprised me. They didn't build a brand new giant brain for this one. It runs on the exact same base as the last version, GLM 5.2. Same size, same setup. It's a

big mixture of experts model which just means only a slice of it fires at a time so it stays quick even though it's huge. What changed is all the training they did after that base was built. That's where every single gain came from. The tagline they slapped on it says it all, built to code, ready for cyber defense. Two jobs, writing software and finding the holes in software before the bad guys do. Here's why that's a big deal.

On their own test, GLM 5.3 is the strongest open coding model they've ever measured and not a small bump either. On one of their coding agent tests, it did about 50% better than the version right before it. 50% from training alone on the same base and it does all that while typing less. That's the quiet headline.

It gets to the finish result using far fewer words out the other end. Less back and forth, less waste. If you've ever watched an AI ramble for 10 paragraphs to do a two-line job, you already know why that matters. Doing more while spending less of your limits is the whole game with agents. And this is exactly the kind of tool I go deep on inside the AI Profit Boardroom. When a

model like GLM 5.3 lands, I don't just talk about it and move on. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, I walk members through getting it running in the coding agents they already use like Claude Code and Z.ai Code as own tool. We do live coaching calls where you can bring your own setup, show me what's breaking, and get it sorted right there on the call.

There's a step-by-step roadmap, so you're not sitting there guessing what to try first, and there's a whole stack of ready-to-go prompts for coding and for the defensive checks I'm about to show you. So, if this video has you curious, the AI Profit Boardroom is where you'd actually learn to run this thing for real. Okay, let me be straight with you because I'm not here to blow smoke. Z.ai put out a big chart comparing GLM 5.3 to the top names out

there, Kimmy K3, the Fable and Mythos models, GPT 5.6, Soul, and GLM 5.3 does not win every row. On a couple of the hardest coding tests, those other models still edge it out. I'll always tell you that. But on a few specific jobs, it

pulls ahead of the pack. It leads on automation-style work where the AI has to chain a whole bunch of steps together on its own. It leads on a big agent task test, and it leads on the defense side of security. So, it's not the best at everything. It's very, very good at a narrow band of things that happen to be exactly what agents do all day long.

Now, here's the wild part I teased at the top, the security piece. Z.ai trained this model to hunt for weak spots in code, bugs, holes, the kind of flaw a defender wants to find first so they can patch it before anyone abuses it. And during training, the thing started doing something they didn't fully plan for. It began thinking through attacks in stages, full chains.

Not just here's one bug, but here's how these bugs link together. Their own words are basically that this skill grew faster than they expected it to, and that's rare. That's a model getting better at something almost on its own past what the recipe called for. And it wasn't just a lab demo, either. Working with security teams in China, Z. AI says

the model helped find over 2,000 real weak spots across hundreds of software projects. Some of that code was decades old. They logged all of it in a public record. And because a tool that good at finding holes is a double-edged thing, they made a choice most labs don't make. They're holding the open download back about 2 weeks to run safety checks first. You can use it right now through

their coding plan, but the full open version waits. That pause, that's the real story here. So, how does it sit next to the rest? Think of it this way. It landed right as DeepSeek pushed out its own new flagship. So, the race

between these China labs is absolutely on fire right now. Kimi K3 and the Fable models are still stronger on some raw coding tests. GPT-5.6 sold two. But none of them are built around this exact defense angle the way GLM-5.3 is. That's GLM-5.3

{quote} S lane, the best open coder Z. AI has ever made, plus a security brain that nobody else in the open world is really matching at the moment. So, let me show you how I'd actually use this for real work. And I'll be honest right up front. This thing is 1 day old, so these are how I put it to work, not stuff I've been running for months.

First, here's how I'd use GLM-5.3 to build out a full content series to pull the right people into the AI Profit Boardroom. I'd feed it a list of topics AI Profit Boardroom members keep asking me about and let it draft the scripts, the hooks, and the captions all in one pass. And because it types less to get there, I get the whole batch back faster and cleaner. That kind of content is exactly what brings the right audience into the AI Profit Boardroom. Next, this

is how I'd use it to map out and build the whole first day flow new AI Profit Boardroom members walk-through. The welcome pages, the resource walk-throughs, the little steps that show someone exactly where to click. That chaining steps together strength it has is perfect for a job like this. New AI Profit Boardroom members would land inside and instantly know what to do next. And here's the one tied straight to its headline skill. I'd point GLM-5.3

at the AI Profit Boardroom sign up page and the members area to hunt for weak spots. Not to break anything, to find the holes first, so the people trusting us with their details inside the AI Profit Boardroom stay safe. That's using a defense tool the exact way it's meant to be used. So, who is this actually for? If you write code, or you're just learning to, this is one of the strongest open options you can put your hands on today. If you build agents that

run long jobs on their own, that step-chaining strength is right up your street. And if you care at all about keeping your own sites and tools safe, the defense side is worth a serious look. You don't need to be some genius hacker, you just need to want to find the weak spots before someone else does. And if none of that is you yet, that's totally fine. Just bookmark it. This

whole area is moving crazy fast, and even knowing the tool exists puts you ahead of most people. Before you go, let me leave you with a few quick tips, so you use this the smart way. One, don't sit around waiting for the open download. It's coming in about 2 weeks, but you can already try GLM 5.3 through their coding plan today. Getting your

hands on it now beats reading about it later. Two, play to its strengths. It's a coder and a defender. Point it at building things, and point it at checking things for weak spots. Don't ask it to be your everything model. Use

it for what it's genuinely great at, and you'll be happy. Three, watch how little it types. That fewer words thing is a real edge, not a gimmick. When you run it on a long job, actually notice how it gets to the answer without rambling on. That's what saves your limits over a full day of work. Four, on the security

side, only ever point it at your own stuff, your own sites, your own code. It's a defense tool, and defense means checking what's yours, so you can fix it first. Keep it there, and it's one of the most useful helpers you can have in your corner. Right, that's the model. If you want the full process, the SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases just like this one, come join the AI Success Lab. Links

are in the comments and the description. You'll get all the notes from this video in there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And if you're about to go try GLM 5.3 for yourself, let me save you some headaches. The first time you wire a new model into a coding agent, something usually won't connect right, or those defense checks throw back stuff you don't understand yet. That is

exactly where the AI Profit Boardroom comes in. You get live coaching calls to unstick your setup, step-by-step tutorials built for this kind of tool, a roadmap that tells you what to do first, and prompts you can drop straight into your own work. It's over 4,000 members figuring this stuff out together instead of alone. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.