---
video_title: "ChatGPT Just Came to Linux… This Is HUGE"
video_id: zXJ_s1RQSAs
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zXJ_s1RQSAs
video_date: 20260814
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & ChatGPT Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  ChatGPT's desktop app just landed on Linux — and it's not a stripped-down version. Full ChatGPT, ChatGPT Work, and Codex running natively on your machine, reading your files and your projects. Here's what it runs on, which model powers it, and two prompts to try tonight.
  
  00:00 Intro – ChatGPT lands on Linux
  01:12 The Launch – What's actually inside the app
  02:15 Supported Systems – Check before you install
  03:25 Download & Setup – Get it the safe way
  03:58 Codex – Why it's a workspace, not a chatbox
  04:38 The Model – GPT-5.6 Soul, Terra, Luna
  05:17 Two Prompts – Copy these word for word
  06:01 Beginner Mistakes – What to never let it touch
  07:01 First Run – Your first 20 minutes
---
Chat GPT just came to Linux. This is huge. Did OpenAI just quietly give Linux users the biggest upgrade of the year? Why is nobody talking about this properly? What if the tool you've been asking for is already sitting there waiting? Most people still think this

doesn't exist on Linux. They're a day behind. Let me catch you up. Hey, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and my job is simple. I help you learn AI tools and actually use them in your real work. Today I'm breaking down the brand

new Chat GPT desktop app for Linux. What it is, which systems it runs on, the model powering it, two prompts you can try in the next 10 minutes, and the beginner mistakes that slow people down on day one. Stick with me because the tip near the end is the one most people get wrong. Let's start with the basics because a lot of you are new here. Chat GPT is an AI assistant made by OpenAI.

You type what you want, it writes back. It can answer questions, write, plan, read your files, search the web, and now do full pieces of work for you. Most people use it in a browser tab. You open a website, you type, you close the tab. That's fine, but a browser tab is a small box. It can't see your folders, it

can't touch your projects, it can't run anything on your machine. A desktop app can. That's the whole point of what just happened. OpenAI has released the Chat GPT desktop app for Linux in preview. It went live worldwide on August 11th, 2026. And this isn't a stripped-down

version. It brings Chat GPT, Chat GPT work, and Codex together in one native app on your machine. Here's what OpenAI said. Now in preview, the Chat GPT desktop app for Linux. Use Chat GPT, Chat GPT work, and Codex where you already work and build with your projects and browser workflows on supported Linux systems. Your projects,

your browser workflows, on your system. That's the part people are skipping over. OpenAI also said Linux has been one of the the requested platforms for the desktop app. So, this launch extends ChatGPT and Codex across every major desktop operating system. So, what's inside? You get ChatGPT, the chat you

already know. You get ChatGPT work, which handles longer-running tasks. And you get Codex, which is the part developers have been waiting for. Now, let's get specific because this is a preview and the support list is short. It works on desktop versions of Ubuntu 24.04 LTS and Ubuntu 26.04

LTS, Debian 13, and Fedora 43 and 44. It runs on X64 and ARM64 machines, and you install it with a .deb or .rpm package. Arch isn't officially supported yet, though community packages already exist in the AUR. That's the full list right

now, so check your system first before you get excited. If you're on something else, you're waiting a little longer for now. Now, here's something worth saying. Learning a tool like this on your own is doable. It's just slow. You install it,

you hit a permission wall, you don't know if it's you or the preview, and you lose an evening to it. That's the exact gap the AI Profit Boardroom fills. Inside, there are step-by-step walkthroughs for Codex and the ChatGPT desktop app, so you're not guessing at your setup. There are live coaching calls where you can bring your actual distro and your actual error and ask about it directly. There are prompt libraries you can lift straight into the app. And there's a 30-day roadmap, so

you know what to learn first, second, and third. If you're installing this app tonight, that's the difference between poking at it for a month and using it in your work by next week. You download it from openai.com/codex. When you install the DB version, an OpenAI repo gets added to your system, so updates come through with your normal software updates. Before this, Linux

users already had the Codex CLI and the IDE extension. What they didn't have was the full desktop app. Back in July, OpenAI merged its standalone Codex app into the ChatGPT desktop client on Mac and Windows, keeping Codex as a separate workspace for developers. The Linux preview uses that same setup. Codex isn't a chat box with code in it, it's a workspace. It can open your local

projects, read and edit your files, write and debug code, run tests, review changes, work inside your Git repositories, use a built-in browser, and run commands with your permission. You switch between ChatGPT and Codex from the menu in the top left corner. It's not only for code, either. You can open documents, spreadsheets, images, and other files in the same workspace, keep several projects in view at once, and schedule a task inside a chat so it runs later. And because it reads files on your machine, you're not uploading them somewhere else first. Now the

model. The current family is GPT 5.6, generally available since July 9th, 2026 in three versions: Soul, Terra, and Luna. Soul is the flagship, described by Open AI as their best coding model yet, built for complex reasoning, coding, and agentic workflows. Terra is the balanced middle option. Luna is the fastest and

lightest. Soul set a new state-of-the-art on Terminal Bench 2.1, a test for command-line workflows, planning, iterating, coordinating tools. That's exactly the work you'd hand a coding agent on a Linux box. Soul powers the reasoning options on eligible plans, while Terra and Luna show up in Work and Codex depending on your plan. All right,

let me show you what this looks like in practice. Here are two prompts I've been running, and you can copy them word for word. The first is a calculator page. Create a single HTML page calculator for SEO results with inputs for monthly traffic, conversion rate, and estimated SEO lift. One page, one file. That's the

kind of small build that used to sit on a to-do list for weeks. The second is a landing page. Create a simple HTML landing page for a free SEO audit offer with a headline, benefits, form section, testimonials, FAQ, and CTA buttons. Notice how specific that is. I'm not saying make me a landing page, I'm listing every section I want on it. Now,

some pro tips before you install because a preview is a preview, be careful what you let it touch. Codex can open projects, edit files, and run commands with your permissions. Don't hand it your whole file system on day one. Point it at one folder on one project that you don't mind breaking. Start in a test folder, make a fresh directory, put nothing important in it, and let the app work there first. You'll learn how it

thinks in about 20 minutes. Download it from OpenAI's own page, not a random mirror. Preview software plus random links is a bad combination. Don't put this on a locked-down work machine before your IT team says yes. ChatGPT work is in this app, and if your company has rules about that, follow them.

Expect rough edges. This is a public preview. Some things will be slow, and some integrations may not work properly yet. Don't build anything you can't afford to lose on top of it this week. Use projects and folders instead of one giant chat. The app is built as a

workspace for managing projects and working with files, so treat it that way, and slow down on your prompts. Vague in, vague out. Tell it what you want, what the output should look like, and what file it goes in. Once it's installed, open it, sign in, and choose where to work. You can start a chat, create a project, or open a folder. Pick

the folder option and point it at something small. Then describe the result you want, not the steps. Then try the two prompts I gave you. Both produce a single HTML file, so you can open it in your browser instantly and see whether it worked. Then push it. Ask it to change the

layout, add a section, or explain what it just did in plain English. That last one is underrated because that's how you actually learn faster. And if something breaks, tell it what you expected and what happened instead. Remember this is the same app developers use on Mac and Windows. The Linux version isn't a side project. It's the same workspace on the

operating system most people actually deploy to. If you want the full process SOPs and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI success lab. Links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And if you're installing this today, know what's coming. You'll hit permission

prompts you're not sure about. You'll wonder whether Codex should be allowed to run that command. You'll build a page and not know how to take it further. That's normal and that's exactly where the AI Profit Boardroom saves you weeks. You get live coaching calls to ask about your specific setup, tutorials that walk through Codex and the desktop app properly, prompts you can use immediately, and a roadmap that takes you from your first install to real work. Come join us at

aiprofitboardroom.com.