---
video_title: "Hermes Obsidian Is Absolutely WILD!"
video_id: gpNryGIOgg4
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gpNryGIOgg4
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Give Hermes AI a Permanent Memory with Obsidian
  
  Stop re-explaining your business to AI every single day. This guide shows you how to use Obsidian to give Hermes a permanent memory, creating a shared brain that understands your voice, goals, and history.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Memory Problem
  01:11 - What is Obsidian?
  03:21 - The 5 Layers of the Shared Brain
  04:04 - Layer 4: Automatic Note Taking
  05:23 - Fixing Messy Notes & FAQs
  07:24 - Old Way vs. New Way
  08:50 - Building Your Agent OS
---
Hermes Obsidian is wild, and by the end of this, you'll have the whole setup running. Here's the problem with Hermes today. Every single time you open it, it starts from zero. It forgets your goals. It forgets your business. It forgets the

task it did for you yesterday. So, you paste that same paragraph about who you are and what you do, again and again. I got sick of it, so I fixed it. Watch this side by side. On the left, that's Hermes with no memory system. I asked it

one simple question. What did I do last month? Look at the timer. 2 and 1/2 minutes, still thinking. And when it finally came back, it didn't know where to look, so it guessed. Vague answer,

useless. Now, look on the right. Same question, same agent. Answer came back fast, and it was specific. It knew what I built. It knew what I shipped. It knew

what I dropped and why. One agent, two totally different results. The only difference is that the one on the right has a brain to read from. That brain is a free tool called Obsidian, and there's one layer in this setup that almost everybody skips, and it's the layer doing most of the work. I'll get to it in a few minutes, so stay with me. Hey,

if we have not met already, I am the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of Goldie Agency. While he is out there helping clients grow, I am here keeping you up to date on everything AI. Julian reads every comment, so drop one below and he will see it. First, let me kill the confusion around Obsidian, because people make it sound way harder than it is. Obsidian is a folder of notes.

That's it. Plain text files sitting on your computer linked together. It's free to download. It's free to use. There's no upgrade screen waiting for you. But,

watch what happens when you point Hermes at that folder. This is my vault. Look at it. Everything tagged, everything linked, color-coded, notes on my team, notes on my goals, notes on the AI Profit Boardroom, notes on every project we've got running. Now, every job Hermes runs starts with that full picture. It

knows my business. It knows my voice. It knows what I tried back in February and why it flopped. Four things change on day one. First, the answers get personal. Second,

the quality jumps because it's pulling real facts instead of making things up. Third, it burns way fewer tokens because it grabs a note instead of thinking for 5 minutes straight. Fourth, you stop repeating yourself. That's the one you'll feel first. Here's a simple example. I asked Hermes, "Look at what

we've done for the AI Profit Boardroom this month and write the welcome email for new members in my voice." No briefing, no context paste, it just wrote it and it sounded like me. Now, if you want this exact setup without building it yourself, I've packaged the whole thing. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you can download my agent operating system as a zip file, ready to install. The Hermes wiring, the Obsidian Vault template that Hermes reads best from, every prompt, the folder structure, all of it. We keep

improving it and you get every update. We run four coaching calls every week where you can share your screen and we'll wire your vault into Hermes live, so it's actually working before you log off. There's a 30-day roadmap for building your shared brain out properly. Links in the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com.

If you're creating all this content with AI and nobody's finding it, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank and most businesses are sitting on content nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic.

The link is in the comments and description below. Right, let's get into how it actually works. There are five layers. Stay with me on the fourth one because that's the one people miss. Layer one is the vault. Your notes

become memory, markdown files in folders, nothing clever. Layer two is the bridge. This is easier than you think. You open Hermes and you type, "I've got an Obsidian Vault set up locally. Use that for your memory and context from now on." That's the whole

instruction. It reads it and it uses it. Layer three is the shared brain. This one's my favorite. That same vault gets read by Claude and by open Claude and by whatever else you're running. So, they

all describe your business the same way using the same facts. Ask Claude something on Monday, ask Hermie something on Tuesday and they line up. Same voice, same story, same details. Layer four is the part nobody sets up, automatic notes. Let's be honest with each other. If you have to write notes

by hand every day, you'll do it for about a week, then life happens and you stop. I know because I've watched people try. So, I don't write them. I use a free open-source tool called OMI. It takes notes on me during the day and syncs them straight into the vault. Look

at this, over 2,000 memories sitting in there. I typed none of them. And Hermie's writes notes, too. It finishes a job, drops the output into the vault and that becomes context for tomorrow's job, which brings us to layer five, the loop. Every new note makes the next answer better. Hermie's writes the

notes, Hermie's reads the notes. So, it gets sharper on its own while you get on with your day. That's why I keep telling people to set this up today instead of next month. The vault only gets more useful over time. Every week you wait is context you're never getting back. You

could run Hermie's on its own, you could open Obsidian on its own. Both work fine, but the whole thing clicks when they sit inside one system. This is my agent operating system. Look at the screen. One mission control dashboard. I

can see the vault, I can see the agents, I can see what's been built, what's running, what finished, all in one place. Before this, I had six tabs open and I'd forget which tool did what. Now, it's one screen. It sounds like a small thing. It isn't. When you can see the

memory working, you actually trust it. And when you trust it, you use it every day. And here's the part I love. You don't have to build the dashboard by hand. You can ask Hermie's to build the mission control for you. It'll do it. Or

you skip that entirely and grab my zip file, which I'll come back to. Now, let me handle the questions I get every single time I show this. My notes are a mess. Good. Mine were, too. Ask Hermie's

to fix them. Feed it the Obsidian documentation, then tell it to go through your vault, clean the notes up, tag them, link them, color code them. It'll go do that for you. Messy notes beat no notes every time. Won't the agents get confused if they all share one memory? The opposite

happens. They stop clashing. Hermes finishes a task and drops a note in the vault. Claude reads it the next morning and picks up where Hermes left off. The handoff is the whole point. Right now,

without a shared vault, your tools all know a different version of your business and none of them are right. How is this actually free? Hermes is free and open source. Obsidian is free. It runs locally on your own machine.

There's no locked feature waiting to jump out at you. Is my stuff safe? The vault is a folder on your computer. It sits there like any other folder. You control it. You can back it up. You can

move it. How long does it take to set up? Making the vault takes minutes. Pointing Hermes at it takes one sentence. Getting it genuinely good takes a few weeks because that's how long it takes the notes to pile up, which is exactly why you want to start now instead of waiting. So, when should

you use this shared brain? Anywhere the work has to sound like you. Client work, emails, content strategy, anything where a generic answer would embarrass you. For a quick one-off question, a normal chat is fine. You don't need the full stack to ask what time zone somewhere is in. Here's another example from this

week. I asked it, "Based on what AI Profit Boardroom members have been asking about lately, plan next week's coaching call topics." It pulled straight from real notes and handed me the list. No guessing about what people want because the answers were already sitting in the vault. And one more. I

asked it to look at the last 30 days of vault notes and tell me what I could automate to save time. It came back with three things I'd never thought of because it could see patterns across the whole month that I forgotten about. That's the difference between an AI that answers questions and an AI that actually knows you. Let me show you what the old way looks like next to the new way, so it's obvious. The old way, you open Hermes on a blank screen. You

explain who you are. You copy in your goals. You paste your client notes. 30 seconds gone before you've asked anything. Then you get a flat generic answer because it has no history with you. And when you switch to a different

tool, none of that carries over. You do the whole thing again. The new way, you point Hermes at your vault once. Every job after that reads your real notes. It knows your business, your clients, your goals, your voice. It pulls a line from

a note you wrote months ago and uses it today. And you didn't write most of those notes yourself. It stops feeling like a tool you're managing and starts feeling like a teammate who's been around for years. Now, here's something worth thinking about. This is free and it's brand new. Most people watching

this will think it looks clever, not along, and then go paste the same context paragraph into a fresh chat tomorrow morning. Nothing changes for them. The people who set this up now are going to be a long way ahead when everyone else catches on. Because every note you write becomes part of your edge and that edge compounds. Their agents will still be guessing while yours already knows. You don't need to be

technical for this. You need a folder and one sentence typed into Hermes. Let me recap what you learned today. You stop re-explaining yourself. You get one free vault that every agent reads from.

Your old notes come back to life instead of rotting in some app. Your AI starts sounding like you. Your agents line up instead of contradicting each other. And it stays current on its own because the notes write themselves. One vault, one shared brain, every agent on the same page. And if you'd rather not build it

piece by piece, I've done that part for you. The complete agent operating system is sitting inside the AI Profit Boardroom right now as a zip file you can download and install today. The vault template Hermes reads best from is in there. Every prompt is in there. The mission control dashboard is in there.

We ship updates constantly and you get every single one. Bring your setups up to one of the four weekly coaching calls and we'll get Hermes reading your vault properly live with you watching. There's a 30-day roadmap that walks you through building the shared brain out step by step. Daily tutorials on wiring Hermes and Obsidian together and a member map so you can find people near you running the same setup. And there's always someone online. Link in the comments and

description or head to aiprofitboardroom.com. And once your agents start producing real work, make sure people actually find it. Book that free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll show you exactly what it takes to get your site ranking on Google and bringing in real traffic. Links in the comments and description below.