---
video_title: "NEW Qwen Work is a Game Changer! 🤯"
video_id: peYlVhk8mu8
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=peYlVhk8mu8
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Alibaba's NEW Quenwork AI: The All-in-One Tool You Need
  
  Alibaba just launched Quenwork, a massive 2.4 trillion parameter AI that replaces multiple tools by combining app building, research, and computer operation into one interface. Learn how to automate your business workflows and build live websites using this game-changing platform.
  
  00:00 - 00:00 - Intro: What is Quenwork?
  00:37 - Alibaba's Massive AI Model
  01:32 - No-Code Website Building
  02:09 - Generating Media & Workflows
  04:53 - The Awareness Feature
  05:32 - The 3 Layers of Automation
  06:07 - How to Automate Your Business
---
New Quenwork is a game-changer, and here's why this matters for your business right now. Alibaba just launched Quenwork. It went global on August 26th, 2026, and it's one of the most complete AI tools I've seen drop this year. Here's what makes it different. Most AI tools do one thing.

You use one tool to write, another to research, another to build a webpage, another to make a video. You're constantly jumping between tabs, losing time, losing context. Quenwork does all of that in one place. You type what you need in plain English. It figures out what tools to use. It takes the steps.

It hands you something finished. That's not hype. That's what it's actually built to do. Quenwork was built by combining three of Alibaba's existing AI products, Code to Work, Mule Run, and Wukong. Code to Work handles building apps and webpages. Mule

Run handles multi-step workflows. Wukong handles actually operating a computer, clicking, browsing, working through tasks on your behalf. All three are now one platform, one interface, one place to go, and it's powered by Quen 3.8-Max. That's Alibaba's biggest model ever, 2.4

trillion parameters. It passed 2 trillion parameters, which only one other model in the world has done. This isn't a small upgrade. This is Alibaba's best running under the hood of every task you throw at Quenwork. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Now, let's talk about what it actually does, because the capabilities here are wide. You can build a working website, a live, hosted, publicly accessible website just by describing it. No code, no developer.

Quenwork can generate the HTML page, connect a database, provide hosting, and give you a custom domain. A user in their demo did exactly that. They typed, "Build and deploy a static course homepage for data structures and algorithms." And got a live site. No backend setup, no technical knowledge required. Think about that for a second.

You could use that to build a landing page for a new AI automation offer, a member sign-up page for a community, or a lead gen page for a service, just by describing what you want. It also generates images, video, and audio natively. You don't have to export to another tool. You ask for a promo video, you ask for a thumbnail, you ask for a voiceover, it handles it. The whole creative process stays inside one platform. On the document side,

presentations, spreadsheets, research reports, deep research on any topic, all built in. You ask it to research something, it goes out and pulls the information, synthesizes it, and hands you a polished document ready to use. And it runs scheduled workflows, meaning it can do recurring tasks automatically on a schedule without you triggering it manually every time. Here's a practical example using the AI Profit Boardroom. Imagine you want to post a weekly AI automation tip to grow the community.

You could set up a Quenwork workflow that researches the top AI automation news of the week, writes a post summarized for business owners, formats it for your community platform, and schedules it automatically every single week without you touching it. That's not a future feature. That's what Quenwork is built to do right now. If you want to go deeper on tools like Quenwork and learn how to actually use them to save time and get more out of your business, the AI Profit Boardroom is where that's happening. We've built a 30-day roadmap specifically around using AI agents and automation tools like Quenwork to grow a business step-by-step, from setup to running real workflows. There are four

live coaching calls every week where you can ask your specific questions about your Quenwork setup, your workflows, and how to apply this to your business. Over 3,600 business owners are in there right now. Many of them already using AI automation tools to generate leads and save hours every week. There's a prompt library with prompts built for exactly this kind of workflow automation, and a member map so you can find and connect with other people running Quenwork and AI agents near you. Link in the description or go to AIprofitboardroom.com.

And if you want more customers finding you on Google and AI search right now, this is important. Most business owners have no idea how much traffic they're leaving on the table every single month. People are searching for exactly what you offer right now, and your competitors are showing up instead of you. Our team at Goldie Agency does a free SEO strategy session where we look at your actual website, your market, your competitors, and we build you a custom game plan specific to your business, showing you exactly what it would take to rank higher, get more traffic, and turn that traffic into customers. No generic advice, no templates, a real plan built around your business. We've done this for hundreds

of businesses. It takes 30 minutes and it's completely free. Go to juliangoldie.com or click the link in the description to book your free session now. Now, let's get back into it because there's a feature in Quenwork that almost nobody's talking about, and it's called awareness. Awareness is a

feature on the desktop version of Quenwork. It's opt-in, and what it does is remember how you work. Most AI tools start fresh every time you open a new session, and the AI has no idea who you are, what you're building, what your preferences are. You're re-explaining yourself constantly. Awareness fixes that. You tell Quenwork your working

style, your preferences, how you like things structured, what your business does, and it carries that context forward into every session. So, over time, Quenwork isn't just responding to your prompts, it's adapting to you. Now, let's talk about the structure underneath all of this because it matters. Quenwork is built on three layers. The computer [clears throat] use layer, Wu Kong, can actually see your screen, operate a browser, navigate websites, fill in forms, click buttons.

It's not just generating text, it's taking actions. The workflow layer, Mew Run, chains those actions together into sequences. One thing leads to the next. You don't have to manage each step. And the build layer, Coda Work, creates actual functional products out of those sequences, websites, apps, tools.

Together, those three layers mean Coda Work can go from your request all the way to a finished, deployed output without you in the loop for every step. Don't try to automate everything at once. Pick the one task that costs you the most time and start there. If you're growing a community like the AI Profit Boardroom, that might be your weekly content. If you're running a service business, that might be your research and reporting. Whatever it is, start

there. The platform is free to test right now. The upside of figuring it out early is significant. And the tools you build familiarity with today are the ones you'll be able to use with real confidence six months from now when everyone else is still catching up. Before we wrap, if you want step-by-step tutorials walking you through how to set up Coda Work workflows for your business, coaching calls where we actually look at your setup and help you build it properly, and a community of people who are already running AI automation tools to grow their businesses, the AI Profit Boardroom is where all of that lives. We have a full

30-day roadmap built around using AI agent platforms like Coda Work to save time and grow your business, daily tutorials on exactly how to use these tools as they ship new features, four live coaching calls every week where members are asking specific questions about their actual workflows, and 3,600 business owners active in the community. Many of them deep into AI automation right now. Link in the description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you want more customers finding you on Google and AI search right now, this is important. Most business owners

have no idea how much traffic they're leaving on the table every single month. People are searching for exactly what you offer right now, and your competitors are showing up instead of you. Our team at Goldie Agency does a free SEO strategy session where we look at your actual website, your market, your competitors, and we build you a custom game plan specific to your business showing you exactly what it would take to rank higher, get more traffic, and turn that traffic into customers. No generic advice, no templates, a real plan built around your business. We've done this for hundreds of businesses. It takes 30 minutes and

it's completely free. Go to julieangoldie.com or click the link in the description to book your free session now. That's Quen work. One platform, one prompt, complete workflows. Go try it.