---
video_title: "Google Gemini Just Changed AI Video Understanding Forever"
video_id: 9mnWc4EL1mQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9mnWc4EL1mQ
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Ask AI about a long video and you get a vague, half-wrong answer — because until now it wasn't really watching, just skimming one frozen frame per second. Google just changed that. Gemini's new Agentic Video Understanding lets the model decide what to watch, cutting token use by 88%, cost by 66%, while getting 7% more accurate. Here's what changed and why it matters if you work with video at all.
  
  00:00 Intro – why AI botches long-video questions
  00:43 What launched – Agentic Video Understanding
  01:17 The old way – 1 frame/sec, and what it missed
  02:05 The new way – the model picks what to watch
  03:19 The numbers – 88% fewer tokens, 66% cheaper, +7% accuracy
  06:26 The real shift – AI that fetches, not dumps
  07:23 How to start – turn on agentic mode
---
Google Gemini just changed AI video understanding forever. Ever asked AI about a long video and got a vague half wrong answer back? There's a reason for that. Until now, AI wasn't really watching your video. It was skimming a few frozen snapshots and guessing.

Google just quietly fixed that, and most people have no idea it even happened. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and I help you learn and actually use AI tools in your real work. Not the hype, the stuff you can open up and use today. Because here's the thing, Google just flipped a switch on how Gemini handles video, and the change is bigger it sound. In the next few minutes, I'll show you what changed, the exact numbers Google is putting on it, and one shift underneath all of this that tells you where AI is heading next. Stick with me,

because that last part is the piece almost nobody's talking about. So, let's start with what actually happened. On September 1st, Google rolled out something called agentic video understanding. It's live now inside their newest models, Gemini 3.7 flash, 3.6 flash, and 3.5 flash light, and you

can use it today through Google AI Studio and their enterprise platform. It works on video files you upload, and it works on YouTube links, too. You paste a video, ask a question, and the model handles the rest. Now, that word agentic sounds like jargon, so let me break it down in plain English. It just means the AI takes action on its own to get the job done, instead of waiting for you to spoon-feed it every step. And to really

get why that matters, you need to understand how AI watched video before this. Here's the old way. When you gave a model a video, it grabbed one still frame every single second and lined them all up. That's it. One picture per second. So, a 10-minute clip became 600

flat images stacked in a row. The model never really moved through the video. It just stared at a giant wall of snapshots and tried to answer from that. That caused two big problems. First, on anything fast, it missed stuff. A quick

movement, a split-second change, a fast cut. Blink, and the one frame per second grab skips right over it. Second, on long videos, it was a monster. Hours of footage meant a mountain of frames, and every frame eats up what the model can hold. So, you were stuck choosing.

either pay a huge price to load the whole thing or chop it down and lose the details you actually needed. The new way is completely different. Now, the model decides for itself what to look at. It moves through the video like a person would. It can jump to the exact moment that matters. It can read the

transcript, listen to the audio, or pull the actual frames, whatever fits your question. And if one part needs a closer look, it slows down and rewatches that part at a higher frame rate. If a part doesn't matter, it skips it. It only pulls in what it needs to answer you, nothing more. That one change unlocks things the old way just couldn't do well. Google showed a few clear

examples. One is finding an exact split-second moment inside a video, precise enough to power real automated editing. Another is what they call needle in a haystack search. That means asking a specific question about a multi-hour video and getting the right answer without loading the entire thing. There's counting, too, like tracking how many times a movement happens or how many objects show up over time. And

there's spotting the odd thing out, where the model zooms into a short window and inspects it at high detail to catch something subtle. Think about how useful that is if you work with video at all. A creator sitting on hours of raw footage could ask where a specific moment happens instead of scrubbing back and forth for an hour. A teacher could point at a 90-minute lecture and ask for the three main points. Someone reviewing a long recording could ask one sharp question and jump straight to the answer. The tool does the digging. Hold

that thought because now I want to show you the numbers Google is putting behind this, and they're not small. Google says Agentic video understanding cuts token usage by up to 88%. Tokens are just the little chunks of data the model reads and writes. Fewer tokens means it's doing far less heavy lifting to get the same job done. It also runs up to 66% cheaper to run compared to the old way.

And on top of saving all that, accuracy goes up by as much as 7%. Stop and sit with that for a second. Normally, when something gets lighter and faster, it gets worse. You trade quality for speed. This is the opposite. It's using way

less and getting the answer more right. Down on the heavy lifting, up on accuracy at the same time. Google also says these gains show up strongest on long videos. 10-minute how-to guides, 90-minute lectures, multi-hour recordings. That's exactly where the old way struggled the most. So, that's where

this helps the most. And out of the three models, Google points to Gemini 3.7 Flash as the standout. They say it hits the best balance of quality against what it costs to run. So, if you're picking one to try, that's the one they're pointing you toward. Now, are

these just Google's own lab numbers? Partly, yes. And it's always smart to test claims like these yourself. But Google didn't launch this in a vacuum. They handed it to a group of early partner companies before release, and those partners put it to work on real video tasks. Google says many of them

saw strong results in testing. So, this isn't only a demo. Real teams ran it before it went public. Let me pull this up a level, because I think this matters most for anyone making or working with content. If you're a creator, this quietly changes your workflow. Searching

your own footage stops being a chore. Instead of dragging a playhead around, hoping to find a moment, you ask for it. Pulling clips, finding the best line, locating that one reaction, all of it gets faster. Video stops being this heavy blob you have to sit through, and turns into something you can just ask questions about. And it goes past creators. Anyone drowning in long videos

wins here. Support teams reviewing screen recordings, students working through lectures, people combing through hours of calls or footage. The pattern is the same. You stop watching everything to find one thing, and you just ask. Before I go further, let me quickly point you to two things that will help you actually use this, not just watch a video about it. First, if

you want real hands-on help, I've got a free AI brand visibility session for you. Here's what it is. You get on a call, and a strategist maps out exactly how your brand shows up across the places that matter now. Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and yes, Gemini. Because tools like this one are pulling more and more from video and content across the web, and most people have no clue how visible they actually are. You'll get a custom plan, a gap

analysis against your competitors, and straight answers to your own questions. It's 100% free, no strings, no obligation. If you want to know where you stand as AI eats more of search, this is the fastest way to find out. Second, if you want to go deeper and actually build with tools like this, that's what the iProfit Boardroom is for. Inside, we don't just talk about launches like this one, we walk through them. You get tutorials on how to set up

video understanding step-by-step, live coaching calls where you can ask about your own setup, and get on stuck, ready to use prompts, and roadmaps that show you what to do in order instead of guessing. So, when a tool like this drops, you're not left figuring it out alone. You've got the walk-through, and a room full of people testing it right alongside you. If you're the type who wants to move on this now, that's where you'll get the fastest help. Okay, back to the bigger picture because there's a shift underneath all of this that I really want you to catch. This isn't

really a video feature, it's a change in how AI works wearing a video costume. Look at the old way again. We fed the model everything up front and hoped it could sort through the pile. That's how most AI has worked. Dump in all the data, cross your fingers. The new way is

the model deciding what to go get. It looks at your question, figures out what it actually needs, and goes and fetches only that. It searches, it scans, it inspects, it comes back with an answer. That's a model that acts, not just reacts, and you're going to see this exact pattern spread everywhere. Google already did the same thing with images before this. Video is next. Long

documents, giant piles of files, huge sets of records, they're all heading the same direction. The future isn't stuffing more and more into the model at once. It's the model reaching out and grabbing the right piece at the right moment. That's the real story here, and it's why this launch is a bigger deal than a single feature update. Here's how simple it is to start, by the way. If

you're building with it, you flip one setting to turn agentic mode on, point it at your video, and ask. Google's guide even says, "Start with agentic mode by default for most video work, especially long videos or when you're hunting for a specific moment." The old static way still has its place for short clips where you need every single frame. But for the heavy stuff, the long stuff, this is the new default. And Google's already said it's rolling this out to everyday users in the Gemini app soon.

And it will power YouTube's ask YouTube feature in the coming months. So even if you never touch the developer side, this is coming to tools you already use. So that's the launch, a model that finally watches video the way you would using far less to do it and getting the answer more right. If you take one thing from this, let it be that shift. AI is moving from read everything to go get what matters. Get comfortable with that now

because it's the direction all of this is heading. All right, if you're ready to actually put this to work, here's your next step. Book that free AI brand visibility session. This is the direct way to get expert eyes on your own brand. You'll walk away with a custom plan, real insight into where your competitors are beating you, and clear recommendations you can act on right away. All built around how AI and video

are reshaping the way people find you. It's completely free, no obligation. If you've been meaning to figure out where you stand, do it now while it's fresh. And once you start actually trying a gigantic video for yourself, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom because you will hit snags. Which model to pick, how to word your prompt, why one video works and another doesn't.

Instead of guessing your way through it, you'll have coaching calls to ask your questions live, tutorials that show you the exact steps, roadmaps to keep you moving in order, and prompts you can grab and use today. It's over 4,000 members learning and building with these tools together, so you're never doing it alone. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.