---
video_title: "Build Anything with Gemini 3.8 Flash, Here's How!"
video_id: MhzXi8dbi7A
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MhzXi8dbi7A
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Build Full Websites with Gemini 3.8 Flash: New AI Model
  
  Discover how Gemini 3.8 Flash can build, test, and fix entire websites independently to boost your SEO. We break down the new 1M token context window and show you the exact prompt to automate your technical SEO tasks.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:48 - What is Gemini 3.8 Flash?
  01:37 - Performance & Benchmarks
  02:36 - AI Website Building Prompt
  04:17 - 1M Context & SEO Audits
  06:08 - Where to Access the Model
  07:06 - Final SEO Takeaway
---
Build anything with Gemini 3.8 Flash. Here's how. Today, I'm going to show you the new AI model that can build a full website by itself. This thing writes the code, then it tests the code, then it fixes its own mistakes, all without you touching a thing. It's called Gemini 3.8

Flash, and it just dropped. If you care about SEO, this changes how fast you can build pages that rank. Stick around because I'm going to show you the exact prompt I'd use to build an SEO landing page with this tool. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates.

Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. So, let's talk about SEO and AI because right now, these two things are moving faster than ever. Google just launched a brand new model called Gemini 3.8 Flash. It came out on September 2nd, 2026. And no, this

is not just another small update. This one is built different. Here's the big idea. Old AI models work like this. You give them a task, they give you an answer. Done. One shot. If it's wrong,

that's your problem to fix. Gemini 3.8 Flash does not work like that. It plans, it builds, it runs the thing it built, it checks for mistakes, it fixes those mistakes, then it tests it again, then it keeps going until the job is actually done. Think about that for SEO. Instead

of just spitting out a page, it can build the page, check if it loads fast, check if the code is clean, and fix it before handing it to you. Google is calling this their smartest flash model yet. And they built it for one job in particular, long jobs, coding jobs, multi-step jobs, the kind of jobs that used to take a developer hours. Let me give you the actual numbers here straight from Google. On a coding test called Deepsw SWE, the older model scored 65.3%.

Gemini 3.8 8 Flash scored 73.7%. On a test called Terminal Bench, it went from 85.8% up to 89.4%.

On a test that checks how well it uses a computer on its own called OSU World, it jumped from 50.6% to 59%. These are Google's own reported numbers, so keep that in mind. But the direction is clear. This model got a lot better at finishing real tasks, not just answering questions. Now, here's why this matters

for SEO specifically. SEO is not just writing words anymore. SEO today means fast pages, clean code, good site structure, mobile friendly design, schema markup, all the technical stuff that most people skip because it's a pain to do by hand. Gemini 3.8 Flash can now build that stuff for you and it checks its own work while doing it. Let

me show you how I'd actually use this. Inside a tool called Google Anti-gravity, you can give Gemini 3.8 Flash1 instruction and it goes and builds the whole thing. Files, code, testing, all of it. Here's a prompt I'd use for growing something like the AI profit boardroom, our community where we teach AI automation. I type this, build

a landing page for the AI profit boardroom. The page needs to load fast. Use clean SEO friendly code. Include a clear headline. Explain the value of learning AI automation inside the community. And include a call to action

to book a free strategy session. Test the page yourself. Check that it loads properly and fix any errors before you finish. See what I did there? I didn't just ask for a pretty page. I asked it

to build with SEO in mind and to test its own work. That's the whole point of this new model. You give it a real goal, not just a task, and it keeps working until the goal is actually hit. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI profit boardroom. Inside, we break down exactly how to use AI automation to save time, build things faster, and bring in more customers step by step with real examples you can follow along with. It's a community of

people doing this stuff every day, sharing what's working right now. So, you're not trying to figure it all out alone. If you're serious about using AI to grow, that's the place to be. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. On that call, we'll look at your site, talk through where you're losing visibility, and map out a clear plan to get you found by more of the right people.

There's no obligation. It's simply free value. So, if you've been putting off getting real SEO help, this is the easiest way to finally get it sorted. Okay, let's keep going because there's more to this model that matters for SEO. Gemini 3.8 Flash can handle a huge

amount of information at once. We're talking 1 million tokens of context. In plain English, that means you could feed it an entire website's worth of pages or a giant keyword research file and it can look at all of it at the same time. For SEO, that's huge. You could hand it your whole site structure and ask it to find pages that are missing internal links or find thin content that needs to be built out. It also has three settings for how

hard it thinks, low, medium, and high. Medium is the default. For something simple like fixing one headline, you'd use low. For something big, like restructuring a whole site, for better SEO, you'd bump it up to high, and it will spend more time working through the problem before giving you the result. Now, Google showed off some demos when they launched this. One was a full 3D

game built from a single prompt. Another was a working version of Google Maps built like an old school computer game, also from one prompt. They also showed it building an interactive science tool using real data and a 3D breakdown of computer hardware parts. I'm not going to pretend these demos are about SEO directly. They're not, but they prove the same point. This model can take one

instruction and build a full working project, testing and fixing itself along the way. That same skill applies directly to building SEO pages, landing pages, and tools for your business. Here's something worth knowing, too. Because this model works harder, checking its own work, testing, fixing mistakes, it naturally does more behind the scenes to get a task right. That's a good trade if it means the final result actually works instead of you having to go back and fix it by hand later. One

more thing worth knowing, Google is not telling everyone to drop the older model if you don't need the extra power. They say you can still use the older Gemini 3.7 Flash for simpler jobs. So, think of it like this. Gemini 3.8 Flash is for

the big jobs. Gemini 3.7 Flash is for the simple stuff where you don't need it thinking that hard. So, where can you actually use this? A few places. Google

AI Studio which is free to try. The Gemini API if you're building your own tools. Google Anti-gravity which is the one built for these longer building tasks. And if you're a Google AI Pro or Ultra subscriber, it's also inside the regular Gemini app, inside AI mode on Google search, and inside Google Sheets. Let's bring this back to SEO one more time, because that's the whole reason I'm covering this. Technical SEO used to

be slow. You'd need a developer to build a fast, clean page, then a separate check to make sure it actually loads right, then more back and forth to fix bugs. Now you can hand that whole loop to one model and it plans, builds, tests, and fixes on its own. That means less waiting and pages that are ready to actually rank faster. Before I wrap up, quick reminder. If you're planning to

use this a lot for building out SEO pages or tools, get familiar with it now while it's still new. So, you're ahead of everyone else still figuring it out. So, here's the real takeaway. Gemini 3.8 Flash isn't just a chatbot that talks back at you. It's closer to a developer

that keeps working after you give it the goal. For SEO, that means faster technical fixes, faster page builds, and less manual back and forth. That's a real shift, not just hype. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI profit boardroom. Inside, we break down exactly how to use AI automation to save time, build things faster and bring in more customers step by step with real examples you can follow along with. It's a community of

people doing this stuff every day, sharing what's working right now, so you're not trying to figure it all out alone. If you're serious about using AI to grow, that's the place to be. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. On that call, we'll look at your site, talk through where you're losing visibility, and map out a clear plan to get you found by more of the right people. There's no obligation. It's simply free

value. So, if you've been putting off getting real SEO help, this is the easiest way to finally get it sorted. Thanks for watching. Drop a comment below and let me know if you're going to try Gemini 3.8 Flash for your own SEO projects. Julian reads every single one.

See you in the next video.