---
video_title: "New Antigravity Update Is Crazy GOOD!"
video_id: vxBQdY8vDbM
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vxBQdY8vDbM
video_date: 20260818
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Antigravity Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  One Prompt, 4 Apps: New Anti-Gravity Gemini 3.7 Flash Update
  
  Discover how the new Anti-gravity update powered by Gemini 3.7 Flash builds native iOS and Android apps simultaneously from a single prompt. This video explains the multi-agent system that handles coding, design consistency, and automated testing, allowing non-technical founders to ship professional screens in minutes.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Gemini 3.7 Flash Update
  00:09 - One Prompt, Four Native Apps
  01:04 - How the Multi-Agent System Works
  01:38 - Practical Example: Building a Sign-in Screen
  02:29 - Why This Is a Game Changer for Non-Coders
  03:48 - Automated Testing & Design Consistency
  04:36 - Tips for Business Owners & Small Teams
  07:06 - Scaling Your Business with AI
---
New antigravity update is crazy good. Google just gave its coding agent antigravity a new brain called Gemini 3.7 flash. This isn't a small patch. It's a real jump in what one prompt can do. Here's the part that got my

attention. You type one sentence describing a screen, something like build me a sign-in screen. Antigravity doesn't build it once. It builds it four times in four different coding languages at the same time. Swift UI for iPhone, React Native for cross-platform apps, Jetpack Compose for Android, Flutter for apps that run almost anywhere. Same

prompt, four native results. Then it opens simulators and emulators and checks that each one actually works. A year ago, if you wanted a screen built for iPhone and Android, you hired two developers or one who knew both. That took days, sometimes weeks. Now Antigravity does the first draft of all four versions before you finish your coffee. I get the skepticism. A lot of

people hear AI builds an app and picture one shaky prototype that breaks the second you touch it. That used to be fair, but Gemini 3.7 flash was built to think through more steps before it acts. In plain words, it plans its work first instead of guessing one step at a time. Less trial and error, fewer broken loops where it tries something, fails, and tries again. Here's how the

multi-platform trick works. Antigravity doesn't have one AI doing four jobs badly. It splits the work. Think of it like a head chef handing out tickets in a kitchen. One cook handles the grill, one handles salads, one handles dessert.

The head chef doesn't cook every dish alone. Antigravity reads your prompt once, then hands a sub-agent to each coding framework. Each one focuses only on its own language and rules. Then Antigravity checks all four plates before they leave the kitchen. That's why the four versions actually match each other instead of looking like four different apps. Here's a practical

example. Say you want a clean sign-in screen for a members area, something a real business would use every day. You tell Antigravity to build a login screen with a name field, an email field, a password field, and a button that says enter. One prompt, four native versions. You preview it on a phone screen and an Android screen before you touch a line of code yourself. If you're building

anything with a login, a dashboard, or a members area right now, tools like this are worth watching closely because this is where AI Profit Boardroom members are already spending their time. Inside there, we cover exactly how to use tools like Antigravity to build real screens for your business fast. Actual walkthroughs of member login pages, onboarding screens, and simple business tools the kind of real company would ship. If you want help setting up your first build, that's exactly what we go through on our coaching calls. Link in the comments and description or go to AI Profit Boardroom.com. This update isn't

just for developers. A small business owner with zero coding background can describe a screen in plain English and get a working native version back. That knocks down a wall that used to require hiring someone or learning to code yourself. You describe it, the AI builds it, you adjust from there. Think about what that does to a small team. A

one-person business used to need a developer just to get a login page live. Now that first version exists in minutes and a non-technical founder can preview it, tweak the wording, and move on to the next screen. The bottleneck isn't can we build this anymore, it's do we know what we want to build? That's a much easier problem to solve. Try a booking form instead of a login screen, something with a date picker, a service drop-down, and a confirm button. Same

idea applies. You describe the form once, Antigravity spins up its sub-agents and hands you back a version for iPhone, a version for Android, and a version that works across both. You're not managing four separate projects anymore. You're managing one instruction and reviewing four results. There's a smaller detail worth knowing, too. When

the sub-agents finish, Antigravity keeps the design choices lined up across all four. So the button color, the field order, and the wording match on every platform. That used to take a design system and a team meeting to sort out. Now it's part of the build itself. For a small business, that means your app looks like one brand everywhere, not four slightly different guesses. The

testing piece matters just as much as the building piece. Antigravity opens the simulators and emulators itself and checks that the screen actually loads and works the way you asked. That's the difference between a rough draft and something you can actually show someone. A lot of AI coding tools stop at here's some code, good luck. Antigravity checks its own work first. Here's the trend

line if you zoom out. 6 months ago, AI coding tools were mostly single language. You picked React or you picked Swift, and the AI helped inside that one lane. Now we're at multi-framework, multi-agent building from one prompt with testing built in. If that pace holds, the next jump is probably fewer prompts needed overall, where you describe a full app in one go instead of screen by screen. If you're a business

owner with no coding background, pick one screen your business actually needs, a login page, a simple form, a booking page, and describe it in plain English inside Antigravity. Don't overthink the prompt. Just describe what a customer should see and what happens when they click the button. If you already know a little code, use this to skip the boring setup work. Let Antigravity handle the first draft across platforms, then adjust the details that matter to your brand. If you manage a small team, this

changes how you plan projects. You don't need to wait for a developer to be free before a screen gets built. You can have a rough working version ready for feedback the same day someone asked for it. And if you're running a business solo, this is one more task you don't have to outsource or learn from scratch. That's real time back in your week, time you can spend talking to customers instead of waiting on a build. Every

time one of these updates drops, some people get excited and some get nervous. Both reactions make sense. Learning a new tool takes effort, and it's fair to feel behind sometimes. But the businesses that stay ahead aren't the ones with the most technical skill. They're the ones willing to test new tools early and figure out where they actually help. You don't need to master

Antigravity today. You just need to try it once on something small. Try building one screen with Antigravity this week. Just once, see what comes back. That's how you actually learn if a tool fits your business, not by watching one more video, but by typing one prompt and seeing what happens. None of this

replaces knowing your own business. Antigravity can hand you four working screens, but it can't tell you what your customer actually needs to see when they land on your app. That part is still on you. The tool speeds up the building. It doesn't do the thinking about why you're building it in the first place. What I

keep coming back to is how small the starting point is now. One sentence used to get you nothing. Now one sentence gets you four working drafts you can actually test. That gap used to take a whole team and a whole budget of time to close. Today it takes a few minutes and a clear idea of what you want. So don't

wait for the next update to feel ready. Open Antigravity, describe one screen your business actually needs, and see what comes back. That one small test tells you more about where this is headed than any video ever will. There's also a mindset shift buried in here that's easy to miss. When building was slow, you thought carefully before you started because starting was expensive.

Now that starting is cheap and fast, the smarter move is to build the rough version first and think while you're looking at it. You learn more from a working screen on your phone than you do from a plan in your notes. I'd also pay attention to how fast these updates are stacking. First, it was one language at a time. Then it was AI helping inside your code editor. Now it's four

platforms from one sentence, tested automatically before it reaches you. Each jump made the last one look small. There's no reason to think that pattern stops here. If you've been putting off building something for your business because it felt technical or out of reach, this is the update that closes that gap. You don't need to know what Swift UI or Jetpack Compose even stand for. You just need one clear sentence

about what you want your customer to see and a few minutes to try it out. If you want to sit down and build this out step by step, that's what we do inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We've got members using Antigravity right now to build member login pages, booking forms, and simple business tools for their own companies. Four weekly coaching calls where you can bring your exact screen idea and get help live. Daily tutorials that walk you through tools like this one as they update. A 30-day roadmap

built around using AI automation to save time and get more customers. A prompt library with ready-to-use prompts for tools like Antigravity. And a member map so you can find other business owners near you building the same kind of thing. Link in the comments and description, or go to aiprofitboardroom.com.

And if you want the full process, the SOPs, and over 100 AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. It's free. Link in the comments and description. You'll get the notes from this video, plus access to a community people using AI to get real work done every day.