---
video_title: "NEW Hermes Agent Update Changes Everything!"
video_id: rBPw8XDuXs0
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBPw8XDuXs0
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  New Hermes Agent Update: Build Your Own AI Employee Team!
  
  Discover the massive Pantheon update for Hermes Agent and how it transforms simple AI tasks into a fully automated team of workers. We walk through the new Hermes Peer, memory features, and browser automation tools that let you build a custom Agent OS for your business.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Pantheon Release
  00:33 - Hermes v0.21.0 Breakdown
  01:04 - Bot Mode: Creating Your AI Team
  03:27 - Hermes Peer & Agent Memory
  04:43 - Live Steering & Browser Control
  05:20 - MCP Command Center & New Models
  05:59 - Safety Features & Risk Control
  07:10 - How to Install the Agent OS
---
New Hermes agent update changes everything. Today, I'm going to show you how one AI tool just turned into a whole team of AI workers. It's new, it's huge, and it's stupid easy to use. Stick around because by the end of this video, I'm going to show you the exact agent OS I built with this and how you can get your hands on it, too. This is the new Hermes agent update, and it changes everything. Hey, if we haven't met

already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Today, we're talking about the new Hermes agent update. It's called version 0.21.0,

and they gave it a big name, too, the Pantheon release. It came out on August 31st, 2026, and this is not a small update. Since the last version, over 760 people helped to build it. They made almost 6,000 code changes. That's a lot of work, but the numbers are not the exciting part. The exciting part is what

this update actually does and what I built with it. Stay with me because this next part will change how you think about AI forever. Right now, most people use AI like this. You ask one AI to do one task, then you wait, then you ask again. That's it. That's the whole

system. But Hermes just broke that system wide open. With this update, you don't get one AI helper anymore. You get a whole team. Think of it like hiring a small staff, but they're all AI, and they all work for free all day, all night. You can build a researcher. You

can build a coder. You can build a writer. Each one has its own name, its own memory, its own skills, and its own job. This is called bot mode, and it's turned on by default now. This is exactly what I used to build what I call my agent OS. Look at what's on your

screen right now. This is my own setup running live with a researcher bot, an analyst bot, and a writer bot all working together at the same time. I didn't just watch a demo and think it looked cool. I sat down and built this out for my own business so I could show it to you working in real time, not just talk about it. Here's how I use it. My

researcher bot goes out and finds the newest ways businesses are using AI automation to get more customers. My analyst bot looks at what the researcher found and picks the best ideas. My writer bot turns those ideas into simple, ready-to-use content. Watch this happen right here on screen. Three AI workers doing a full day of work in a few minutes. I didn't lift a finger.

That's the hero feature of this whole update, and it's the backbone of my entire Agent OS. But, it gets even crazier because now these bots can talk to each other. Before I show you more, let's pause here because this is important. If you want the exact Agent OS you're watching me use right now, you don't have to go build it yourself from scratch. You can grab it as a full zip file, ready to install inside the AI Profit Boardroom. I'm not just telling

you about this system and leaving you to figure it out. I'm handing you the actual setup, the bots, the workflows, the whole thing, so you can plug it straight into your own business and start putting it to work. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you'll also get to see how other people are using AI automation to save time and bring in more customers, so you're never stuck trying to figure this stuff out on your own. And once your AI team is set up and doing the work behind the scenes, the next question is always, will people even find your content online? That's where my team comes in. If you want help

making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll take a look at where you're at right now and walk you through what it would take to get more of the right eyes on what you're putting out, okay? Let's keep going because this next part is wild. Hermes now has something called Hermes Peer. This lets your bots message each other directly, kind of like a private chat between co-workers. And it's not

just a quick message that disappears, it gets saved. So, if your researcher bot finds something good, it can send it straight to your coding bot. Your coding bot can build something with it, then it can pass the final result to your marketing bot. Your marketing bot can turn it into content. You're watching this happen right now inside my Agent OS. My research bot finds a new AI

automation idea, sends it straight to my writer bot, and my writer bot turns it into a post for the AI profit boardroom without me typing a single extra word. Your AI agents are basically hiring each other now. But wait, it gets even better. Your bots can now remember things. Before this update, if you set up a task to run every day, it would just repeat the same thing over and over. No memory, no context. Just the

same report again and again. Annoying, right? Now, your scheduled AI tasks can remember what they did before. Inside my Agent OS, I've got a daily bot checking what's trending in AI automation. On day one, it gives me a full report. On day

two, it doesn't repeat itself. It tells me what's new since yesterday. On day three, it might even notice a pattern and flag it for me. That's not just automation anymore. That's an assistant that actually learns over time just like a real employee would. Now, here's a

feature that I think a lot of creators and business owners are going to love. You can now steer your bots while they're working. Not just start a task and wait. You can jump in mid-task and say, "Stop. Change direction. Focus on

this instead." And the bot adjusts right there, live, without losing its progress. I use this inside my Agent OS all the time when I want a bot to shift focus halfway through a task. Now, let's talk about something that's going to blow your mind if you've ever tried to get an AI to actually do stuff on the internet for you. Hermes can now drive its own browser. Not just look at a

webpage, it can click buttons, fill in things, scroll around, and read what's on the page all by itself. There's also a new feature called the MCP command center. I won't get too deep into the tech side, but basically, if you're using a lot of different AI tools and connections, this update gives you one simple dashboard to manage them all. This is one of the pieces that makes my Agent OS actually easy to run day-to-day instead of a mess of settings and config files. And get this, Hermes now works with way more AI models than before. Big

names like Claude, Gemini, and several others got added to the mix. This matters because it means my Agent OS isn't stuck depending on just one AI brain. It can pick and choose the best one for the job. Think of it like having a toolbox instead of just one hammer. Now, I do want to slow down here for a second because this next part matters a lot. When you give AI more power, like

letting it browse, remember things, and talk to other bots, you also open the door to more risk. And Hermes knows that. That's why this update also comes with stronger safety features. Certain important files that control how your bots behave now need your approval before anything can change them. That means a sneaky prompt hiding somewhere online can't secretly rewrite your bot's instructions behind your back. I like

seeing that, and it's part of why I trust this setup enough to build my own agent OS on top of it. More power should always come with more safety. So, here's the big picture, and I want you to really get this part. Before, AI was basically one assistant doing one task at a time. Now, with this update, it's becoming something totally different.

It's becoming a full team. A researcher, a coder, [clears throat] a writer, an analyst all working together, talking to each other, remembering what they did, and even browsing the internet on their own. That's exactly what I've packaged up into my agent OS, the same one you've been watching run on screen this whole video. I'll be honest [snorts] with you. This is only version 0.21 of Hermes.

Think about that. This is still early. If this is what the tool can do right now, imagine where it's headed next. And imagine what that means for the agent OS I keep building on top of it. All right, let's wrap this up. If you want the

exact agent OS you just watch me use in this video, the researcher, the writer, the whole team working together, you don't need to piece it together yourself. You can get the full zip file ready to install inside the AI Profit Boardroom. I built this system myself, tested it on my own business, and I'm not keeping it locked away. I'm handing it straight to you, so you can install it and start running your own AI team the same way I just showed you. Come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom, and let's get your AI team up and running. And once you've got your AI

team doing the heavy lifting, don't forget none of that matters if people can't find you online. So, if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll sit down with you, look at what you've got, and map out exactly what it would take to get more customers finding you through search. Drop a comment below and let me know which bot would you build first inside your own Agent OS, a researcher, a writer, or a coder? Julian reads every single comment, so don't be shy. And if

this video helped you understand what's coming next in AI, hit subscribe because these updates are moving fast, and I don't want you to miss the next one. See you in the next video.