---
video_title: "Tencent Hy4 preview: Build and Automate ANYTHING"
video_id: _TVTpk2OFYI
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_TVTpk2OFYI
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Tencent HY4: The Huge Open-Source AI That Improved Itself
  
  Learn about Tencent's massive new HY4 AI model, featuring 770 billion parameters and a 1-million-token context window. Discover how this open-source tool can automate SEO research, landing page creation, and complex engineering tasks.
  
  00:00 - Intro to Tencent HY4
  00:48 - 770B Parameters & MoE Tech
  01:18 - Using 1M Tokens for SEO
  02:15 - Building Landing Pages with AI
  02:38 - Benchmark Results & Testing
  03:30 - How HY4 Improved Itself
  05:54 - Open Source & How to Access
  07:24 - The Future of AI Automation
---
Tencent HY 4 preview build and automate anything. SEO is changing fast and today I'm going to show you the new AI model that could change how you build content, rank pages, and grow your business forever. This thing is huge. It's 770 billion parameters huge. It's free and open for anyone to use. It can write

code, build spreadsheets, and even help your SEO. And the craziest part, this AI helped make itself smarter. Stick around because by the end of this video, you'll know exactly how to use it. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads

every comment, so make sure you comment below. Okay, let's talk about HY 4 preview. Tencent just dropped this on August 28th, 2026. It's a brand new AI model, and it's not just another chatbot. Tencent built this thing to actually do work, real work, coding, office tasks, data analysis, and yes, SEO work, too.

Here's the number that matters. HY 4 has 770 billion parameters. That sounds crazy big, and it is. But here's the smart part. It only uses 49 billion of those parameters at one time. Think of

it like a huge team of experts. When you ask it a question, it only calls up the right experts for that job. That makes it fast and powerful at the same time. Now, here's the part that really matters for SEO and content. This model can read up to 1 million tokens at once. That

means instead of feeding it one blog post, you could feed it your whole website. Every page, every backlink report, every competitor's content all at once. Then you ask it one simple question, and it gives you the answer based on everything it just read. Picture this. You dump in 20 of your competitors' top-ranking blog posts, then you say, "Find the content gaps.

Tell me what keywords they're ranking for that I'm not, and build me a content plan to beat them." That is exactly the kind of task this model was built to handle. This is a real game-changer for SEO research. And it doesn't stop at reading. Tencent built HY4 to actually use tools and take action. That means

it's not just answering questions anymore. It's planning, using tools, checking its own work, and fixing mistakes. Old AI just gave you an answer. This new AI can go do the task, check if it worked, and try again if it didn't. Let's talk about what that means for building things. Say you want a new

landing page for a business. You could tell HY4 something like this, "Build a landing page that explains the value of an AI automation community, shows real benefits like saving time, and getting more leads, and is designed to convert visitors into customers." Then you watch it plan the page, write the code, build the layout, and test it. That's not science fiction. That's the exact kind of task Tencent trained this model to do. Now, let's talk numbers because this

is where it gets wild. Tencent ran a blind test with 163 real experts checking 203 different engineering tasks. HY4 scored 2.99 out of 4. It beat BGLM 5.3, which scored 2.92. It also

beat Kimi K3, which scored 2.94. Now, I want to be fair here. This was Tencent's own internal test, not an outside test. So, take it as a strong signal, not the final word. But, some of the benchmark

jumps are hard to ignore. On a test called Deep SWE, the old model HY3 scored 28. HY4 scored 64.3. That's more than double. On Terminal Bench, HY3

scored 70.8. HY4 scored 85.4. Again, these are numbers Tencent reported themselves. So, keep that in mind. But,

that is still a massive jump from one version to the next. Now, here's the part that made my jaw drop. Tencent says HY4 helped improve itself. Not in some crazy sci-fi way, but in a real measured way. The model helped researchers test new training methods, new data strategies, and new ways to check its own answers. It proposed ideas, ran

tests, and looked at the results. Tencent calls this an early-stage self-improvement loop. And it gets better. HY4 also looked at its own speed. It found ways to make itself run faster using tricks like combining operations and cutting down on wasted communication between parts of the system. The result? A 31.8%

boost in how fast it can answer. And Tencent says that speed boost held up across different task sizes. Now, here's something I want you to think about. You can have the best AI tools in the world and still not know how to actually put them to work in a business that grows. Most people watch videos like this, get excited about a new tool, and then never actually use it to change anything.

That's the gap I see all the time. Having access to a powerful model like HY4 is one thing. Knowing exactly how to plug it into your business, your content, and your daily workflow is a totally different skill. That's exactly why I built the AI Profit Boardroom. It's a community where we show you how to actually use AI tools like HY4 to save time, automate your business, and bring in more customers without having to figure it all out alone. Inside, we

break down real workflows, real automations, and real ways to use AI to grow step by step, so you're not just watching AI news, you're actually using it. If you want to learn how to plug AI automation into your business the smart way, go check the link in the description and join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. And here's the other piece a lot of people miss. You can build the best landing page in the world with a tool like HY4, but if it's not set up to actually rank, it's just sitting there quietly, not bringing you any traffic. You can automate every part of your content process, and it still won't matter if Google can't find it, trust it, or rank it above your competitors.

That's exactly where SEO comes in. If you want more traffic, more leads, and more customers finding your content, my team at Goldie Agency can help you rank higher on Google. We handle the technical SEO and the backlinks, the stuff most people don't have time to learn or do properly, so you You focus on running your business and using tools like HY4 to build your content faster. If that sounds like something you want help with, check the link in the description and book a free SEO strategy session with my team. Now, let's talk open source because this matters a lot if you like to build things yourself.

HY4 is released under the Apache 2.0 license. That means the code and the model weights are free for anyone to use, even for business. You can find it on Hugging Face, ModelScope, GitCode, and CMB. That's a big deal because a lot of top AI labs keep their best models locked behind a paywall. Tencent didn't

do that here, but before you go try to download this onto your laptop, let me stop you right there. This is a 770 billion parameter model. Your gaming PC is not going to run this, not even close. Tencent's own setup guide talks about using eight powerful graphics cards working together just to run the smaller FP8 version. So, unless you've got a server room, this one is not a download and go kind of model. The good

news is you don't need to host it yourself. You can try HY4 right now through Tencent's own apps called Work Buddy and Code Buddy. They're giving free access for 2 weeks after launch. You can also reach it through Tencent Cloud Token Hub or through Open Router if you want to plug it into your own tools. Now, let's get real for a second.

Tencent is not saying this model is perfect. In fact, they came right out and said it. They call this a preview and they admit it still has some rough edges. Sometimes it spends too long thinking through simple problems and sometimes it double-checks its own work more than it needs to. That's honest and I respect that. A lot of companies hype

up their model like it's flawless. Tencent didn't do that here. So, what does all this actually mean for you? Here's how I see it. AI is moving away from just answering questions in a chat box. It's moving toward actually doing

the work, planning the work, using tools, building the thing, checking if it's right, and fixing it if it's wrong. That shift matters big time for SEO, content, and business automation because it means AI can start handling bigger chunks of your workflow, not just small pieces of it. So, let's wrap this up. Tencent HY 4 preview is a massive open-source AI model. It's got 770 billion total parameters, but only uses 49 billion at a time, which keeps it fast. It reads up to 1 million tokens,

so you can feed it huge projects instead of small chunks. It beat GLM 5.3 and Kimi K3 in Tencent's own internal test. Though, remember that test wasn't run by an outside group. It made big jumps over the last version HY3 on coding and engineering tasks. It even helped

improve its own training and made itself 31.8% faster at giving answers. And it's completely open-source, free for anyone to build with, even though running the full version yourself takes serious hardware. If you want to actually put tools like HY4 to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom, where we break down exactly how to use AI automation to save time and bring in more customers. We go through real tools, real workflows, and real ways to use models like this one inside your own business. So, you're not

just watching this stuff happen, you're actually doing it yourself. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll look at where you're at right now and show you exactly what it would take to get your content ranking. So, all the amazing stuff you're building with AI actually gets seen by real people. Drop a comment below and let me know what you'd want to see this AI actually build. Julian reads every single

comment, so don't be shy. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.