---
video_title: "NEW gemini notebook Update Is ABSURD! 🤯"
video_id: 4XEcxTNaaTs
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4XEcxTNaaTs
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Gemini Notebook Update: The Infinite Content Engine (1-Click AI)
  
  Discover how to transform a single research source into five high-quality content formats using Gemini Notebook and the Agent OS. This system automates the creation of shorts, podcasts, infographics, and reports to end the content treadmill forever.
  
  00:00 - New Gemini Notebook Update
  00:52 - Fixing the Content Treadmill
  01:42 - Why You Need an Agent OS
  03:19 - Demo: 5 Content Types in Seconds
  04:42 - Connecting Gemini to Obsidian Vault
  05:52 - Old Workflow vs. AI Automation
  07:22 - How to Get the System
---
New Gemini notebook update is absurd. Today, I'm going to show you something that honestly broke my brain a little. One notebook, five types of content, one click. It's new, it's free, and it's stupid easy. Shorts, podcasts, infographics, slide decks, and full reports. And I plug the whole thing into

my Agent OS, so nothing I make ever gets lost again. So, let me show you what this actually is. I call it the infinite content engine. Here's the simple version. You have one notebook inside Gemini notebook. You drop your sources

in, then you pull five different content formats back out. That's it. That's the whole idea. But the way I built it inside my Agent OS is the part that makes it absurd. I rebuilt the Gemini notebook section of my Agent OS around one simple rule.

Every content format gets its own tab. Every tab gets its own generator, and every tab gets its own gallery of everything I have ever made in it. So, sources go in one side and content comes out the other side. Videos, podcasts, infographics, slide decks, research reports, all from one screen, and all of it free, which is the part that still gets me. Before I show you the inside, let me tell you the problem this fixes.

I call it the content treadmill. You spend a whole day researching a topic you already know cold. You turn it into one video. It does okay, then it's gone. And the treadmill resets. New post

needed, new research, new script, new editing session. Then the podcast. People want a podcast. LinkedIn wants an infographic. Someone wants a slide deck.

Every single one of those is a separate project built from scratch in a different tool. So, you pick one format, you ship one piece, and you let the other four die. Not because you're lazy, because there are only so many hours in a day. Hey, if we haven't met yet, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of Goldie Agency, an SEO agency. Julian reads every single comment, so drop one below, he will see it. Okay, so you

might be thinking, why not just go straight to Gemini notebook and use it there? Fair question. I asked the same thing. Here's the problem. It's not organized. You can't see what you've

already made. There's no gallery. If I made a notebook a year ago, finding it again is almost impossible. And even if I find it, I still can't see what I generated from it. Look at what I'm showing you on screen right now. That's my Agent OS. That's

the library on one side and the studio on the other. I can see every notebook I own and every single thing I've ever generated from them in one place. And here's the big one. Everything inside the Agent Operating System links to your memory and links to your other agents. It all connects together. And I want to

be straight with you because I'm the AI avatar of Julian Goldie. So, let me tell you exactly how you get this. Everything I'm showing you on screen right now is my Agent OS and you can get it inside my AI Profit Boardroom. Links in the comments and description. This isn't a roadmap or a PDF. It's the actual zip

file ready to install with the Infinite Content Engine already plugged in. You get the Gemini Notebook Playbooks, the Prompt Library, and coaching calls where we set it up with you live. If you want to save hours every week and automate your whole business with AI tools like Gemini Notebook, that's where you get my exact setup. Go grab it. If you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's

where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. All

right, let me actually show you this working and I'm going to use my own business as the example so you can see how real this is. So, here's my library. I've got a notebook loaded up with everything about the AI Profit Boardroom, the training, the Agent OS docs, the use cases, all of it as sources. Now, watch this. I click that notebook, I pull it into the studio, and I hit generate on a short. And the

prompt I give it is this, make a short video explaining what the AI Profit Boardroom is, why AI automation saves business owners hours every single week, and what you get when you join. One click. It builds it in the background while I keep working. Then I go over to the Infographics tab. Same notebook, different format. I tell it build an

infographic showing the biggest benefits of automating your business with AI agents and make it clean enough to post on X. Done. Now I've got a graphic I can post today. Then slide decks. This is where the focus setting gets fun. You

can steer the notebook wherever you want. So I type in build a slide deck comparing doing all your content manually versus running it through the Agent OS and show why the AI Profit Boardroom community is the shortcut. Hit generate. It runs in the background. Then reports. I tell it write a research

report on how business owners are using AI agents to get more leads and customers and pull the examples from our community. And a podcast, same notebook, where two hosts break down what the Agent OS actually does. That is one notebook and five real pieces of content all about the same thing, all generated from the same research. Stick with me because where those files land is the best part. So how did I connect it? We

plugged the Gemini notebook MCP straight into the Agent operating system. That's it. The flow is research, import, generate the format, drop it into the gallery, then publish. And you've got a tab for every format with a gallery inside it. If I want to see every short I've made about the Boardroom, I go to the shorts tab. Every podcast, podcast

tab. Same for infographics and decks. Nothing gets lost. And that gallery matters more than you think because the second week you run this, you're not starting from zero. You open the Boardroom notebook, you look at what you already made, and you just make the next angle. One week it's a deck on how AI

agents save you hours. Next week it's an infographic on the wins people are getting inside the community. Same notebook, same sources, brand new content. That's what compounding looks like when your work actually stays in one place. Now where do the files live?

Your vault. I've got an Agentic OS section inside my Obsidian and everything saves there. So it's all going into a memory system. And because it's in memory, it syncs across all your agents. So I can jump into Hermes and say grab that AI Profit Boardroom infographic from the vault and post it to Twitter with a caption about how our community automates their business with AI. And it just does it. That's how you

build a team of agents that runs for you around the clock. Let's compare the old way to the new way because it's silly. Old way, everything is manual. You research again from scratch for every format, write the script, record, put it together, get a team involved, design the infographic in a design tool, build the deck in another tool. Every format is its own project and all your old work gets scattered where you'll never find it. That's 2 days per piece. New way,

with the infinite content engine, 10 minutes per piece. Research done, five formats generated, one optional focus, so you steer it wherever you want. One click and it's saved in your gallery. Now, some people say AI content isn't very good. I hear it a lot. But, here's

what actually happened. Yesterday on X, using the infographics and social content from this exact system, we reached 593,000 people in one single day, one day. Other people say, "Great, another dashboard to maintain." But, that's the thing. This is easier than any other tool because everything syncs into it. If I want

GPT-5.6, it's in the Codex tab. If I want Claude, it's right there. All my agents are organized in the paperclip. One clean dashboard instead of 10 messy tabs. Because otherwise, you spend your

whole day hunting for stuff you already made and lost. So, here's the whole system in one breath. Sources for each piece of content, format tabs, galleries where you preview everything, and the vault where every file lands inside your Obsidian memory. And here's the lesson I want you to take. One good research session can feed your whole content pipeline for a month. Your bottleneck

was never ideas. You've got plenty of ideas. Your bottleneck was production. And production just got solved. So, the loop is simple. Research once, generate

five formats, gallery everything, rinse and repeat once a week. Now, if you want the exact system I just showed you on screen, here's how you get it. My Agent OS lives inside the AI Profit Boardroom, and I don't just hand you a 30-day roadmap and wish you luck. You get the actual Agent OS tool from us. The full zip file ready to install with the Gemini notebook infinite content engine already built in. You get the video

walkthrough, the step-by-step guide, and we update it regularly so you always have the newest version. You get a new 1-hour course on GPT 5.6 playbooks, daily video answers to your questions, and a map where you can meet people near you building with AI agents. If you want to grow your business, get more customers, and save hours every week with AI tools like Gemini notebook, come get my setup and stop rebuilding it yourself. Links in the comments and description. If you're creating all this

content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team, and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is

in the comments and description below. Comment below and tell me which format you generate first. I'll see you in the next one.