---
video_title: "NEW Google Gemini Update is CRAZY!"
video_id: lO1i2zF14dQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lO1i2zF14dQ
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google Gemini Update: How Agentic Video Changes AI Forever
  
  Google's new Agentic Video update allows Gemini to intelligently skim long videos, reducing data usage by 88% while increasing accuracy. Learn how this breakthrough helps you instantly find key moments, automate summaries, and save hours of manual video analysis for your business.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The New Gemini Update
  00:33 - What is Agentic Video?
  01:03 - Faster, Smarter, and More Efficient
  01:55 - Business Use Cases & Examples
  03:43 - 3 Powerful Video Search Features
  05:03 - How to Access Gemini API & Studio
  05:32 - Limitations & Best Practices
  06:50 - Key Takeaways for Your Business
---
New Google Gemini update is crazy. Today, I'm going to show you the new Google Gemini update that changes how AI watches video forever. It's brand new. It's kind of wild. It's stupid easy to use and it could save you a ton of time in your business. Stick with me because

by the end of this, you'll know exactly how to use it. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO Agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. and Julian Goldie reads every single comment. So, make sure you comment below. Today, we're talking about the

new Google Gemini update. It's called a Gentic Video. And no, that's not a fancy word to confuse you. I'm going to break it down super simple. Here's the old problem. When Gemini watched a video

before, it watched every single second the same way. Like watching a whole movie in slow motion, even the boring parts. That takes forever and it uses way more resources than it needs to. Now, Gemini can do something different. It can pick and choose what parts of the video actually matter. Kind of like how

you skip to the good part of a video instead of watching the whole thing. Google says this can cut the amount of data Gemini uses by up to 88% and it can be up to 7% more accurate at finding the right answer. That's a big deal. Let me paint you a picture. Say you have a 1-hour lecture video. The old way Gemini

has to slog through the whole thing second by second. That's a huge amount of data to chew through. The new way Gemini acts more like a smart assistant. It skims the video first. It reads the transcript. It figures out roughly where

the good stuff is. Then it zooms in on just those parts. It might slow down and look closer at one moment. It might speed past 10 minutes of nothing happening. That's what makes it agentic.

It's making its own decisions about how to watch instead of just watching everything the same way. Think about how you watch a long video yourself. You don't watch every second at the same speed. You skip the boring intro. You slow down for the important part. That's

basically what Gemini is doing. Now, this is where it gets exciting for anyone running a business because this isn't just a party trick. It's something you could actually use. You record one of our live coaching calls inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Instead of scrubbing through an hour of footage yourself, you could ask Gemini something like, "Find every moment where we talk about closing more customers and give me the timestamp." Boom. It jumps straight

there. No more wasting your afternoon rewinding video. Or say you're building out automations for your business and you record a walkthrough for the AI profit boardroom community showing a new automation. You could ask count how many times I mention automation saving time or find the exact moment I explain how the automation works for our members. Gemini can go dig that up for you. This

is exactly the kind of thing we talk about inside the AI profit boardroom using AI tools like this to save hours of manual work so you can spend that time actually growing your business instead of digging through footage. And speaking of that, let's pause here for a second. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI profit boardroom. Inside there, we don't just talk about AI updates like this one. We actually show you step by step how to use tools like Gemini to save hours of manual work, get more leads, and keep more customers coming back. If

you've ever recorded a call, a webinar, or a training video and thought, "I wish I didn't have to scrub through all of this myself." That's exactly the kind of problem we help you solve inside the community. You'll get real workflows, real automations, and a group of people all figuring this stuff out together. So, you're never trying to keep up with AI on your own. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, so all this great video content you're creating doesn't just sit there unseen, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll take a look at

what you've got going on right now and show you exactly where the opportunities are to get more eyes on your content and more people finding your business. Okay, let's keep going because there's more cool stuff this update can do. First thing, it can find a needle in a hay stack. Say you've got hours and hours of recorded AI profit boardroom training calls sitting on your computer. You could ask Gemini, find every time I talk about how AI automation helps small businesses get more leads. Instead of

watching everything yourself, it goes and finds those exact moments for you. That's huge if you're someone creating a lot of video content like community trainings, coaching calls, or member Q&A sessions. Second thing, it's good at catching weird or unusual moments. Let's say you're reviewing footage from a live AI profit boardroom Q&A session. You could ask it to find anything that stands out or anything unusual that happened like a member asking a question that comes up again and again. It will

zoom in on the odd bits instead of treating the whole video the same. Third thing, it can count stuff. Sounds simple, but it's actually really useful. Say you want to know how many times you mentioned a specific automation during an AI profit boardroom training or how many times a member said a certain word during a coaching call. Instead of guessing, you just ask and it counts for you. Now, here's a fun way to think

about how useful this could be for growing something like the AI profit boardroom. Imagine you've got a bunch of recorded training sessions from inside the community. You could ask Gemini to pull out the three biggest takeaways from every session. Then you could turn those into short clips or use them to write social posts. That's a huge timesaver if you're trying to create more content without spending your whole week editing video. Now, let's talk

about who can actually use this right now. Right now, it's mainly built for developers through something called the Gemini API and Google AI Studio. Google says it's coming to the regular Gemini app, too. So, regular folks like you and me will get easier access soon. If you're already comfortable using tools with an API, you can try this today. If

not, don't worry. It's coming to the app. Let's be real with you for a second, though, because I always want to give it to you straight. No hype, no fluff. This isn't magic. The numbers

Google gave like 88% fewer tokens, those are labeled up to. That means it's the best case, not a guarantee every single time. How much it actually saves depends on your video. It depends on how long the video is. It depends on what you're asking Gemini to find. A short, simple

video might not see much difference at all. This update really shines on long videos like an hour or more where there's a lot to sift through. Also, this smarter way of watching takes a little extra time to get going because it has to think about where to look first. So, for short clips, sometimes the old simple way is actually faster. So, don't throw out the old method completely. Just know when to use which

one. Long complicated video, use the smart new way. Short simple video, the old way is still totally fine. Here's the bigger picture though, and this is the part that really gets me excited. This isn't really about Gemini understanding video better. We've had

video AI for a while now. What's actually new here is that Gemini is starting to make its own decisions about how to do a task. It's not just following one fixed set of steps every time. It's looking at the job in front of it and figuring out the smartest way to get it done. That's a pretty big shift. And it's the same shift we're

seeing across AI tools in general. Less do exactly this every time, more figure out the best way to get this result. And that matters for your business because it means these tools are getting smarter at saving you time without you having to micromanage every step. Here's your simple takeaway. If you're recording long videos, whether that's AI profit boardroom trainings, member coaching calls, or Q&A sessions, this update could genuinely save you hours of digging through footage. You ask a plain

question and it goes and finds the answer. Try starting small. Take one long recording you already have, maybe an AI profit boardroom training you recorded. Ask a simple question like finding a specific moment or counting how many times something was mentioned. See how it does, then build from there.

All right, before you go, let's bring this home. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI profit boardroom. We break down exactly how to use AI automation like this to save time, get more leads, and bring in more customers. All explained in plain, simple terms. No tech jargon needed.

Whether you're recording coaching calls, community trainings, or member Q&A sessions, we'll show you how to set up systems that do the heavy lifting for you so you can focus on actually running your business instead of getting buried in busy work. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google so people can actually discover all the value you're putting out, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll walk through your content and your site together and show you exactly what's holding you back from ranking and what to fix first. That's the new Gemini update and honestly, it's one of the more exciting changes we've seen in how AI handles video. Give it a try. Let me know what you find and I'll

catch you in the next