---
video_title: "Claude Fable 5.1 Just Set a New AI Performance Record"
video_id: J4aWVVzrMYs
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J4aWVVzrMYs
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Claude Fable 5.1 just quietly set a new AI benchmark record — doubling its predecessor's science score and beating OpenAI's newest flagship. Here's what actually changed, why it matters for real work, and one simple way to use it most people will miss.
  
  0:00 Intro – Quiet update, big record
  0:41 Claude Explained – Model tiers & Mythos class
  1:05 Backstory – Fable 5.1 launch
  1:40 Benchmark Record – Beats Opus & OpenAI
  2:15 Key Upgrades – Context, coding, writing
  3:20 Live Demo – Site built from scratch
  3:43 Real Science – Venus mapping & protein design
  6:14 Who It's For – Best fits & who can skip
  7:01 Pro Tips – Get the most from it
---
Claude Fable 5.1 just set a new AI performance record. What if the smartest AI for real work right now isn't the one grabbing all the headlines? No flashy new name, no big number on the box, just a quiet point one update, but it doubled the last version on the hardest test, and it left OpenAI's newest flagship in the dust. Wait till you see how. I'm the

digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and my whole job is helping you actually learn and use AI tools in your real work, not just watch the news scroll by. So, stick with me because by the end of this you'll know exactly what changed, why it matters for the stuff you're building, and one simple way to use it that most people are going to miss. Quick catch up first in case you're new to any of this. Claude is a family of AI models made by a company called Anthropic. They come in sizes. Haiku is the small fast one.

Sonnet sits in the middle. Opus is the big powerful one. And above all of those, Anthropic has a top shelf they call Mythos class. That's where their most capable models live. It's the deep end of the pool. Now, here's the

backstory. Back in June, Anthropic put the first model on that top shelf. They called it Fable 5. It had a giant memory. It was fast, and it was great at coding and heavy thinking. People loved

it, but it was a first try, and first tries always leave room to grow. So, yesterday, September 1st, they dropped the follow-up, Claude Fable 5.1, and its locked down twin, Claude Mythos 5.1. Here's the neat part. They're the exact

same brain. The only difference is the safety rules bolted on top. Fable 5.1 is the one anyone can use. Mythos 5.1 is

kept for trusted teams doing serious cybersecurity and life science research. Same engine, two sets of guardrails. Simple as that. Now, here's why this is everywhere today. There's a hard test called Terminal Bench Science. It throws

real research problems at a model and makes it work through them step by step like a scientist sitting at a keyboard. The old Fable 5 scored about 24 out of 100. Not bad. Fable 5.1, 52.6. It more

than doubled in three months. And here's the part that made people sit up, it beat Opus 5, one of Anthropic's own heavyweight models. And on that same science test, it beat OpenAI's newest flagship by more than double. A little 0.1 update did that. That's the record

everyone's talking about. But the score isn't even the most useful part for you. Hold that thought because I'll come back to it. So, what can it actually do? A few things really matter. It keeps a

huge memory, around a million tokens of context in one go, which is like handing it a giant pile of documents all at once without it losing the thread. It's built for long, hands-off jobs. You can point it at something big, walk away, and come back to real progress. One team let it run for hours overnight and woke up to a finished piece of work with a full walkthrough of what it did. It's stronger at coding now, writing it, running it, and fixing the actual cause of a bug instead of slapping a bandage on top. And it's better at knowledge

work, too, things like research, writing, and pulling clean answers out of messy documents. There's one more upgrade that's easy to skip past. It writes better. The older versions could get long-winded and stuffed with jargon. This one is clearer, shorter, easier to read. If you write for a living, or you

just hate cleaning up robotic-sounding text, that alone is a big deal. And on top of all that, it got noticeably lighter to run. So, you get more done before you bump into your limits. Same power, less waste. Let me show you what I mean with something I actually tried.

I wanted a simple web page for my AI Profit Boardroom community, somewhere I could either use or just pull ideas from. So, I asked Fable 5.1 to build it for me as an HTML site. I described what I wanted, and I let it code the whole thing. It handed me back a working page I could open and look at straight away, a real starting point instead of a blank screen. That's the kind of thing that

used to eat up a big chunk of my day. Okay, back to why this matters beyond one test. Because it's not just science problems where it jumped. On a coding test called Terminal Bench 4.0, Fable 5.1 landed around 56, up from 42. On a

business workflow test, it nearly doubled again. And on a giant multi-subject exam built from expert-level questions across dozens of fields, it came out ahead of Opus 5 whether it used tools or not. So, this isn't one lucky result. It moved up almost everywhere at once. But, the part that honestly gave me chills is the science. Anthropic pointed these models

at real research and just let them cook. One of them trained a small AI to build a fresh, high-detail map of a huge chunk of the planet Venus using old radar images from a NASA mission more than 30 years ago. It sharpened the picture from blurry to detailed, and they're giving that map away for free to help future space missions decide where to look. Another one designed tiny proteins that latch onto targets in the body, which is the first step in making a lot of medicines. Its success rate was close to half when the normal rate in that field is more like 1 in 10. Read that again.

It's not just answering questions anymore. It's doing real discovery. That's the shift. We went from AI that helps you write an email to AI that runs an overnight experiment and hands you something new in the morning. That's a completely different kind of tool, and it's here right now today for anyone to pick up. Now, watching a model set

records is one thing. Getting it to actually work for your brand is another. So, here's something free that helps with exactly that. We're running free AI brand visibility sessions right now. On the call, a real strategist looks at how your business shows up across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. Because more and more people ask

an AI before they ever touch a search bar. You get a custom visibility plan, a gap check against your competitors, and straight answers to your own questions. It's 100% free, no strings attached. If you've ever wondered whether these AI tools are even finding you, book one and find out. The link's in the description.

And if you want to go deeper and actually build with models like Fable 5.1, that's exactly what my AI Profit Boardroom is for. Inside, we've got walkthroughs for getting the most out of Claude for coding and deep work, live coaching calls where you can bring your own setup and get unstuck fast, step-by-step roadmaps, and a big library of prompts you can copy and use. So, instead of watching a launch and then wondering how to actually use it, you sit down with people who are doing it every single week. When a new model drops, we're in there testing it together. That's the whole point of the

room. So, who is this actually for? Let me make it simple. If you write code, even a little, this is a real upgrade. It fixes the true cause of a bug instead of patching over it. One company said it

found a rare crash their own engineers couldn't explain for years. If you do knowledge work like research, reports, or digging through long documents, it's faster and clearer than what came before. If you build things that run on their own, like agents that work while you sleep, this one holds the plot over long jobs better than any Claude before it. And if you're a total beginner, honestly, this is a great moment to jump in because the tool is finally patient enough to hand you real usable work back without you needing to be an expert first. Who doesn't need it? If all you

do is quick little chats, you're totally fine on a smaller, lighter model. You don't need the top-shelf one to write a birthday message. Match the tool to the job. That's a skill on its own. So, let me leave you with a few tips to actually use this well. First, use the effort

settings. This model has gears, low, medium, high, and higher. Start on low or medium for everyday stuff. It's plenty smart down there. And it stays light. Only reach for high when the job

is genuinely hard. Most people burn through their limits running everything on max for no reason. Second, give it big, whole jobs. This model shines on long, messy tasks, not one tiny question at a time. Hand it the full project and all the context, then let it work.

That's where it pulls away from everything else. Third, let it check its own work. It's good at catching its own mistakes now. So, when you're coding, tell it to test what it wrote before it calls the job finished. You'll get much cleaner results with almost no extra effort. Fourth, lean on the better

writing. If you've been fighting bloated, robotic text from older models, just ask this one to keep it short and human. It listens a lot better than it used to. And fifth, don't sleep on it just because it's a point one. The name sounds tiny. The jump was not. The

people who win with AI aren't the ones chasing the flashiest headline. They're the ones who quietly pick up the best tool and put it to work while everyone else is still talking. All right, we're near the end, so let me point you at your next step. If any of this got you thinking about your own brand, go book that free AI brand visibility session. This is the direct way to get a real person to look at your exact business, show you where you're showing up or getting skipped across Google and the AI tools, and hand you a clear plan to fix it. It's custom to you, competitor

insights included, 100% free, zero obligation. Grab a spot with the link below. And once you've got that plan in your hands, come build it with us. My AI Profit Boardroom is where you turn, I watched the video about Fable 5.1 into, I'm actually using it. You're going to

run into real questions. Which effort level do I pick? How do I set up a long, hands-off job? Why didn't my prompt land? That's exactly what the coaching calls, the tutorials, the roadmaps, and the prompt library are there for. You

get people in there every week testing the newest tools right alongside you, so you're never stuck figuring it out on your own. We've got over 4,000 members inside already. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com. That's Claude Fable 5.1, a point one

update that just set a new record and walked right past the heavyweights. Go try it for yourself. I'll see you in the next one.