---
video_title: "New Gemma 4 Update Is Wild!"
video_id: QoQQPSMtN9Y
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QoQQPSMtN9Y
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Gemma 4 Update: 130% Faster on Mac With No Hardware Changes
  
  Discover how a group of independent developers used AI agents to double the speed of Google’s Gemma 4 model on Apple Silicon in just five days. Learn the technical breakdown of Mixture of Experts and how you can leverage these local models for high-speed, private business tasks.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:44 - The 130% Speed Increase
  01:10 - Prefill vs. Decode Speed
  02:50 - How AI Agents Wrote the Code
  04:30 - Gemma 4 Architecture Explained
  06:00 - Why Local AI Matters for Business
  08:15 - The Future of Model Optimization
---
New Gemma 4 update is wild. Running Gemma 4 26B A4B on a Mac just got two times faster. Same model, same Mac. No new hardware, nobody bought a new machine. Google didn't ship a new version. The model file on your drive is

the exact same file it was last week. It just runs more than twice as fast now. Here are the actual numbers because I don't want you taking my word for it. There's a public leaderboard called mlx.fast run by Eigen Labs over at youcan.org. It

tracks one thing, how fast can people make Gemma 4 26B A4B run on Apple silicon. On August 27th, the very first entry on that board scored 0.2% over the launch baseline. As of September 1st, the top score is 130.3%.

5 days, 130.3% faster. And I want to break down what that number is actually measuring because faster is vague and I hate vague. There are two speeds that matter when you run AI on your own machine. The first one is prefill. That's the model

reading what you sent it. The second one is decode. That's the model writing the answer back to you. Think of it like a person reading a long email and then typing a reply. Prefill is the reading, decode is the typing. At the launch

baseline, that first submission was decoding at about 205. By September 1st, the top run was decoding at 568. Reading speed went from around 4,847 up to 7,003. So, the typing got nearly three times quicker. The reading got about 45% quicker. And the leaderboard

weighs to code heavier because that's the part you actually sit and wait for. That's where the 130.3% comes from. Now, who did this? Because this wasn't Google and it wasn't Apple.

It was 32 people, 91 accepted submissions. Regular developers, most of them working alone, pushing code to a public GitHub repo and racing each other in public. The first one on the board was someone with the handle David Tai on August 27th at 2:52 p.m. He got 0.2%.

Basically nothing. He was just first through the door. Then it went nuts. Later that same night, a solver called 0x kydo posted a submission that jumped the record by 16.9% in one go. A few

hours after that, polymorph added another 8.4%. By the 29th, samfromwick was stacking gains of 4%, then 2.7%, then another 1.1. Somebody called

erkamentildirim shows up on that board over and over six, seven times, grinding out half a percent, 1 and 1/2 percent, a percent and 1/2 more. And the current record holder, as of 3:31 p.m. on September 1st, is a solver going by i34-9 130.3%.

Now, here's the part I actually want you to hear. Look at what those people used to write the code. The leaderboard shows it next to every single entry. Claude Opus, GPT 5.6 soul, Gemini 3.7 flash,

Claude Fable 5, Grok 4, Qwen 3, Minimax M3. People used AI agents to make an AI model run faster. That's the whole story of the last 5 days on that board. A guy sits down, opens an AI agent, points it at some of the hardest low-level graphics code on the planet, and comes out the other side with a world record. One person, one laptop, one agent. I'll

come back to why that matters for you in a second because there's a bigger point underneath it. But first, let me tell you what Gemma 426BA4B actually is quickly because the name is a mess, and the name is the whole reason this is possible. Quick pause, though. If you want to actually use Gemma 4 on your own Mac, and I mean set it up properly with the right size model for your machine, running the tasks that save you real hours every week, that's exactly what we walk people through inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Four coaching calls a week where you can share your screen and ask about your own Gemma 4 setup. Daily step-by-step

tutorials on running models locally and hooking them into your day-to-day work. A 30-day roadmap so you're not guessing what to build first. Business owners in there, and a lot of them are already running local models on their own machines. Links in the comments and description. And if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody's finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in.

Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Okay, back to the

model. Gemma 426B A4B. The 26B means 26 billion parameters total. That's the size of the brain. The A4B means only about 4 billion of them switch on for each word it writes. It's a mixture of

experts model. Picture a hospital with 128 specialists on staff. You walk in with a broken wrist, they don't wake up all 128 doctors. They send you to two of them. The other 126 stay asleep. That's

why this thing is fast. It has the knowledge of a 26 billion parameter model, but it computes at roughly the speed of a 4 billion parameter one. And Google did something a bit unusual with it. Most mixture of experts models swap out the normal layer and replace it with the expert system. Gemma 4 keeps both running side by side in every layer and adds the results together. That's a big

part of why the 26B scores so close to the bigger 31B model, 88.3 versus 89.2 on one of the hard math tests. You lose almost nothing. It handles 262,144 tokens of context. That's roughly a

stack of documents you'd need a full day to read. And at 4-bit quantization, it takes up about 15.6 GB, which means a Mac with 24 GB of memory runs it comfortably. Not a server, not a rack, a Mac mini on your desk. That's the setup.

Now, here's why the leaderboard exists at all. Apple has its own framework for this called MLX. It talks straight to the Apple chip instead of going through a translation layer, which is why it's normally somewhere between 10 and 30% quicker than the more common way of running these models. But talk straight to the chip also means somebody has to write the instructions for the chip by hand in a language most developers never touch. That code is called a kernel and writing a good one used to be a specialist job, the kind of thing where you'd hire one of maybe a few hundred people on Earth who really understand it. That's the wall this leaderboard

just walked through because those 32 solvers aren't all metal kernel experts. They had AI agents that could read the existing code, understand what the chip was waiting on, and propose a faster version. Then they tested it, submitted it, and watched their number move. And the challenge is strict about this, which is the part that makes me trust the numbers. Every submission gets checked for correctness against hidden test cases. There's a drift check to

catch code that's fast because it's cutting corners. There's a knowledge test the model still has to pass after your changes with a separate judge grading the answers. Official runs happen on the same Apple silicon hardware for everybody, and they wait for the machine to cool down first, so a warm chip doesn't fake a good result. You can't cheat your way up that board. You can only actually make it faster.

Now, let me be straight with you about what this does and doesn't mean. If you download Gemma 4 tonight and run it on your MacBook, you will not automatically see 130% faster. Those are cohort measurements on one specific class of machine run under controlled conditions. The site says it plainly, local scores are estimates, official scores are paired runs on matched hardware. Your mileage depends on your chip, your memory, how long your context is, and how hot your laptop is. I also get the

eye roll. Every week somebody online says something changed forever. Most of the time it didn't. But strip away the leaderboard and the scoring formula, and what's left is simple. A model that was already good enough to be useful is now running fast enough to be pleasant. And

the gap between those two things is where people actually start using something every day instead of trying it once. Speed changes behavior. When an announcer takes 40 seconds, you ask it one question. When it takes 12, you ask it 15. That's the real unlock. The

people who learn to drive these agents are going to look ridiculous next to the people who didn't. Not because they're smarter, because they got the reps in earlier. So, if you want to run Gemma 4 26 BA4B on your own machine and actually use it for real work, come join us in the AI profit boardroom. We've got 30-day roadmaps for setting up local models like Gemma for step-by-step, which version fits your Mac, how to install MLX, how to point it at your own documents, four live coaching calls every week where you can share your screen and get your setup fixed on the spot. Daily tutorials showing you the exact workflows, turning core recordings into guides, turning member questions into content, sorting your inbox all running locally so your data never leaves your desk. A prompt library you

can copy from on day one and a member map so you can find people near you doing the same thing. Link in the comments and description or go to AI Profit Boardroom.com. And if you're creating all this content with AI but nobody's finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's

not built to rank and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below.