---
video_title: "Hermes Idea Factory Just Got 10X Better!"
video_id: pvoH9_e_AGA
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pvoH9_e_AGA
video_date: 2026-08-16T17:30:37+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Hermes Masterclass  👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  00:00 Intro – Ideas you write down and lose
  00:26 Idea Foundry – What it actually does
  00:42 The Setup – One bar, agents do the rest
  01:20 The Problem – Your notes app graveyard
  02:26 The 5 Steps – Full pipeline
  02:33 Step 1 Capture – Drop it and forget it
  02:37 Step 2 Classify – Agents sort the noise
  02:53 Step 3 Plan – No more blank page
  03:00 Step 4 Approve – Your only job
  03:06 Step 5 Forge – Sub-agents build it
  03:21 Memory – Obsidian vault as context
  03:39 The Board – Inbox to shipped
  03:57 Example – Landing page from one line
  04:23 Hermes Jarvis – Voice-controlled, hands-free
  04:39 Example – Onboarding page built solo
  05:01 Cost – Run it on local or free models
  05:19 Old Way vs New Way – The real difference
  05:46 Who It's For – No coding needed
  06:11 The Payoff – What you stop doing
  06:52 Tips – Get more out of it
  07:34 Resources – Where to build this
---
Hermes Idea Factory just got 10 times better. How many good ideas have you already lost? You wrote them down, then nothing happened. No time to plan them, no time to build them. What if you could drop one messy idea and walk back to a real built thing? Not a plan sitting in

a doc, a finished thing that actually runs. And almost nobody has this setup yet. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help people learn AI tools and actually use them in their work, not just watch videos about them, use them. And today I want to show you something I just built into my Agent OS. It's called the Idea Foundry. Some people call it

the Idea and it turned my Agent OS into a machine that takes ideas and ships real things. Stick with me because there's one part of this that runs completely hands-free with your voice and I'll show you that a bit later. So here's the simple version. Inside my Agent OS, I've got Hermes running as the project manager. Hermes is the brain. I

drop an idea into one bar at the top. That's it. I don't tag it, I don't sort it, I don't put it in a folder. It can be one messy line, it can be a link, it can even be a voice note. From there, my AI agents take over. They read the idea,

they figure out what it actually is, they write a plan, and then the only thing I do is tap approve or reject. Once I approve, a project manager agent spins up a team of sub agents and they build the real deliverable. A web page, a small app, a tool, and it shows up running inside my dashboard. So I go from one line to a finished built thing and I barely lift a finger. Now let me tell you why I built this because you'll probably recognize it. For years, every

idea I had hit the same wall. I'd write it down and then nothing. No time to research it, no time to plan it, no time to build it. So the idea just slipped into the background and by the time I came back to it, I'd forgotten why it even mattered. Sound familiar? Your

notes app is probably a graveyard of ideas you were excited about once and never touched again. That's the exact problem the Idea Foundry inside my Agent OS solves. I drop the idea, I walk away, and by the time I'm back, the thing is built and running. No willpower needed, no blank weekend I have to protect. The system just handles the part I never had time for. And if you're watching this

thinking you want this exact setup, this is what I've built inside the AI Profit Boardroom. When you join, you get the full Agent OS zip file ready to install with the Idea Foundry already wired in. You get a 30-day roadmap that walks you from a blank setup to running your own idea pipeline. There are walkthroughs on capturing ideas, setting up the human approval gate, and connecting everything to your Obsidian vault. And there are four coaching calls every week where you can bring your own setup and I'll help you get it working. So, if you've

watched this far, the AI Profit Boardroom is where you go to actually build this instead of just wishing you had it. Okay, let me walk you through exactly how this works because it's only five simple steps. Step one is capture. I drop the idea and forget it. No structure, no tags. It just lands in the

vault and my agents take it from there. The friction that used to stop me is gone. Step two is classify and route. An agent reads the idea and decides what it actually is. Is it a real project to build? A quick task? An idea to park for

later? A reference to keep? The good ideas get pushed forward, the noise gets filed, and I sort nothing by hand. Step three is the plan. For anything worth building, an agent drafts a real plan.

What it is, the approach, the first milestones, and which sub-agents will build it. So, instead of staring at a blank page, I get a finished proposal to react to. Step four is the one gate. This is the only place I step in. I read the plan, and I either approve it or reject it. That's the whole job. Step

five is the forge. Once I approve, a project manager agent spins up sub-agents, and they build the actual deliverable. A working page, an app, a game. And I watch it appear running inside my Agent OS dashboard. Now, the thing that ties all of this together is memory. Everything I build here gets

saved into my Obsidian vault as plain markdown. My whole idea pipeline is mine. I can search it, I can read it, I can come back to it months later. And because it's connected to what I call the memory galaxy, my agents can use everything I've already built as context for the next thing. It all sits on one board, too. One clean board that flows

left to right from the inbox where I capture stuff all the way to shipped. I drop a line in the capture bar, tap shape it, and in about 15 seconds, it slides into the human gate. I approve it, and I watch it get built. And here's the part that makes it real. Some of you think this sounds like a gimmick. It's

not. These are real things that get built and saved. So, let me give you a real example of how I use this. I dropped in an idea for a simple landing page to pull more people into the AI Profit Boardroom. One line, that's all I gave it. My agents classified it, wrote

the plan, I tapped approve, and the sub agents built the page. Then I could preview it, open it full screen, comment on it, and even hit rebuild if I wanted another version. That kind of page is exactly what brings the right people into the AI Profit Boardroom, and I built it from a single sentence. Now, remember I said there's a part of this that runs hands-free? This is it. It's

called Hermes Jarvis. It's a voice-activated version of Hermes that can actually control my computer. I set a wake word, I talk to it, and it runs in the background and replies. It takes what I say and acts on it, and it works with everything else inside my Agent OS. So, instead of typing an idea in, I can just say it out loud and let it go to work. Here's another way I've used this.

I dropped in an idea for a simple onboarding page for brand new AI Profit Boardroom members, something that shows them where to start on day one. I gave it the rough idea, my agents planned it out, I approved it, and the sub agents built it. Now, when someone new joins the AI Profit Boardroom, they land on something clear instead of a wall of links. And again, I started from one line. Now, some people hear all this and think it must chew through a mountain of tokens, but that's the good part. I can

run this on local models right on my own machine or on free APIs. I actually mix it up and see what works right now. This stuff changes almost daily. A model that wasn't free on Hermes a week ago might be free today. So, you don't need anything heavy to run this. So, let me

lay the old way against the new way because the difference is night and day, basically. The old way, I'd write an idea in a notes app. I'd mean to research it that weekend. I'd open a blank doc, stare at it, and close it because I didn't have time to focus. Then I'd forget why it mattered. Most ideas never got built,

and I ended up with a huge pile of ideas I never used. The new way, I drop an idea into the foundry inside my Agent OS. The agents classify it, plan it, and once I approve, sub agents build the real thing and ship it running in my dashboard. Ideas actually become built things. So, who is this for? Anyone with

more ideas than time. If you're not a coder, that's fine. The agents do the building, you just do the approving. Here's one more way I'd use this. I drop in an idea for a small content series designed to bring the right people into the AI Profit Boardroom. I'd give it the

topics people already ask about, let the agents plan it, approve it, and have the sub-agents build out the pieces. That means more of the right people finding their way into the AI Profit Boardroom, and I'd have kicked it all off from a single idea. Just to bring it all together because this is the whole reason I built it, here's what this actually gives you. You stop losing ideas because you drop them once and your agents build them. You stop sorting and planning everything by hand because the agents classify and route it for you. You stop starting from a blank page

because you react to a finished plan. You make one call, approve or reject, and the sub-agents do the rest. And you stop building everything by hand because the agents ship the real thing while you move on to the next idea. And this is exactly why the Agent OS matters so much. On its own, a single idea is just words in a notes app. Inside the Agent

OS, that same idea gets a brain, a plan, a builder, and a memory all in one place. Everything talks to everything else. That's the whole difference between having ideas and actually shipping them. Before I wrap up, let me give you a few tips to get the most out of this. First, capture everything and judge nothing at the start. The whole

point is to remove friction. Let the agents decide what's a real project and what to park. Don't lie to yourself. Second, actually read the plan at the human gate. That one approve step is your quality check. 10 seconds of

reading that saves you a bad build. Third, run it on local or free models while you're learning. Test a few, see what handles the work, and keep the ones that do. You don't need the heaviest model to ship simple things. And fourth, keep everything in your Obsidian vault.

That memory is what makes your next idea faster to build because your agents already know what you've made before. If you want the full process, the SOPs, and over 100 AI use cases just like this one, come join the AI Success Lab. The links are in the comments and the description. You'll get all the notes from this video in there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And if you're ready to actually build this yourself, that's what the AI Profit Boardroom is for. You

just watched a whole idea pipeline get set up. When you try on your own, you'll hit the little questions. Which models to run, how to wire the approval gate, how to get your Obsidian memory set up right. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you get the full Agent OS zip file ready to install, a 30-day road map to get it running, daily tutorials, a prompt library, and four coaching calls a week where I'll help you through the exact spots that trip people up. It's over 4,000 members building this stuff together. So, come join us. Head to

aiprofitboardroom.com.