---
video_title: "Claude Cowork Just Got a Built-In Browser"
video_id: FbcsAAVQBXk
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FbcsAAVQBXk
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Claude Cowork just got its own built-in browser—no extensions, no logins, no tab-babysitting. See exactly how it works, how it's different from Claude in Chrome, and watch a live test in action.
  
  00:00 Intro – Claude Cowork gets a built-in browser
  00:36 What It Is – Opens automatically, works in a side panel
  01:25 Privacy – Separate from your browser, no tabs or passwords seen
  01:50 Vs Claude in Chrome – Two browsers, two different jobs
  03:33 Live Test – Pulling course data from a real site
  04:38 Real Use Case – Handling vendor portals with no API
  05:43 Availability – Which plans get it and when
  06:14 Remote Access – Using it from phone or web
  06:38 Safety – Prompt injection risks and how it's handled
  07:36 Recap – The full picture in one breakdown
---
Claude Co-work just got a built-in browser. What if Claude could open its own browser and just go do the work? No extension, no setup, no logging in for it. Sounds small, it's not. Anthropic just quietly shipped something that changes how you hand off web tasks completely, and almost nobody is talking about it yet. Hey, I'm the digital

avatar of Julian Goldie. I help people actually learn and use AI tools in their day-to-day work, not just talk about them. Today, I'm breaking down Claude's brand new built-in browser inside Claude Co-work. What it does, how it's different from Claude in Chrome, and I even ran it live to test it myself. Stick around because the test results surprised me. Here's what happened.

Anthropic just gave Claude Co-work its own browser built right into the desktop app. Before this, if you wanted Claude to do anything on a website inside Co-work, you had to connect it to your own browser using the Claude in Chrome extension. That meant giving Claude access to your tabs, your logins, your whole browsing setup. Now, that's optional. When a task needs a website, this new browser just opens up in a side panel right next to your work. You keep

typing your email, working on your doc, doing whatever you're doing. Claude opens the page, reads it, clicks through it, fills in forms, and gets the job done in its own window. That means you don't have to stop what you're doing and babysit a browser tab anymore. You hand off the web part of a task the same way you'd hand a task to a co-worker, fill out a form, pull numbers off a dashboard, work through a portal that doesn't have a connector built for it. Claude just goes and does it while you keep moving on your own screen. And this

new browser is completely separate from your own. Claude never sees your tabs, your bookmarks, or your saved passwords. If you want it to stay logged into certain sites while it works, you can bring specific logins over one site at a time from Chrome, Edge, or Firefox on a Mac, or from Firefox if you're on Windows or Linux. Banking sites, email, and single sign-on accounts are left out automatically. You have to deliberately choose to include those. So, does this

replace Claude in Chrome? No, and understanding the difference actually matters. Claude in Chrome is for when you're already on a page, already logged into your accounts, and you want Claude working right there with you, updating your CRM, working through your inbox, editing a document that's already open. That's Claude using your browser with your accounts on the page you're already looking at. The built-in browser is for handing off a web task while you go do something else entirely, researching for a report, pulling this month's invoices out of a vendor portal. If you're

already using Claude in Chrome for something, that stays your default. Otherwise, Claude uses its own built-in browser automatically, and you can switch which one it reaches for anytime in settings under co-work, then preferred browser. Before I show you exactly how I tested this myself, let me point you toward two things worth knowing about. First, the free AI brand visibility session. It's completely free. You get on a call with a

strategist and walk away with a custom visibility plan. We look at exactly how you currently show up or don't show up across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. You get a competitor gap analysis so you can see where you're actually being outpaced, and your specific questions answered directly, no generic advice, no obligation at all. And second, if you want to actually keep pace with tools like this one as they roll out, that's exactly what the AI Profit Boardroom is built for. We're already putting together walkthroughs on the co-work built-in browser specifically, live coaching calls where you can ask questions about your own setup, and tutorials that go deeper than any single video can. There's already over 4,000

members in there testing this stuff together in real time. Okay, back to the browser. I didn't want to just tell you about this, I wanted to test it myself. So, I opened co-work, selected it, and gave Claude a real task using its new built-in browser. I asked it, "Can you give me the latest lessons available now on the AI Profit Boardroom school website?" Claude went off, searched the

web, loaded up its tools, and came back with the current course modules listed on the page along with the live coaching calls and Q&A sessions running alongside them. It even flagged on its own that school pages are normally locked behind a member login. So, what it pulled was the public preview version, not the full logged-in classroom view. That one test told me a lot. This isn't a browser that clicks around randomly. It's reading

pages, understanding what's gated versus public, and telling you honestly what it does and doesn't have access to. That kind of transparency matters way more than people give it credit for when you're relying on an AI to do research you can't personally double-check in real time. Think about how many small research tasks you do in a normal week where you're just trying to get a quick read on something. Checking what a competitor's page currently says, pulling a status update off a site that doesn't send notifications, confirming details before a call. Those are exactly the kind of tasks that pile up and never feel worth blocking real time for. And

now you've got somewhere to hand them off instead of doing them yourself between everything else. Now, think about where this actually helps day-to-day. Picture a vendor portal with no official connector, no API, nothing you can plug into your workflow. Normally, that means you personally logging in every month, clicking through menus, downloading files one at a time. With the built-in browser, you hand that exact task to Claude and let it navigate the portal on its own while you focus on the work that actually needs your brain.

That's the real shift here. It's not about Claude being smarter, it's about Claude being able to act somewhere you don't have to personally sit and supervise. That's a genuine change in how much you can actually delegate, and it opens up a whole category of small, tedious web tasks that used to sit on your plate simply because nobody had built a proper integration for them yet. And because it's happening in a side panel instead of taking over your whole screen, you're not stuck watching a cursor move around a page for 10 minutes waiting for it to finish. You keep working in your main window while the browser handles its own task next to you, which is honestly the part that makes this feel less like a new feature and more like an actual workflow change.

This built-in browser isn't available to everyone on day one, either, which matters if you're wondering whether you can try it right now. It's rolling out this week to Pro, Max, and Team plans inside the Claude desktop app across Mac OS, Windows, and Linux with Linux currently in beta. Once it reaches your account, it's turned on automatically. Give Claude a task that involves a website and the browser opens on its own when it's needed. So, if you're on an Enterprise plan, it's already available right now and admins can manage it directly inside organization settings under co-work then built-in browser. One more detail worth

knowing. The built-in browser actually lives inside the desktop app, but if you're on your phone or working from a browser tab on the web, Claude can still drive it remotely as long as your desktop app is open somewhere. If you're using Claude purely through the web with no desktop app running anywhere, Claude in Chrome remains your way to give it browser access. Now, let's talk safety because skipping this would be doing you a disservice. Anthropic is up front that this built-in browser carries the same prompt injection risks as any AI agent acting inside a browser, meaning a page could technically contain hidden instructions trying to redirect what Claude does. To

handle that, it runs the same safeguards as Claude in Chrome including checks that review Claude's actions against what you actually asked it to do. Those protections meaningfully reduce the risk, but Anthropic is clear they can't eliminate it completely. Their own recommendation is to start on sites you already trust while you get a feel for how it behaves and they've published a full safety guide if you want to go deeper before turning it loose on more sensitive tasks. This is worth actually sitting with for a second, especially if you're new to letting an AI act on your behalf rather than just answer questions. Handing over a task on a site you know well is a very different thing from handing it a task on somewhere unfamiliar. And the built-in browser

being new means it's the right moment to build good habits around it, not the moment to assume it needs zero oversight. So, here's the whole picture. Claude co-work now has its own built-in browser separate from your personal one that opens automatically when a task needs a website and lets you hand off web work while you keep doing your own thing. Cloud and Chrome is still there for when you're already on a page with your accounts open. The built-in browser is for everything else. The tasks you'd

rather not sit and baby sit yourself. Two separate browsers, two different jobs, both living inside the same app. Once you actually try handing off your first task, whether that's a form, a portal, or a quick research pull like the one I ran, you'll probably start noticing a handful of other small web tasks you didn't even realize you were doing manually every week. If you want expert eyes on how this applies specifically to your brand, go grab that free AI brand visibility session. It's a real conversation, a custom plan, and zero pressure. And if you want to

actually keep testing tools like this the moment they drop with coaching calls and road maps built around what's actually new, head to the AI Profit Boardroom. Over 4,000 members are already in there. Go to AIProfitBoardroom.com and come see what we're building.