---
video_title: "NEW Hermes Project Manager Agent is CRAZY!"
video_id: 0yfH67nijhw
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0yfH67nijhw
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  How I Build Real Apps with One Line of Text (Hermes Agent OS)
  
  Discover how the Hermes project manager agent transforms simple ideas into working apps and tools with just one click. This video breaks down the 5-step 'Idea Foundry' process for automating builds using an agent-based operating system. Learn how to stop letting ideas die in your notes app and start shipping real products today.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:33 - The Idea Foundry & Agent OS
  01:24 - Step 1: Instant Idea Capture
  01:41 - Step 2: Automated Routing
  02:02 - Step 3: The Proposal Stage
  02:25 - Step 4 & 5: Approval & Building
  03:04 - Join the AI Profit Boardroom
  05:03 - Old Way vs. New Way Comparison
---
New Hermes project manager agent is crazy. And I want to show you exactly what it does before you decide if that's true. Here's what happened this morning. I typed one line into a box, just one. I need an SEO calculator. That's it. No

plan, no folder, no notes. Then I walked away. When I came back, the calculator was built, working, sitting in my dashboard. I clicked preview and opened it in a new tab. It ran. So I did it

again. I typed to-do list app, built, then meditation timer built, then a landing page built. Five short lines, five real things live on the screen. And I only did one thing in the whole process. I click app to prove once.

That's the whole job now. I called this the idea foundry and it's built into my agent operating system. Hermes runs the project manager side of it. Sub agents do the building. And in a second, I'll show you the part that surprised me most, which is where all of it gets saved. But first, let's talk about why I

even built this. I've had a notes app full of ideas for years. Every single idea hit the same wall. I'd write it down, then nothing. No time to research it, no time to plan it, no time to build it. So, the idea slid down the list, and

by the time I found it again, I'd forgotten why it mattered in the first place. Maybe you've got a folder like that, too. Half-finish ideas. Voice notes you never played back. A doc you opened once, stared at, then closed.

That's the problem this fixes. You drop the idea, you walk away. The agents sort it, plan it, and hand you one decision. You tap approve. By the time you're back, the thing is built. Ideas stop

dying in a notes app. They ship the same day. Let me walk you through the five steps because it's simpler than people expect. Step one is capture. You drop the idea and forget it. No structure, no

tags, no folder. It can be a link, a voice note, or one messy line typed with your thumbs. It lands in the vault and the agents take it from there. That's the friction gone. The thing that stopped you before, the I'll organize this properly later feeling doesn't exist anymore. Step two is classify and

route. An agent reads the idea and decides what it actually is. Is this a project worth building, a quick task, an idea to park for later, a reference to keep, something that needs your eyes? The good ones get pushed forward. The noise gets filed. You sought nothing by

hand. And it does say no. I watched it look at one of my ideas and decide it wasn't worth building. It parked it. I didn't have to argue with it. Step three

is the plan. For anything worth building, an agent drafts a real plan. What the thing is, the approach it will take, the first milestones, and which sub agents are going to build it. So, you're not staring at a blank page. You're reading a finished proposal and reacting to it. That's a completely

different feeling. Blank pages are where ideas go to die. Step four is the gate. This is the only place you step in. One screen, approve or reject. I click

approve. The card slides from the human section into the build section. And the agents start working in the background while I go do something else. Step five is the forge. A project manager agent spins up sub agents and builds the actual deliverable. A working page, a

small app, a tool, a game if you want one. Then it ships. You watch it appear running inside your dashboard. You can preview it, open it full screen, leave a comment on it, or hit rebuild if you want another shot at it. That rebuild button is small, but I use it constantly. If the first version isn't

right, one click and the agents go again. If you want this exact setup, you can get it inside the AI profit boardroom. You get my full agent operating system as a zip file ready to install. The idea foundry, the Hermes project manager, the sub aents, the Obsidian memory setup, all of it wired together. You don't have to figure any of this out. You just install it and

start dropping ideas in. You also get a 30-day road map that walks you through setting up Hermes step by step. Four coaching calls every single week where we set up your agents live and I answer your Hermes questions and daily tutorials as I build new pieces into the system. I update the agent OS most days and you get every update. There's a member map too, so you can find people near you doing the same thing. Link in

the comments and description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com. And one more thing, if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my

team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Now, let me handle the thing some of you are already thinking. You're thinking, "This sounds like a gimmick. Nice demo, but is it

building real things or just pretty screenshots?" Fair question. So, look at the screen. That's the SEO calculator opening a full tab working. That's the landing page live. That's the to-do app.

I clicked preview on every one of them. Real files, real pages from one sentence each. The other thing people say is that this must burn through a huge amount of usage running agents all day. You can run this on a local model. I've done it.

You can also run it on free APIs. I mix it up constantly and I test new models on my tutorials so you can see what actually works. And this changes fast. 7 days ago, one of the models I use wasn't free on Hermes. Now it is. That's why I

keep swapping models and showing you what's working that week. So the I can't afford to run agents all day objection has a pretty simple answer. Run it local. Let me show you the difference this makes side by side the old way. You get an idea. You write it in a notes

app. You tell yourself you'll research it at the weekend. The weekend comes, you open a blank dock, stare at it, and close it because you don't have three hours. You forget why the idea mattered. Maybe you hire someone. They take two

weeks. Most of your ideas never get built at all, the new way. You drop one line into the idea foundry. Agents classify it and route it. An agent drafts the full plan. You approve it

once from your phone from anywhere. Sub agents build the real thing. It ships running in your dashboard. The result is that your ideas actually turn into things that exist. And I want to be honest about who this is really for. I'm

not a developer. Neither are most of the people using this. Look at Ethan. He's a member. He said, and I'm quoting him, I'm 61 years old. I'm not a coder, but I

have the agent operating system set up, and I have eight agents and voice and Obsidian installed. He said he's proud of himself. He should be. And Nick's crushing it, too. Both of them are boardroom members, normal people, not engineers. So, if Ethan can set up eight

agents with voice and memory at 61, the I'm not technical enough thing doesn't really hold up anymore. Now, if you've watched this far and you still haven't set anything like this up, there are probably three beliefs in the way. Let me take them one at a time. The first one is, "My ideas need me to build them." You just watched five real builds come out of five sentences. The agents

do the building, you do the approving, your job changed from making the thing to deciding if the thing is good. The second one is, "I'll set this up when I have more time." Here's the thing about that. You set this up once and it gives you time back forever. Every idea after that ships without you doing the work.

the setup pays you back the first week. The third one is, I'll wait until it's more ready. The people building with AI agents right now are going to be miles ahead when everything gets better. Every idea you ship now compounds because it's all saved in your vault and your agents learn from it. Waiting costs you the memory you'd be building today. Let me

recap what actually changed here because it's five specific things. You stop losing ideas. Drop it once and it's in the vault. You stop sorting and planning by hand. Agents classify and route everything for you. You stop starting

from blank pages. You react to a finished plan instead of writing one. You stop being the bottleneck. One approve or reject and the build starts. And you stopped building by hand. Sub

agents make the actual deliverable while you're doing something else. One human checkpoint. Everything else is agents. Could you build something like this yourself for free? Honestly, yes. The

pieces are out there. It'll take you a while and you'll hit the same walls I hit, but you could do it or you can take mine inside the Irit boardroom. The full agent operating system is sitting there as a zip file ready to install. That's the idea foundry. the Hermes project manager, Hermes Jarvis for voice, the sub aents, the Obsidian memory setup, so your agents actually know your business and every prompt I use to run it. You

skip all the figuring out. You install it and start dropping ideas in the same day. You also get four coaching calls a week where we set your Hermes agents up together, and you can ask about your own build live, a 30-day road map that takes you from install to shipping ideas on autopilot, daily tutorials, because I update the agent OS most days, and I walk you through each new piece as I add it. a prompt library built around these agent workflows and a member map so you can connect with other people running the agent OS near you. Someone's always online in there. Members, and plenty of

them had never touched an AI agent before they joined. Link in the comments and description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com. And like I said earlier, building all of this is only half of it. If you're creating content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in.

Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below.