---
video_title: "Claude AI SEO: Rank #1 FAST!"
video_id: 3sF0SxYvBqs
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3sF0SxYvBqs
video_date: 2026-08-17T13:30:36+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS → https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  FREE SEO Course → https://go.juliangoldie.com/chat-gpt-prompts?utm=julian
  
  Free SEO Strategy session → https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Claude AI SEO: My 0 to 350 Clicks/Day Ranking Strategy
  
  Learn a powerful three-level system to dominate search rankings and AI overviews using Claude AI. Discover how to turn screen recordings into grounded content, automate backlink outreach, and use self-improving agents to scale your traffic on autopilot.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Real Proof and Results
  01:25 - Level 1: Grounded Content & Skills
  04:30 - Optimizing for Search Intent
  05:34 - Level 2: Building Topical Authority
  07:33 - Automated Backlink Outreach
  09:12 - Level 3: Rapid Indexing & Optimization
  11:22 - Self-Improving AI SEO Systems
---
Today, I'm going to show you how to rank fast with Claude AI SEO. So, for example, this website went from 0 to 358 clicks per day. This website went from 0 to 37 clicks per day. Here's another example, went from 0 to over 17 clicks per day. And also, if you look at the geometry, each one of these websites is growing nicely over time. So, I'm going

to break down exactly how we do this. This also helps us rank directly inside AI Overviews, so you can see us ranking over here for this keyword. And we only published this piece of content a couple of days ago, and it's already ranking inside Google. So, if we scroll down here, you can see us ranking again there, and also there. And also, if we keep scrolling down here, you can see my article ranking over here, and also over here. Right? And additionally, on Reddit

over here, too. So, we are ranking multiple times on the first page of Google for this particular keyword, and ranking fast. Here's another example. So, if we have a look and we type in the best AI community into Google, you can see the the Google AI Overviews recommends the AI Profit Boardroom, my group, as the best for business automation. And you can see us also ranking inside the AI Overviews over there. Right? So, this is a powerful

system that we can use to start ranking over and over again, and it works in three levels. So, level one makes your content pretty much impossible for Google to ignore. Level two makes it impossible for Google to rank you low, pretty much. And level three makes it all happen in hours, instead of months, on automatic autopilot, and keeps getting better on its own. So, let's start building it. Level one, grounded

content. And this is the foundation everything stands on. So, it starts with something that almost nobody is doing. So, what we actually do is I will record my screen whilst I'm doing real work. So, every time I make a video, the screen is recording whilst I actually test something. So, for example, it

could be setting up the Hermes desktop app. It could be running Open Court with computers. Could be building an AI SEO agent with Claude code. I talk out loud the whole way through the screen recording, and that recording becomes a transcript. Every transcript gets saved into a folder that Claude can read.

Here's an example. So, right now that folder has files like, for example, Hermes desktop app, open Claude computer use, how to use Claude code for SEOs. So, every screen recording I make becomes a text file sitting there ready to become articles. Now, how does Claude know what to do with those transcripts? Through something called a skill. So, a

skill is just a set of written instructions that Claude reads before it starts writing and working. So, you want to think of it like a recipe. You write down the exact steps once, how to write the article, what to include, what to never do, and Claude follows that recipe every single time. So, you don't need to re-explain anything, and the skill is the standard operating procedure, and Claude is the employee who never forgets it. So, you can see, for example, if we plug into our SEO automation over here, we have the SEO skill plugged into our Gentek operating system, which is operated by Claude. And so, this means

that Claude can't invent anything. Every feature it mentions, every number, every example, it has to come from my own words inside the recording. So, if a keyword goes in and there's no matching transcript in that folder, Claude will actually stop and ask for one before writing a word. So, if we go inside the generate section here, we have to plug in a case study, as you can see, along with the keyword before we can generate the article. Now, why does this rule matter so much for you? Because when you

ask Claude to just write an article about SEO, you get some generic article everyone's already producing, right? Google's seen a million versions of it already. So, zero versions rank that piece of content. And most AI content sinks for exactly this reason. So, a transcript of me actually testing this and actually creating it basically contains things that Google has never seen before. The exact setup steps, the

things that broken, how it got fixed, what the output actually looked like, original information. And Google has actually said publicly that rewards helpful information, no matter how it's produced. So, they have Google search guidance about AI generated content, and you can see here they reward high quality content, however it's produced. So, they don't really care whether it's human generated or AI generated, they just care about how helpful the content is, no matter how it's produced. Now, empty AI content sinks, and grounded AI content ranks because grounding is what actually makes it genuinely helpful. So, if I film a

video in the morning, that becomes ranking content in the afternoon without writing a word by hand. And if you make any kind of content, or if you do any sort of client work, or you're testing anything, you already have this raw material piling up. Now, the second half of level one is the search intent, right? So, when I'm creating content, we actually have written into the skill file how to write the titles, how to frame it, how to formulate it, how to make it look interesting, and also how to answer the question quickly that people are struggling with when they type into Google. And that's why our website has started growing so fast, because if we match the search intent, Google watches what people click. If

your result gets clicked and viewed more than the rest of the content around it, well, Google's going to move you up. So, click-through rate and search intent, and also the dwell time on the page helps you rank better. Now, quick pause before we get into the rest of the content. If you want this full system, it's sitting and waiting for you inside the AI Profit Bot. Link in the comments description, or go to the AI Profit Bot.com. You can also get a free SEO

strategy session, link in the comments description. And inside our Agent Operating System, we have the keyword research tool, we have a parasite SEO tool, you can also use, for example, the content generator with this full system. You can deploy it directly to your website without logging in. You can see all your history of everything you've created, and the full SEO skill is plugged into the system, along with a video agency. You've got everything you need to start ranking. So, level number

two is authority. Authority is what decides where you rank. So, grounded content gets you in the game, authority decides where you rank, and it comes from two places. What's inside the page, and also the backlinks pointed at it. So, for example, if the article is about Hermes, the skill pulls in older Hermes case studies and examples. The job is

dwell time. So, if someone lands on the page, they see these case studies, they see all this useful information, they see me actually testing the tool, for example. Well, people who land there are more likely to stay and dwell longer on the time. Now, Google sees people arriving and staying instead of bouncing, and pages that hold people rank better. So, those videos we plug into the system help each other. Now,

the second is schema markup. So, this is just a small block of code that tells Google exactly what the page is. This is an article, here's the author, here's the here are the questions and answers. Article schema gets you ranked better in Google because it basically lists the content, and also it makes it easier for like ChatGPT, Perplexity, or Google AI mode to pull an answer from the web. Basically, pages with clean schema and clear question and answer blocks get cited more often. So, schema is how AI

search engines can read your page, and the skill adds it to every article automatically. That might change in the future, just bear in mind, but this is what's working right now. Then we also have internal links as well. So, before writing, the skill actually scans every existing post on the website, and then links each new article to two to four related older posts with natural anchor text woven into sentences. So, Google ends up seeing a site that goes deep on AI agents and SEO instead of a site with random scattered post, and that depth is what topical authority looks like from the outside. So, for example, if we go

back to this article, you can see that woven into the content itself are these internal links, so that we actually have relevant guides linked throughout, and the page just interlinks nicely. And that makes it easier for Google to crawl again. Now, the outside half of level two is backlinks. Backlinks are the strongest piece, and the one almost nobody can automate. So, backlinks is still one of the strongest ranking signals Google has, and most people grind for months doing outreach to earn them. If you're wondering what it is,

basically it's just a link from one website to another. So, you see how we've got this clickable text from one website to another. If we get natural authority websites going from other pages to this page right here, it's more likely to rank because we have more authority to the page. Now, in this system, Claude can actually build them as part of the publishing. So, the moment a new article goes live, we actually have an outreach system that can reach out to other people, and then find relevant articles and topics that we could get backlinks from. So, over

here we have an outreach tool, and we can go into the lead section, we can type in the type of people that we want to reach out to for a backlink. It finds relevant SEO leads, for example, for in the SEO niche, and then it's going to enrich them. Works for any industry. Then we've got the campaign section here, so we can actually automate and write the whole email campaign, and then we can manage our link building campaigns over on the right-hand side. And so, it's fully automating the process of link building so that we can find relevant backlinks, and new pages get backlinks to them as well, right?

And because I run several websites, we can just easily automate the outreach and earn backlinks from pages Google already trusts. So, that's level two. Pages that hold people, pages AI engines can read and cite, and backlinks built automatically with the outreach system to strengthen them, and also help them rank better. Level number three is speed and improving. So, this is where the rankings really speed up and help us iterate and improve and learn from this whole system. So, basically, it's

something that most people never learn. Google can take weeks to discover a new page. You can publish the best article on the internet, and it can sit there invisible because as far as Google knows, it doesn't exist yet. And this is where most people's content just disappears because it's not getting indexed. So, with this system that we've got right here, basically, it takes Clowd CLI, creates the content, and generates it. With Indexception,

basically, what we can do is we can automatically get this content indexed, and that's done via the API. So, that means that Google crawls our content quicker, and therefore, we're more likely to get ranked. So, it's getting backlinks, it's getting indexed, it's getting optimized, it's got the schema, it's got relevant case studies, it's got unique information. And so, with this whole system, it's much easier and faster to rank this content. Now, also, what we're doing here is we have a weekly move that produces fast wins. So,

every single week, Google Search Console gets checked for keywords already ranking like position eight to five, right? And these are pages that Google already likes, but hasn't fully started ranking yet. So, they just need to be improved slightly, and we can do it with this system right here. So, we can pull in our Google Search Console data, we can find relevant keywords, and we can do that by running the research from our Google Search Console, seeing what's not already ranking, but is getting impressions, and then re-optimizing those pages automatically using this system right here. And the great thing about that is, basically, we can find potential keywords that just maybe need some internal links or some re-optimization, and these are quick wins. And so, that's the last part of

level three that makes the whole system better and better because we're finding new keywords, we're finding what we're getting impressions for, and we're also improving from that. Additionally, inside the skill itself, we have an end-of-batch self-improvement system. So, what this means is, basically, it every time this system runs, it looks at what it did, and then it figures out, okay, well, we can improve this, this worked, this needs to improve, and it observes what's worked, what doesn't, proposes skill updates, and then we can improve this whole system every single time we run it. So, it gets better and better iterations over time. Now, this whole thing runs through Clowd Code inside our Agentic operating system, so it can read the case studies, it can write the articles, Clowd adds the schema, the backlinks, and then indexes the content, updates the keywords, and finds relevant keywords for us to rank next time as well. All right? And so, it

all fits into one beautiful system with Claude at the center orchestrating the AI agents inside our machine. And then, we don't even have to log into these websites. So, for example, these websites I'm showing you, I've never logged in. I don't know how to log in, but I can get my agents to to log in directly instead. So, if you want to get this full system, you can get it inside the AI Profit Bot Army. Link in the

comments description or go to the airprofitbotarmy.com. I've shown you proof these websites rank. I've shown you example keywords we're ranking for. I've shown you how it self-improves the system. And I've also shown you how it

all links together both for off-page and on-page SEO. If you want to get our full system with this, you can get it inside the classroom of the AI Profit Bot Army. And you just go to the new daily updates, and then from here, go to Agent OS. And also, we have a full community where you can ask questions. Lots of SEOs inside there. Inside the classroom,

you can also get access to our AI SEO automation section here. You can jump on weekly coaching calls, ask questions, get help and support in real time. Inside the map, you can meet people in your local area who are building out with AI agents. And it's all available link in the comments description or just go to the airprofitbotarmy.com. And if

you want a free SEO strategy session, you can book that in at juliangoldie.com or go to the link in the comments description. And you can basically book in a free SEO strategy session where we look at your site, look how to rank, analyze what you can improve. And one-to-one on that call, we can give you a custom-tailored game plan to rank your website. Thanks for watching.