---
video_title: "Qwen 3.8 27B: New FREE Local AI"
video_id: f919TPYZaBA
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f919TPYZaBA
video_date: 20260815
video_description: |
  Julian's AI Profit Boardroom: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Kasra's Rank OS: https://www.skool.com/the-new-search/about
  
  Qwen 27B: The Best Free Local AI Model (Claude Opus Level)
  
  Learn how to run the powerful new Qwen 27B model locally on your own hardware for free. This open-source powerhouse rivals frontier models like Claude Opus, offering high-level performance and privacy without a subscription.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The New Local AI King
  00:36 - Qwen 27B vs Claude Opus
  01:34 - Recommended Hardware Setups
  03:30 - Setup Guide: Ollama & LM Studio
  04:44 - The Reality of Self-Hosting
  05:29 - Benefits of Running AI Locally
  06:21 - Final Verdict & Resources
---
Today, we have the brand new release of probably the best free open source local model that you could actually use called Quen 3.827B. We'll talk about some of the best setups for this because again, with local models, they're always limited in terms of making sure you got the right setup. But basically, this is an open weights version of Quen 3.8. So, Quen 3.8 max is

their frontier model. Quen 3.8 2.4T A95 B has also been released. That's a max version. But the one that we're focusing

on today is Quen 3.827. Now, if you're wondering, how good is it? Basically, if you look, like we've got Claude Opus 4.6 that was around 6 months ago. And that

was considered probably the best model around. And now, you've got Quen 3.827B basically performing on the same level for free locally. What you What's your take, Gareth? >> Yeah, it's um I I I was looking at some of the stats before, and you don't need a stupidly crazy graphic card to run it as well. Um very interesting. I almost

feel like Quen has taken over the the spotlight of being the go-to open >> Yeah, I think you're right. I think you're right. I think they're leading in terms of that. Cuz like bear in mind like, you know, you got GLM 5.3, that's going to be open weights, but you can't just run Like you just need a ridiculous setup. The same for example with uh

Kimik3, like it's open weights, but realistically, is anyone actually going to run that locally unless you're using something like Cerebri? >> Yeah. >> Yeah, that's it. And and also, for the average person, they wouldn't even know how to set it up, like or where to start or anything like that. So, I think with this setup, if you had a a DGX box, if you had a RTX, something like that, it's actually going to run pretty well. I

think you're on a Mac mini, I'm on a Mac Studio. I probably wouldn't run this. I don't think it's going to run properly for me. >> Yeah, so I I've got a Mac mini, um and I also have a PC with an RTX graphic. I think maybe my PC would be able to run it. Mac mini wouldn't. MacBook Pro

definitely. >> Yeah. Yeah, that's it. And usually when you try these models like Claude tells you you can run it and no problem, mate. And then you're in the middle of like in the middle of doing something or on a meeting and your your whole setup just crashes completely.

>> It reminds me of the days where like game developers would say, "Oh, you need 8 GB of RAM, 50 GB storage space." And then you would actually get the game and it's like, "Nah, mate. You need like 16 GB 100 GB." >> Yeah. Yeah, that's it, isn't it? It's

like in reality, you know, it's it's it takes a lot more than you think. But for example, if you look at this as well, I mean, Opus 4.6 max is not far away. And this is what the top model probably 6 months ago if you went back. >> Yeah.

>> It's It's unreal. >> It's It's crazy. Just out of curiosity, Qwen, is there like Is Is that their best model? 2.8 Or is Have they got like a better model?

>> Yeah, so Qwen 3.8 max is their best model. They have released the open weights for that, but it's like again, you just won't be able to to self-host local model. >> Right. Okay. Yeah, it's it's it is

insane how much performance. I think I said this on one of the other video where the the guys that are currently at the top, which is obviously Claude and Anthropic. You could even say chat. It's very easy for the guys to basically rip what the guys at the top are doing and start catching up. So, it's it's really >> interesting to see competition point who's actually What's that proving?

>> Yeah, 100%. Also, if you look at Qwen 3.8, so people be wondering, "Okay, how do you set up?" So, you could use like LM Studio. That's a free app. And then

you can get the model from LM Studio as well. And then also, you've got Ollama. So, Ollama has Qwen 3.8 and it's just been updated 16 hours ago with the new update. So, you can actually One thing that's pretty good is you can get this on MLX. So, if you want a Mac, like MLX

basically means that it will run smoother. It's a better way to like run local models. Again, 18 GB model is that going to run smoothly on a Mac Studio? Probably not. But, you can set it up with Claude code, or you can use it as a brain for open code, Hermes agent or open claw.

>> Yeah, what out of curiosity, which setup you using the old llama method, or is there is there is that the best way to self-host? >> so. I think so. Like I think it's probably the easiest way, cuz it's just like you click a button, you paste that into your terminal, and you get the model. You can use LM Studio. I don't

find LM Studio as nice to use as something like >> Yeah, I've used old llama for I think it might have actually been a newer version. The one thing that I would recommend is these free self-hosted models sound great until you actually self-host it and then realize how slow they are. So, yeah, I've I've I think they're not good to get. >> Yeah, that's it. We actually we started testing out like local models on the leaderboards, and we used to have it on on Goldy Bench. And one thing we

realized was like some of these models were just so bad running locally in terms of what they created and the quality of them. I was just like, "Mate, we we just got to stop." Like there's absolutely no point testing these models anymore, cuz the local alternative is so bad. >> What was the worst model that you tested? >> There was some that literally like they just wouldn't create anything actually useful. And then you'd have to cycle

through them again and again and again and then you'd delete them. I can't remember the worst one that I tried. I mean we tried like on if we tried stuff like Quifos, which was like supposedly like a Miphos trained version of Qwen. But, honestly like I think you just need you know, you just need a good setup and you're good to go. >> Yeah.

>> So, that's basically I mean some people will say, "Well, why would you want to run it locally?" Well, well, basically it's free, it's private, you can run it offline. If you have no Wi-Fi, you could for example like use AI on a plane or whatever. And also this is the frontier. Well, not frontier, but it's like it's getting towards frontier. And also the

gap it used to be like one or two years behind private and and locally hosted AI, but it's like it's closing the gap faster and faster and faster. And models Frontier level are getting released less frequent intervals. I've seen that as well. So, it's kind of like I I think, you know, give it 6 months, give it a couple of years, well local models are going to be right up there. >> Yeah, it's it's going to be interesting more and more they actually end up optimizing it. Hopefully, they end up

optimizing it for locals cuz the other the other side of the coin, they might never actually end up optimizing we actually use their server. It will be interesting >> Yeah, 100%. So, thanks so much for watching. If you haven't already, check out the new search from Kasra Dash. This is his school community that basically teaches people SEO, how to rank with AI search engines. He's built awesome SEO

agency operating system inside there as well. And then, if you haven't already, feel free to check out the Affiliate Profit Bonanza as well. These are both linked in the comments and description or go to the affiliateprofitbonanza.com for this one. And yeah, you'll get our community and coaching and all of our trainings on this sort of stuff. Cheers

for watching. See you on the next one.