---
video_title: "Hermes Agent v0.21 Just Became a Full AI Team"
video_id: wGdPm8rsCHA
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wGdPm8rsCHA
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Hermes Agent just went from a single assistant to a full AI team. Version 0.21 (the "Pantheon" release) lets your bots message each other directly, run scheduled jobs that actually remember, and get steered live mid-task — no more copy-pasting between tools. Here's exactly what changed and how to set up your own multi-agent crew.
  
  00:00 Intro – why one AI assistant was never enough
  0:58 Pantheon Release – Hermes 0.21 ships, 5,800+ changes
  1:31 Bot Mode – agents get names, faces, and a shared chat
  2:00 Hermes Peer – bots message each other directly
  2:25 Smarter Scheduled Jobs – background tasks that remember
  2:47 Live Steering – redirect or stop tasks mid-run
  3:11 Browser Control – agent navigates the web for you
  4:52 Real Workflow – how a bot team works together
  6:35 Setup Tips – avoid overload when starting out
---
Hermes Agent version 0.21 just became a full AI team. Ever feel like you're the middleman for your own AI? You ask one tool to research something, then you paste it into another to actually build it. Back and forth. Copy, paste, repeat.

What if those tools just talked to each other instead? Something dropped this week that makes that real. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and I help everyday people actually learn and use AI tools in their work. Today, I'll show you something that changed how AI agents work together, and why one assistant was never the real goal. Stick with me. The part most people miss comes

near the end. First, what even is Hermes? Hermes Agent is an open-source AI agent from Nous Research. It's free, and you can run it, change it, and host it yourself. You point it at any AI model you like, and it turns into a little worker, one that can use tools, follow skills, remember things across sessions, and take real actions for you.

You can run it in your terminal, a desktop app, or right inside chat apps you already use. Think of Hermes as the brain and the model as the fuel you pour in. Now, here's where it gets interesting. On August 31st, Nous Research shipped Hermes Agent version 0.21, the Pantheon release, and the size of it is kind of wild. Since the last

big version, this update rolled up around 5,800 code changes, about 2,475 merged updates, and more than 760 people pitching in. That's a mountain of work in one drop, and the name tells the whole story. The last version was called the Herald. Hermes could speak and carry word to other agents. This one, the gods assemble. In plain English, your AI

stopped being one lonely assistant. Now, it's a team. Here's the big shift. There's a thing called bot mode now built right into the desktop app and switched on by default. Every agent you make gets a name and its own face, an avatar the app draws for it, plus a spot in a shared roster, like a contact list of coworkers. You can drop several bots

into one Discord-style group chat and talk to all of them at once. You can @mention any bot to pull it in, name the rooms, and give them their own pictures. So, instead of multiple agents meaning a pile of hidden wiring, it now feels like a chat app full of co-workers. That alone changes everything, but it goes deeper than names and faces. Here are the features that actually matter. The

first one is called Hermes peer. This lets one bot message another directly. So, a research bot can dig something up and hand its findings straight to a coding bot, and the reply comes right back where you can read it. You're not the messenger anymore. And the best part, those messages don't just disappear. They land in each bot's own

chat saved, so you can scroll back and see exactly what they said anytime. Next up, scheduled jobs that actually remember. Hermes has always been able to run jobs on a timer, like a briefing every morning at 9:00, but before those jobs were basically goldfish. They forgot everything each time they ran. Now they carry memory. A job can

remember what it told you yesterday, so it stops repeating itself. Each one gets its own little notepad to jot things down. And if you set a job up to watch for changes, it can skip doing any work at all when nothing's new. That is a huge deal for anything you want quietly running in the background. Then there's live steering of your helper agents.

When you hand off a big task, Hermes can split it into smaller pieces and run several at once. The new part is that you can watch them run, nudge one in a new direction while it's still going, or stop one early and keep whatever it finished before. You fired off the task and just crossed your fingers. Now you're actually managing the work while it happens. It can run up to 10 of these helpers at the same time. There's also a

cleaner control panel for plugging in outside tools, so adding new abilities feels like a dashboard instead of digging through settings files one line at a time. And here's a fun one. The agent can now drive the desktop's own browser, not just stare at a page, actually click around, read it, and move through a website for you. Ask it to walk through a help site or poke at a web app, and you can watch it happen right there. Oh, and they even threw in little terminal pets, tiny companions that hang out on your screen while you work, because a companion should have a companion, apparently. Now, before I go

further, something that pairs perfectly with all of this, because building smart agents is one thing, but making sure people actually find your brand is a whole other game. So, here's the first thing, completely free, a free AI brand visibility session. On that call, you get a custom visibility plan built around your own site or brand. We'll show you exactly how you show up or how you don't across Google AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. Because people aren't just Googling anymore, they're asking AI. And if your brand

isn't the answer it hands back, you're basically invisible. We'll also run a competitor gap analysis so you can see where others are pulling ahead and you get to ask a real strategist your own questions. It's 100% free, no obligation, the link is in the description and comments. And once you've got that plan, if you want to actually build the kind of agent setup I'm showing you today, that's what the AI Profit Boardroom is for. Inside, we've got full walkthroughs for setting up Hermes and getting your own bot team talking to each other. We run live

coaching calls where you can bring your exact setup and get unstuck on the spot. There's a step-by-step roadmap so you're never guessing what to do next. Plus, a whole library of ready-to-use prompts and tutorials built around this workflow. If you want to actually do this, not just hear about it, that's the room for you. Okay, back to it. So, how

does all this fit together in real life? Simpler than it sounds. You start Hermes and create a few profiles, maybe one research bot, one writer, one coder. Give each a name and a face and drop them into a room together. From there, you type like you're in any group chat, you at-mention the writer to draft something. You tell the research bot to

pass its notes to the coder. And when a big task kicks off, you lean back and steer instead of babysitting. You stop being the glue and start being the person running the room. And once you see it that way, think about what it opens up. You could set up a bot that watches your competitors and pings you only when something truly changes. You

could have one agent gather information while another turns it into a finished piece. No copy-pasting. None of it needs code. It just needs the pieces to finally talk to each other, which until now, they didn't. Let me put the old way and the new way side by side because the jump is bigger than it looks. Before

this update, getting two agents to work together was mostly hidden plumbing in config files. One agent could fire something off to another, but it was fire and forget. You couldn't see it or steer it. Scheduled jobs wiped their memory between runs, and you, the human, were the glue carrying results from one tool to the next by hand. Now, it feels like a team app. Your bots have names

and faces, they sit in rooms together, and they message each other directly while you read every exchange. Your scheduled jobs remember what they did. You can steer a running task instead of praying it works out. The last version gave Hermes a voice. This one gave it a whole crew. Same tool, completely

different feeling. So, who is this for? If you're a solo creator juggling a hundred little tasks, this is for you. If always bouncing between research, writing, and building, sick of being the middle man between your own tools, this is for you. If you want jobs running quietly in the background without you standing over them, this too. And if

you've ever wished you had a small team, but it's just you at the desk, this is the closest thing yet. Before I wrap, a few tips so you don't get overwhelmed the first time you try it. Tip one, start small. Don't spin up ten bots on day one. Make two or three with clear jobs, one to research, one to write, maybe one to code. Get them talking

first. Tip two, give each bot a real role. The clearer you are about what each one does, the better they work together. Tip three, lean on that bot-to-bot messaging. Let your research bot hand its findings straight to your builder. That's the whole point. Stop

carrying stuff back and forth yourself. Tip four, turn on memory for your scheduled jobs. If something runs every day, letting it remember means it stops repeating itself and gets sharper over time. And tip five, this one matters, keep the safety approvals on. Hermes now asks for your thumbs up before anything changes its core instructions or important files. Leave that on, too.

It's there so a bot can't quietly rewrite its own rules. A little friction is worth it. All right, you made it to the part most people skip. So, let's talk about your next step. If you want real help putting this to work for your own brand, book that free AI brand visibility session I mentioned. Instead

of guessing how you show up across Google and all the AI tools people now ask instead, you'll walk away with a clear plan, real competitor insights, and straight answers on what to fix first. It's free, no obligation, and it's the quickest way to get expert eyes on your situation. The link is in the description and comments. And if you're ready to go deeper and actually build this, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. This is where you get past the I watched a video once stage. You'll

hit questions which bots to set up first, how to get them passing work cleanly. Inside, we walk through all of it together with coaching calls, tutorials, roadmaps, and prompts built around exactly this kind of setup. You'll move a lot faster surrounded by people doing the same thing than you would on your own. We've got over 4,000 members in there already. Come be the next one. Head over to AI Profit

Boardroom.com.