---
video_title: "NEW Agent OS is INSANE!"
video_id: phqcXjTwnwM
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=phqcXjTwnwM
video_date: 20260814
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Scale Your Business with AI Agents: 5 Secrets for Solo Operators
  
  Learn how to optimize your Agent Operating System and choose the right AI tools for your solo business. We answer the biggest questions about ChatGPT plans, project prioritization, and building autonomous agent teams that work 24/7. Discover how to plan complex builds effectively to save tokens and scale your agency with AI.
  
  00:00 - Intro: AI Agent Superpowers
  00:47 - ChatGPT Business vs. Pro: Which is Best?
  03:18 - Overcoming Shiny Object Syndrome
  05:03 - Wayfinder: The Skill for Better Planning
  06:21 - Building Real-Time Agent Teams
  08:12 - Setting Up Your VPS & Docker
  08:56 - Final Tips & Community Access
---
I'm about to show you how to give your agent operating system superpowers. This is your own team of AI agents working for you 24/7. And today I'm answering the five biggest questions about running it. You'll find out which AI plan actually fits you. You'll learn how to finally finish your project even if you've been jumping between ideas. I'll

show you a planning skill that maps out big builds for you one easy step at a time. And you'll see how to watch your agents chatting with each other live like your own mission control. And later, I'll show you the one thing you absolutely must do to keep your whole setup safe. Skip it and everything can break. So, if you stick with me until the end, I promise your AI team will be 100 times more powerful no matter who you are. Let's get into it. So, the

first question we got from the Air Profit Boardroom is Chat GPT Business Premium vs. 200 Pro. So, Jason was asking from the Air Profit Boardroom, you know, Chat GPT selling an offer for a Business Premium seat, but he doesn't understand the most valuable offer for him as a single business owner and operator. And just assume that a Pro monthly plan was the right spot. So, which one is the best one? So, when

you're looking at these, basically, Business is the workspace tier. So, this is where you actually have seats, an admin panel, a shared setup, and your work kept out of training. Pro is the individual tier, right? So, if you don't have a team, you would go with the Pro. You wouldn't go with the Business tier unless you need to add a team to it later. And this is a breakdown of what

you get. So, with the Business plan, you actually get a shared workspace, which you don't actually need because you're a solo operator, unless you've got like loads of different virtual assistants working for you. So, the decision is just one single path. So, if anyone else needs an account, then yes, you would use a Business workspace. And then depending on the setup, you can choose between which seats you need and how many you need. If you're just a solo

business operator and it's just you, you can just use it directly yourself. And then you can plug it into your agent operating system or you can use it as a standalone, right? So, sometimes ChatGPT, they're going to try and sell you different plans. Sometimes it's quite confusing to compare them, but that's the way that I would look at it. So, there's a few questions. Before you

change anything, just watch your own usage for a week as well. Like, do you actually feel like you're using most of the tokens? Are you hitting token limits? If you don't see a token limit, you might even be able to downgrade to like the plus version instead of the the pro. Something to bear in mind. So, you

could probably even downgrade even more if you're not hitting the usage limits and you're not getting anywhere near them. If you do hit the limit most days and you work alone, stay on the pro. If a second person is joining you this year on the team, you could open the business workspace first and then take one premium seat for yourself and then just recheck this like every 3 months if you need to, right? But overall, if you're just one person, solo business operator, you don't need the premium plan. By the way, if you want me to answer your questions like this and create a personalized video tutorial for you and a guide and also give you the two long, didn't read if you don't have time to watch the tutorial or check out the guide, feel free to post inside the App Profit Blueprint community. Link in the

comments description or just go to the appprofitblueprint.com. And what I personally do every single day is I just answer your questions, give you a video tutorial and break down your answers so I can help you as much as I can. Question number two, this is one of the biggest problems that I see people struggle with when it comes to AI in general is shiny object syndrome. So, shout out to Frederick Holloway for just being honest and transparent about it.

And basically, Frederick said, "You know, I've got myself into a bit of a pickle. I'm in the middle of three projects and I know I'm spinning my wheels and I need some guidance." So, he's got a unfinished ebook, he's creating an app with Base 44, and he's also trying to build an agency at the same time, right? Which is quite messy when you think about it because you've only got so much time, focus, and resources. And if you split it across three different projects, it's going to be much harder to get that done, right?

And so, the way that I would look at it is you just prioritize. And And if you look at this, for example, like it is much harder to sell an app than it is an ebook, and it's much harder to sell an ebook than it is an agency offer. Cuz an agency offer is just like one phone call, and then you get in front of a client, and then you start selling to them. So, when I'm looking at this, I'm like, "Okay, well, number one, I would eliminate, if it was me personally in this situation, I'm just going to focus on the agency instead, because that's the most proven system. And also, you know, when you're working with anything AI-related, you don't need to invent the wheel. You know, AI is fun, there's a

lot of shiny objects, there's a lot of things you could do, but you just need to focus on one thing that's absolutely solid. So, I would focus on the agency instead. And bear in mind that you don't have to just completely delete those projects, you can just put them away for a little bit, right? Like, you can come back to them later. But, I'd focus on the agency instead. And if you're

watching this and interested in running an agency, we actually have a full agency mastermind right here, inside the classroom. Jason also posted about a new skill he found. And this is called Wayfinder. Now, if you're not familiar with Wayfinder, this is one of Matt Pocock's skills for Claude. Pretty cool skill. Basically, what it does is it

plans everything for you, and it just asks you questions as you go along. So, when you're using this, pretty cool. And the way that it works is it just maps everything out. So, you can use it when the job is bigger than one session, and basically, you can plan everything in one sitting. Um also, answers its questions properly, so it What it does is it basically asks you questions as you're planning along with it. It's not

something like I've used a lot, but I've heard good things about the skill set in general from Matt Pocock. And then, you can also rebuild the skill as well, and you can point it at your Agent OS to help you. So, instead of like going straight into building mode, you map everything out first, and you create a big plan. And this is really good when you have like a system or a project you're trying to build that's bigger than one session. So, you would plan first and then create the project later using the way finder skill. The other

good thing about the skill as well is that when you're using it, basically Key Logger had actually did a research project where they found that planning first gets you better outputs with a cheaper model. So, if you use a frontier model to plan and decide all the forks in advance, you tend to get better outputs even if you build that plan with a cheaper model. So, it's a good way to save tokens, too. Question number four. Has anyone built up like a real-time agent communication system? And so, this

is basically where you can have all of your agents working together in one place, right? Trying to build an autonomous agent OS with Hermes and trying to visualize how agents can communicate with each other in real-time. So, a really easy way to do this is you can just insert paper into your system. With Paperclip, you can actually build out a full team like this and your agents manage your agents and hire them, too. So, for example, like if you look at this system, we actually had Ada as a Hermes agent and that was managing Turing and Aligiveri who also hired a bunch of agents underneath. And

so, they can talk with each other. They can also inbox you. You can get a list of issues and you get a list of goals and you can also see everything they've created. Plus, you can manage your agents individually and they can hire and suggest new agents to you, as well. You can also manage the token costs and the budgets as well for all this thing and you get a full uh org chart. So, it

is really cool. And then inside the agent OS, we can visualize everything that we've created, which works really nicely together. So, if you're looking for a simple way to do this where you have, you know, a CA CEO agent that has a new idea, then the idea travels down, etc., you can use Paperclip for this. And if you want to get more information on how that works step-by-step, we've got a full 1-hour tutorial inside the AI Profit Bot on how to use Paperclip with the agent OS. So, that's as easy as

simple as way to do it. Having said that, do I use it day-to-day? Not that much when it comes to the team so honestly, I just don't find it that useful compared to just going straight to Hermes. And for me, I'm always looking for the simplest solution because I think that's easiest way way to make sure you get results fast instead of like spending too much time planning or thinking about things that in reality you don't use that much. Always better to test. But with that,

you can have like a CEO agent, team lead agents, worker agents, use tools and that goes into one system. Now, I've got a question from Drew. So, Drew was asking about a VPS Docker manager. Basically trying to set up a VPS before setting up an Agent OS. Now, this is not something I'm using that much. So, I

personally don't use Docker that much and I don't use VPS that much either. But I did ask the agent that set up the Agent OS for us just for some guidance on how to do this and I'll send you the guide. Um they've actually given some step-by-step instructions on how to get the most out of it. Also, I really like the fact that loads of people inside the group have actually shared how to set it up and get the most out of this stuff. So, this is super useful as well. That's

a great thing about being in a group like this. Just you've got so many great people who are helping each other out and it's a great community where we all learn and grow together. So, that's all the latest questions from the AI Profit Bot and community. Every question inside the community in the last 24 hours just got answered. This is Agent Opera. If

you want me to answer your questions like this with a personalized video tutorial and a step-by-step breakdown, that's something I personally do inside the AI Profit Bot and every single day. So, feel free to post inside there. Link in the comments description or go to the aiprofit.com. And inside the classroom you guys can you can get access to all of my best trainings on this sort of stuff. So, we have new daily updates all

the time. We've got the full Agent OS we just updated yesterday as well. And then also, you can jump on four weekly coaching calls per week where you can ask questions real time, share your screen, meet other cool community members. Inside the map, you can meet people in your local area building out with AI agents like you. And that's all available inside the AI Profit Bot and link in the comments description or just go to the aiprofitbot.com.

Thanks for watching.