---
video_title: "NEW Creao AI Just Got Upgraded! 🔥"
video_id: ElKlyppRKkc
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ElKlyppRKkc
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Creo AI Update: The New Super Agent That Automates Everything
  
  Discover how the latest Creo AI upgrade transforms it into a true super agent capable of restructuring Google Docs and managing complex task lists. Learn how to chain multi-tool workflows using plain English to save hours of manual work every week.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Creo AI Super Agent Upgrade
  00:42 - Google Docs: Automating Tables and Layouts
  01:40 - Slack: Verifying Requests and Multi-Tool Loops
  02:28 - Automate Your Business with AI Profit Boardroom
  03:54 - Google Tasks: Managing Subtasks and Deadlines
  04:51 - Building Complex Agentic Workflows
  05:31 - The Future of Autonomous AI Agents
  06:43 - How to Get Started with AI Automation
---
New Creole AI just got upgraded and I want to walk you through exactly what changed, why it matters, and how you can actually use it today. So Creo is a super agent. You type what you want, it does it inside the tools you already use. Google Docs, Slack, Google Tasks, Google Ads, it connects to all of them. And this update just made it go deeper inside each one. Before this update,

Creo could already write inside Google Docs, create tasks, post to Slack. That was useful. But this upgrade, it goes further. It can now manipulate documents, manage task lists, verify Slack requests, and feed real sales data back into your Google Ads. Every single one of those is a bigger deal than it sounds, and I'll show you why. Let's

start with Google Docs, because this one is simple to show and easy to understand. Old Creo could write text inside a document. That's great, but now it can create and remove tables inside your documents, too. Why does that matter? Because there's a big difference between an AI that writes content for you and an AI that restructures your documents for you. One saves you typing.

The other saves you actual formatting time, which is the boring stuff nobody wants to do. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Here's an example. Say you're running the AI profit boardroom community.

You've got a weekly member update document. It's full of plain text, names, topics, session dates, coaching call info. It's messy. You prompt creo, take the coaching call schedule in this document and turn it into a clean table. Done. No copy paste, no manual

formatting. Your Google doc is updated, tables in, clean, ready to share. Then if you want to flip it back to plain text, one more prompt. Done again. This is the shift. Creo isn't just filling in

documents anymore. It's operating inside them. Now Slack Creo's Slack integration can now verify incoming requests. What that means practically is that Slack triggered workflows are more reliable. A message arrives in Slack. Creo checks

it, understands it, then acts on it in another tool and reports back. The practical example here is simple. Let's say someone in the AI profit boardroom Slack sends a message asking for a new member to be added to the onboarding task list. Creo picks that up, adds the task, updates the dock, posts a confirmation back to Slack. Nobody had to manually do anything. The whole loop

is closed inside Creo. That's what people mean when they say AI agents are getting more capable. It's not one big flashy thing. It's the ability to string small actions together without dropping the ball. If you want to use Creo to actually automate your business and save hours every week, the AI profit boardroom is where we build this stuff together. We've got a 30-day road map

specifically built around AI automation tools like Creo, covering how to set up your first agent, how to connect your tools, and how to automate your community on boarding, content, and follow-ups so you're not doing it manually anymore. We run four live coaching calls every week where you can ask questions about your exact cre setup. There are daily tutorials walking you through workflows like the ones I just showed you. A prompt library full of Creo ready prompts and a member map so you can connect with other business owners running Creo automations near you. 3,600 members already inside. Link

in the description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com. And if you want more customers finding you through Google and AI search right now, go book a free SEO strategy session with my team. Here's what happens on the call. We look at your website, your current rankings, where you're losing traffic, and exactly why your competitors are showing up above you.

Then we build you a custom game plan specific to your business to fix it. Not generic advice, a real step-by-step plan for your site. We cover Google search, AI, search engines like Chat, GPT, and Perplexity, and how to show up in both. Businesses that get this right now are going to have a serious edge over everyone who waits. The session is completely free. No strings, just a

focused one-to-one strategy call built around your business. Link is in the description or go to goldie. Agency to book yours. Now, Google tasks. This is probably the most underrated part of the whole update and it's the one most people will actually use every single day. Before Creo could create tasks.

Now, it can search and manage your existing tasks and subtasks. That's a totally different capability. Creating a task is easy. Managing a list of tasks that already exist, finding the ones that are overdue, updating subtasks inside them. That's the work that actually eats time. Here's the kind of

thing this unlocks. You tell Creo, "Find every incomplete task in my Google tasks related to the AI Profit Boardroom content calendar. Move anything over due to this week. Update the subtasks to reflect the new dates." Creo goes in, finds the relevant tasks, updates them, reorganizes the list. You didn't open

Google Tasks once. And that's a real workflow, not a demo. That's something a community manager, a content creator, a business owner could run every single Monday morning and never think about again. Here's what makes this even more useful. Creo can chain this with other tools. An email arrives, Creo reads it,

creates a task, updates an existing related subtask in Google Tasks, adds a note to a Google Doc, posts a summary to Slack, all from one message, one starting point, four actions, zero manual steps. That's what a real agent workflow looks like. Not a chatbot giving you a to-do list. An agent actually running through the list for you. Imagine your inbox fills up after a live coaching call in the AI profit boardroom. 10 people reply questions,

follow-ups, requests. Old way, you read each one, manually. Create a follow-up task, add it to your dock, message your team. New way, Creo reads the threads, creates and categorizes the tasks, updates your tracking doc, pings your Slack with a summary. Done. In the time

it used to take you to open the email. Over weeks and months, that compounds into a lot of save time. Let's zoom out because I don't want you to think of this as just features. This update tells you something bigger about where Creo is heading. Every upgrade they've shipped is about the same thing. Going deeper,

doing more of the actual work, not giving you a summary, not suggesting what to do next, actually doing the thing inside the tool. Google Docs is now something Creo can restructure, not just fill. Google Tasks is now something Creo can manage, not just add to. Slack is now a trigger point for full multi-step workflows. Google Ads is now fed real world data, not just website signals. The pattern is clear. An agent

that handles more of the end-to-end workflow without handing anything back to you until it's done. And this is genuinely accessible for people who aren't developers. You don't need to understand APAs. You don't need to code anything. You type in plain English.

Creo does it. Every new capability they add is another thing you can delegate without knowing anything technical. This Creo update is a solid, consistent step forward. more actions per workflow, more depth inside each connected tool, fewer moments where the agent stops and hands back to you. If you're running a business, managing a community, or trying to get more done without more hours, this is the kind of tool you should be building with right now. Two

things before you go. First, the AI Profit Boardroom. If you want to build Creo workflows that actually save you time, grow your community, and automate the admin that eats your day, this is where we do it together. We've built a 30-day roadmap specifically around AI automation tools like Creio from setting up your first agent to automating your full onboarding content and follow-up system. Four live coaching calls every week where you can ask questions about your exact Creo setup and get live feedback. Daily tutorials showing you

step by step how to build and run these workflows. A prompt library packed with Creo ready prompts. A member map so you can connect with other Creo users near you. and 3,600 business owners already inside, many of them running Creo automations right now. Link in the description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com.

And if you want more customers finding you through Google and AI search right now, go book a free SEO strategy session with my team. Here's what happens on the call. We look at your website, your current rankings, where you're losing traffic, and exactly why your competitors are showing up above you. Then we build you a custom game plan specific to your business to fix it. Not generic advice, a real step-by-step plan for your site. We cover Google search,

AI, search engines like Chat, GPT, and Perplexity, and how to show up in both. Businesses that get this right now are going to have a serious edge over everyone who waits. The session is completely free. No strings, just a focused one-to-one strategy call built around your business. Link is in the description or go to goldie. to book

yours.