---
video_title: "This NEW Chinese AI Model is Crazy Good!"
video_id: z5tut7zKLyQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z5tut7zKLyQ
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Qwen 3.8-Max: The 2.4T Parameter AI Model Changing SEO Forever
  
  Alibaba just released Qwen 3.8-max-0902, a massive 2.4 trillion parameter AI model with a 1 million token context window designed for real-world execution. Discover how to use this powerful update to automate entire SEO content workflows and run multi-agent systems on autopilot.
  
  00:00 - Intro to the New Chinese AI
  00:25 - Qwen 3.8-Max-0902: Massive Scaling
  01:24 - Agentic AI & Multi-Step Workflows
  01:57 - Benchmarking Qwen's Performance
  04:22 - The Autonomous SEO Content Machine
  05:57 - Leveraging the 1M Token Context
  07:34 - Building AI Systems at Scale
---
This new Chinese AI model is crazy good. China just dropped a massive AI upgrade and it changes everything for SEO and content teams. This thing has 2.4 trillion parameters, 1 million token context window, and it's built to actually do the work, not just answer questions. Stay till the end because I'm showing you exactly how AI Profit Boardroom is using this to run entire content workflows on autopilot. Now,

let's talk about what just happened because this is big. Alibaba's Qwen team just released something called Qwen 3 .8-Max-0902. The 0902 means it dropped on September 2nd, 2026. And before you scroll away thinking this is just another AI model launch, stick with me because the numbers here are genuinely insane. We

are talking about a model running at 2.4 trillion parameters. That is the scale this thing operates at. And they've paired that with a 1 million token context window. To put that in plain terms, you could feed this model your entire website, your SOPs, your blog archive, your competitor analysis, your keyword research, and ask it to reason across all of it at once. For SEO teams

and content agencies, that changes what's actually possible. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency, Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Now, here's where it gets interesting. The 0902 update didn't just

make it bigger. The Qwen team specifically focused this upgrade on two things: coding and what they call co-work. That means long horizon tasks, multi-step workflows, tool use, agents that don't just answer, they actually execute. Think about what that means for your SEO workflow. Old AI, you ask it to write a meta description, it writes one, done.

New AI, you give it a goal, grow organic traffic for AI Profit Boardroom, and it plans, researches, executes, checks results, and keeps going. That shift is massive and we'll get into exactly how AI Profit Boardroom is building around this in a minute. But first, the benchmark numbers because the improvement from the old Qwen 3.8-Max to the 0902 version is not small. On Terminal Bench, it went from 11.3 to

29.0. On Program Bench, from 10.5 to 28.0. On Deep SWE, from 56.6 to 69.3. On

Job Bench, which tests real professional tasks, it jumped from 53.4 all the way to 64.0. These are not tiny patches. These are meaningful jumps in the model's ability to do real work. Now,

I'll be honest with you, Qwen doesn't beat every frontier model on every benchmark. Some competitors still lead on certain evaluations, but in agentic tasks, long horizon workflows, and professional office work, the 0902 upgrade is a serious step forward. For agencies building AI systems at scale, that matters a lot. Quick pause here, and this is important. If you're using AI to build content and work flows, but nobody is actually finding your site on Google, you've got a traffic problem.

And that's exactly what my team at Goldie Agency solves every single day. We work with agency owners and entrepreneurs to get their websites ranking higher, pulling in more organic traffic, and turning that traffic into real leads. We handle the backlinks, the SEO strategy, the technical side, all of it. So you can stay focused on building your business. If you want to see what that could look like for you, click the link in the description and book a free SEO strategy session with my team. It's

completely free, there's no pressure, and we'll give you a real look at what's possible for your site. The link is right below. And if you want to be part of a community that's actually building all of this for real, the AI workflows, the automation systems, the SEO strategies, the agent setups, come join us inside AI Profit Boardroom. This is where agency owners, entrepreneurs, and online business builders come together to learn, build, and grow using AI and automation. We do live coaching calls, share real playbooks, break down exactly what's working right now, and help each other implement fast. You're not just

watching videos, you're building alongside people who are actually doing this stuff in their businesses every day. If that sounds like where you need to be, the link is in the description. Come check it out and see what's inside. Now, let me show you how AI Profit Boardroom is actually using this because the whole point of a model like Quen 3.8-Max-0902 isn't to be impressed by the numbers, is to build real workflows around it.

Here's workflow one, the autonomous SEO content machine. Inside AI Profit Boardroom, we're building a multi-agent content system. And here's exactly what the prompt structure looks like. Agent one is the research agent. The prompt is, "Search for the top SEO trends and AI content strategies being discussed this week. Identify the five most

relevant topics for an audience of agency owners and online entrepreneurs. Return a structured briefing with sources." Agent two is the content strategist. The prompt is, "Based on this research briefing, create a YouTube video angle for the AI Profit Boardroom channel. The angle should be relevant to agency owners trying to grow with SEO and AI. Give me three title options, a

hook, and a one-paragraph outline." Agent three is the script writer. The prompt is, "Write a full YouTube script for AI Profit Boardroom based on this outline. Keep the language simple. Write in first person, Alex Hormozi tone. The

script should explain how AI is changing SEO workflows for agency owners and include a practical example of using AI to scale content production." Agent four is the distribution agent. The prompt is, "Take this YouTube script and repurpose it into a LinkedIn post, a short email newsletter, and a Discord community update for AI Profit Boardroom members. Keep the core message the same. Adjust the format and tone for each platform. That's one goal, grow the AI

Profit Boardroom content presence, broken into four coordinated agents. No switching between tools, no rewriting the same thing four times. One input, four outputs. The 1 million token context window is what makes this work at scale. You can feed the entire AI Profit Boardroom content archive into the model. Every video script, every

coaching call summary, every playbook. And suddenly, the agents aren't just writing generic content, they're writing in your actual voice, referencing your actual frameworks, speaking to your actual audience. That's the shift that matters for anyone building an SEO agency or content business right now. We're moving from AI that helps you think to AI that helps you execute. One person managing a team of AI agents, research agent, content agent, SEO agent, distribution agent, member success agent, analytics agent. That's

not science fiction. That's what people inside AI Profit Boardroom are already building. And models like Qwen 3.8-Max-0902, with their massive context windows, agentic capabilities, and surprisingly low pricing, are making it more accessible every month. The question isn't whether this is coming, it's whether you're positioned for it.

And look, if you're past the basics and you're ready to get real results on Google, my team at Goldie Agency is here to help. We work with business owners and agency founders who are serious about growing their organic traffic and turning it into leads. We take care of the backlinks, the SEO strategy, the outreach, everything that takes time and expertise to do properly, so you can focus on running your business and building your systems. We've done this for hundreds of clients, and we know what actually moves the needle. If you want to see what we can do for your site specifically, book a free SEO strategy session with my team. It's free, it's

focused, and you'll walk away knowing exactly where your SEO stands and what needs to happen next. The link is in the description below. And if you want to be part of a community that's actually building all of this for real, the AI workflows, the automation systems, the SEO strategies, the agent setups, come join us inside AI Profit Boardroom. This is where agency owners, entrepreneurs, and online business builders come together to learn, build, and grow using AI and automation. We do live coaching calls, share real playbooks, break down exactly what's working right now, and help each other implement fast. You're not just

watching videos, you're building alongside people who are actually doing this stuff in their businesses every day. If that sounds like where you need to be, the link is in the description. Come check it out and see what's inside. Julian reads every comment. Drop a question below. Tell us what AI workflow

do you want to build first? And I'll see you in the next one.