---
video_title: "LIVE: Building Agentic Operating Systems with Claude"
video_id: kZsk6a1XOZY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kZsk6a1XOZY
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Free SEO Strategy Session 👉 https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
---
So today we're going to run through some of the latest AI questions that we've had first of all and if you're watching you have any questions feel free to ask. I am happy to help you and we're just going to get straight into this. So these are questions from the AI profit boardroom community and what I do every day is I basically answer all latest questions inside the community and then also share those answers in places like here just so that I can help you as much as I can. I if people have these questions, you probably have these questions, too. So, we're just going to try and help each other as much as we can. So, let's get straight into this.

Let's see what we got here. Rob, uh, hi, I'm Dutch, retired. Came here to gain knowledge of AI tooling and ways to use these tools to support an energy management uh, where we tried to share uh, energy as much as possible. Welcome, Rob. Great to see you here. And if you have any

questions, feel free to reach out. Also feel free to post inside the community if you have any questions specifically. Usually I make like personalized videos for people and that sort of thing. So always happy to help if you have any specific questions on any sort of workflows you're trying to build.

Let's see what we got here. aggregate at all. This isn't something I'm specialized in. Let's I I don't even know what would be I'm It's not something I usually use, but I'll comment on it just to bump the post.

See what else we got here. VPS. All right, cool.

So question by is I which is VPS for Agent OS why do the pros avoid cloud hosting? So you see I was saying you know I read the read the community Q&A daily notice the trend you often mention you prefer running agent OS locally instead of VPS what's the reason for this is it strictly for data privacy is it too slow um here's why I ask blah blah blah right so let's get straight into this so question number one personally I prefer to use the local hosting instead of cloud hosting for an agent OS simply because I think like it's really good for security, right? Like if you look at most of the problems that happened with OpenClaw when it was first released, it all came down to having VPS's, right? Like there's people actively searching for VPS and people actively like looking for access to a VPS. And so I don't think it's the best way to run an agent OS.

And also bear in mind like you don't need a powerful setup. So like even if for example you just normal laptop or even a Chromebook or something like that, you can uh agent OS locally because it's just like a a web app, right? So when you're building out with this, it's super lightweight. It's just like a website and so you don't need a powerful setup to run it locally at all.

And then second question is here uh many of us are running like a micro business at this stage. Enterprise level data isn't the bottleneck. Agent volume is fairly low. So it seems like a practical solution.

So the thing that I would say here is like if you have any sort of if you run an agent OS on VPS and then someone gets access doesn't matter whether you're an enterprise or a small business or not. The biggest issue is like someone could actually access your local computer, right? If you basically accidentally give out access to agent OS and so that's not good for anyone no matter what sort of business you run. And that's why I always recommend like just running a OS locally instead of hosting it inside the cloud. Having said that, some people uh still to run a VPS, but I just don't see any benefits.

You definitely don't want to give anyone access to that. You definitely don't want to give anyone access uh to your local setup, which is where your agent OS is running. So, for me personally, I just Yeah, I'm always going to run it uh locally instead of on a

So, that's basically it for questions set.

Let's have a look what we got here. Ven says, "I want to create some workflow for interior. What sort of workflows you want to build? If you can be a bit more specific, I can probably help you out and give you some good uh tips on that." Muhammad says, "Welcome." Hello. Good to

see you. F says, "Which AR harness you use?

Good questions. All right.

We'll get straight into that in a sec.

So, for me personally, my two favorites in terms of Agent Harness are Hermes and Claude. I also really liked Deep Seek Carnis. I think anyone watching this, the best thing you can do is just focus on one at a time. So, if you're not sure which harness to use, just f if you wanted to get my best recommendation, it would be Claude Code for uh for sure.

Everyone has their own preference. So for example, you know, if you like open source, then you Hermes because it's much more flexible as a as a harness. If you like something that is less buggy and more likely to work every single time you use it, then I would go with something like Claude Code instead. For for me, for example, I don't particularly like Codeex as agent harness. I just find it's like a little bit too distracting. And also with Deep Sea

Carnis, like when I use it, I just I feel like the UI is just too basic for me. Like it's it's not fun to use uh Deep Sea Carnis. it as as useful as it is, it's from a UI perspective, it's not that easy to use. Whereas like claude code, my brain is fully trained though. That's why I prefer to use something like cloud code instead.

And which is the best way to start design workflows. So for me personally, this two things that I like. Number one is building my own design workflow. So for out the image generator that I built in the agent OS um we can easily the custom workflows I have here and it creates beautiful images and it's really easy to build. So that's that's option one is like basically option one is build own workflow the UI look exactly how you want it which is what we did with the agent OS and the image uh generation section here.

Option number two is that you can just use something like chat GPT image generator. You know image uh images 2.0 inside chat GPT is really nice. And if you need to build a custom workflow like the agent OS, you can just get the API chat GPT image 2.0 and then build a beautiful tool like you can see inside the agent OS.

By the way, if you're watching, you have questions, feel free to ask.

So, Matza was asking, you know, where is the Obsidian setup? So, for me personally, my favorite Obsidian setup is with Omi, Obsidian, and the Agent OS, and I'll link to that below.

This is using a system I call the infinite context engine which is basically where you can get number one uh Hermes agent or any other agent that you prefer to use to update your Obsidian memory for you. So for example, every time we use the agent OS, our agents update the memory system for us.

Then OMI actually records my screen and takes notes on me and what I do all day and you know what I'm working on so that basic the notes are automatically updated and I don't have to do anything and also it has context for me and then that's logged into Obsidian which runs locally. It's a free open source app and this works as a secondary that we can plug into all our agents. So I can plug it into Claude, into Hermes, into Antiggravity, whatever I prefer and they have instant context from day one. So if we open up Obsidian here, this is an example of the the knowledge base that we have. So, I would recommend starting with this training right here, the infinite context engine, um, a guide, plus it has a video tutorial on it as well. You don't have to use OMI as

well. So, just note that you don't have to use OMI if you don't like it or if you don't want to give access to your screen to an AI agent. That's totally fine. You can just, for example, say to Hermes or Claude or whichever agent use, every time I use you, please update Obsidian directly for me. But that's basically the system. But

yeah, um Obsidian is my favorite setup. Super simple, super easy to use. Um literally so easy to because your agents already have memories that they can plug into the system and works really nicely. If you have any other questions, feel free to ask Mataza. Thanks very much for joining.

Let's see what we got here. So, Alexander, wow, this is pretty amazing. Pretty amazing. Congrats, Alexander, on the win. Awesome to see the progress you made.

I think that's pretty much it for all the questions that we had today. Let's see what we got on here.

All right, two good questions here.

So number Do you use uh obsidian or have an AI brain set up? So I actually think that I mean obsidian is a brain, right? It is a second brain. So that's the way that how do I use it? So basically the first thing that I do is inside our gentic operating system I have a system which you can see right here where we basically have a a memory knowledge graph, right? And so all of my memories,

everything about me is automatically noted by my AI agents, plugged into Obsidian, and then Obsidian is used to train my other AI agents and all the context and all the projects I'm working on. So, it's kind of like a proving positive feedback loop where when I work with an AI agent, it notes its memories into Obsidian and then when I use other AI agents, they can pull that context from Obsidian and use that to give me more personalized better outputs. But the other great thing about that is when I get those personalized better outputs, anything that I do from then on onwards and logged into Obsidian. So Obsidian feeds into the agents, the agents feed into Obsidian, and that makes both of these tools more powerful.

So for example, every time I do something useful with Hermes, that will be logged into our Obsidian database. So you can see for example here we've got a new memory which is Hermes Astros a custom workflow we've got which looks at our competitors and gives me uh new ideas for creating content and so that's all into our Obsidian memory vault so that we can pull from that for future workflows and like I could take that information and go to cla and say hey create a video about this or create a blog post about this etc. Um the next question we got was what do you prefer Hermes or OpenClaw? So for me personally I I don't use desktop Hermes or desktop open claw at all. What I prefer to do is have both of them built into an agentic operating system like this where I can build custom work. For

example, if you look at um Hermes, we've got the basic and that's kind of what Hermes desktop does well. But then we also have for example uh Hermes bots Apollo Hermes Oracle Hermes Muse. These are all beautiful custom workflows that I've built specifically for myself where I can take the full power of Hermes but I can design and mold it exactly how I want it. Right? Whereas for example if I open up Hermes desktop it doesn't as useful as personalized as this right. Uh

so that's the biggest difference between all of this is that you don't want to use like Hermes desktop or Hermes or OpenClaw desktop straight out of the box. The problem with those is like they're not customized and personalized to you. Whereas for example, if you have a agent OS like you can see right here. Um and we give it to members inside the air profit boardroom. It looks more personalized. It feels more

personalized. It's more unique to us, right? And that's way more powerful for me personally.

Another

question we got is did you build the web app? So yes, the whole of the agentic operating system I built from scratch. It literally just started off as like a basic Claude and Hermes as a chat and then the more that I used I used claw code desktop to build it. The more that I use claw code desktop to build it, the more I realized, wow, like you can pretty much do anything with an agent OS and you can pretty much build anything that you want into it. So the great thing about this is that we could keep building building more stuff into it and the more we used it, the better it got and the more powerful it became. So

like for example, I had an idea for a lead generation tool and I built that into our agent OS system and I basically built like a SAS tool out of it. So it started as like one idea and I think I started building it out like probably end of April something like that and then from there just added like more features more features sometimes to test my own creativity sometimes just out of curiosity and sometimes because it would save me a lot of time right um in fact if you're going to build out an agent OS or if you're going to use ours from the air profit boardroom what I recommend to you is that you look at what time on and then you start automating from there. So for example, if you look at latest course that we have inside the classroom, the beginner to expert course here the in the first week, you'll learn how to basically automate anything um and build custom workflows around that and then you can build those into the agent OS and that makes it ultimately more powerful, more personalized to you. So that's the first place I'd start and then you can add like another brick, another brick, another brick, right? It's kind of like building a house but it's it's AI and it's way more fun and less tiring.

And the final question we got here was I can't this is a real person. This is a real person. This is uh Julian. But that's pretty crazy that you can't tell that it's a real does that mean we're at the point now where you know you basically don't know if someone's AI or not? But yeah, this is 100% human. Don't

worry about that. So just to recap, we've covered all the questions inside the air profom. I've shown you the agent OS. I've shown you how I think about it and how I build stuff out with it and also how I build custom workflows. I've answered all your questions today. And

also we've answered all the questions inside the community too. If you want to join the community, if you want me to create personalized videos for you like I've done today questions, then feel free to join. We've got over um we've got so many fivestar reviews now, which is amazing. for example, all these five star reviews from awesome people inside the community, which is absolutely amazing. Blows my mind that we've got such a a cool group of people who are really positive. If you want to grab the

Agent OS system itself, it's inside the new daily update section. Grab that over here. And you can grab the zip file to install over here. We show you all of our best trainings and tutorials and that sort of thing. Inside the community, you can ask questions and I personally answer them every single day as well.

So, we create personalized tutorials and then we answer your questions and try and help you as much as we possibly can. So, for example, here uh Jeremy was asking about hardware choices and then we we get back to him ASAP, right? Uh yeah. And so, for example, like Tobias, he was asking a question as well. We created a personal video for him. Um

then we noted down all the aspects to it as well and people absolutely loved it. So, that's what it's about. It's just helping people as much as we can. We also have four weekly coaching calls where you can get help and support in real time. And then inside the map, you can actually meet people in area who are building out with AI agents like you. So

feel free to get all of this inside the AR profit boardroom link in the comments description or just go to the arrroom.com. Thanks very much for watching. I'll see you on the next one. Cheers. Bye-bye.