---
video_title: "Grok Bot Can Now Control X for You"
video_id: RbA6moasaPs
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RbA6moasaPs
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  X just got an official AI upgrade almost nobody caught: Grok's agent can now log into your account and work it for you — reading your timeline, searching posts, and tracking mentions while you're offline. Setup is automatic (no developer account needed) and paid users get free credits to test it. The real story isn't the feature — it's that X is quietly turning into a live data source your AI can plug into and pull from in real time.
  
  00:00 Intro – Grokbot runs X
  00:33 Meet Grokbot – Works solo
  01:27 X Connection – Setup, free credits
  02:09 Reality Check – Reads, won't post
  03:17 Why It Matters – No rivals yet
  05:29 The Real Shift – X as data source
---
Grok bot can now control X for you. Ever wish X could just watch itself for you? There's a new update almost nobody caught. It lets an AI log into your X and do the work reading, searching, reporting all on its own. And it's official, not some sketchy trick. Let me

show you what just changed. Hey, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie. My whole job is helping you learn AI tools and actually use them in your real work, not just watch cool demos and forget them the next day. And today's update is a big one because by the end of this video, you'll see how X stops being a place you scroll and starts being something an AI reads and works through for you. There's one part near the end that most people are going to miss completely. Stick around for it because

that's the real story. Okay, let's start simple. What even is Grok bot? So, you know Grok, that's the AI built by the team behind X. Most people have chatted with it. You type a question, it types

back, easy. Grok bot is a different thing. It's not just a chat window, it's an AI helper that gets its own computer in the cloud and it actually does tasks for you. You talk to it like you text a co-worker, you hand it a job and it goes off and works through that job step-by-step on its own even after you close your laptop. Think about that for a second. Most AI stops the moment you

stop typing. Grok bot keeps going. It can open websites, click around, fill things in, and work through a whole task by itself. It launched in beta back in August and people started giving it real work right away. But here's the thing, up until now, it mostly worked with outside tools, your inbox, websites, other apps. What it didn't do well yet

was X itself, the very platform it lives on. That just changed and that's what this whole update is about. So, here's what the Grok team announced. Grok bot now connects straight to X. You go into Grok bot, you sign in with the X connector, and that's it, your account is linked. Now, here's the part I really

like. If you've never set up a developer account on X, you normally have to go do that yourself. It's fiddly, it's annoying. Most people quit before they even start. Grok bot skips all of that.

When you connect, it creates that developer account for you automatically. You don't touch a thing. And if you're a paid Grok bot user, you get some free X credits to start with so you can test it out without worrying about running dry on day one. Once you're connected, you can ask your bot to do real things on X. You can tell it to search posts about a topic. You can have it read your

timeline. You can ask it to check your mentions or you can just say, "Tell me what's happening on X right now." and it pulls it all together for you. The team called this the first version of the integration. So, this is only the start.

More is coming. And I want to be straight with you here because getting this right matters. Right now, this is built mostly around reading, searching, checking, summarizing. It's not about blasting out posts on its own yet. Think of it as an assistant that reads X for you and reports back. Anything bigger

than that, you want to keep a human hand on it for now. That's honest. And it's still really powerful. Let me show you why. So, what could you actually do with this? Let's keep it practical. Say you

run a brand or a personal page. You could ask your bot to watch for every time your name gets mentioned on X. Instead of you hunting through mentions all day, it gathers them up for you. Or maybe you want to know what's trending in your world before you post. You could have your bot search posts on your topic and pull together what people are actually saying right now. Then you

write from that. You could ask it to read through your timeline and give you a short summary so you get the important stuff in 30 seconds instead of scrolling for an hour. You could have it track a conversation, a launch, a bit of news, and report back what's moving. Notice what all of these have in common. They're the boring, time-eating jobs.

The scrolling, the checking, the did anyone reply to me loop. That's exactly the stuff you hand off. So, your time goes to the work only you can do. That's the real win. It's not magic. It's time

back in your day. Now, let me tell you why this update is a bigger deal than it looks. Here's the first thing. This is official. X and the Grok team are part of the same family now. So, this isn't

some outside app sneaking in through a side door. It's a native, built-in connection. That matters. It means it's stable, it's allowed, and it's not going to get shut down for breaking the rules. Second thing, they removed the two things that usually stop people cold.

Number one, setting up a developer account. Gone. It's automatic now. Number two, the cost of getting started. They hand-paid users free credits to begin. So, the wall most people hit

before they even try is just not there anymore. Third thing, and this is the big one, no other AI agent has this level of X access right now. You can find agents that read your email, agents that browse the web, but an agent that logs into X as you and works through it inside a real workflow, that's new and that's a head start if you grab it early. And here's what most people miss. This isn't really about one cool feature, it's about a shift. X is

turning into something your AI can plug into and use like a tool in a toolbox. That's a totally different way of thinking about a platform you've probably used for years. So if you've been watching AI agents from the sidelines, this is a great moment to actually try one. Because the friction is low and the payoff is real. And that brings me to something that can help you right now. If you run a website or a

brand, here's a question worth asking. When someone searches for you on Google or in AI tools like ChatGPT, Perplexity, Gemini, or Google's AI overviews, do you actually show up? Most people have no clue and that's a real problem because that's where people are searching now. So we put together a free AI brand visibility session for you. It's a real strategist one-on-one. They'll build you

a custom visibility plan. They'll show you exactly how you show up or don't across Google and all those AI tools. They'll run a gap analysis against your competitors so you can see who's beating you and why and you can ask them anything about your own site or brand. It's 100% free, no obligation. You just book it and go. And if you want to go

deeper than that, come check out the AI Profit Boardroom. Here's the thing about a tool like this Grok Bot update. It moves fast and the first version is a little rough around the edges. Inside the Boardroom, we walk through tools like this together step-by-step. We've got live coaching calls where you can ask about your own setup and get unstuck. We've got tutorials,

ready-to-use prompts, and simple roadmaps so you're not guessing. So when a big update like this drops, you're not watching from the outside, you're actually using it with people who help you get it working. Okay, back to it. Now here's the part I told you to stick around for, the part most people are going to miss. Up to now, we've talked about X as a place, a place you post, a place you scroll, a place you check, but this update quietly turns X into something else, a data source. Let me

explain what I mean in plain words. Your Grok Bot can already do all kinds of jobs on its own computer. It can research, it can write, it can work through tasks. Now, on top of that, it can reach into X and pull live information out. What's trending? What

people are saying? Who's talking about you? Right now, in real time. So, think about what happens when you connect those two things. Your bot could check X for what's blowing up in your niche this morning and then use that to help you plan your next post, all in one flow. It

could watch your mentions, spot a question people keep asking, and flag it so you can answer it. It could read the mood around a topic and feed that straight into whatever you're working on. See the shift. X stops being a thing you go to. It becomes a live feed your AI reads from, a source it pulls from while it works on something bigger.

That's the real story here. Not an AI can check my mentions. That's nice, sure. The real story is that the platform you've used for years just became a plug your AI can tap into, and that opens the door to workflows we haven't even thought of yet. This is only the first version. It's mostly

reading for now, but you can already see where it's headed. The bot reads X. Soon it'll do more on X, and it all runs while you're off doing something else. That's why I wanted you to see this today. Not the feature, the direction. A

couple of quick, honest notes before you run off and try it. Those free X credits, they're separate from your normal Grok bot usage. So, if you set your bot to check X every few minutes, it can burn through them faster than you think. Start slow. Give it one clear job. See how it goes, and keep it simple

at first. Ask it to summarize your timeline once a day, or watch your mentions. Get a feel for it before you build anything fancy. That's how you learn a tool without getting overwhelmed. So, here's what I do next.

If you want real help putting this to work for your own brand, book that free AI brand visibility session. This time, think of it as your starting line. You'll get a custom plan for your site, a clear look at where you're showing up across Google and the AI tools, straight competitor insights, and simple recommendations you can actually act on. A real strategist, your questions, your brand. Still 100% free. Still no

obligation. If you're serious about being found, that's your next step. And then, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. Look, you're about to go try this Grok bot update, and I'll be honest with you, you're going to hit little snags. The connector, the credits, figuring out the right thing to ask it.

That's normal with anything this new. Inside the Boardroom, that's exactly what we solve. You get live coaching calls to ask your questions. You get walkthroughs and tutorials for tools just like this one. You get prompts you can copy and roadmaps that tell you what to do first, second, and third. And you

get over 4,000 members figuring this stuff out right alongside you. It's the fastest way to stop watching AI videos and actually start using the tools. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com. That's it for today. If this opened your

eyes to what's coming, you know what to do. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I'll see you in the next one.