---
video_title: "OpenMausBot DESTROYS Grok Bot?"
video_id: midY3xIxKAk
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=midY3xIxKAk
video_date: 20260812
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  OpenMausBot: Free Open-Source GrokBot Alternative Using Your Existing Claude/Codex/Grok
  
  The script introduces Open OpenMausBot, a free open-source alternative to GrokBot that runs on AI subscriptions you already use (Claude, Codex, or Grok) with no new accounts or plans. It presents a WhatsApp/Telegram-style chat app where each “contact” is an AI agent with its own role, memory, connected apps, and even a controllable computer (cloud desktop with live preview), plus per-agent model selection. The narrator compares it to GrokBot’s early beta, noting token limits and slow computer-use, and highlights OpenMausBot permission prompts that require approval before risky actions. OpenMausBot supports connected apps via Composio’s marketplace (500+ tools), is local-first for logs/keys, is available via GitHub as a Mac app with Windows and Linux coming, but is early, can be messy, and may lack agent-to-agent communication.
  
  00:00 OpenMausBot Launch
  00:26 Why GrokBot Falls Short
  01:02 Open Source Alternative
  01:42 UI Tour and Core Idea
  02:33 Building a Bot Team
  02:52 Model Picker and Setup
  04:40 Computer Use Preview
  05:43 Speed Reality Check
  06:50 Safety Permissions System
  07:51 Connected Apps Marketplace
  08:23 Local First and Download
  09:53 Limits and Tradeoffs
  11:36 Where Agent UIs Are Going
  12:43 Agent Tagging Test
  13:08 Wrap Up and Community
---
Open mousebot just landed. It's a free open- source version of Grockbot. It runs on the AI subscriptions you already have. No new accounts, no extra plans. You download one app and you can give it a whole team of AI bots living in a chat app on your Mac. Each bot has its own

brain, its own memory, it own connected apps, and its own computer. And there's one feature in here that matters more than anything else. I'll get to that in a minute. First, the setup. Rockbot went into an early beta that just dropped within the last 24 hours. It's a new app

where AI works like teammates. The bot sign into your tools. They're using the way you would. They come back with finished work. People wanted access, but it's an early beta, so most people couldn't actually get in. Bear in mind,

even when you do get in, for example, I signed up to the free trial earlier today and within like 20 minutes, even as a subscriber of Twitter using the free trial, it just ran out of tokens. So, Grockbot is pretty cool, but it runs out of tokens quickly. So, what can you do instead? So, a builder named Milland Sony did something quite interesting. He built an open-source version of the whole idea, shared it publicly and called it open mousebot. And instead of

needing a new subscription, it plugs into the AI tools you're already using and logged into. So for example, if you use Claude, it uses your Claude. If you use Codeex, it uses your codec. It even works with Grock itself. So today, you're going to learn exactly what open mouse spot is, how it works, and why the shape of this thing matters more than even the app itself because there's a shift happening in people, how people use AI right now. And this app makes

that shift very easy to see. Let's start with the core idea. And by the way, I'll pull this up side by side so you can see the differences. So this is Grockbot. This is what it looks like. Now let's

open up open mousebot. Very similar, right? Looks very very similar. So it looks both of them look like Telegram or WhatsApp. There's a sidebar of contacts, but every contact is an AI agent. Not

like a chatbot that just talks, but a real agent that can actually do work. You can give each one its own personality, its own job, its own model. One bot can run on Claude, another could run on Codex, another on Grock, and they sit next to each other in your sidebar like people on your team. You can talk to them like contacts. You send a message, they go and do the work. You

watch them work and you approve the things that matter before they actually happen. Let's give it a test run. So, here's an example. This is actually running locally. So, here's an example.

Now, think about what that looks like dayto-day. You could have like one bot whose only job is reading your inbox each morning and drafting replies for you to approve. Now, why is a team better than one assistant? Because different jobs need different brains. So, we can create another brain over here. And we can select what it's

related to. So, let's say writing and research. And bear in mind with Grockbot, you can't change the model. And some models are better at writing, some are better at research, some are faster and cheaper to run. With open mouse bot, there's a model picker for every single bot that you use. So if we

go to the settings, when we set this up, we can actually configure which model we want to use, but also there's a drop down over here. So if you look in the top right, you can select between Fable 5, Opus 5, Sonic 5, Haiku. You select, for example, Codeex or Grock 4.5 as well if you prefer. And it's pretty fast to reply as well. So right in research and

what I'm going to say, okay, AI automation news daily. I assume as well it's probably bringing in your history and your experience when it comes in and also the skills that you have preloaded into claude CLI which would be super useful. And then you can see here what's quite good about this is it actually asks for your approval before it starts accessing stuff. So for example here is deciding to use our obsidian vault automatically because Claude has already been trained on using Obsidian and so it's ah that's the first place to go. So we can just allow that. By the way, I'm

using it in the web app here, but you can use it inside the local app as well, and it was pretty easy to set up the app. The only thing that's not easy is configuring the CLI. I actually got claw desktop just to help me with that, and that seems to work pretty quickly. So, you can also see it's not perfect. Like, for example, the formatting of the questions is asking you a little bit messy. So, just bear in mind like any

open source project whereas Hermes, openclaw, it can be messy in between. So, how would this work? Well, like your writing bot could run on the model of rights best. Your research bot could run on something else. You're building a team instead of asking one assistant to do everything. And then you can click on

allow for approving this stuff as well, which is super useful. And also, every bot gets its own computer. So, you can see an example here. Now this is how Grogbot actually works as well but basically what this means and it sounds strange the first time you hear it but basically inside open mouse bot there's a panel computer and you can open it and the real bot gets a cloud desktop a real Linux computer running somewhere else that the bot controls by itself and you get a live preview of the screen whilst it works. So you can see the computer section over here and if you're doing something in the cloud or on this separate computer you'll see the preview over here as well. Now, this is running

on wherever you prefer to run it. So, it can run on the Mac, it can run on a cloud box, you can plug in a Box token over here, whatever you prefer. But basically, you can get a live preview of the screen whilst it works. And you can literally watch like your bot, click around, open apps, and do the task. If you want, you can click on open desktop and actually take it over in your browser and you can point the bot at your own Mac instead. It works on your

actual machine. So when you picture it, you ask a bot to fill out a long form or organize files and you watch it happen on a little screen whilst you do something else. And this is where AI has been heading for a while now. You know, we've seen this with Hermes agent, openclaw. They were kind of difficult for most people to use. These are

getting easier. It is not perfect, particularly when it's open source. Grubbot was actually very, very smooth when I used it. However, when it was using computer use on its own separate computer, super slow. And I just feel like computer use in general really really slow. Let me give you an example.

So if we go back to grabbot over here, you can see like it literally just got stuck on uh going into Google and typing hello. Like that's the level that we're at right now. Having said that, this is the way things are going and it's quite revolutionary. Now open mousebot ships it as open source using cloud desktops from a service called box and computer use tech from a project called CUA. By the way, if you want more training on this sort of stuff, feel free to check out the air profit boarding link in the comments description where we give you four week live coaching calls where you can ask questions about your own agent team setups. We got the agent OS inside

there and I've helped over 3,700 business owners in there and some of them never touched AI before they joined. Link in the comments description or just go to the arr.com. So, back to open mousebot. The next feature that makes it actually safe to use. So, it's

always going to ask you for approval before it starts taking action. So when a bot wants to run a command, edit file, do something risky. A little card pops up in the chat and you either allow or deny. So it's just like approving something on your phone, there's a permission system underneath that turns every risky action into a decision you make. So the bot never just goes like rogue on your files. You stay in control

and you can see exactly what it wants to do before it does it. Obviously that matters cuz people are like, "What happens if you have some crazy AI that just goes off and does crazy stuff?" Also, we can edit the profile here. So we can change it. We could for example call this AI research agent and that's good to go. And then you can always

create a new one as well. So we could for example call this one email analyzer and connect it to our emails. Whatever we prefer could be SEO content researcher and actually Google Workspace. So I could use that for content research and looking at our keywords and that sort of thing. Now next piece is connected apps. So, Open

Mspot has a one-click marketplace built on Composeio. So, there's over 500 apps you can plug in, including Gmail, Slack, Notion, Linear, hundreds more. So, you can connect an app once, login once, and then every B on your team can use it as a tool. So, for example, your morning bot can actually read your Gmail. Your project bot could actually update your notion. It can actually get work done.

So you could have, for example, a bot connected to your Slack and your notion could watch for questions from your team and then draft answers from your docs. Also, what's pretty cool about this is it's local first. That means everything just runs on your machine, right? There's one small server that lives on your Mac and manages all the agent processes. So that's like your conversations, your keys, your event logs, they all live in a folder on your computer. Having said that, you are

still using cloud models, right? So Codeex, Claude, Grock, they're all going to send data to the cloud. This is not running on local models. So, how do you actually get the thing? Probably the easiest way for someone watching this is to just download it. So, you can get it

on GitHub. You can download it. It's a simple Mac app. Drag it into your applications folder and open it. The server is built in. I saw on the replies

that it's focused on Windows first. So, obviously it works on Mac. I've shown you that today. It's coming soon. So, Windows first. So, it looks like it's

available on Mac. Windows coming. Linux and Ubuntu are coming too. And then the one thing you need is at least one AI tool already installed and logged into your Mac. So that should be either Claude Code, Codeex or Gro tool. If you

already use one of those, you'll both show up in the model picker automatically. Also, I think this breaks a barrier just bot and open mouse in general. Like when you look at them, this is literally just like WhatsApp for AI agents. So it breaks the technical barrier that everyone has even more than something like called co-work because it's very easy and intuitive. It's just like okay how do I create a new agent?

You just click on the plus sign. Okay well how do I create the workflow I want to automate? You just type in what you want. Like very very simple stuff. Now let's talk about these because this is good. There's going to be some

limitations. So number one it seems like it only and I could be wrong here but it seems like it only runs on claude codeex and grock. So, make sure you have one of those. But you can use the CLI. You don't have to use the API. Number two is

early. Like literally just dropped today. Number three, the approving a little bit annoying. I can imagine that gets super annoying after a little bit, but you could probably ask it not to approve it. I also feel like because it's open source, you could just ask Claude to edit the program for you so that you can insert or use local models or that sort of thing. But it's not like

a polished product from a big company. It's an open source project. This just literally launched. So if you wanted like the perfect version, you'd use Grock. However, Grock Bar is in beta and it's got a wait list. And also when you

do use it, I ran out of tokens personally within 20 minutes. So this is like a more long-term version with less restrictions. So it's pretty crazy that Gropbot just dropped and then open mousebot dropped straight away afterwards. I saw some people complain about the price or for example like why would you use Grobot if Hermes is free and open source. So this might be like a good middle ground in between because bear in mind like you can't use Claude with Hermes as a CLI. You have to use an

API but you could use Claude directly with open mousebot which is pretty nice. And also it brings in and remembers everything. So, for example, when I set up the SEO content researcher here, you can see that it's actually got the keyword research skill where it can pull in the live Google search console across my sites. I didn't have to set any APIs up. It was already built in and ready to go, which is super nice. And the shape

of these ideas are settling, right? It's just like one assistant in one chat box was version one. A team of agents, each with a name, a job, a model, apps, and a computer. That's probably what version two looks like. Grockbot is built on that shape. Open mousebot is built on

that shape. This is something we were building with the agent OS. I think everything's moving in the same direction which is just like easier and easier ways to use this. I actually think like for a lot of people an agent OS might be too technical. Something like this super easy and chill. You also

might think like I already have Claude. Why would I use this? But this is even easier. Like for example, if I want to find an agent or like a custom workflow I've set up inside Claude pretty hard to do, pretty difficult, right? Like let's open this up. How are you going to look

through your previous conversations? You could go to your routines, your artifacts, but that's not really like your custom workflows. And how can you find that conversation you just had like a few weeks ago? Pretty hard. You can, but it's harder. If you look at this,

it's like you can't go wrong cuz you've got the SEO agent here, right? And you can just change that to SEO researcher. And so everything's just saved in one place. It's super chill. Also, I think that I might be mistaken here, but I think you can tag in the agents. Let's

see here. I want to see SEO researcher, could you just speak to the AI research agent? Let's see if they can cuz that's a really good feature on Grockbot that you might not be able to do on open mouse bot. Ah, look at that. It doesn't seem to or it doesn't understand what I'm talking about. So, that might be a

problem as well. I'm sure they'll get that fixed, but just something to be aware of. So, that's basically it. That is open mouse spot. Pretty cool. Open

source, easy to use, easy to set up, works with existing cla or codeex or grock subscriptions, asks for permissions before it does stuff, which is pretty nice. Easy to manage the chats, much easier than setting up something like Hermes and nontechnical. And this stuff is just getting easier and easier to use. Is it as good as Grobot? I don't think it's as smooth, but it is open source. And also, most

people don't have access to Grobot anyway. So, thanks for watching. If you haven't already, feel free to check out the AI profit boardroom link in the comments description or go to the AI profitboard.com. This is my AI automation community that helps you learn, save time, and grow with AI automation. Inside the community, you

can ask questions. I personally answer them actually with video tutorials. You can see an example here. So, Jay asked a question seven hours ago. I made a personalized video tutorial for him.

Then I answered the question if he doesn't have time to watch it. If you want me to do that for you, feel free to post inside the community. Inside the classroom, you get access to all of our best trainings. Inside the calendar, you can jump on weekly coaching calls. And inside the map, you can connect with people locally near you who are building with stuff like this. So, hope to see

you inside there. Cheers for watching. See you on the next one. Uh-huh.