---
video_title: "NEW Gemini 3.8 Flash Changes How You Build! 🤯"
video_id: JhvmCCPs6X4
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhvmCCPs6X4
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Gemini 3.8 Flash: The AI That Actually FINISHES Your Projects
  
  Discover how Gemini 3.8 Flash moves beyond basic chat to act as a 'doer' that plans, builds, and fixes its own work autonomously. Learn how to leverage its new thinking settings and multimodal upgrades to automate landing pages, content research, and complex business workflows.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  01:22 - The 3 Thinking Settings
  02:03 - Multimodal Upgrades
  02:43 - Real Business Workflows
  04:28 - Workflow: Landing Page Build
  05:05 - Workflow: Content Research
  06:10 - Workflow: Automated Onboarding
---
Build anything with Gemini 3.8 Flash. That's what we're covering today, and I mean that title literally because Google just gave this AI the ability to actually finish projects, not just talk about them. Here's the old way AI worked. You type something in, it gives you an answer, you read the answer, you type something else in, round and round forever. Gemini 3.8 Flash breaks that

loop. Google built it to plan a task, do the work, check its own work, find the mistakes, fix them, and keep going on its own without you typing 10 more messages. Think of it like hiring someone who doesn't just hand you a rough draft and walk away. They hand it in, check it over, catch the typo, fix it, and bring you the finished version. Google showed this off with a 3D game.

They gave the AI one instruction. The AI wrote it, built it, played it, found bugs, and fixed them all in one loop. They also showed it building a working map tool from a single prompt. No back and forth, just one instruction and a finished result. This matters way more than it sounds like at first. For years,

AI has been a really smart assistant that needed constant supervision. Now it's starting to act like a doer, and that changes what one person can build alone. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Let's get into how it

actually works because there's a control most people don't know about yet. Gemini 3.8 Flash lets you pick how hard it thinks. Three settings, low, medium, and high. Low is for quick stuff, fast replies, simple drafts, nothing complicated. Medium is the default, good

for most day-to-day tasks. High is for the hard stuff, long projects, lots of steps, things that need real focus. Picture it like choosing a gear on a bike. Low gear for a quick flat ride, high gear for climbing a steep hill. You don't need high gear for everything, and using it when you don't need it just wastes energy. Google also warned that

harder tasks make the AI work longer and think more because it's checking its own work along the way. That's not a flaw. That's the AI being careful instead of guessing and moving on. Next big piece, this AI isn't just reading text anymore. Gemini 3.8 flash can look at pictures,

listen to audio, watch video, and read documents all at once. So, you could hand it a recording of a call, a screenshot, and a written note, and it can connect all three together. And the video part is honestly the most useful upgrade for anyone running a business or a community. Older AI would watch a video the same way the whole way through, second by second, treating every moment equally. Gemini 3.8 flash doesn't do that

anymore. It jumps around. It skips to what matters. It reads the transcript, checks key moments, and skips the boring parts. Kind of like how you'd fast forward through a long video to the part you actually care about. Now, let's turn

this into real workflows, and I want to show you something a little different here. Instead of random examples, every single one of these is built around growing an actual AI community, the AI Profit Boardroom. So, you can see exactly how this applies to a real business. Quick pause here because this next part matters for anyone who found this video the same way most people find anything now, through search. If you want more customers finding your business the same way you're watching this right now, that's something our team can actually map out for you. We

run free SEO strategy sessions where we sit down with you one-on-one and build a custom plan to get your website and your content ranking higher on Google and on AI search tools. So, more of the right people find you without you chasing them down. It's not a generic checklist you get on every call. It's built around your actual business, your goals, and what's specifically holding your rankings back right now. Whether that's your content, your site setup, or how AI search engines are reading your pages.

If that sounds useful, go to goldie.agency and book a free session, or check the link in the comments and description below this video. And while we're on the topic of getting ahead with AI, this is exactly the kind of thing we live inside of every day at the AI Profit Boardroom. It's a community of business owners actually building with AI, not just reading about it from the sidelines. You get weekly coaching calls where you can ask questions live, daily step-by-step tutorials that walk you through tools the moment they launch, ready-made prompts so you're never staring at a blank page, and 30-day road maps that tell you exactly what to set up first.

If you want to save time and start automating your own business the same way we just showed with these workflows, come join us. Links in the description below. First one, building a landing page that actually explains the value. This is for turning visitors into members by clearly showing what an AI automation community actually does for a business. The prompt, design a new landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom. Make it

convert visitors into members. Clearly explain the value of AI automation for a small business owner. Cover the coaching calls, the daily tutorials, and the road map system, and build the layout to bring in more leads, more sign-ups, and more customers from every visit. The result, a finished landing page ready to publish, built to turn visitors into members without needing a designer or a developer. Second one, researching what people are actually asking about AI automation. This is for finding out what

questions real business owners have, so new content actually answers what people are searching for. The prompt, research the most common questions small business owners are asking online right now about using AI to save time and automate their work. Group the questions by topic, find the five biggest patterns, and turn each one into a short, simple video idea built for the AI Profit Boardroom channel and its audience. The result, a list of content ideas based on real questions people are already asking, ready to plan out as videos. Third one, turning member success stories into new leads. This is

for collecting real wins from inside the community and turning them into content that brings in new members. The prompt, "Look through the last month of AI Profit Boardroom member posts and coaching call recordings. Find three clear examples where a member automated part of their business and saved real time. Turn each one into a short, simple summary I can post as social proof to attract new members." The result, three ready-to-post success stories built straight from real member results, perfect for building trust with new leads. Now, fourth one, building a

simple onboarding tool for new members. This is for giving every new AI Profit Boardroom member a clear starting point instead of leaving them to figure it out alone. The prompt, "Build a tool where a new AI Profit Boardroom member enters their business type and their biggest time waster. Have it generate a short starting roadmap showing which automations to set up first, in what order, based on what actually matters for a business like theirs, and keep the design clean and simple to follow." The result, a personalized first step for every new member so they know exactly where to begin from day one. If you want

help setting any of this up inside your own business, that's exactly what we're doing inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We're already running coaching calls built around Gemini 3.8 flash, walking members through landing pages, content research, onboarding tools, and follow-up messages, all built the same way you just saw in this video. It's a community of real business owners actually building with AI with daily tutorials that break down every new tool the moment it launches, a growing prompt library you can copy and use right away, and people online anytime you get stuck and need a second pair of eyes. If you want to save time and start automating your own business instead of figuring it all out alone, come join us. Link's in

the description below. And if getting found online is still the missing piece for you, don't skip past this part. Our free SEO strategy session gives you a custom plan built around your business, not a copy-paste checklist. We look at your website, your content, and how it's showing up on Google and on AI search tools, then map out exactly what's holding your rankings back and what to fix first to bring in more customers without chasing them yourself. It's a real conversation with our team built around your goals, your industry, and where you're losing traffic right now.

Go to goldie.agency and book your free session or check the link in the comments and description below this video.