---
video_title: "Build a 24/7 Lead Generation Agent With Hermes"
video_id: bnuvcqO7zYE
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bnuvcqO7zYE
video_date: 2026-08-18T01:30:05+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Hermes Masterclass  👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Most lead gen fails because it chases volume. This system does the opposite — describe your ideal customer in one plain sentence, and it finds real people, verifies every email, then deliberately throws most of them out.
  
  0:00  Intro – One sentence, real leads
  0:55  Old Way – Why lead lists break
  1:26  Live Demo – Describe, find, verify
  3:11  Scoring – Why fewer wins
  3:34  Personal Outreach – Approval before send
  4:28  Memory – Why it compounds
---
Build a 24/7 lead generation agent with Hermes inside my Agent OS. What if you never had to hunt for a lead list again? No buying names, [music] no scraping, no guessing emails. You type one sentence, the machine goes and finds real people. Then here's the strange part, [music] it throws most of them out. Sounds

backwards, right? Stick with me because that's exactly why it works. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help people actually learn and use AI tools in their real work, not just watch a demo once and forget it. Today I want to show you something we've been building called the Hermes Lead Machine. It runs inside my Agent OS, the one dashboard where Hermes and the rest of my agents all live together sharing one screen and one memory. In a minute I'll

walk you through the six moving parts inside it. Here's the fun bit and this is the loop I want you to hang on for. You only ever touch the first one. The machine quietly handles the other five for you. So, let's get into it. Okay, so

what actually is this thing? The Hermes Lead Machine is a system that finds the right people to reach out to and it does it in basically one click. The old way of doing this was slow and painful. You'd open one tool to find names, another to guess the email addresses, another to check if those emails were even real. Then you copy all of it into a spreadsheet and try to keep the whole mess straight in your head. Everything

was kind of duct taped together and half of it went out of date the moment you saved it. With this, it all lives in one place, my Agent OS and it's powered by a real tool called Hunter which is built for finding and checking work email addresses. So, here's how the front of it works. I go to the lead section inside my Agent OS. I type in plain English exactly who I want to reach.

Something like SEO agencies that care about link building. That's it, no filters, no spreadsheet, just a normal sentence the way you'd say it out loud. Then I hit find and enrich and Hermes goes off and pulls back real companies and real people who match. It grabs the domain, the email, the size of the company and a few details about what they actually do. If I already have a list sitting around, I can paste that in instead and it will clean it up and fill in the gaps. Either way works. And this

is the the I really like. Once it finds people, it checks every email before anything ever goes out. So, I'm not firing messages at addresses that don't even exist. That one step saves so much wasted time, it's almost silly. Now, could you do bits of this from a plane terminal? Sort of, but you'd lose the

dashboard, you'd lose the memory of what you did, and you'd have no clean way to manage what happens next. That's the whole reason it lives inside Agent OS. And if you're sitting there thinking, "I want this exact setup." This is what we do inside the AI Profit Room. When you join, you get my full Agent Operating System as a zip file ready to install with the Hermes Lead Machine already wired into it. We built a full 30-day

roadmap that walks you from zero all the way to describing your first set of people and letting the machine go to work. There are walkthroughs on connecting it up, setting your own inbox, and getting Hermes running. And there are four live coaching calls every single week. So, if you get stuck, you can hop on, share your screen, and ask a real person who's done it. The AI Profit Room was built for exactly this hands-on kind of thing. So, let me walk you

through those six parts, because once you see them laid out, the whole thing clicks. Part one is describe. You say who you want to reach in plain English. That's the only part you actually touch. Part two is find. It goes and gets real

companies and real people who match what you said. No list needed. You describe who you want and it goes and gets them. Part three is verify. It checks that every email is real before I send, so I skip the dead ends and the bounces. Wake

up to replies, not error messages. Part four is score. And this is the throw them out part I teased at the start. In the back end, it ranks each person zero to 100 on how well they actually fit what I asked for. Then it quietly removes the ones that don't. So, I'm

left with fewer people, but they're the right people. That's the whole trick. Fewer is better here, because I get to spend my time on the folks most likely to actually reply. Part five is right. It writes a personal first line and a short message for every single person using their name and their company. So,

I'm not sending the same copy-paste note to 100 strangers. Each one feels like it was written just for them, because in a way it was. Part six is send. And this part matters a lot, so listen up. It goes out through a separate inbox I set up just for this, kept completely away from my personal email. I tell you to do

the same. Keep it sandboxed. And nothing actually sends until I look at it and approve it. I stay in control the whole way through. This isn't some blast everyone spam machine. It's careful.

It's checked. And I'm the one who says go. And the whole thing sits in one clean dashboard inside my Agent OS. I can see who I've reached, how many went out, who replied, and everything gets sorted into simple groups: new, enriched, valid, contacted, replied. I can pause any of it. I can delete

anything that isn't a fit. It honestly feels like a proper app you'd sign up for, but it's just running quietly on Hermes inside my Agent OS. Now, here's why I keep everything inside Agent OS instead of a pile of separate tools, because the machine doesn't just find people and then forget them. It remembers. It keeps the whole picture in one place. So, the next time I run it,

it's smarter and faster than the last time. Let me give you a real example of how I use this. I used the Hermes Lead Machine to build out a whole outreach push for the AI Profit Boardroom. I described the exact kind of person who'd get the most from the AI Profit Boardroom. People already building with AI tools who want a room full of others doing the same. The machine went and

found them, checked the emails, scored them for fit, and wrote a personal opener for each one. Then I read through every message before a single thing went out. That's the kind of careful, targeted reach that brings the right people into the AI Profit Boardroom instead of random ones who'll never show up again. Here's another one. I ran this to reconnect with people who'd shown interest in the AI Profit Boardroom before, but never came all the way in. I

described that group, let the machine enrich and verify them, and it drafted a short, friendly note to each person by name. Everything sat in draft mode until I approved it. It's a simple, respectful way to point the right people back toward the AI Profit Boardroom without any spammy blasting, and without me writing a hundred notes by hand. Now, you might be thinking, "Okay, this is great for you, but would it even work for my kind of thing?" And the honest answer is, if you can describe the person you want to reach, it works.

Agencies, online stores, coaches, local services, whatever it is, you just change the sentence you type at the very start. That's the beauty of it. And you might also be thinking this all sounds too technical. It really isn't. Julian isn't a deep technical person, and he built this. You get the Agent OS, you

drop your Hunter key into the settings, you connect an email address, and that's basically it. The setup guide walks you through the rest step by step. And here's one I'd love to run next. I'd use the Hermes Lead Machine to find the right creators and communities that overlap with what we teach, describe them in a sentence, let it enrich and verify, and draft a genuine note introducing the AI Profit Boardroom. Done properly, that's how you get in front of exactly the people who'd actually want to be inside the AI Profit Boardroom in the first place. So, before

I wrap up, a few quick tips if you want to try this yourself. First, always use a separate inbox for your outreach agent kept away from your personal email. It keeps everything clean, and it's honest. People can tell it's a fresh channel. Second, let it verify before it sends.

That one step is what keeps you reaching real inboxes instead of dead ends, and it protects your good name. Third, keep the filter on. Fewer, better fit people beats a giant pile every time. Let the machine throw out the ones who don't match. Trust it. And fourth, keep the

whole thing running inside your Agent OS. That's the real answer to why do I even need Agent OS? On its own, a lead tool finds people and forgets them the second you close it. Inside Agent OS, Hermes remembers the whole picture, sorts it for you, and lets you manage what happens next all from one screen. That memory and that one place is the difference between a one-off trick and a system you actually keep using every week. And one honest note before I send

you off. This lead machine is still new. We've just built it and we're testing it as we go, but it works. I've shown you it working, and it's genuinely fun to use. That's the truth of where it's at.

If you want the full process, SOPs, and 100+ AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. Link's in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And if you're about to go build your own version of this, let me save you a a headaches. The first time you set up a lead machine, you'll hit little questions, which inbox to use, how to word that first sentence, how to connect Hunter, how to get Hermes running smoothly inside Agent OS, inside the AI Profit Boardroom. That's exactly

what we help you through. You get my full Agent OS as a ready-to-install zip file with the lead machine already built in, the 30-day roadmap to follow one step at a time, the tutorials to break down each part, ready-made prompts to describe your ideal people, and four coaching calls a week where you can ask anything and get unstuck fast. It's a room of over 4,000 people building this exact kind of stuff together. So, come join us and let's build it with you. Head to aiprofitboardroom.com.