---
video_title: "NEW Hermes Agent Update is AMAZING!"
video_id: AJHQjE2rODE
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AJHQjE2rODE
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  New Hermes Agent Update: One-Click Local AI Setup!
  
  Discover how the new Hermes update and Agent OS make running local AI agents easier than ever with a one-click setup. Learn to automate lead generation, content creation, and outreach while keeping your data private and secure.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:19 - The Struggle with Manual AI Setup
  01:09 - Hermes: Automated One-Click Install
  01:47 - Scaling with Agent OS
  02:28 - Why Local Privacy Matters
  03:15 - Accessing Pre-Built Agent Systems
  05:49 - Real-World AI Automation Tasks
  06:33 - The Future of Personal AI Helpers
---
New Hermes agent update is amazing. Today, we are talking about the new Hermes agent update. Hermes just made it super easy to run a smart AI helper right on your own computer. No hard steps, no confusing settings, just one click. Let's dive in. Now, here is the

cool part. In the past, if you wanted to run AI on your own computer, it was really hard. You had to pick the right AI model. You had to check if your computer was strong enough. You had to pick special settings with big scary names. Then you had to download files,

then set up more things, then hope it worked. Most people gave up before they even got it running. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian reads every single comment, so make sure you comment below. Imagine

trying to set this up the old way. Step one, which model do I even pick? Step two, how big is it? Step three, what is quantization? Step four, can my computer even handle this? Step five, how much

memory do I need? Step six, which engine do I use to run it? Step seven, how do I set it up right? Step eight, why is this so slow? That is the old way. It was a

headache. Now, here is what changed. Hermes desktop can now look at your computer all by itself. It checks what kind of computer you have, then it picks the best AI model for your machine. Not too big, not too small, just right for you. Then it downloads that model for

you. Then it sets everything up so it runs smoothly. You do not touch a single setting. Think about that for a second. Your computer used to have to ask you which model to use. Now, Hermes flips it

around. Hermes asks your computer what it can handle, then it picks for you. That is a huge shift. It removes the scary part. It removes the guessing.

Now, here is where I want to show you something. That kind of one click setup you just saw with Hermes, we already built our own version of that, and we made it even bigger. It's called Agent OS, and take a look at what's on your screen right now. This is our own Agent OS running live. It's not just one model getting set up. It's a full system of

agents already built for you. Think of it like a dashboard sitting on top of tools like Hermes, Claude, and Codex all working together. Instead of you learning how to prompt each tool separately, Agent OS already has the agents built. You just plug it in and press go. Here is what makes it different. With Hermes, you get one

smart model set up for you. With Agent OS, you get a whole team of agents already built for real jobs a business actually needs. There's an agent built for finding leads. There's an agent built for writing content. There's an agent built for outreach, so reaching out to potential customers. You are not

starting from a blank screen. You are starting with the work already done for you. Let's talk about why running your own agent system like this actually matters. First up, privacy. When you run agents on your own setup, your questions and your files can stay right there with you. They do not have to be sent off

somewhere else. For business owners handling client info, that really matters. Second, once it is set up, you are using your own system to run these agents instead of learning 10 different tools from scratch. Third, it can keep parts of it working without relying only on one single provider, since it is built across multiple tools like Hermes, Claude, and Codex. Fourth, you get way more control over how each agent works and what it does for your business. Now,

let's talk about why this matters for business owners like you. This is where things get exciting for anyone trying to grow using AI. Now, let's pause here because I want to tell you exactly how you can get this for yourself. If you want the exact Agent OS setup you just saw on your screen, you can get it inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We packed the whole thing into a ready-to-install zip file. It comes with

the preconfigured agents already built, so you are not starting from scratch and you are not spending hours figuring out settings. You literally get the same agent system I just showed you ready to install and use for your own business, whether that's finding leads, writing content, or reaching out to new customers. Come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom where we break down exactly how to use this Agent OS to save time and bring in more customers, and where you can grab that zip file for yourself. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book an SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. On that call, we will sit down and look at exactly where your content stands right now, what's holding you back from ranking, and where the biggest gaps are that are holding back your visibility. We will walk through

your current setup step by step, show you what to fix first, and explain how pairing that with AI automation like Agent OS can help more of the right people actually find you on Google. It's a simple, no-pressure conversation focused entirely on giving you a clear plan for your content and your rankings. Okay, let's keep going. Let's talk about why having agents already built for you matters so much. Bigger is not always better, and neither is doing everything from scratch. A huge pile of AI tools

you don't know how to connect can actually slow you down. A system where the agents are already built and already know their job can get you moving way faster. So, Agent OS handling the building for you is a big deal. It is not asking you to figure out 10 different tools on your own. It is already done. Picture this. If you are

just starting out, you can plug in the lead agent and start finding potential customers right away. If you already have content, you can plug in the content agent and start improving it immediately. If you want to start reaching out to people, the outreach agent is already built to help with that, too. You are not stuck wondering where to begin. Now, let's compare building this yourself with using Agent OS in a simple way. If you build it

yourself, you have to learn Hermes, learn Claude, learn Codex, and figure out how to connect them all. With Agent OS, that connection work is already done for you. If you build it yourself, you have to write your own agents from nothing. With Agent OS, the agents are pre-configured and ready to install. If you build it yourself, it can take a lot of trial and error. With Agent OS, you

get the whole system in one zip file. But even with a ready-made system like this, it is still not automatically going to run itself with zero effort from you. It really depends on what you plug it into and how you use it for your business. Still, having the heavy lifting already done for you is a massive head start. Now, let's talk about what you can actually do with a system like this because installing it is not the fun part. Using it is the fun

part. You could use it to help you write content for your business. You could use it to look through a folder of files and summarize the important parts. You could use it to research a topic and organize what it finds into simple notes. You could even set it up to run automatically like checking something every single morning without you touching it. Now, let's zoom out for a

second because I think this is actually a bigger story than just one update. For years, AI models have been getting smarter and smarter, but building a real system out of them stayed hard. That is exactly the gap Agent OS is built to close. The real question is not can we build agents with AI? We already could.

The real question is can regular people get a working agent system without spending months building it themselves? And that is exactly what Agent OS hands you. So, what is my final take on this? Setting up your own smart AI helper just got way easier and having a full system of agents already built for you takes it even further. This helps beginners who want to try AI agents. It helps business

owners. It helps anyone who wants more control over their tools. The biggest win here is the Agent OS removes the building and setup barrier completely. The biggest thing to remember is you still have to plug it into your own business to get the value out of it. We have spent years making AI models more powerful. Now, tools like this are

finally making them easier to actually use and easier to build into real systems for real businesses. That is a really exciting shift and I think we are going to see a lot more of this. Before you go, let's bring this back one more time. If you want the exact Agent OS setup I showed you on your screen today, you can get it inside the AI Profit Boardroom. It comes as a ready-to-install zip file with the agents already pre-configured covering things like lead generation, content, and outreach. So, you can plug it

straight into your business without building any of it from scratch. Come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom where where walk you through exactly how to use Agent OS to save time and bring in more customers. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book an SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We will get on a call, look closely at your current setup, and show you exactly where you're missing visibility right now. From there, we will map out a clear plan including where AI automation can fit in to help you save time and get more of the right eyes on your content. There is no

pressure. It is simply a chance for you to walk away with a real plan for growing your rankings and getting found by more customers. Drop a comment below and let me know, would you try installing your own Agent OS? Julian reads every comment, so let him know what you think. Thanks for watching, and I will see you in the next update.