---
video_title: "How to Rank #1 in ChatGPT (AI SEO Guide)"
video_id: KM1RiJW42w4
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KM1RiJW42w4
video_date: 2026-08-15T03:30:32+00:00
video_description: |
  Free SEO Course → https://go.juliangoldie.com/chat-gpt-prompts?utm=julian
  
  Charles Floate's X: https://x.com/Charles_SEO
  
  Charles Floate's LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/charlesfloate/
  
  ChatGPT SEO: How to Rank in AI Search (Charles Float Experiments)
  
  Learn how to dominate AI search results by understanding query fan-outs and ChatGPT's personalization algorithms. Expert Charles Float shares proven strategies for ranking in AI models, leveraging user-generated content, and optimizing for training data.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:51 - ChatGPT Personalization Deep Dive
  01:48 - What are Query Fan-outs?
  04:00 - Leveraging UGC & Social Media
  05:51 - Free vs Paid Model Rankings
  07:16 - How to Fix AI Hallucinations
  08:23 - PDF Strategy for Training Data
  12:08 - The Importance of Bing for AI SEO
---
So, today we're going to be talking about how to rank inside ChatGPT with AI SEO running through some of Charles Floats best experiments. He's an absolute AI master with this sort of stuff. >> Thank you. >> [laughter] >> And what sort of things you've been working on recently when it comes to ChatGPT AI SEO? >> Yeah, so we've been looking at a lot of the query fan outs and actually trying to make sure that we can get them from every single model. So, a lot of the

time right now, every time they release a new model, they're basically trying to make it harder and harder and harder to extract the query fan out. So, we're just trying to make sure that we have at least the ability every time to to extract them. And even if they change the technology, we can immediately go in and still extract them using another technique variation. So, we're trying to basically build like a library of techniques. And you know, if all 20 of them fail, we'll have to start from scratch. But right

now at least, you know, most of them are are working. Um from there, we're basically trying to see a lot of a lot of it right now is actually how ChatGPT personalizes things. So, we're seeing that ChatGPT and Gemini AI mode especially really heavily personalizes stuff. And this wasn't really the case a year and a half ago. You would Yes, you know, if you and I had very different memory contexts and things like that inside of ChatGPT and your chat.com, um

we might get different outputs. But those the difference in those outputs from now to then has gone astronomical. Like you get significantly different outputs for them personalization now than you would a year and a half ago. And it with AI AI mode, that's even more the case because of Google's personal intelligence. But with ChatGPT specifically, I think they realized how powerful personalization was. And

they've started over the last year and a half or so massively increasing uh the the difference and changes that you get from the output from personalization. >> Yeah, that makes sense. When it comes Some people will be watching this and they'll be like, "What are query fan outs? What does this mean? How does it relate to AI SEO?" So, basically, you're

looking at how ChatGPT searches and the searches underneath the the keywords that you type in. >> Exactly, yeah. So, as an example, like Google AI views are quite random with some of their profile notes, but ChatGPT is like a little bit more specific. So, they'll be like, if you search for, you know, back best accounting software in ChatGPT, it might look at and it will especially to do with your your memory context, like I was saying, it might actually search for best accounting software for small business owners in Plano, Texas. Just based on your own location and things like that, right? And it will go to like

really specific degrees. That massively changes the source the source pages your retrieved pages from the standard best accounting software query, right? Because that long-tail variant changes so much and they might use 12, 13, 16 different query fan outs to get all of these different pages together. You might get some really, really different pages. And as an example, I started looking at the link building niche for our own business, right? And a

lot of the query fan out for ChatGPT was bringing back TechCrunch radar pages, but they would be like Ahrefs review. But you're looking at link building services. >> Yeah, yeah, yeah. >> [laughter] >> In terms of the the query fan out, so that made me realize, oh, it's actually interpreting the context of the the query and it's modifying the relationship to another type of query, which is link building software, and thinking that it there's overlap and that there might be something good from this query to extract that might help this query, right? And but they in our heads, link building software and link building services are two different things and they and probably they should be fairly treated as two different things, but ChatGPT thinks that they are maybe shouldn't be and that you should be able to get some context from this to reinforce this is content.

>> Is this a problem with like ChatGPT doing the searching for you is that it hallucinates, it often gets search intent wrong and then it gives you the wrong answers back to you isn't it? That's a problem as well. The other thing that I saw, for example, Kyle Roof, he was presenting his page optimizer you know, page optimizer pro tool. And when he was looking at some of the query fan outs, it was like searching facebook.com.

>> Yeah. >> So, it's almost like >> Branded query fan out, yeah. >> Yeah, it's like almost like Facebook is a really good place to try and rank your content as well. >> I think I Yeah, I think it's I've seen a couple of site query branded queries basically query fan outs from it. And in accounting, it was a really weird one cuz I think it is ADP.com or

something like that, which is like a specific accounting software, which is crazy that like there's such a relationship between this software specifically and that query that they went to their specific fan out. >> they're the authority, let's go to >> Exactly, yeah, which I thought was really interesting. But with Facebook and all these like gigantic sites, I think it's because it's UGC. So, they're looking for that user generated conversation, that user generated content, that user generated information that might be fresher, a bit more interesting, like especially hobbyists versus experts tend to have a little bit different approaches to things. And the hobbyist might know, actually you can use this type of glue or something with this thing that the experts are like, oh no, you can never use that thing and stuff, right? So, we

found out that actually sometimes doing that additional UGC search does give you some different information back, and that's probably why I think ChatGPT, even maybe some of the other ones, are starting to to move towards that. And that's why they were all so reliant on like Reddit for so long as well. Cuz Reddit was the home of hobbyists essentially for the longest time. >> Yeah, the other thing I saw is like Facebook, Instagram, they're all getting pulled into this shorts carousel I see more and more often for for queries now. And it's even like pulling in LinkedIn shorts, which blows my mind.

>> I know, yeah. I I've I've started seeing like TikTok shorts and stuff as well. And like a couple of other ones, but yeah, I've seen LinkedIn videos get pulled in as well, and that is crazy. >> Crazy. >> Yeah, yeah.

>> We we even stopped posting videos on there cuz we thought, oh, nobody watches those. >> No, yeah, that makes sense. But apparently the AI's watching them. >> [laughter] >> The other thing I saw is like the there's there's a default there's a different model for free users, which is like the majority of ChatGPT. So, it's like there's like a billion users on ChatGPT. Most of them are free, and most

of them are on a different model, which means that it's not going to do it's not going to think about the query as much. It's like different results go to them, right? >> Yeah. And like I think even if you split it down to like the device they're on, it's like 90% are on a mobile. And then when they're using it to engage with ChatGPT, and that could potentially change sourcing and output and context and all sorts of things as well. So,

we've been trying to look at how it looks not logged in, incognito, logged in, personas. We have like all different kinds of things, and it is massively different. Like you do see gigantic differences in inquiry changes. And especially if you have like the the top tier ChatGPT account, sometimes it will go and find like 58 different sources and things and stuff. But the free one will find like four.

Just because it doesn't want to use so much token content. >> Yeah, that makes sense. How do people do a search or or find their rankings in ChatGPT? Cuz obviously if they're just logged in, ChatGPT being ChatGPT will just give you the answer that you want. >> Exactly, yeah.

>> How do you avoid that? >> It's it's difficult because it's that's almost like the like countering hallucinations almost in inside the models because it shouldn't output that, right? >> Yeah, yeah, [laughter] yeah, for sure. >> So, we we've just So, we've actually started using the agents. So, as an example, this is a a really good example. Um James Dooley in his AI

Overviews, I think I showed you this. His one of his brands was coming up with the wrong brand name. So, it wasn't it was just like completely uh what's I don't even know what the name is, but it was like making up a brand name for one of his brands. But it wasn't the brand name that it was, and we couldn't even backtrack where it had found this made-up name because there there was no made-up name on the internet. So, it just completely hallucinated this name. So, the way we

got it to not do that is we use negations, which is basically saying we are not this name on our pages. And we had to literally say this is our brand name, this is not our brand name, and it stopped the hallucination. And that was like the only way that we would get it to stop it is like telling it literally a negation what like we are not this. >> And if you explain it, does that just impact your search or it impacts many other people's search? >> No, so it can as an it can it impacts everybody's search cuz it's on your own website, right? So, it's what So, it's I

think it's twofold. So, it's whenever it retrieves the page, it can pull down oh, it's not this, and then it pulls it back in, and then eventually over time hopefully that gets into a training data if you push it into enough places. So, a lot of the one of the big settings we're doing at the moment is our PDF distribution. So, a lot of the AI companies or basically all the AI companies are just scraping PDFs nonstop. And so, if you can get onto the specific places where they're scraping from, we found that we can get into the training data for the next model just by kind of optimizing PDFs as well.

>> Any like tips to that or is that like >> Ah, you can join the school community [laughter] for that. >> All right, well, there you go. I mean, you can't reveal everything, so I understand that. Especially some things can't go out. But um what about, for example, if you're trying to rank a client and then you've got the training data that's stuck, how do you rank a client inside ChatGPT when it's set in training data but your client's putting pressure on you?

>> Yeah, so at the end you have if it if it just pulls from the training data, it doesn't pull retrieve. So, it doesn't search the web, it doesn't do any searches, it just uses its own training data for queries. And bear in mind, that's like 12% of all queries it does that. It it will not pull anything in externally, it'll only do an internal search. Unless you're in the training data, like you're screwed, right? Like

there's there's nothing you can do for those queries unless you can somehow force ChatGPT to update that query to start running searches, but you like you can't really. Um so, we've just started being like, okay, what how much of the data is being pulled from training sort data and how much is being pulled by retrieval data for all of our queries, right? And if it's like 90% training data, then we have to go down that route of trying to optimize for our training data. These are the queries, they're not pulling from fuel search. Here we can show you they're not pulling from fuel search. So it's only pulling from

training data. So we need to get in the training data. And unfortunately, that means the next round, the next model, the next update. And it might not even be the next model. It might be the model after that. Because of how long it takes

to actually train data. Because they probably already trained the next model that is going to release now. So you're going to be in the model afterwards that they're currently training. So you're going to get put picked up in that. And that's why it becomes a bit of an advantage, you know, like the earlier advantage that you have, the early you start, the the better advantage you have.

>> Yeah, yeah, that's it. You got to I mean, it's something to really think about now for any business. >> Yeah. >> Take it seriously, for sure, for sure. And also like the other thing is it's so easy right now compared to where I can imagine it will be in 5 or 10 years.

>> Yeah, 100%. I think that a lot of well, in I don't know what's going to happen in 5 or 10 years, I'll be honest. [laughter] I don't think anybody does in the the current state of AI. >> 40 comes out. >> Yeah, exactly, you know, it's going to be like Chat GPT 40 Pro XL, you know, >> [laughter] >> it's crazy, honestly. I I and also I

don't know like how technology is going to change. Are we still going to be using smartphones or is everything going to be using like smart glasses? I don't know, right? Probably not, but we don't actually know. So I'm just trying to kind of preempt where I see the technology moving towards. Um, and the

only thing you can do is, like I said, kind of start early and try and make the right decisions. Uh, as an example, we were running into a client that they kept on getting a competitor's page cited for like a lot of their own queries. And they were like, look, do you want to like negative SEO this page? Do you want to like do you want to remove it or something or something like that? And I was like, realistically, that's probably the worst thing you can do. Because that competitor is going to

go and see their page being attacked. They're going to see that, oh, it's because we mentioned you and they're going to build a hundred more pages with your name on it. It's like smashing you into the ground and then it's going to be picked up by a hundred more queries by ChatGPT. So, we're trying to kind of push them more towards okay, we can try and replace that page by getting better pages or pages that it prefers to cite for other queries but in your niche and things like that that have higher weighting and just try and it's actually bury down that page rather than allowing it to kind of, you know, be recited or or grow into this bigger problem than it can be. >> Yeah, that makes total sense. Sure. And

when you're doing AI SEO for ChatGPT, do you focus on backlinks? Is that something you worry about? >> Not really. We we try so we try and focus on um getting ranked in Bing because especially over like the last couple of months, Google's just 100% gone or reverted back to Bing. Plus it's like own uh indexing and and agent things itself but it's for when it's doing retrieval so it's mostly Bing now.

Um it was using some Google queries before but the SERP API thing I think kind of screwed them up a little bit and Open AI haven't gone back to using that apparently. Um so, we're trying to see how we can get ranked in Bing. And generally speaking, it's much much easier to rank in Bing than it is to rank in Google. And sometimes that might mean we go and build like a couple of PBN links or a couple of links to that page but most of the time because of how easy it is to rank in Bing, we just use that internal link and just use a couple of other bits and pieces to get it there. If we're having like one page getting cited but we're building probably like 500 pages across the campaign, do we want to be building links to every single page?

That's going to five times the cost of the campaign, you know? So, we're very targeted and it's mostly after the fact. If the page isn't ranking, then maybe we will build a link to it. Maybe we'll do that just to boost it up and try and get it indexed and try and get it ranked and stuff like that. >> Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. It is very

much like something you can control much more than Google now. >> Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. And I I also think that if if you're moving it it it it it all it does depend on your niche to be fair because like if you're an energy drink and you're competing versus Red Bull, they're like real world marketing, their ability to go in into every sports event, into all of these things. They

have professional athletes and celebrity sponsored by them and just constant PR, constant news, constant things. That's going to get picked up in the training data, you know, a thousand times whatever work that you can do for your own small little energy drink, right? Yeah. So, you have to be very specific going after more like even more niche than you would do with Google. So, you're trying to go and it might actually be the case that you're trying to optimize for the persona, like the ideal customer profile, rather than the query, which itself creates this whole new kind of strand of SEO or game of SEO that you have to be playing.

>> Yeah, that makes sense. You're going like after different queries and different quick keywords you would never normally go. Thanks so much, Charles, for being on. Appreciate [laughter] it. >> Thank you very much, Julian. It's been

awesome. >> We'll link to your Twitter and your link and your LinkedIn inside the description as well. >> Sounds good. Awesome. >> Appreciate your tips as always. Thank

you. >> Thank you.