---
video_title: "NEW Grok Imagine Update is ABSURD!"
video_id: 6hBQ2RklTaE
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6hBQ2RklTaE
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  New Grok Imagine Update: Use 14 References in One AI Video!
  
  Discover how the latest Grok Imagine update allows you to use up to 14 references to control faces, voices, and products with surgical precision. Learn how to move from just generating random clips to directing high-quality AI video for your business.
  
  00:00 - New Grok Imagine Update
  00:18 - The 14 Reference Upgrade
  00:51 - How the Tagging System Works
  01:56 - Real-World Business Workflows
  02:52 - Directing vs. Generating AI Video
  05:30 - Step-by-Step Testing Strategy
  06:01 - Important Setup & Limitations
  06:54 - Scaling Your Content with AI
---
New Grock imagine update is absurd. Today I'm going to show you something crazy. Grock just changed how AI makes videos forever. You can now give it 14 different things to remember and it turns all of that into one video. Stick around because this one is wild. And

today's update is a big one. It's called Grock Imagine and it just got a huge upgrade. You can now feed it up to 14 references in one single video. That means faces, voices, outfits, cars, products, all of it at the same time. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Let's back up for a second. Before this update, AI video was simple. You typed words. The AI guessed what you meant. Sometimes it got the

face right. Sometimes it didn't. Sometimes your character had two different faces in the same video. Annoying, right? Now, Grock flips that whole idea around. Instead of just

typing words and hoping, you can hand it real pictures. A picture of your character, a picture of their outfit, a picture of a car, a voice you want it to use, up to 14 of these at once. Then you write your prompt, and you tag each reference using the at symbol. Kind of like tagging a friend on social media, but you're tagging a picture instead. So your prompt might look something like this. Character one walks into the room

wearing outfit one. Character two is standing by the car. Use the voice from voice one. That's it. Grock takes all those pieces and builds one video out of them. Think about why that matters. Old

AI video was like asking someone to paint a picture using only your words. New AI video is like handing someone a stack of real photos and saying, "Put these together into a movie. Which one do you think turns out better?" Yeah, the second one. Now, here's where I want to slow down because I don't want to make this sound more magic than it is.

More references does not mean it's perfect every single time. Sometimes references can clash with each other. Complex scenes are still harder than simple ones. You still need to write a good prompt. This is a new tool, not a mind readader. I'll come back to that in

a bit, but I wanted to be upfront with you first. All right, let's talk about why this is actually useful, especially if you run a business. Picture this. You want to make a quick promo video for something you're selling. Old way, you type a prompt, cross your fingers, and hope the AI understands your product.

New way, you give Grock a picture of your actual product, a picture of your logo, maybe a voice you like, and a location. Then you write one simple line. Show the product being used in a clean, modern space with the logo visible and use the voice for the narration. That's a real workflow you could use today. A little while back, Grock Imagine only let you use a handful of image references. Then it grew into

something bigger called Grock Imagine Video 1.5. That version added text to video, image to video, higher resolution video, voice references, and even sound that matches the video, like dialogue and background noise. So this 14 reference update isn't some random surprise. is the next step in a pattern.

Grock keeps handing creators more control, one update at a time. And that's honestly the biggest story here. AI video is moving away from just generating something random. It's moving toward directing. Old I Video said, "Tell me what you want and I'll guess."

New I Video says, "Show me what you want and I'll build it exactly how you pictured it." Now, let's hit pause for a second because I want to give you two things that can actually help you use tools like this the right way. Now, tools like Grock Imagine are cool, but here's the truth. A tool is only as good as the person using it. You could have the most powerful AI video tool on the planet. And if you don't know how to

actually plug it into your business, it just sits there looking impressive and doing nothing for you. That's exactly why we built the AI profit boardroom. Inside, we don't just talk about AI tools. We actually show you step by step how real business owners are using them. We break down the workflows, the prompts, the automations, and the exact process for taking something like Grock Imagine and turning it into content that actually brings in more customers. You

get access to a community of people doing this alongside you, so you're never stuck trying to figure it out alone. If you've been watching AI update after AI update and thinking, "Okay, but how do I actually use this in my business?" That's exactly the gap the AI profit boardroom fills. We take the confusion out of AI automation and turn it into a simple, repeatable system you can use to save time and grow. So, if that sounds like where you want to be, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom and let's start putting tools like this to work for you. And here's

the thing, none of these AI tools matter if people can't actually find your content in the first place. You can make the most impressive AI video in the world using every single one of those 14 references, and if it's buried on page 10 of Google, nobody ever sees it. all that effort wasted. So, if you want help making sure your content, your videos, and your business actually get found online, book a free SEO strategy session with my team. It's completely free.

There's no pressure, and it's just a simple, honest conversation where we look at exactly where your content stands right now, and walk you through the clearest path forward from there. We'll show you what's working, what's holding you back, and what to focus on next. Just use the link in the description to grab your spot and get on the calendar. Okay, back to it. Let's talk about how this update fits into the bigger picture of where Grock Imagine has been heading. Let's talk about who

this actually helps. If you make videos for your business, this means more consistent characters, so your brand doesn't look different in every single clip. If you sell products, this means your product can actually look like your product, not some random AI version of it. If you're building an online community or brand like something similar to the AI profit boardroom, this means you can create promo content that actually shows your real brand colors, your real message, and your real voice. Now, let's talk about testing this the smart way because I don't want you to just believe hype. I want you to

actually try it yourself. Start small. Try two references first. See how it handles that. Then try five, then try 10, then push it all the way to 14 and see what happens. Watch for things like,

does the character stay the same? Does the voice match? Does the product look right? This is the kind of testing that separates people who just watch AI updates from people who actually use them to grow. And here's an open loop for you because I want you to keep watching. In a second, I'm going to give

you one more prompt idea that ties everything together. One that you could literally copy today and try for your own business. So, don't go anywhere yet. Let's talk about the catch because every update has one. More references means more setup time. You have to actually

gather good images and voice samples. If your references are low quality, your final video will be low quality, too. Garbage in, garbage out. That rule never changes, no matter how advanced the AI gets. Also, keep in mind that availability of features can vary depending on your account or platform.

So, don't be surprised if some people have access before others. But even with those catches, this is still a big step forward because now, instead of hoping the AI understands your vision, you're actually showing it your vision. That's a completely different way of creating content. So, here's the simple way to think about all of this. Old AI video, you describe it and hope. New AI video,

you show it and direct it. And 14 references is just proof of how far that idea can go. If you're someone who's trying to use AI to actually grow a business, save time, and bring in more customers, this is exactly the kind of tool worth learning early while most people are still just watching from the sidelines. So, let's bring this home. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, this is exactly what we cover inside the AI profit boardroom. It's a community built

for people who want to use AI automation the smart way, not just play around with it. We break down real tools, real workflows, and real ways to save time and bring in more customers so you're not stuck trying to figure everything out on your own. If that sounds like something you need, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom today. And if you want help making sure your content, your videos, and your business actually get found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team. It's completely free. It's simple, and it's a

chance for us to look at exactly where you're at and help you map out your next steps. Just click the link in the description to book your session. Julian reads every single comment. So, drop yours below and let me know. Would you actually use 14 references in one video, or does that sound like too much? I'll

see you in the next update.