---
video_title: "NEW Orbis 1.0 Live Model is MIND BLOWING! 🤯"
video_id: 63rmU6eSuo8
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=63rmU6eSuo8
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Visko Orbis 1.0: This AI Creates Worlds, Not Just Videos
  
  Discover Orbis 1.0, the revolutionary live model AI from Visko that allows you to control and steer video worlds in real-time. Learn how this tool uses persistent memory and sub-second latency to redefine AI automation and content creation.
  
  00:00 - Intro to Orbis 1.0
  00:45 - What is a Live Model?
  01:22 - Steering Your AI World
  02:02 - Fixing the AI Memory Problem
  03:42 - Real-World Physics in AI
  04:52 - Tech Specs: 4K & Real-Time Performance
  05:26 - The Future: Robots & Interactive Media
  07:08 - Final Thoughts & Future Outlook
---
New Orbit 1.0 live model is mindblowing. Today I'm going to show you a brand new AI tool that doesn't just make a video. It makes a whole world you can control while it's still running. This thing is new. This thing is huge and it's so easy

to use. Stay with me because by the end of this video, you're going to see something that changes how you think about AI forever. This is Orbit 1.0. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Today, we're talking about Orbit 1.0. It's a brand new tool from a company called Visco, and it just launched. This one is wild. So, let's

get into it. Here's the big idea. Most AI video tools work like this. You type a prompt, you wait, you get a finished video clip, that's it, done. But works totally different. You type a prompt,

and a world starts. Then that world just keeps going. And while it's going, you can jump in and change it. You can say, "Show a business owner buried in manual work." And it shows that. You can say,

"Now bring in AI profit boardroom automations to clear it all up." And the world shows exactly that. The world keeps remembering everything that happened before. Visco calls this a live model. It's not a video. It's a living

world that keeps running. So here's the coolest part. You can change the prompt after the world has already started. Picture this. You type a small business owner sitting at a messy desk buried in emails and missed leads. the world

starts building itself. Then while it's still going, you type now show AI profit boardroom automations stepping in and sorting the leads automatically and it happens. Then you type now show new customers booking calls overnight and it shows that then the business owner walks away from the desk relaxed because the automation is handling it and it plays out right there. You didn't make four separate videos. You steered one world the whole way through telling the whole story of what AI automation can do for a business. That's brand new. Nobody else

is doing this the same way. Now, let's talk about the memory problem because this is a big deal. Normal AI video has an issue. The longer the video goes, the more it starts to break. Characters change how they look. Objects vanish.

Colors shift. It gets messy fast. Orbit fixes this with something called a memory system. It remembers the people, the scene, and the style, even hours into the generation. Visco's own report shows tests running for 60 seconds, 600 seconds, and even a full hour without the world falling apart. That's a huge

deal if you've ever tried making longer AI videos before. And get this, when you type a new instruction while the world is running, it shows up in under one second. That's almost instant. You're basically having a live conversation with a video. Now, stick with me because in a second, I'm going to show you exactly how this connects to growing your own business with AI. But first,

let's talk about how this thing actually thinks. If you're watching a tool like Orbit and thinking, "Okay, this is cool, but how do I actually use AI to grow my business?" That's exactly why we built the AI profit boardroom. Inside, we walk you through real AI automations step by step so you can save time, get more customers, and get more leads without needing to be a tech expert. We show you what tools like this actually mean for your business and how to put them to work the right way. If you're serious

about using AI to grow, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. And while AI tools like Orbit can help you create amazing content, none of that matters if people can't actually find you on Google. So, if you want help getting your content seen, ranked, and bringing in more traffic, book a free SEO strategy session with my team. It's completely free. There's no catch, and my team will walk you through exactly what's holding your visibility back right now. Just grab your spot using the

link in the description. Okay, let's keep going because there's more to this than just cool videos. Orbit also tries to understand real world physics. So instead of just guessing what the next frame should look like, it tries to figure out what should actually happen next. Like if you're showing a business owner setting up an AI automation from something like the AI profit boardroom, it doesn't just copy what clicking a mouse looks like. It tries to follow how

it would actually work, like the automation triggering step by step and leads moving through the system in the right order. This matters a lot if you're thinking bigger than just making cool clips. Here's another way you could use this inside something like the AI profit boardroom. Let's say you want to show new members what it actually looks like when a business switches from doing everything by hand to running on AI automation. You start the world with a business owner manually replying to every single customer message. Then

while it's running, you add now show AI profit boardroom automation handling those replies instantly. Then you keep guiding it, showing the leads coming in, getting sorted and turning into booked customers all inside one continuous world. You're not just making one flat video. You're showing a full story that changes as you guide it. And that's a powerful way to show people exactly why AI automation matters for their business. Now, let's talk specs because

these numbers are impressive. Orbit can output real-time 4K video at 24 frames pers. It's built for our scale generation, meaning it's designed to keep going way longer than normal AI video tools. It supports prompt switching while it's running, like we just talked about. Now, here's something worth knowing so you get the full picture. The core engine actually

creates video at a lower resolution first, then a second system boosts it up to 4K while it streams. That's still really impressive, but it's good to know how it actually works under the hood. So, why does any of this matter beyond just making cool videos? Because Visco isn't just thinking about video creation. They're thinking bigger.

They're talking about training robots inside these AI generated worlds before those robots ever touch the real world. Think about that for a second. A robot company could test how a robot moves, reacts, and handles objects, all inside a generated world first. That's a massive use case beyond entertainment. Beyond robots, Visco is also pointing at other places this could go. Things like

games that don't follow one fixed path, interactive lessons for students, interactive shopping experiences, movie scenes that keep evolving, live streams that keep generating in real time, and characters or companions that change and grow over time. Now, I want to be clear here. These are areas Visco says this tool could be used for. Some of these are already shown in demos and some are future possibilities they're pointing at. So don't take this as all of this already exists everywhere. It's still

early days. Now I have to give you the honest side of this too because that's how we do things here. Most of the performance numbers and comparisons come from Visco's own testing. So when you hear claims about it beating other tools, remember that's their own report talking, not some outside judge. That doesn't mean it's not impressive. It

clearly is, but it's smart to keep that in mind. Also, unbounded length doesn't mean it can run forever with zero mistakes on any topic. It means the tool is built and designed to keep generating continuously. It's still a brand new model, so there's going to be more testing and more real world use before we know its true limits. Now, picture the demo we started with, that business owner buried in emails. By the end,

you've brought in the automation, sorted the leads, booked the customers, and the world remembered every single change along the way. That's not just making a video anymore. That feels more like controlling a simulation. So, here's the real question I want to leave you with. Would you rather use AI that just makes videos or AI that makes entire worlds you can control? Drop your answer in the

comments because Julian actually reads them and I want to know what you think. Orbit 1.0 Zero might be one of the very first tools where AI video stops being a flat clip and starts becoming something you actually live inside. You're not just telling it what to make. You're giving it a world and then you get to keep shaping it. And if this is what's

happening now, just imagine where this goes next. Make sure you're subscribed so you don't miss it when it does. And look, tools like Orbit show you just how fast AI is moving right now. If you want to make sure your business is actually keeping up and using AI the right way, come join us inside the AI profit boardroom. Inside, we show you real AI automations you can put to work step by step so you can save time, bring in more customers, and grow your leads without getting lost in all the new tools coming out every week. We keep you updated, and

we keep it simple. And if part of your growth plan is getting found online, then don't skip this next part. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team. It's completely free. There's zero pressure, and we'll show you exactly what's working right now to get your content ranked and seen. Just click the

link in the description and grab your free session.