---
video_title: "Claude AI SEO FREE Course: Rank #1 FAST!"
video_id: lIe8-KSzvG0
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lIe8-KSzvG0
video_date: 20260815
video_description: |
  Free SEO Course → https://go.juliangoldie.com/chat-gpt-prompts?utm=julian
  
  Full FREE Claude AI SEO Course (2026): Rank in Google AI Overviews, Automate Publishing & Get More Clicks
  
  This free Claude AI SEO course explains a system that turns spoken screen recordings into SEO articles, publishes and indexes them automatically, and aims to get cited in Google AI Overviews/AI Mode. The script shows examples of sites growing from zero to 358, 150, 35, and 16 clicks per day, with some articles ranking in about 12–14 hours, and argues Claude’s advantage is instruction-following and voice absorption. It cites Google guidance that ranking is based on quality and EEAT, while spam updates target scaled, unhelpful content, emphasizing “information gain” from real case studies and strict fact-tracing. It teaches a keyword method using Google autosuggest, People Also Ask, fresh “newness” keywords, and Search Console impression/no-click gaps, then outlines a 13-step quality-control skill, automation via Claude Code for WordPress/Netlify, indexing via Indexceptional, schema, multi-site publishing, distribution to Reddit/LinkedIn, and a weekly Search Console improvement loop with a 30-day roadmap.
  
  00:00 Course Promise and Results
  01:23 Roadmap of Modules
  02:53 Why Claude Wins SEO
  04:58 Google on AI Content
  08:14 EEAT and Information Gain
  10:54 Why SEO Changed in 2026
  15:07 Goldie Loop Framework
  16:35 Keyword Strategy Basics
  17:50 Free Keyword Sources
  22:06 Clustering and Intent
  24:43 Search Console Keyword Gaps
  26:02 Competition and Volume Myths
  30:52 Content Workflow Overview
  33:15 Video to Article System
  36:54 Claude Desktop Project Setup
  37:29 Master Prompt Rules
  39:55 Live Demo Workflow
  41:49 Skills and Publishing Setup
  44:15 Why AI Needs QC
  45:39 Case Study Source Truth
  47:16 Intent to Draft Steps
  49:08 Keywords Links Conversions
  51:44 Readability Fact Check Loop
  53:17 Run the Skill Live
  55:52 Automation With Claude Code
  58:04 Indexing and Fast Rankings
  01:00:59 Multi Site Scaling
  01:03:08 Agent OS Dashboard
  01:04:45 Getting Cited in AI
  01:08:28 Distribution Shortlist Stacking
  01:10:22 Weekly Search Console Loop
  01:12:06 Realistic SEO Timeline
  01:14:23 Final Recap and Next Steps
---
This is the full free Claude AI SEO course. By the end of this video, you'll have an AI system that writes your articles, publishes them for you, and gets your website into Google's AI answers all whilst you sleep. This exact system took one of my sites from 0 to 38 clicks a day. And some of my articles are ranking within like just 14 hours. I'll show you examples of that later in this video. You don't need to be up to

code. You don't need any SEO experience. If you can talk, you can do this. And there's absolutely one thing you have to do before you publish anything or Google will not rank your content. I'll show you that, too. So, stick with me to the

end and let's get into it. So, here's an example where we've done this. You can see it went from 0 to 358 clicks per day. Here's another example. This website went from 0 to 150 clicks per day. Here's another example. Went

from 0 to 35 clicks a day. Here's another example. Went from 0 to 16 clicks a day. And if you look at them, they're all following the same trajectory, which is they're growing over time. They're improving over time.

They're getting more and more rankings over time, which is fantastic. And also, you can see, for example, if we look at a keyword like this inside the AI overviews, we are ranking directly with my AI profitable board and community. You can see it's ranking here as well. We're ranking multiple times on the first page of Google as well. Like you can see with my website here. So this

process, it works not just for Google rankings, but also for ranking inside AI. So that is the destination. Now, let me show you the road. This course runs in order, and each part builds on the one before it. So, first we're going to talk about why Claude specifically beats every other AI model for SEO and the truth about whether Google actually ranks AI content straight from Google's own published guidance. Then, the

keyword system, and this is where you'll learn to find search terms you can actually win, including a free source of keywords most SEOs completely ignore. Then, the heart of the course, Mag Content Workflow, which starts with a video instead of a blank page. and the 13step quality control skill that checks every article before it goes live and then upgrades itself after every batch. From there, we're going to run on to automation and the automation layer with Claude code publishing straight to our websites like WordPress and Netlify pushing Google to index our content within hours and running across five different websites which I've shown you today. And also we're going to talk about the AI search module as well, which is where I show you what actually gets cited inside Google AI mode and AI reviews. And finally, distribution

tracking. So, finally, a 30-day road map that sequences everything into daily tasks. And this is everything I use. It's also all packaged inside my free SEO course, the master prompt, the 13step skill breakdown, the keyword prompts, the setup guides, the screenshots, the 30-day road map as a document you can follow, too. So, that's all inside the free SEO course link in the comments description or go to.com

if you want everything that I'm talking about today. I've helped over 3,700 members inside the air profit boardroom and stuff like this. So I know this stuff actually works and I've tested it for my own websites as well. So let's come on to part one. Why claw? So not

all writing is equal and you already know this from your own reading. You've probably landed on AI written pages before. You can feel them. Vague openings that circle the topic for like four paragraphs before saying anything. Words that no human being uses in normal conversation and content that technically answers your question while somehow teaching you nothing. You bounce

off those pages in seconds. And Google measures that bounce. Now, Claude writes closer to how a real person writes, shorter sentences, natural rhythm, actual structure. But the deeper reason Claude wins for SEO comes down to one specific ability. And it's something that nobody else really talks about, which is following instructions. So,

good SEO content has to obey a lot of rules at the same time. The keyword needs to appear in the first line. The keyword needs to appear in the headings naturally without sounding forced. There needs to be an FAQ section built from real questions people search. The metad description has to sell the click inside a strict character limit. Internal links

need to point to your other pages. The tone has to stay conversational the whole way through. And a list of robotic filler words need to stay out completely. Now picture a human trying to do that. It would be a total nightmare. They manage maybe half the

rules in article one, but by article 3, they've forgotten most of them. By article 10, they're freestyling. And I know because I've managed so many writers for years in my agency. So Claude holds every rule on every article forever, which means that article three 100 and article one come out equally sharp. There's a second ability that matters just as much for this specific system. So Claude can absorb your voice.

Later in this course, I'll show you that and how I do that and train Claude to do this. So claw can basically take my spoken words, keep my phrasing, keep my opinions, keep my little tangents in check and shape them into a structured article. So the result reads like me on my best day. Most AI content sounds like everyone. This content sounds like you.

So that difference shows up in how long people stay on the page and Google notices how long people stay. Now let's deal with the fear because it's sitting probably in your mind right now and if we don't handle it, it will quietly stop you forever from publishing. So, you might be thinking that Google actually publishes AR content, but it doesn't. And I'm not going to ask you to take my word for it because this comes down from Google's own official Search Central blog, the place where Google publishes it rules for websites. So, in February 2023, Google put out a post called Google Search Guidance about AI generated content. In it, Google states

that its ranking systems reward original high-quality content showing expertise, experience, authoritiveness, and trustworthiness. and then Google writes it in its own words. That's its focus. So, it's really focused on the quality of content rather than how content is produced. And that part is worth repeating slowly. The quality of

content, not how it was produced. Google even offered a comparison from its own history in that same post about a decade earlier. There were real concerns about a flood of like mass-produced human written content. And nobody thought Google should respond by like wiping out human content. And the same logic applies to AI today. This is Google's

published position and you can read the post yourself on their search central blog. So what does Google actually punish for that? Look at Google's spam policies and its March 2024 spam update. That update named the target directly scaled content abuse, meaning high volume pages created mainly to manipulate rankings instead of helping readers. Thin pages with no new information, autogenerated pages with no human review or factchecking. And Google

spam policies apply that rule no matter how the content was made. So human written spam and AI generated spam face identical consequences. Read that rule carefully and notice what it means for you. Google doesn't care who typed the rules. Google cares about whether the page helps a person searching. So

unhelpful human content gets buried. Helpful AI content ranks. And one more detail from Google's guidance that surprises people. There's no actual ranking penalty for mentioning AI was involved. So if you don't mention the AI was involved in your content, there's no rank and penalty. The judgment happens

on quality alone. So Google even publishes the exact questions it wants you to ask about your own pages inside it helpful content guidance. So for example, does the content provide original information reporting or research? Does it provide substantial value compared to other pages in the results? Would someone leave feeling like they've had a satisfying experience? Keep those three questions

in your head because every module of this course is engineered to make your pages answer yes to all of them. Um, my search console graph proves it. So, every article behind that climb to 358 clicks a day was written with claude. Google crawled them, index them, ranked them, and now sites them in its AI answers. If Google punished AR content, that graph would be flat. But notice the

trap hiding inside Google's rule because this is where most people using AI for SEO fail. The punishment target is unhelpful content at scale. And what does a chatbot produce when you, for example, type like, "Write me an article with no other input? Very unhelpful content. Generic, average, empty." Scale

that up and you've built exactly the thing that Google's March 2024 update was written to catch. So, the input was always a problem, never the tool. Hold on to that because my entire content workflow exists to fix the input, and you'll see how in part two of the course. Which brings me to EAT. And I promise this is the last piece of SEO jargon in this course and I'm only teaching it because it quietly decides who rankings. It comes from Google's own

search quality raterelines. The handbook Google gives thousands of human raers. It pays to evaluate search results. So it stands for experience, expertise, authoritiveness, and trustworthiness. Four words, but let me make each one concrete. So experience means you've

actually done the thing you're writing about. Not researched it, but done it. So expertise means you know the subject deeply enough to be accurate. Authoritiveness means other places on the internet point to you as a source and trustworthiness means the page is honest. The claims check out and there's a real person behind it. EAT isn't a direct ranking

factor on its own. But content that excels at it is far more likely to perform well because Google keeps tuning its systems to reward trustworthy content. And on the AI question specifically, Google's current guidance draws the line clearly. AI can draft the content, but a human has to supply the real experience and judgment. Now, experience is the E that changes everything for this course. Because

here's the beautiful problem with it. An AI has no experience. It has never run a website, never watched a keyword climb, never had a Google update shake its rankings, which means experience is the one ingredient the AI actually can't fake and your competitors can't copy. So it has to come from you. So my entire system is built around one rule. Every

article gets built on a real case study. My real [snorts] search console screenshots for example. My real numbers, my real results from real sites, including the failures. The AI writes the words, but every fact traces back to something that actually happened. SEOs have a name for this.

It's called information gain, and it means your page adds something new to the internet instead of repeating what's already there. Let me show you what that looks like in practice. When I published about using OpenClaw for SEO, I didn't just summarize what OpenClaw is. Anyone can get that anywhere. My content showed what actually happened when it connected to my WordPress site. The real setup,

the real publishing results, the settings that didn't work. So, no other page on the internet could contain that because it didn't happen to anyone else. And Google takes this seriously enough that it holds a granted patent describing a system for scoring information gain, measuring how much new information a page adds beyond what the searcher has already seen. So Google literally engineered a way to detect newness. Generic AI content has zero information gain, which is why it flops.

Content built on your lived experience is soaked in it, which is why it ranks. This single idea runs through every module head, so keep it in your pocket. Now, let me show you why this whole course matters right now in 2026 specifically because search is being rebuilt whilst we speak and the numbers are honestly dramatic. So, sources named for every single one. Start with the size of the prize from Google itself. In

an official blog post, Google disclosed that it now handles more than 5 trillion searches per year. The first time it shared that figure since 2016 when the number was 2 trillion. That works out to be roughly 14 billion searches every single day. The demand hasn't shrunk. People are searching more than ever in history. What changed is what happens

after they search. And here's what changed. So Seamrush actually found that 58.5% of Google searches in the US now end without a single click to any website. That's more than half of all the searches. So a user asks, Google

answers right on the results page and nobody visits anyone. Spark Toro the research firm run by Rand Fishkin one of the most respected names in search tracked this across 2024 to 2026 found the share of searches producing a click at all dropped by about 23%. Why AI answers and look at how fast this grew because the speed is a story too. Semrush tracked AI overviews appearing on 6.49% of searches in January 2025 by March 13% by July roughly 25%. Pew

Research Center measured them at roughly one in five searches and a conductor study of almost 22 million searches found coverage climbing toward nearly half of all queries by joining 2026. The exact number moves depending on the study, but every serious source agrees on the direction up fast and a feature that touched one search in 20 grew toward one in two in about a year. Not only that, when an AI answer appears, the old results underneath it get crushed. Seir Interactive studied this and found organic click-through rates dropped 61% from 1.76% down to 0.61% on searches where an AI

overview showed up. HFS, one of the biggest SEO data companies in the world, measured the same thing by December 2025. The presence of an AI overview correlated with a 58% lower click-through rate for the top ranking page. Two independent studies, two of the most trusted data companies in search, landing within three points of each other. Pew Research also found people are more likely to end their browsing session entirely after a search with an AI summary. 26% versus 16%

without one. So, the searcher gets the answer and leaves. And the new front door is growing fastest of all. Google announced that IO 2026 that AI mode passed 1 billion monthly users with query volume more than doubling every quarter. AI overviews themselves have passed 2.5 billion monthly users across

more than 200 countries and 40 languages according to Google's own numbers. So most website owners hear all of that and reach a simple conclusion. SEO is finished. Why would you fight for a click that's disappearing? but they're reading the data backwards because here's the number they never see and it comes from Seactives 2026 analysis.

Brands that get cited inside AI views earn about 120% more organic clicks per impression than brands that don't get cited on the exact same searches. So, the traffic didn't vanish, it moved. It moved up into the AI answers and the small group of sites feeding those answers is winning bigger than the old page one winners ever did. whilst everyone else fights harder for a shrinking pile of ordinary clicks. Picture the results as a building. The

ground floor, the classic blue links, is getting crowded and the ceiling is dropping. But a new floor open on top, almost nobody has moved up there yet because almost nobody knows what the AI actually sites. And the purpose of this entire course is to build your content for that top floor from day one. And unlike the old SEO game, the top floor is not like first come forever. It refreshes constantly, which means late starters like you get chances the old game never gave them. And I'll prove

that data in the AI search module. So you now know why Claude, why AR content ranks, and why 2026 is the moment. Here's the full map of the system before we go deep. So you always know where you're at. I call it the goldie loop. So

six stages. Generate, optimize, launch, distribute, index, evolve. Generate is finding keywords and creating content with Claude. That's the raw material entering the machine. Optimize is the 13step quality control skill checking and shaping every article. So nothing

generic and nothing false ever reaches your website. Launch is publishing to WordPress or to netleify which claude code eventually handles without you touching a login screen. And then distribute is spreading that same content across the other platforms Google indexes because your website is only one of the places you can rank. Index is pushing Google to crawl your new pages within hours instead of weeks. It's the mechanical secret behind that 14-hour ranking I was talking about before. And evolve is the weekly loop

where your search console data feeds the winners back into the machine and the skill file literally upgrades itself. Keyword goes in one end, rankings, traffic, and leads come out the other. And I'm handing you this map up front for a deliberate reason. The thing that stops most people of SEO was never difficulty. It's overwhelm. There's

always another tactic, another tool, another expert contradicting the last one. You start, then it gets overwhelming and then you quit. Forget all of it. There are six stages. You now know every six. And every single thing

in the rest of this course is just detail inside a stage you already understand. If you feel lost at any point, come back to the loop. Generate, optimize, launch, distribute, index, evolve. So, let's start with stage one. Generate. And we start with keywords

because if you get keywords wrong, nothing downstream can rescue. You can write the best article on the internet, run it through perfectly quality control, publish it flawlessly, and still get zero traffic because you aimed at a keyword you can never win. Keywords are the aim. Everything else is a shot. The mistake almost everyone makes is chasing giant keywords. When people in

my space start out, they target things like SEO or AI tools or something relevant to them like that. And it feels logical, but big keywords, big traffic, have millions of pages to compete for those terms. owned by sites with 15 years of authority, mountains of backlinks, and full-time teams. Your new site will not outrank them this year, probably not next year either. So, we don't go after those competitive keywords at all. We go around them. We

hunt for low competition keywords, specific, fresh, overlooked search terms, where the competition is thin or missing entirely. And before I show you how, here's the single most encouraging statistic in all of SEO, and it comes from Google's own data. About 15% of the searches Google sees every single day have never been typed before. Ever. 15% of 14 billion daily searches. Billions

of brand new questions every day. The no keyword tool is ever recorded and no competitor is ever targeted. The supply of winnable keywords literally never runs out. Your only job is knowing where to look. Now, my favorite place to look costs nothing. It's free and is already

open on your computer. Google autosuggest. So for example, we can go into Google like this and I can type a seed keyword from my niche. So let's say for example claude AI SEO. Before I even press enter, Google drops down a list of suggested searches. Now understand what

that drop down actually is because most people scroll past it every single day without seeing or understanding it. Those suggestions are real searches typed by real people recently in enough volume that Google predicts you might want them to. Google was reporting phrases people actually typed, which means Google was handing you its own live search data free before you've even finished typing. Now, the alphabet trick. So, if I type, for example, Claude SEO A, the dropown refreshes with a new batch of suggestions starting with A, then Claude SEO B, another batch C, and then D. So, work through the

alphabet on one C keyword and you'll pull dozens of real search terms in 10 minutes. Then scroll to the bottom of any page results and you can actually get a bunch of related searches down there too. It's the same source, same quality but also free. So we can see a bunch of relevant keywords that we could go for over here too. And there's a third source sitting right on the results page that most people scroll past. So the people also search and also

ask for box those expanding questions in the middle of Google search results. Every one of them is a real question pulled from real search behavior. And here's a trick. Click one open and Google loads more questions underneath it. By the way, here's us ranking again.

So, you can keep clicking through. You can pull 15 or 20 real questions on your topic in 2 minutes. Save every every single one because they do double duty on the system as well. The keywords to target and later they become your FAQ sections. The exact questions your articles will answer phrased exactly the way people ask them. So, when the

questions in your article matches the questions in Google's own box, word for word, you've made Google's job effortless. remember that box. It comes back in a big way in the AI search module. And in my niche, the single biggest keyword that I like to go for because in my niche, for example, we're talking about tools all the time. And you can do this and apply it to your industry, too, is newness itself. So, if

you remember Google's 15% stat, new tools create new keywords and new keywords have no competition because no one has built pages for them yet. So, for example, when OpenClaw blew up this year, the keyword openclaw AICO was days old. Nobody had a dedicated page for it. publish one and it ranked because I was racing against almost nobody. Same happened when, for example, Claude co-work dropped. A whole cluster of

fresh new co-work keywords appeared overnight. Thousands of people suddenly searching phrases that didn't exist the week before. And my sites got there first. Every month in AI, new tools ship, new models drop, new features launch, each new question appears, and each one opens a door that stays wide open for a few weeks before the big sites wake up. and whatever niche you're in, this exact pattern exists. So, new

products in your industry, new rules and regulations, new features in your customers that are googling because they have questions. So, fresh keywords come out every single day constantly, and your job is simply to be there first. Later in this course, you'll see how my system publishes on a brand new keyword within hours of it appearing. And that speed is precisely how a small site beats a site with 100 times the authority. And there's hard data on why longer question style keywords matter even more than they did a few years ago.

So Pew Research Center found that AI summaries appeared in 60% of searches starting with questions like who, what, when, or why. Pew also found 36% of searches written as full sentences produce an AI summary. Meanwhile, Seir Interactive analyzed 49,000 searches in April 2026 and found single word queries trigger AI overviews only 27% of the time. And people are changing how they search the match. Industry tracking of Google's own AI mode disclosures show query length roughly tripled in a year.

People now type full questions, full census into Google the way they're taught to a person. So if you connect all these dots, these specific long style searches are exactly where Google's AI answers live and they're exactly the searches growing the fastest. So when you target them, you're building content in the expanding part search whilst your competitors keep brawling over the shrinking part. Now let's talk about keywords because harvesting keywords by hand gets slow. So this is where Claude takes over. I

can copy my keywords by hand. The auto suggest results from before and the people also ask questions. Paste them all into Claude and ask it to expand the list into clusters. A cluster is a group of related keywords all within one topic. So for example, Claude AI SEO becomes the setup questions, the comparison searches, the beginner questions, the troubleshooting searches, all grouped under one umbrella. Clusters

matter because of how Google evaluates sites. Google trust sites that cover a topic completely. 10 connected articles around one topic outrank 10 scattered articles on 10 random topics almost every time. SEOs call this topical authority. Clusters are how you build it on purpose instead of by accident. Then

Claude sorts every keyword by intent and this is the step beginners skip that cost him the most. There are two kinds of keywords and they are not all equal. Traffic keyword to searches where someone wants to learn. So for example, what is Claude AICO or how does Claude write articles? Those bring volume, build your authority and feed the AI answers. Buy a keyword to searches where

someone is close to taking action. For example, best AI community. That's one I target. We already ranked number one for it. and the person typing isn't curious, right? They're looking for help. They're

ready to take action. There's also an interesting signal from Google on this front. So, in the same post where Google revealed the 5 trillion figure, it noted that the volume of commercial queries has increased since AI overviews launched. So, people aren't just asking the AI questions, they're searching to act. Traffic keywords fill the tap, sorry, the top of your funnel. Buyer

keywords bring the leads. You want both. and you need to know which is which because they get completely different articles with completely different jobs. Claude labels every keyword for you. So in the plan you never confuse them.

Here's an example. So I can paste my seed keywords into Claude. And you can do this inside Claude desktop or inside Claude terminal. Then we get the keywords pasted here and we get the keyword, the cluster, the intent, the difficulty and the angle. So the user intent, how to write the article itself, and everything is prioritized by competition. Easiest wins first. So with

a suggested article angle written next to every single keyword under 5 minutes, you've got the full map, a full month of content mapped with every target justified. Then when I used to do this myself, you know, back in the day, this would take me like a full day, sometimes 3 days, and I'd have to use paid tools and open a spreadsheet that was super boring. Now it takes less time than making a coffee. And Claude actually does all the thinking for you. Now, one more keyword source before we close this module and it's pretty underrated. So,

with your own Google search console, if your site has existed for even a few months, there is loads of data inside there that no external tool can see because it's data that only you have. The trick is finding keywords where you're getting impressions but no clicks. Let me translate that into plain English because these two words confuse everyone at first. An impression means Google showed your site in the results of that search. a real person saw your listing. Here's an example. So, we can

see our impressions over here inside search console and we can see our clicks. No clicks means they saw you and they didn't visit. Usually, because you don't have a proper page for that exact search. So, Google is showing you some half relevant page of yours to people searching instead. Now, if you look at what that combination really is, Google was already choosing to show you for that keyword without a dedicated page without you even trying. And that is

Google telling you directly, I already believe you're relevant for this keyword and this topic. If you give me a proper page, I'll rank it. It's the closest thing to a pre-approved keyword that exists anywhere in SEO. So, you can take it, feed it into the engine, and build exactly the page Google is requesting. So, in my agency, we call the full weekly version of this gap and leak analysis, and I'll hand you the complete Monday routine in the tracking module near the end of this course. Now before

we leave keywords, there are two more skills you need because they're the difference between a keyword list and a keyword plan. So the first is judging competition. The second is understanding search volume because almost everyone reads it wrong. Competition first. Let's say for example, you've got 30 keywords.

How do you know which ones you can actually win? You don't need a paid tool for this. You need your eyes and 60 seconds per keyword. So Google the keyword and look at who's at page one. That's the whole method. You have to

know what you're looking at. So let me show you what I check on screen. Let's say for example I'm looking at this keyword. If page one is full of like huge branded sites with dedicated recent pages for that keyword, I'm going to skip it. These sites got their first and they have more authority than me. So I

can't, you know, there's no shame in walking away essentially. But that's rarely what I find on the fresh specific keywords. This system targets. What I usually find is this like forum threads ranking pages that only mention the keyword in passing buried in an article about something else. content that might be like two years old in a niche that changes every week. Thin pages answer

the question badly in three paragraphs. And every one of those is a green flag. A forum thread on page one, for example, means Google probably couldn't find a proper article, so it settled. An old page means Google wants something fresher. A passive mention means nobody built the dedicated page word yet. So,

usually just for intuition and checking, if there's a weak page on page one, you can go. If it's a strong page, skip, you know, 60 seconds per keyword and your 30 keyword plan. Source yourself into this week's targets and someday may. Now, search volume. And this is where I need to do some new belief setting because keyword tools have trained everyone to think backwards. Search volume is the

number keyword tools show you for how many people search term each month. And beginners treat it like a scoreboard. for example, they see a keyword with like 10,000 monthly searches, they get excited. They see a keyword showing zero and cross it off. Both moves are wrong.

And the second one is expensive. Here's why. The volume data in every tool is old. It's an estimate built from past months. So when a keyword is brand new, a tool uh new feature, a new question, the tool is going to show zero because the searches are happening right now and the data hasn't caught up. And this is

Google's 15% stat playing out in real time. billions of daily searches and some of those are just new combinations but a lot of them are like new daily searches as well that have ne never existed before and can't appear in any tools database by definition. So for example, Claude co-work SEO probably showed nothing in the tools whilst thousands of people typing it into Google that same week. The tools are simply late and late data is exactly where the opportunity hides because every SEO relying on tools cross that keyword off the list or didn't even think about it. The autosuggest method you learned earlier doesn't have this problem. What to suggest is live if

Google was suggesting it, people are searching for it today, whatever the tools claim. Some of my best performing articles target keywords that showed zero volume on the day I published. But by the to time the tools updated their numbers or is already ranked, already collecting the clicks and already impossible to catch up, already established as the number one on that keyword. And the small keywords stack up in a way that often surprises people. So even let's say for example, one article pulls like 10 clicks a day. That sounds

like nothing. But this system doesn't publish one article publishes constantly across clusters. So 30 articles pulling 10 clicks a day is 300 daily clicks. That graph I showed you at the start, the climb to 358 clicks a day wasn't like one giant keyword winning. It was a pile of small specific low competition keywords each contributing it share stacked on top of each other week after week. So more small keywords are also

easier to rank for, faster to write and closer to real buying questions. the giant keywords to get the attention, but the small ones can quietly build the graph. And there's one more reason this matters. Small keywords matter more than ever in 2026, and it's the AI answer connection again, right? Industry tracking of AI overview triggers show that even keywords with under 100 monthly searches generate AI answers around 30% of the time. So even the tiny

keywords, the ones every volume obsessed SEO ignores are producing AI answers at a serious rate. Every small keyword you win is another chance for your page to be a source the AI sites and once you've cited for the small questions in a topic you've planted your flag for the bigger ones because the AI keeps pulling from sources already trusts. So that is the generate stage real keywords from Google's own data cluster for authority sorted by intent with pre-approved wins pulled from your own search console. Every prompt from this module, the 30 keyword plan prompt, the clustering prompt, the intent labels, the people also ask method, the gap and leak checklist is sitting inside my free SEO course, word for word, ready to use. Link in the comments description. Grab

it now because you'll want the master prompt open for what comes next because here's where the course goes deeper than anything else you've ever seen on AIO. Now, you have the keywords and what you need to do is create the content that actually deserves to rank for them. And my content workflow doesn't start with a blank page or a chatbot prompt. It starts with a video camera. And that workflow plus a 13step quality control skill that checks every article and then upgrades itself is next. So in part one,

you got the proof Google's own written position on AI content and the complete keyword system. You now have a 30day keyword plan sitting in front of you, sorted by intent, checked for competition, full of targets you can actually win with. Now comes the part that decides everything. the content because a keyword plan is just a list of promises. The content is where you keep them or break them. And this module is

the heart of the entire course and it's where my system splits completely from every other AI SEO method on the internet. Let me show you the split. Almost everyone using AI for SEO does the same thing. They open a chatbot, they write like, type me an article about claude a copy whatever comes next. They publish it and then they wait for rankings that just never come.

understand exactly why that fails because the reason is mechanical not mysterious. An AI model with no input from you can only produce the average of everything already written on that topic. It has no experiences of its own. Of course, the output is grammatically perfect and completely empty. No new facts, no original results, nothing the internet doesn't already have millions of copies for. Remember the term from

part one, which is zero information gain. And now remember what Google March 2024 spam update was written to catch. High volume pages created for rankings instead of readers. Thin content adding no new information. Autogenerate pages with no human review. The blank page

chatbot method produces all three at scale automatically. People running that method aren't doing it the right way. They're publishing the exact content that Google built a system to penalize. And here's how big that invisible power already is. So, Hrefs, one of the largest SEO data companies in the world, studied over a billion web pages and found that roughly 96% of them get zero traffic from Google. Zero. More than

nine out of 10 pages on the internet are invisible. Most of them are thin, generic, and disconnected. Exactly what the lazy AI method mass-produces. So, the game was never published more pages. The game is publishing pages that belong to the small slicer wins. That's what

this workflow builds. Now, my workflow starts in a completely different place than most people. It starts with a video camera. This is what I personally do. You can do it however you want, but the main point is you want to capture your experience. So, I record myself doing

real work, like actual work with the camera running. I set up an AI agent on my machine, run a keyword report on one of my sites. I might test a new clawed feature the day it ships. These are all things related to the content I'm producing in the niche I'm based in. You can do it for whatever niche and industry you're in. So 20 minutes screen

recording on me talking through what I'm doing and what I'm seeing. Imperfect is fine. Real is the whole point. The video you're watching right now is part of that exact workflow. The course might become articles on my sites next week.

That's how meta this gets. Step number two, I match the video to a target keyword from the plan you built in part one. A video where I set up, for example, Claude for SEO gets matched to Claude AO. A video test in a fresh tool gets matched to that tool's brand new CL keyword cluster. the zero competition doors we talked about before. And step

number three, I actually take every word I said in that video, every recording tool gives you the full text of what you said in one click and I feed it into my Claude desktop with my master prompt. And step four, Claude transforms my spoken words into a complete SEO article. Keyword in the first sentence, clear headings carrying the keyword naturally, an FAQ section built from real questions, people search, related terms woven through the body, every sentence on its own line, and it reads like me. my phrasing, my opinions, my tangents, all preserved because it was built for my own words. Now, if you stop and count what happened, this is the reason that it beats our other AI content generated competitors. So, the

first reason is experience. You know, if you go back to Google search quality raterelines from part one, experience is the first ENAT and Google's current guidance says plainly that AI can draft content, but that a human has to supply the real experience and judgment. So recording if you actually didn't think is pure. It's undeniable. It's documented experience.

The AI package is something that happened on camera without inventing a word of it. Second, information gain. So your article now contains observations, results, mistakes, and small details that exist nowhere else online because they come out of your mouth whilst you did the work. Remember Google's information gain patent from part one, the scoring system built to detect newness. This method feeds that system on purpose. when I published about

openclaw for SEO article included the real setup on my real WordPress site, the real publishing results and the settings that failed. No competitor can produce that page. It didn't happen to them. And third, two shots at page one from one recording. So, Google shows videos right inside the search results and it shows your article as a regular result. So, one recording session gives

you two page one chances for the same keyword. On several my keywords, my videos, my articles sit on page one at the same time. Whichever one the searcher clicks, they land on me. And there's a bigger reason video matters that'll hit with a full data report in part three. A citation pattern inside Google's AI answers that makes video one of the most valuable formats on the internet right now. Hold that for and

fourth is speed. Connect this to the newness strategy from part one. A new tool ships in the morning. I test it recorded for 20 minutes. By the afternoon, my spoken words have become an article targeting the keyword that's hours old. Whilst bigger sites are still

assigning a writer, I'm already live. This is how a small site can build beat sites with 100 times the authority. You're simply there first with real experience on a keyword that nobody else has touched. And fifth, the one nobody mentions. This workflow deletes a blank page. The hardest part of content was

never SEO. It was staring at an empty document. You never write from scratch again. You talk, which you already know how to do, and the system does the rest. Now, let me show you the setup inside desktop because the container matters as much as the prompt. So in Clideclaw

desktop you create a project. Think of a project as a home base that remembers. You load it once with context about your business, who your audience is, what you offer, your website links, your tone, your niche, and you load in your case study. I'll came back to that document in a minute because it's the single most important file in this whole system. From then on, every article you create inside that project already knows your business. And this is the step most

people skip and it's the reason most people get generic output context in quality out every single time. Then the master prompt. So I want to walk you through the rules of each so you understand why each one exists instead of copying. So this is the master prompt that we use and we just plug it into claw to actually save it as a skill and [snorts] the seven rules. So the keyword goes in the first sentence because Google and AI search engines weigh the opening of a page heavily when deciding what the page is about. in the first

line plain statement keyword present headings follow a question structure where possible because Pew Research found AI summaries appear in 60% of question word searches and a heading phrased as the question is the easiest thing for Google to match it to this also where your saved people also ask questions from part one go to work they become headings and FAQ entries matching Google's own question box word for word an FAQ section is mandatory too and there's a micro technique inside it that most people miss every FAQ view and so gives you the direct answer in its very first sentence in under 50 words before adding any detail. Because when Google or an AI engine lifts an answer, it lifts the tight, complete, self-contained one. An answer that rambles for like three sentences before getting to the point never gets picked. Direct first sentence, detail after. That's a shape that gets cited every sentence on its own line. This one just

gets me questions. So here's the logic as well. It comes from the Neielson Norman group, the most respected user research firm on the world. Their reading studies found that on an average visit, people read only about 20% of the words on a page. People don't read online, they scan. One sentence per line

makes scanning effortless for humans, passing effortless for Google, and lifting effortless for AI engines. So, three audiences and one foring rule. Then I also like to have a benefit open in line. The first line tells the reader exactly what they'll get from the page. So there's no warm- up paragraphs.

People decide to stay or bounce in seconds and Google watches which one they do. Then we also have a list of words we don't want to use. So every robotic AI phrase stripped out automatically. If a word won't come out of your mouth for dinner, shouldn't go in the article. And we also have author voice rules. So contractions on short

sentences first person. My opinions kept not sounded off. The output should sound like you on your best day. And that full prompt, every rule included is inside the free SEO course, word for word. Link in the comments description. You can use

it exactly, then edit the voice section to sound like you instead of me. So here's the live demo from start to finish. So you can see the full text of what I'm saying inside the recording. And then you can see how it would come out from Claude. I can paste it into my project with a master prompt and the target keyword. And then you see what

comes back. keyword in line one questions headings mual test results in the body the real ones and everything ready to go if you want to see a live example on a page here's an example what that looks like so every sentence pretty much on its own line reading time for you to check it about 2 minutes spoken words in publish ready article out and the single workflow justifies the entire course and now you have every piece of it and if you look at how messy the original was like this it's going to be super messy but we can use claude to basically turn that into something that sounds human. Also, bear in mind like sometimes in the recording I might like change direction halfway through and nobody will publish that. But Claude can turn that exact chunk into something that's useful, directed, structured and doesn't repeat so much. So you get the same information, same opinion, say experience, but the voice is cleaned and structured and it comes out like this.

So it looks beautiful. is formatted nicely and it's optimized for conversions. And also when we're doing this, it's not adding anything. It's not inventing any facts. It's not adding any padding. It's just using my spoken words

as a boundary. And then Claude organizes what's inside them and never reaches outside them. That's a transformation running across the entire recording that we use. And every obsation observation I make out loud becomes a clean section. Every result I show on screen becomes a stated fact with the screenshot beside it. Every question I answer whilst

working becomes an FAQ section. So for example, if I do like a 20 minute recording of talking, that becomes like a 2,500 word structured article and I never face a blank page. And so what what I can have inside the system is like I can give it information about me. I can ask it to create the guide inside Claude. I use a skill that we've just spoken about and then it can generate beautiful guides like this. Or I can

just literally copy this command like so. It's all fully personalized to me with all my context. We can add a new section here. We can paste that in and then we can just give it the keywords we want to target and publish to our web website. Now this is linked to my Netlifi website which means that I can publish it with my personal access token. But you could do the same with

WordPress. You can get the login details and then also the API access token from WordPress and it can publish content to you directly. And also inside the content, it knows who I am, what my business does in three sentences, who my audience is, and also what I offer and where. It's also got my tone rules, short sentences, contractions, first person, no corporate words, and also the way that I like to format stuff. So that's all inside this master prompt here, which I like to save as a skill.

So what you can do inside Claude, for example, is you can say save this workflow as a skill, and then it will actually save the workflow as a skill, and we can create content from there. Then if we go to my settings and skill, you'll see this section called Julian Goldie guide writer which is using the skill, right? So you can easily add for example the skill like so you can upload it and literally all a skill is is like a list of instructions in markdown format. So you can save that, recall it for later. Then you can go back into Claude and be like hey use this skill for SEO that we used before. So when you

save a skill basically it's available to every conversation forever. So the whole master prompt, all the instructions, all the formatting, everything is saved. And it takes like, it took me 20 minutes long once, it's going to take you even less because you got the prompt for me inside the free course. And from that moment, every article request inside the project starts with full knowledge of my business, my voice, my data, my standards. Now if you compare that to a person typing prompts into a blank chatbot window for example inside chat GPT or claude reexplaining themselves from zero every single session getting output that sounds like everyone you know that might take them an hour or 20 minutes or 30 minutes every single day.

So that's the gap between generic and yours. And the exact prompt is inside our free SEO course link in the comments description or go to the arprofit.com. Sorry, inside the You don't need to go to the profit.com. Just go link in the

comments description. Now, we're not going to publish yet because I need to be straight with you about something that most people won't tell you when it comes to SEO. Raw AI output is not ready to publish. Claude is the best writing model I've ever used, but sometimes it's still going to drift off. You know, keyword halfway through. Sometimes it

writes a title that's technically fine and completely unusable. Sometimes it goes soft in the middle. You know, anyone telling you to autopublish raw output scale with zero checking is pointing you directly at the pattern. Google spam update names autogenerate pages with no human review or factecking. So everything goes through our 13st step quality control which is inside the skill itself that I showed you a second ago. And this is a people

ask this is a thing like people ask me about more than anything else I built. So I'm going to walk you through it. First what a skill is. So in plain English a skill is a file that trains Claude to do one job the exact same way every time. So you want to think of a recipe card. You write the steps down

once and Claude follows him perfectly forever. If you compare that to a human editor, a human holds maybe 10 rules in their head and starts dropping them by article 3. My skill file holds around 40 rules across 13 steps and Claude apps every single one on every article without getting tired or sloppy. So quality control never has a bad day. Now here's a pathway. So we've got 13 steps

in order with no skipping. Step number one is the intake. The skill takes in exactly two things. The keyword and the case study. And I need to spend real time on the case study because it's the most important idea in this entire course. The case study is a source of

truth. Mine is a living document that holds real information from me. So for example, we can use screenshots from my search console if we're talking about SEO. We can use the case study that we recorded earlier. We could use, for example, the numbers from my subreddits of rank, for example. Indexing results,

failures. The experiments are flopped because failures are experienced too and readers trust people who show them. Here's a rule that changes everything. So, every factual claim in every article must trace back to that document. The AI is not allowed to invent a number, not allowed to invent a result, not allowed to invent a story. So, if a claim isn't

in the case study you've submitted, it doesn't go in the article. Full stop. Now, here's what that one rule does. The biggest fear with AI content is hallucination. The AI just confidently makes things up. This was a huge problem

with chat GBT3, GBT 3.5, etc. So this rule actually deletes the problem at the root because the AI never generates facts. It only arranges facts you gave it and at the same time it guarantees information gain in every paragraph because every fact is coming from you and your experience. So yours doesn't need to look exactly like mine. Could be

client results, product test data, before and after photos, what happened when you tried to the thing your customers keep asking about. Whatever is true for you, even if it's small, small and true beats big and big every time with both readers and Google. The first version takes like 15 minutes to write and there's a fill in the blanks case study template inside the free SEO course. So that helps with every step. Now also the intent check. So this is a

rule we have inside our SEO skill. And the skill looks at what's actually ranking for the keyword right now and confirms what the searcher wants. So Claude has access to a live web search which means that it understands, okay, does this need to be a how-to article, a comparison, a definition? Matching intent is half of ranking and it takes a skill in second. Now step number three is formatting plan. So based on that

intent, the skill picks the article shape before writing an article. So how to gets numbered steps. Uh comparison gets a structure that weighs both sides. No one sizefits-all template because Google can see when every page on a site is the same skeleton where in different keywords. Now step number four, titles.

So we have rules here like keyword at the front, a real number from the case study where one exists, a curiosity gap. So people actually click the skill rotates five different headline formulas. So no two articles look stamped from the same mold and it carries a band list of sort of patterns that we just don't like. So titles help a lot because they generate more clicks and they keep people reading. Remember the href sincere interactive data from part one? Clicks are getting scarcer.

The title is where you win the ones that remain. Sometimes Google will just rewrite it but we might as well optimize it if we can automatically. And step number five is a meta description. This honestly doesn't matter a big amount because Google's usually going to rewrite it based on the search and it's kind of dynamic based on what you've got in your article, but we can put it inside the prompt as well for the SEO skill. And then for the draft itself in step six, we usually write around 2,2,500 words written in your voice from your spoken words. Every sentence on its

own line, benefit led opening following every rule in the master prompt. And this is where the recipe card advantage shows. So all 40 rules applied at once without one being forgotten. And then step number seven is keyword placement. So you can see here the rules inside our SEO skill for keywords. So first line

check, headings check. Spread naturally throughout the body check. And critically never stuffed. We don't want to keyword stuff our content. That's one of the oldest tricks in blackout SEO.

Google has caught it since long before AI existed. It reads terribly to humans too. So the skill verifies presence but doesn't want excess. Now also what we have is related terms and structure. So these are like the words Google expects to see near your keyword. An article

about for example claude ao should naturally mention things like prompts search console index in WordPress. Their presence tells Google the page covers the topic for real instead of just repeating one phrase. The skill checks are naturally woven in. And then we also make sure there are internal links to our other articles inside the content. So internal links are links between your own pages. External links point out to

trusted sources. Google's crawler discovers and values pages by following links. So a page with nothing pointing at it can sit unindex forever. Google just decides it's just not worth visiting because it's not connected to anything. So if we take a look at this article for example, you can see that it has links naturally throughout the content like you can see right here. So

it's linking out to an internal page which means that Google's more likely to crawl it and index it. So if you connect that to the address study from earlier, roughly 96% of pages get zero Google traffic and disconnection is one of the biggest reasons. The skill wires every new article into your existing content web. So every page gets found, crawled, and valued. And then we link out to authoritative sources, the same kind I'm citing in this course. So you got

signals of trustworthiness, the T in EA. Step number 10 is the conversion layer because an article that ranks but doesn't converts is not good. Right? So we want to make sure there's like benefit led first lines verified a path for the reader placed in the first third of the page. You know most readers are never going to reach the bottom and Neilson Norman groups 20% reading figure tells you why. So anything that only

lives at the end misses most of your visitors and author bio because Google raider guidelines want to see that it's written by a real person who is behind the content and readers do too. And then the next step for the reader repeated through the page. So wherever someone stops reading it's visible for the CTA. You can see for example we have a pinned CTA at the bottom of this page. So when people scroll down it's very obvious where to click. And then step number

one, sorry 11 is the readability pass. So the full article gets checked against the voice rule. Simple language, short sentences. We remove the filler words. We remove words that sound like AI. And

then the test is simple really like could you read this page out loud to a friend without cringing. If not, it gets rewritten until you could. Step number 12 is the fact check. So every single claim in the article gets traced back to the case study one final time. And then anything that can't be traced gets cut.

Not softened, but cut. And this is just the last gate before anything reaches your site. It's the reason I can put my name on the pages on our website. Step number 13, my favorite of all of them, and the reason this system just gets better instead of older. So after every batch of articles, the skill reviews its own work. What worked, what didn't,

where I corrected it, and then it proposes updates to its own skill file. So if I tell it like this title is too clickbaity, that correction gets written into the file permanently. It never mistakes that mistake. Sorry, it never makes that mistake again, which means the skill you run in month three is genuinely smarter than the one you started with in month one. Most people's AI setups stays frozen forever. This one

compounds and in the tracking module in part three, I'll show you what happens when the self-improving loop connects to your live Google search console and that's where the whole machine starts feeding itself. So that's the 13 steps. We have intake, intent, format, title, meta, draft, keywords, related terms, links, conversion, readability, and the fact check. And then finally, self-improvement. So if we wanted to run this, for example, we can take the SEO skill like this. Then we just go up to

Claude. We would just click on create a new article, give it the details of the skill, or you can recall it if you've already plugged it into Claude. And then you say, okay, create an article on Hermes versus Grockbot like this. And then we need the case study as well. So we can take this case study for example.

And then we're going to go over to Claude. We've plugged that in. You might also wonder which model to use. So Opus 5 is okay. Fable 5 is the best. I've

actually run out of tokens on Fable 5. So I'm just going to stick with Opus 5, but that is my preference. Also, if you prefer like not to use Claude, you don't have to use it. You can use the same skill inside any AI that you prefer. So, you see how I've fed it a fresh case study, a keyword, the skill, and then it's just improving over time, and we can actually watch what it's doing in real time. So, it's going off and

creating the content, and then it'll plug it over to my website, which has the Netifi personal access token directly inside. So, here's an example of it like catching any problems that were broken in the rules. So, you see it flags and then fixes the issues that come along. And then for example if we have any issues we can just fix them very quickly and then everything gets sent through the gate and also the skill can rewrite its own rules at the end. So about ships you correct something the file updates it never repeats it and so the system just gets better and better over time. Now also final thing once it

is fully published you would then actually make sure that you've read it and you're proud of it right so for example if I look through this page it's written nicely it's better than I could write it it's got some nice case studies it's optimized for conversion it follows the case study I've given it and it looks really nice also one final thing is that we actually make sure it gets indexed we use indexalional and you can just get the API key and give it to indexing tools So, for example, you can get indexal and then you can plug that API key from indexal directly into Claude. But basically, here's where you stand right now. You can find winnable keywords. You can turn 20 minutes of talking into an article soaked in real experience. And you have 13 steps of quality control, standing between the AI and your website with a self-improving skill file most SEO teams would struggle to match. The master prompt, the case

study template, the project's instructions, the 13step skill breakdown, and the VA checklist are all inside the free SEO course ready to use today. Link in the comments in description. And now, let's talk about the automation layer. So, this is part three, and this is how you can get clawed code publishing whilst you sleep. We're also going to cover the indexing push and how to publish to like five different websites at once, and the agent operating system you can use to do this. I'm also going to talk about the

AI mode citation data I promise including which platforms Google's AI trusts more than any website on earth and how this system puts you on them. So let's say for example you have a finished checked publish ready article from the system we've talked about already. Well, right here is where most people's systems quietly fall apart because everything after the writing is boring, right? Logging into WordPress, pasting, fixing the formatting, writing the web address, setting them a description, choosing categories, hunting for a featured image, 10 small tasks, 30 minutes per article, and enough friction that most people slow down, then stop, then stop. Now, consistency is what Google rewards most and boredom is what ends consistency.

So, this whole part I'm going to show you ends and deletes the boredom. So, let's talk about Claude Co. Clawed code is clawed with hands. It connects your website and does the work itself instead of just writing text for you to paste. The setup happens once inside WordPress.

You create something called an application password. It's in your user settings. And the free SEO course has the click byclick walkthrough with screenshots. That password lets Claude publish to the site through the API which is just a doorway software that uses WordPress instead of a login screen you use directly. Takes about 10 minutes to get. You can also go to Netleify if

you prefer those host websites there. So you get a personal access token from Netlify and you can plug that into Claude as well if you prefer. My sites run on both and the system handles both. So what this system will actually do whilst it's running the prompt in the background is actually publish directly to our website. So it can connect to WordPress. It can set the title, the

keyword first, write the slug, etc. So for example, if we look at that website that went from like 0 to 358 clicks a day. I've never logged into this website. Only Claude can edit it with the personal access token from Netleifi, which means that we save so much time because we don't have to log in anymore. It can also assign the right categories.

It can publish it live. It can index it. And you might be wondering what is indexing. So sometimes you'll create a page, but it doesn't show on Google. So for example, if we have a look at this page, we can see it shows up on Google because it's been indexed. Why is that

useful? Because Google discovers pages by crawling, following links across the web until it stumbles onto something new. For a big famous site, that happens fast because Google visits constantly. But for a small or newer site, Google visits occasionally. So your new page can sit there for days or weeks, finished and invisible, waiting for Google to wonder past all that work parked in a queue. So the indexing push

skips a queue because the moment a page publishes, claude code pings Google's indexing API with index exceptional and it's basically knocking on Google store and saying, "Hey, here's a new page. Here's the address. Come take a look now." And instead of waiting to be discovered, you announce yourself. So usually my pages get indexed and crawled within hours and that's a full mechanical answer to how we can rank so quickly. So if we take a look at this

example, you can see that our page is ranking here on the first page within 12 hours. Perfect. You can also see us ranking here. You can see us ranking here too. We're also ranking over here and here's right. This one is actually

on WordPress. So my point is that you can get found a lot quicker and you can start ranking a lot quicker using this system. So a good article built from real experience on a fresh low competition keyword that Google saw the same day instead of the same month. If you connect it to everything you already know, because this is where the whole course clicks together, Google's own data says 15% of daily searches are brand new. So fresh keywords appear constantly with zero pages answering them. Right? So my system tests a new

tool in the morning, records the experience, turns my spoken words into a checked article by afternoon, publish it without a human touching WordPress, and pushes Google to crawl it before dinner. So So we get a real page out before Most websites have even assigned that keyword to a writer. And the sequence newness plus experience plus speed is how a small site can beat sites with 100 times the authority repeatedly on purpose. One more thing, Claude code stamps onto every page schema markup. Schema is a label inside the pages code that tells machines exactly what the page is. For example, this is an

article. This is a how-to. This is an FAQ. Humans never see it, but Google and AI systems read it constantly. So if you picture a warehouse where every box carries a printed label, nothing gets lost. Everything gets shelved first and

the right box gets grabbed the instant someone asks for it. So my system using the skill with the schema part generates article how to and FAQ schema automatically. And the FAQ schema matters double because it labels the exact question and answer text. The AI answers love to lift. Now that might change in the future. You know, we might

get to the point where AI doesn't even need schema, but it helps right now. And now, let's talk about the scale layer as well. I run five different websites. Now, you can just run one if you want. I just want to show you what I've been experimenting with. So, if you don't

want to do this, totally fine. If you want to stick to one website, no problem. I'm just going to show you what's working for me. So, what we actually do is we take one keyword and then we'll publish it onto multiple different sites. So we have different openings, different structures, different examples pulled from different parts of the case study, different FAQs.

It's the same case study, but five distinct unique pages. And then Claude Code publishes all five across all five sites in the same hour. You can see an example right here. So these are five live URLs that we just published using that example I gave you. And here's the article itself. Looks pretty nice. It

just happened whilst I was talking to you and explaining everything that works with SEO. And so also when it does this indexing pings for each one using index optional. So one keyword five simultaneous chances at page one and some my AI tool keywords more than one of my sites ranks on page one at once sitting next to my videos for the same. So the searcher keeps landing on me no matter what they click and where it makes sense. The article links across to each other uh sometimes for internal links, sometimes to external links, sometimes to relevant content. But the

other thing here to note is like sometimes Google ships updates and they actually ship updates constantly. So rankings can shake and that will never stop. Can be human content, could be AR content, it doesn't matter. So when we have five different websites, we can get traffic from five different places and if one of those sites doesn't rank so well anymore, it doesn't matter anymore. You know, one update doesn't wipe me out. And you don't need like five sites

on day one. You can start with one. But the point is that this system can work with multiple different websites in the same niche. Um the difference between one site and five site is a loop in the instructions not like five times the effort. So everything so far runs from claw desktop and claude code. And

honestly that setup will carry you a long way. So if one side dips, no problem. All the other sites are doing fine. If one side doesn't take off, no problem. Some might do. Right now, as my

system grew, I actually moved it into something I built called the agent operating system. And I want to show you so you can understand the ceiling of this path. The agent OS is this one dashboard where all my agents plug together. So Claude, Hermes, OpenClaw, different agents, different strengths, one home, and they share one memory through Obsidian Notes, a folder of plain text files where they can all read and write. the one agent learns and all of them know my keyword data, my case studies, my history of content, my skills. There's no reexplaining anything

ever. So, if we go to the system for example, we have our memory system over here. And when we're publishing content, my agents can pull from it. Now, inside the agent OS, there's a dedicated SEO tab that basically automates everything I talked about. So, with the keyword research tool, it's got the five article generator built in as well. And then if

I go inside the screen and we type a keyword, we take a case study, we hit generate from here, we can start publishing that content directly to our websites. And then we've got the full history of all of our recently deployed content over here in one single button. So with that system, the entire Goldie loop runs end to end, keyword expanded, five articles written, 13 steps of quality control applied to each, five sites deployed, indexing fired, and it's all logged for review as well. So the system you've spent this course learning piece by piece is compressed into one press. You start this journey with a prompting called desktop. You end up

with an operating system running your SEO in the background whilst you just go for a walk. It's the same system, same stages, just less of you required at every step. Which brings us to the module I've been promising since the opening minutes. Getting inside Google's AI answers. Um, this is the most current material in this course, the part almost nobody else has data on and the reason this system is shaped the way it is. So,

Google announced that IO 2026, the AI mode passed 1 billion monthly users with query volume more than doubling every quarter and AI overviews passed 2.5 billion monthly users across more than 200 countries and 40 languages by Google's own numbers. This is already how an enormous slice of the planet searches. The only question that matters for your business is does your content get pulled into those answers or ignored by them. So here's what my own AI mode appearances have in common from my own data and I want you to listen for something familiar as I go through the list. The cited pages answer the

question directly in the opening lines. No warm paragraphs. They use question style headings matching what people currently ask. They carry FAQ sections with direct answers. They hold original data, my numbers, my details. you know

what case it is I've worked on, what tools I've built, and they're labeled with schema, so the machine knows exactly what each page is, and they're fresh, published within hours of a topic appearing, not months after. So, every single trait on that list is already built into what you've learned in parts one and two, the keyword first, benefit opening. The question headings matched to Pew's research finding that 60% of question word searches produced AI summaries. The people always ask questions answered word of word, the mandatory FAQ section with a direct first sentence answers, the sentence per line formatting that lifts cleanly into an answer, and the case study data that makes your page the only possible source for your facts, the FAQ schema from this part, the same day indexing that makes the freshest page on new topics. None of it was accidental. This system was built

for AI search from the ground up, which means that by simply running it, you're optimizing for AI mode and AI reviews without doing one extra task. Now, three research findings that should genuinely change how you feel about starting from a small site. And these are numbers every business owner who thinks they're too late needs to hear. Number one, a study of 4 million AI overview citations found that only 38% of the cited pages also rank in the top 10 normal results, down from around 76% just months earlier. The AI increasingly sites pages that are not winning traditional rankings at all. The old game demanded

position one before anyone saw you. The new game hands out visibility to relevant, trustworthy, experienc pages, even when they sit further down. For small sites, the door into AI search is wider than the door into classic page one ever was. Second, research covered by search engine lounge found AI overviews site over 13 sources per answer on average, nearly double the year before with single answers carrying as many as 95 links. Old Google had one winner per search and AI answer has 13 or more slots, the 13 doors per question. And because most site owners

decided AI search is the enemy and walk away, almost nobody is building content shaped to walk through them. You know exactly how. And third, the finding that sets up our next stage citation tracking studies found the most cited sources in AI reviews of community and video platforms. So Reddit alone accounts for around 21% of all citations with video results close behind nearly 19%. Say that plainly. The sources Google AI

trusts most on the entire internet are community discussions and videos. Roughly 40% of all citations between them. And here's the good news hiding inside that stat. You can publish on both today for free. Which is exactly why this system doesn't stop when the article goes live. Stage four of the

loop is distribute. Every article my system produces gets reshaped by Claude for the platforms Google indexes and the AI sites. So, if you watch what one 20 minute recording becomes, the video itself ranks in Google's video results covered from step one because the video was the starting material. The article goes across my sites. Done. You just

watched it. And then Claude reshapes the article into a Reddit post for my AI SEO subreddit which now pulls over 60,000 views a month and gets indexed by Google directly, meaning my Reddit threads themselves rank in search and feed the AI answers from the single platform that AI trusts most. Then we have a LinkedIn post. LinkedIn pages rank for professional searches. So each reshape is one saved prompt that runs in seconds and each version is genuinely rewritten for its platform. So Reddit post that

reads like Reddit, not a pasted article with the serial numbers filed off because platforms and their readers can both see that. Now, if you count the surface area, you got one recording, my video on Google's video results, articles on my sites, Reddit thread, LinkedIn post, one piece of real experience showing up in five different places, two of which are the AI's favorite source types on Earth. I call the end result short list stacking for my target keywords. The goal is my article, my video, my Reddit post, and my LinkedIn post all sitting on page one and inside the AI answer at the same time. When that happens, the searches choice stops mattering. Every road leads

to me. And operationally, this entire stage is saved to prompts, which means a virtual assistant can run it without you. I build it once, document it, hand it off, or I can just schedule this as a scheduled task inside Claude Code, which means that the distribution machine runs whether I'm at my desk or not. And those exact platform prompts plus the AI citation checklist from the last module are in the free SEO course link in the description. If AI search is a part of this course that grabbed you, that checklist is the fastest thing you can act on today. So, if you wanted to just

run this on a Monday routine, for example, you've got the gaps. So, you can open the performance report and filter for keywords on Google search console where you rank between position of 5 and 15. These are striking distance keywords. Google already half trust you for them. You're on page one's doorstep or the top of the page two. A refreshed

article or one new supporting post in the cluster is often all it takes to break through. you're finishing the challenges, you're already winning. Second, you've got the leaks. So, you can find pages where impressions are climbing, but clicks stay flat. Google is showing you more and more and people keep not choosing you. Nine times out of

10, you just need to reoptimize the search intent, reoptimize a page, re-index it with the skill that I showed you before and improve it from there. And this is like a really high value two-minute fix. Third, the winners. You can take the keywords already bringing in real traffic and hand them back to Claude as new seeds. Every winner becomes a cluster of five more keywords.

And here is a flywheel. Fully assembled. More content brings more rankings. More rankings creates more search console data. More data reveals more pre-approved keywords. More keywords

becomes more content. Round and round. Stronger every cycle. So that graph from part one kept climbing instead of flattening because the system feeds itself. And step 13 of the skill, the self-improvement step connects to this Monday routine where search console shows the question style titles are pulling more clicks on your site. That

learning gets written into a skill file and every future article inherits it. So when a heading structure keeps landing in AI answers, the skill learns that too. So if you follow the stack, your content library compounds, your keyword data improves and the machine writing the content improves as well. So three curves climbing together and just improving every day. I've done SEO for years and this is the first system I've ever run where all three move and improve at once. Now, let's be 100%

transparent here cuz I refuse to hype this. you deserve the the real timeline before you start. So SEO takes time. Even with everything you've seen, the speed, the indexing push, the 14-hour rankings, a new site, sometimes it will need like 3 to 6 months before the overall graph moves meaningfully. Uh Google doesn't fully trust brand new websites. And honestly, it shouldn't.

That distrust is the fall that keeps, you know, dodgy websites from coming out versus people who are creating good content like you. And there's independent data on how long this game really takes. HF's actually studied 2 million random new pages and found only about 6% reached the top 10 within a year for even one keyword. So most pages never get there at all. But in some ways that's a good way. It's a good thing

because the pages that fail were mostly one-off efforts. A handful of posts, no system, no consistency, abandoned early. The winners were pages backed by exactly the things this course gives you. Real targeting, real quality, good internal and external links, and a publishing rhythm that doesn't stop. So, for example, one of my five sites actually sat completely flat from April all the way to November. That was seven months,

just consistent publishing the entire time. Barely any clicks. And I've watched that flat line on my own screen. And I can tell you, it tests you. You know, most people quit exactly, like 10 pages published, two months of silence, gone. And that's precisely why most

people never win at SEO. The quitting point and the breakthrough point are closer than anyone believes. And we just kept feeding the machine, feeding the engine. And when that site finally came out of the sandbox, it popped off. It's been climbing ever since straight through multiple Google updates. Now,

also inside this guide, we've got a 30-day road map here. So, in terms of what you can do, set up C desktop day one, and we've broken it down week by week. This is inside the free SEO course. So, if you want to get this, it's all fully here. But, you have the full 30-day goldie loop, which is generate, optimize, launch, distribute, index, evolve with most of it running without you. And if you want the master

prompt, the case study template, the project instructions, the full 13step skill breakdown, the keyword prompts, the platform prompts, the AI citation checklist, the WordPress indexing, schema walkthroughs with screenshots of VA quality checklist and a 30-day road map itself as a document you follow day by day. All of it is inside the free SEO course and you can just check it out. Link in the comments description. But that's basically it. And just to recap, search is being rebuilt around AI answers right now in real time. You've

seen the numbers from Semrush, Spark to Pew Research, HS, and many more. More than half of searches end without a click. Clickthrough rates crushed wherever AI answers appear. And most website owners responding by giving up entirely. You now know they're reading the data backwards. The AI sites over a

dozen sources per answer. Increasingly sized pages that don't hold traditional rankings. Cited brands pull dramatically more clicks per impression. and the platform it trusts most are free to publish on. And Google is on record. Its

own blog, its own words of content is judged on quality and experience, never on whether AI actually helped write it at the bar to become a source. The AI trust has never been easier. The crowd competing. It has never been thinner because everyone else has left the field and you now have the complete system. Keywords Google pre-approves from its own data content build from your real experience that no competitor on earth can copy. 13 steps of quality control

with a skill file that gets smarter every batch automation that publishes and indexes and hours distribution onto the platforms the AI trust most and a 15minute weekly loop that makes every part of it compound. 0 to 358 clicks a day come from the system. Many of my other sites rank really well and they're improving every day. The free course is in the description. Your first article can go live today. Start your own graph.

Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one. Cheers.