---
video_title: "Claude 2.0: NEW Claude Code Updates!"
video_id: GJtrdplTbqU
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GJtrdplTbqU
video_date: 2026-07-27T16:00:05+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Claude Code Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session → https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Get 200+ Free AI SEO Prompts → https://go.juliangoldie.com/chat-gpt-prompts
  
  Get out SEO link building book here 👉 https://go.juliangoldie.com/opt-in?utm=julian
---
Cloud Code has just created a new guide on how you actually remove over 80% of Cloud Code's system prompt from our advanced models. Now, these are based on the new Cloud 5 generation models. It's also super useful to learn this stuff if you are using any sort of AI agent. So there's multiple different rules you can take to this to really understand how to get the most out of your AI agents when you are prompting and using them. So these are the new rules of context engineering for Cloud 5 generation models and how it all works together. Crazy thing about this is they've removed over 80% of Cloud Code's system. So there was a lot of fluff in there and they actually found when they removed that fluff, they got more out of these models. And by doing that, they actually didn't see any measurable loss on coding evaluations. So there was like the 8020, that she got the same results, which is crazy itself. So this is all about something called context engineering. That actually makes a big difference when you're using Core Code or any sort of AI agent. And the thing to note here is like much of the context is assembled from your system prompts, the skills that you have, the core then defiles the memory of a source is. These blotes are the context you actually have. So for example, when you have a message to Cored, that message is only a small piece of what Cored actually reads. So behind the scenes, Cored also gets a system prompt. You're calling them defiles, skills and memory. But all that stuff together is basically context. Now, you want to think of it like a lunchbox for someone. So your message is sandwich, but the lunchbox also has knackings as a note, as a fork, as snacks. And context engineering is deciding what goes in the whole lunchbox, not just a sandwich. So the tricky part is your message changes every time you use Cored Code, but the context is re-use for loads of different messages. So it has to be general instead of specific. Now, what they actually found is an unhollowly in Cored helps them out. And what this sense really means is you just remove a lot of the constraints that it has. So basically less is more here. So if you have loads of rules, like for example, leave documentation as appropriate. Or for example, do not add comments as a system prompt, skills, everything just kind of clashes with each other, especially if the user of Cored Code is user something else. So let's say, for example, you're using the AI agent. And let's say, for example, that agent has loads of rules. But then when you prompt it, sometimes your prompts actually contradict the rules that it has. The problem with that is like, call that any other agent. You can interpret what you try to do, but it has to think more carefully about overlapping and also be as conflicting as it has. And so these used to be really useful for reducing the worst case scenarios. But actually, these days, you can actually delete them, especially with the newer models. And also, there's tons of more tools inside your AI agents. So for example, if you look at Cored Code, it used to rely on Cored.nd. It's a source of memory, information, and guidance. But now you actually have an in-depth memory and artifacts and skills. And so Cored has new ways of loading the context without using the Cored.nd file. So instead of your instructions fighting each other, you can actually just use a rule less is more. And over 80% of Cored system prompts can be removed, especially for the newer models. Older models need stricters and stricter rules. Newer models have better judgment, so many rules can actually be done. Now, they've actually talked about five different rules. You can see here, so give-cord rules was the old way, but now you can give-cord judgment. Before you'd have to give-cord examples, now you can design interfaces. You can put it all up front or you can use progressive disclosure. And this is the old way, this is the new way. So before you'd have to repeat yourself, now you've got simple tool descriptions. So before you were giving Cored loads of rules, but now you can actually not really worry about that too much because instead Cored can use judgment. So like if you look at the old system prompt of Cored is like, okay, there were hard rules like, right no comments and never write long strings. The prompt is sometimes it's just wrong, like some uses one documentation, some complicated, code genuinely needs a larger explanation. And so the new instruction is basically right code that looks like the code around it, matches new comments style, naming it habits. So instead of a rigid rule, Cored can just understand what Cored you've already got and then use that in the future. Now before is well, you'd have to give Cored examples, but now there are design interfaces. So what they actually found with the newest models like Cored Opus 5 and Fable 5 is it giving examples actually constrain them to a certain exploration space. So before this rule, the Cored of like showcored examples found to use them, they kind of created fences where Cored would stay inside the box, whereas with these new tools, scripts and files, basically Cored has parameters that allows it to be more expressive. So before it would stay in the box like this, whereas now it has these different status options. Now before it's what, it would put everything up front. Now it uses something called progressive disclosure, basically loading the right context at the right times. Now you might be wondering, okay, how can you apply this to your own usage of Cored, for example, or you can apply this to, for example, your own Cored ND or your skill ND files. So people before they would have like a central look of like every node entity, because Cored wouldn't find it otherwise, but now what you can actually have is a tree of files and be loaded at the right time. Because like most of the time, the information you have before was just kind of sitting there taking up space, right? Now you can have like separate skills for each workflow and Cored would just open them when the moment calls for it. Right? So you don't need like everything inside Cored MD. There's one giant book containing everything. You can have like a tree of skill files and then each time, for example, it does SEO, it uses the SEO skill. Each time you use this front end, it's going to have a skill for a front end design. Additionally, before you'd have to repeat yourself, especially like repeated instructions, this is really just because like, if you have a long conversation with Cored, sometimes you would get lost on the context and not find its way back. And you would get completely off task, that makes sense. But now you can actually just put instructions on how to use tools in the tool descriptions, rather than the actual system. So what this means basically is like older models, sometimes just got instructions from the beginning of a long context, so people have to repeat stuff in. Like if you ever have to keep like hobby and pasting a system from, you'd have to do it again and again and again, just so it doesn't go off tasks. But now you don't need to do that. So you can put the instructions for a tool in the tool description and delete the copy from the system prompt. Something else that people use to use was memory in Cored MD files. And so what they actually used to recommend was saving things to Cored's memory by using the hashtag hotkey to write to their Cored MD file automatically. But now you actually just have saved automatic memories and you can also plug in obsidian. So either way, you don't need to say like, save this. Or for example, add this to your Cored MD file. It will remember the simple pieces as it goes along with auto memory. So something that people are using, this is something we're still using inside obsidian, is simple specs. You would have like a month down file and those mark down files would help Cored have a reference point when it needs to store something. Particularly if it needs to store something in like code base for later. But now actually what you can actually use because they have the new artifacts feature. You can reference HGML artifacts. So you can give Cored references in the form of code. You don't need to use a mark down file. So that could be like a HGML artifact you use instead of a plain mark down plan. You can use code as a spec. So 80s tell test suite as a spec. And so it's a function in another code base. And also rubrics. So they basically teach Cored your taste, which is really important actually because like Cored can basically code anything. But if you actually look at some of the designs that you create, often they're quite bad. And as we could see, it doesn't have taste. So rubrics allow you and allow Cored to try and verify the taste in a particular field. And it can use verifier agents with those. So if you're going to actually start using this, what would you got the system prompt? And this is only for people building or an agent harness. So for the system prompt, that's only something you need to edit if you create your own harness. But the Cored MD file is pretty important. So if you're using Cored code particularly, you want to keep it lightweight and just briefly explain what the repo is for. But just explain the stuff that might surprise Cored. Like for example, all our types, leave them one giant file and nowhere else. So you won't write anything obvious inside the Cored MD. And you wouldn't add anything to obvious. You keep it super lightweight. Instead, what you want to use is progressive disclosure. So you could, for example, make a verification skill and just point it and point to it from your Cored. Now also, the skills here, if you're not using skills, these are simply useful. So if you run a workflow, like for example, design a page, you can say I could save that as a skill in the future. And these are lightweight guides to let Cored find information when it needs it. Now again, you don't want to have too many rules inside there. That's actually something that I've probably made the mistake of and need to improve in the future. We've got loads of rules inside some of our skill files. So if you are having bought new skills inside the workflows for long skills, made them more lightweight, that's actually something I plan to use and just reduce it below. So it's not too constrained. And then also for references, this again, leans into progressive disclosure, which is instead of having everything inside the Cored MD, you add context later. So you could use app mentioned files to include these references. And then Cored can use those later. So you can go into Cored and then tag in the file. And that could be like a spec file, mock up whenever you want. And again, it doesn't need to be like a markdown file. It could be a HTML mock up. It could be, for example, a HTML. And actually code is one of the best things you can use for references instead, because it's super precise. And Cored is really fluent in code. So for example, a HTML mock up of a design, where usually it'd be a written description or a screenshot of that design. And then finally, simplify. You can reduce a lot of the bloat inside your skills. That's something I plan to do. System prompts, Cored MD files, you can simplify it all through a lot more. And that just reduces the constraints and gets more out of the Cored 5 models you're using. So thanks so much for watching. That is the new guide from Cored and what they've changed inside Cored code recently to just help you get the most out of OpenS5 and also Cored Fable 5. And any of the new models are coming to the Cive category. If you want to get more training on Cored code, how to use it, et cetera, you can go inside the air profile. And you can go to the bottom, link in the comments description. And go to the air profile form.com. This is my community that helps you save time, grow and learn with AI automation. And you can post questions inside the community. It's a great group of people where you can ask questions, get help and support. I personally ask for the questions inside there. And so does everyone else. And there's always people online 24-7 tell you that you need to. Inside the classroom, you get access to all of our best training. So it's your complete beginner. You can go from beginning to end with the six-week course. If you want our new daily updates on the new advanced stuff, you can get that right here. And if you want our agent OS system, that allows you to orchestrate all of your AI agents called Hermes and nothing else, you can grab that. And then also we have tons of trainings, as you can see. You can also jump on four weekly coaching calls to get help with swap group time, share your screen, ask questions. And then inside the map, we can meet other people using called and other AI agents locally near you. And it's an easy way to connect one of the people. Plus you can direct them at the end of time you need. And we actually have over 204 pages of test monitors and wins from people learning and growing with this stuff. So it's just an awesome community. Great people, lots of people growing and learning and scaling with AI automation. So feel free to get it, link in the comments description or just go to daiprofitblem.com. Thanks for watching.