---
video_title: "OpenClaw 2.0 Is a MASSIVE Upgrade for AI Agents"
video_id: MUXwsWdOwzk
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MUXwsWdOwzk
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  00:00  Intro – The biggest AI agent update you missed
  00:33  The Numbers – 16,000 changes, 933 contributors
  01:12  What Is OpenClaw – Local AI assistant in 29 chat apps
  02:06  Easier Setup – It finds your existing model for you
  02:29  New Browser App – Streaming replies and the /btw command
  02:54  How It Works – The gateway explained in 60 seconds
  03:26  Real Use Cases – Inbox watcher and instant answers
  04:02  Free Resource – AI brand visibility session
  04:35  AI Profit Boardroom – Agent OS file and 30-day roadmap
  05:16  Under The Hood – Database, themes, languages, mobile, speed
  05:47  Who It's For – Beginners, developers, teams
  06:12  The Big One – Shared sessions make your assistant multiplayer
  06:45  5 Tips – Start small, stay secure, avoid rookie mistakes
  07:47  Why It Matters – Software you own and shape
  08:09  Next Steps – Book your free session
---
OpenClaw 2.0 is a massive upgrade for AI agents. How does an open source project ship half of everything it's ever built in a single update? That just happened. One release, over 16,000 changes, nearly a thousand people behind it, and most people scrolled right past it. If you

use AI agents and you blinked, you missed the biggest one yet. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and I help you learn and actually use AI tools in your real work. Today, I'm breaking down OpenClaw 2.0, the update the team quietly called their largest ever, and by the end, I'll show you the one change inside this release that turns your assistant from a tool you poke at into something that feels like a teammate. Stick with me because I'm saving that part for later. Let me start with what

actually dropped because the numbers are a little wild. OpenClaw 2.0 shipped on the last day of August 2026. The team wrote a blog post about it with a funny title, OpenClaw 2.0 Accidentally, because they didn't set out to build a version two at all. They just wanted to

make setup easier and rebuild the browser app. But once they started cleaning things up, that cleanup spread through the whole project until it became a full new version. This one release holds roughly half of every code change ever made OpenClaw. It was built by 933 contributors, and 569 of them were first-timers. It touches installation, messaging, memory, skills, models, automations, the browser, the phone apps, plugins, and security.

Basically, every corner. Now, if you're new here, let me back up and explain what OpenClaw even is because the name doesn't tell you much. OpenClaw is an open source personal AI assistant that runs on your own machine, not in some company's cloud. On your Mac, your Windows PC, your Linux box, even a little Raspberry Pi if you want. And here's the part that hooks people. You

don't talk to it through some special website, you talk to it inside the chat apps you already use every day. WhatsApp, Telegram, Discord, Slack, Signal, iMessage. It works across 29 different channels. So, you send it a message like you text a friend, and it goes and does the thing. It remembers your projects and your preferences from one chat to the next. It can browse the

web, fill out forms, read and write files, and run tasks in the background. It was started by a developer named Peter Steinberger, and it's now run by a nonprofit called the OpenClaw Foundation. On GitHub, it has over 380,000 stars, which makes it one of the most popular open source projects out there. So, this isn't a tiny weekend experiment. A lot of people run their daily life on this thing. So, what

should you expect from the 2.0 update? Let me hit the big ones. First, setup got way easier. Before, getting started could feel like a chore. Now, when you

install it, Open Claw looks at what's already on your computer. If you already use ChatGPT or Claude, it can just connect to that. If you have an API key or a local model sitting there, it finds it. Then it checks that your chosen model actually works before it saves anything. So, you're not stuck guessing why nothing responds. The idea is

simple. Get you to your first real conversation fast, then let you finish setting things up by just talking to your assistant. Second, the browser app got a full rebuild. This is where most people first meet Open Claw. So, they made it feel like the chat apps you already know. Your conversations sit in

a sidebar. The chat you're working on is front and center. Replies now stream in and format as they go instead of dumping out as plain text. There's a neat little command called /btw that opens a side conversation. So, you can ask a quick question without messing up the main task you have running. Small thing, big

quality of life win. How does all this actually work under the hood? Here's the simple version. Open Claw runs a local piece called the gateway. Think of it as the control center sitting on your machine. Your chat apps, the browser

app, and the command line all connect to that one gateway. The gateway holds your sessions, your tools, and your channel connections. You bring your own model to power it, whether that's Claude, GPT, or something running fully local and private. So, the brain is a model you pick, the hands and memory live on your hardware, and you reach it from whatever app you already have open. That's the whole shape of it. Let me give you a

real feel for what people do with it, and I'm pulling this straight from the Open Claw team's own examples, not making anything up. A simple starting workflow they describe is having your assistant watch your inbox for your kids' school emails and ping you on Telegram whenever something important lands, like homework due or an event you need to prep for. One inbox, a few things to look for, one place to send the result. That's already useful, and it grows from there without getting harder. In In example they share, your brother messages you asking which iPad you bought for your dad. Instead of

digging through your email for the receipt, you just tell your assistant your brother messaged, ask it to find the answer, and send it to him. It goes and does it. That's the pattern. Start small, then let it reach across more of your life. If you want to see how your own brand or site shows up in this new AI world, I'd love to set you up with a free AI brand visibility session. It's completely

free, no strings. On that session, you get a custom visibility plan built around your brand. We look at how you actually show up or don't show up across Google AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. You get a competitor gap analysis, so you can see where others are beating you. And you get real answers to your questions from a strategist, not a bot. If AI tools

like Open Claw are about to change how work gets done, you want to know where you stand before everyone else catches on. So, go book that free session. And once you've got your plan, the next step is the AI Profit Boardroom. This is where I go deep on tools exactly like Open Claw. Inside, you can grab the full Agent OS zip file ready to install, and we built out a complete 30-day roadmap to go with it with real use cases to follow. You also get walkthroughs that

take you from a blank machine to a working assistant step-by-step. We run live coaching calls where you can bring your own setup and actually ask questions, so you're never stuck alone staring at a config screen. You get roadmaps to follow, plus prompts and tutorials tied to the tools we're covering. If you've ever installed something powerful and then thought, "Okay, now what?" This is the room that answers that. It's built so you learn

faster with people doing the same thing right beside you. Now, let me cover a few more things that landed in this update, because there's more here than setup and a prettier screen. On the technical side, your chats and history now get stored in a proper database instead of loose files, which makes things faster and steadier. There are seven built-in themes now, so you can make it look how you like. 20 non-English languages are supported and only load when you pick them. The phone

experience got real attention, too, with cleaner pairing on iPhone, iPad, and Android, and clear labels showing whether a device has full or limited access. And it's just plain faster. In their own test, the browser app went from starting in about 1 and 1/2 seconds down to well under a second. When you use a tool every day, that speed adds up. So, who is this actually for?

Honestly, more people than you think. If you're a solo person who wants one assistant that lives in your pocket and handles the little stuff, this is for you. If you're not technical at all, the easier setup and the talk-to-it approach lower the bar a lot. If you're a developer, you can hack it, extend it, and even have it write its own new skills. And if you're on a team or want to include your family, that's where the update gets interesting, which brings me to that one change I promised you at the start. Here it is. Open Claw 2.0 turns

your assistant into a multiplayer experience. Through shared sessions, you can pull another person into live work or hand a task off completely without your assistant forgetting everything it already knew. The team said they built this because they wanted it themselves while building the release. That's the shift. Your assistant stops being a lonely tool on one machine and becomes something a whole team or household can steer together. That's a genuinely

different relationship with software, and that's exactly the kind of thing worth getting hands-on help with, which is a perfect moment to tell you about something free I want you to grab. Okay, let me give you some tips because a tool this open can go sideways if you rush in. Tip one, start with one tiny workflow. Do not try to automate your entire life on day one. Pick a single job like that school email watcher, get it working, and build from there. The

whole design rewards starting small. Tip two, take the security guidance seriously because Open Claw can run real commands and touch real files on your machine. Treat any incoming message as untrusted until you've set it up right. The docs walk you through pairing unknown senders and sandboxing. Read that part before you connect it to everything you own. Tip three, reuse

what you already have. If you already use a model, let Open Claw connect to it during setup instead of setting up something new. The 2.0 onboarding is built to find that stuff for you, so let it. Tip four, if you tried Open Claw months ago and bounced off it because setup felt rough, this is the moment to give it another look. Some of the

loudest praise online is from people who came back after this update and found it faster than they remembered. And tip five, lean on the community. This is an open source project with a huge active crowd building skills and sharing what works. You do not have to figure it all out yourself, and that shared learning is honestly half the value. Here's the big picture. What makes this

release matter isn't any single feature. It's the direction. Software used to be something built somewhere far away that you just had to accept as is. Open Claw flips that. You tell it what to do, you shape it around your own life and work.

And because it's open source, you actually own it. That's a real change, and 2.0 is the clearest version of it yet. If you've been waiting for the moment personal AI agents felt ready for normal people, this is a strong sign that moment is close. So, let me leave you with your two next steps. First,

book your free AI brand visibility session. If you only do one thing after this video, do that. It's the fastest way to get expert eyes on your own brand and walk away with a clear custom plan. You'll see exactly where you stand across Google and the big AI tools, where your competitors are pulling ahead, and the specific moves to make next. It's completely free, and there's no obligation, so there's no reason to sit on it.

And second, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You're about to go try Open Claw, and you're going to hit questions. Which model do I use? How do I keep it safe? How do I get it into WhatsApp? That's exactly what the room

is for. Inside, you can grab the full Agent OS zip file ready to install, and we built out a complete 30-day roadmap to go with it with real use cases to follow. You also get the coaching calls, the tutorials, the roadmaps, and the prompts to move through all of it faster with over 4,000 members learning right alongside you. Stop learning the hard way by yourself. Come learn with us at aiprofitboardroom.com.