---
video_title: "Hermes Agent OS + Kimi K3 is CRAZYY GOOD! 🤯"
video_id: D3rJYUsDwtQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D3rJYUsDwtQ
video_date: 2026-07-21T21:00:36+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Hermes + Kimi K3 Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session → https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Get 200+ Free AI SEO Prompts → https://go.juliangoldie.com/chat-gpt-prompts
  
  Get out SEO link building book here 👉 https://go.juliangoldie.com/opt-in?utm=julian
  
  Kimi K3 + Hermes: The Most Powerful Open Source AI Agent Setup
  
  Learn how to integrate the massive 2.8T parameter Kimi K3 model with Hermes Agent OS to build a fully autonomous AI marketing machine. This tutorial explores how this free open-source setup outperforms paid models at 3D modeling, SEO blogging, and competitor tracking.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Kimi K3 & Hermes
  01:28 - How to Connect Kimi K3
  01:48 - Teaching Your Agent New Skills
  02:20 - MCPs & 3D Product Promos
  02:58 - Automated SEO Blogging Systems
  04:25 - Competitor Tracking with Hermes Astros
  05:06 - Mixture of Agents & Coding Power
  06:33 - Full Recap & Setup Guide
---
Hermes, Agent, OS, plus Kimi K3 is crazy good. And today I'll show you exactly how to run it. Here's the thing, Kimi K3 just came out on July 16th. It's made by a Chinese company called Moon Shot. And it's the biggest open model ever built. 2.8 trillion parameters. The first open source model to reach the 3 trillion parameter class. That's a big deal. But the number isn't the point. What you can do with it is the point. Let me tell you what I mean. On the test that measure real work, Kimi K3 is beating models people pay a lot of money for. On Moon Shot's own benchmarks, K3 mostly beats Claude Opus 4.8 and GPT 5.5. Sit with that for a second. A free open model. Beating the big paid ones on a lot of tasks. And it has a huge memory. A 1 million token context window. That means it can hold a giant amount of stuff in its head at once. Whole projects, whole websites, all at the same time. But a model on its own is just a chat box. And a chat box is fun. But it's weak. You type. It types back. That's it. The real power comes when you give that brain a set of hands. That's what Hermes agent is. Hermes is the hands. Kimi K3 is the brain. You plug the brain into the hands. And now it can actually go do things for you. Not just talk. Do. So let me show you how to connect it. Then I'll show you the systems that make this worth your time. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie's CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. First, connecting Kimi K3. It's simple. You open your terminal. You type in Hermes model. A drop-down pops up. You pick moonshot. Then you log in with your coding plan. Done. Now, Kimi K3 is running inside Hermes. There's a second way too. Go to your managed dashboard. Click models. Type in Kimi. Refresh if you need to. Switch the model. That's it. Two ways to do the same thing. Now here's where it gets useful. Let's say you want your agent to learn something new. Inside Hermes, you can type. Slash learn. Then hand it a link to a guide. And Hermes will go read that whole guide. Digest it. And save it as a skill it can use later. So it doesn't forget. Ever wanted an assistant that actually remembers how you like things done. This is that quick example. You could feed it a guide on writing landing pages that convert. It reads it. Saves the skill. And now every landing page it builds for the AI profit boardroom. Uses those exact rules. That's a tiny piece of what this can do. Let me show you the bigger stuff. You can connect Kimi K3 to other tools too. These are called MCPs. Think of an MCP like a plug. You plug your agent into another app. And now it can control that app for you. Here's one that blew me away. We plugged Kimi K3 into Blender. Blender is a 3D modeling tool. And with the two connected, the agent can build a 3D product all by itself. Then make a video promo for it. I call this the imagination printer. This blender update came out about 24 hours before we tried it. Why does that matter to you? Simple. You could ask it to make a clean 3D promo for the AI profit boardroom. And have a product style video ready without hiring anyone. Now let me show you the workflows. This is the good part. We built a system called Hermes Oracle. It uses Kimi K3 as the brain for writing and publishing content. Here's what it does on its own. It pulls the latest news from Twitter. It sorts it by what's trending most. It does this on a timer by itself without you touching it. Hours refreshed seven hours ago on its own. Then you press one button, publish to WordPress. And it writes an SEO blog post targeting that trending topic and puts it on your site. One button ready to rank on Google. You didn't write a word. Think about what that does for your business. You could have fresh keyword targeted blog posts for the AI profit boardroom going up while you're asleep. Now I want to pause here for a second. If you're watching this and thinking this looks powerful but I have no idea where to start, I get it. There's a lot here. And moving fast on it is the whole game right now. So here's what we did inside the AI profit boardroom. We built the full agent OS. You're watching me use and you can get the whole zip file ready to install inside there. Not a video telling you about it. The actual files. You download it, you install it and you've got this same Kemi K three plus Hermes setup running in your business. We've got a step-by-step guide next to it. Four coaching calls every week where we go deep on Hermes in Kemi K three and you can ask about your own setup live. And 2,800 members. A lot of them already building agents like this right now. Link in the comments and description or go to the AI profit boardroom. Okay, back to the systems. We built another one called Hermes Astros. This one watches your competitors for you. Kemi K three is great at this because it can run long tasks without stopping. You said it to track competitors and keywords. Then daily on a schedule it finds what's trending and how you can make content around it that'll actually rank. Open one up and it hands you unique titles based on your competitor. Fresh angles for that exact topic. Then you can drop that straight into your video agent inside the agent OS. Make infographics, research reports, even a podcast. All from one trending angle it found for you. So picture this whole thing as one machine. It watches trends, it studies your competitors, it researches keywords. Then it writes blog posts, make social content and finds fresh angles. A full marketing machine for the AI profit boardroom running while you do other things. Here's another use case I really like. It's called mixture of agents. This is a panel of models working together. Like a team. So you take Kemi K three and pair it with another cheap model. Like GLM 5.2. They work side by side, fused. Then you ask that team to make something. And because you've got a few agents checking each other, you can get results that feel smarter than any single model. Using cheap open models. So you're not stuck relying on one expensive one. Now let me talk about coding for a second because this is why K three is trending. We ran a test. Kemi K three against fabled five against GPT 5.6. Building games, apps, tools, websites. And on most of them, Kemi K three made the nicer, cleaner result. The details were better. The controls actually worked. And this matches the benchmarks. Kemi K three currently ranks number one for code webdev on arena.ai. A Chinese open model sitting at the top of the front end design chart. That's wild. Substack. Why should you care if you're not a coder? Because it means the tools it builds, you just work better. Cleaner landing pages, smoother apps, nicer sites. The last thing I'll show you is a video promo we made. We used Kemi K three with a free tool called remotion. And it did something I'd never seen. It built a website that follows your mouse with a video playing on top. A progress bar at the bottom. You can click to skip around. The video was fully edited. Zoom in, zoom out. Nice colors in the text. All scripted and built by the agent. It looks really good. So let me recap what you just saw. The chat, the learn skill, blender for 3D promos, remotion for videos, Hermes, Oracle and Hermes Astros for full marketing workflows. That watch your competitors and publish for you. And we actually published a real article to our site while I was talking. Clean headings. A nice table, a tweet embedded, all done in the background. Here's the honest part. A lot of people skip open agents like Hermes because they feel clunky. More back and forth. Not as smooth as something like Claude. I hear that a lot. But when you plug in Kemi K three, that changes. It feels smoother, more useful. It just works. And because it's open, you're not stuck depending on one company's model. And that's the real reason to pay attention now. This stuff is moving fast. The people who learn to run these agents early are going to be miles ahead of the ones who wait. You don't want to be figuring this out a year later while everyone else already has it running their business. So here's how to get started the easy way. Get the agent OS inside the AI profit boardroom. The full zip file ready to install with Kemi K three already plugged in. You get the step-by-step video guide. You get four coaching calls every week where we show you how to grow your business with Kemi K three and Hermes. And you can ask about your own setup, live, daily tutorials where we walk you through building these exact agents for getting more leads and customers, a prompt library built around these workflows, and a member map so you can meet people near you who are building with Kemi K three and Hermes too. We update the whole thing daily, link in the comments and description or go to the AI profit boardroom. And if you want the full process behind this, the SOPs and 100 plus AI use cases just like this one, join the AI success lab. It's free to join. You'll get all the notes from this exact video sitting there for you plus access to a community of 85,000 people who are actively building with AI every single day. So you're never stuck figuring any of this out completely alone. That's the full setup, a free model, fixed tool, calling, and hands that can actually act on your own machine without costing you a thing. 12 months ago, none of this was possible for the average person. Today, it just works and it's sitting there free for anyone willing to spend an afternoon setting it up. That's Kimmy K three plus Hermes. Go try it, see you inside.