---
video_title: "NEW Tencent Hy4 Got Upgraded! 🤯"
video_id: lBXHmkI58fA
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lBXHmkI58fA
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Tencent HY4: 1.5TB AI Model Squeezed to 214GB
  
  Tencent has compressed its massive 770B parameter HY4 model from 1.5TB down to just 214GB with minimal performance loss. Learn about the Mixture of Experts architecture and how this model is revolutionizing coding and scientific research.
  
  00:00 - Intro: HY4's Massive Upgrade
  01:00 - 770B Parameters & MoE Explained
  01:53 - Benchmark Performance Results
  02:30 - Breaking Down the 214GB Compression
  04:43 - Real-World Hardware Reality Check
  05:51 - Key Use Cases: Coding & Science
  06:34 - Blind Expert Evaluations
---
New Tencent HY4 got upgraded. Tencent just took a 1.5 terabyte AI model, one of the biggest open-source models ever built, and squeezed it down to 214 GB, and the benchmark scores barely moved. That's what we're covering today. New Tencent HY4 got upgraded, and the upgrade is not what most people expected. This isn't about a new version

of the model. Tencent released HY4 preview on August 28th. Then the very next day, August 29th, they dropped something that made far more people pay attention. A compressed version of the model that takes it from roughly 1 and 1/2 terabytes down to just over 200 GB using a compression approach called mixed-stq1_0. Let me explain why that matters, and then I'm going to show you how this actually changes what you can do with AI right now. Hey, if we haven't met

already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. HY4 has 770 billion parameters. That number sounds massive, and it is, but here's the thing that makes it interesting. It's a MoE model, mixture of experts.

Even though there are 770 billion parameters sitting in the model, only 49 billion of them are actually activated for any single token. Picture 256 experts lined up. You type a word, the model picks the top eight. Only those eight do any work. The other 248 sit there doing nothing. That's why you can

have 770 billion parameters and not melt your hardware every time someone asks a question. And on top of that, 1 million token context window. You can feed it enormous amounts of content, long documents, multiple files, long conversations. Tencent specifically designed HY4 around coding, office tasks, analysis, game development, and scientific research. The benchmarks Tencent reported at launch, GPQA Diamond 92.3, MCP Atlas Ace 83.7, SWE-Bench

Multilingual Card 82.9. These are vendor-reported numbers, Tencent's own measurements, not independent verification, but they're strong numbers. Now, here's where the story gets interesting. A 770 billion parameter model in BF16 full precision weighs about 1.5 terabytes. Most GPU

setups don't have 1.5 terabytes of VRAM. So, for most people, HY4 at full precision only. Then, Tencent's Angel Slim Team released the GGUF builds, two of them. A Q4_K_M version at 435 GB, and the STQ 1_0 mixed precision version at 213.66

GB, 86% smaller than the original, 1.5 terabytes down to 214 GB. And when they ran it against the benchmarks, MCP Atlas went from 83.7 to 83.2. SWE-Bench

Multilingual dropped from 82.9 to 81.3. MRCR held at 81.1 from 81.3. IFBench

moved from 73.5 to 72.5. Tiny drops. The model survived with most of its capability intact. If you're watching

this and thinking about how to actually use large open-source models like HY4 in a real business workflow, content creation, lead generation automation, that's exactly what we dig into every week inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We've got 3,600 business owners in there right now who are building with the most powerful AI tools available. Every week we publish step-by-step tutorials showing you how to integrate models like HY4 into practical systems, not theory, actual workflows you can run. Four live coaching calls every week where you can ask questions about your specific setup, a 30-day roadmap, a full prompt library built around real business applications, and a member map so you can connect with other AI builders near you. If you want to know how to put a model like this to work, link is in the description or go to AI profit boardroom.com.

And if organic growth is on your radar, ranking on Google, getting found in AI-powered search results, building traffic that compounds over time, my team offers a free one-on-one SEO strategy session where we look at your specific business and build a custom plan. With AI search changing how Google works right now, the window to get ahead of this is genuinely open. We'll map out exactly what to target, how to structure your content, and how to build authority in your space so you show up when people are searching for what you offer. It's completely free and tailored to your situation. Go to go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session.

Link is in the description below. Back to HY4, here's the reality check before you go looking for this. 214 GB is still enormous. This is not a laptop model. The GGUF documentation estimates you need around 214 GB of VRAM for full GPU residency with the STQ1_0 build. The performance benchmarks on the

GGUF page were run on 8 H 20 GPUs. Serious server-level hardware. Prefill at 204 tokens per second, decode at 19.5 tokens per second. You can offload layers to CPU with less VRAM, but that's a different experience from running it at full speed. Also, neither of the

current HY4 GGUFs run on standard llama.cpp yet. The HY4 architecture hasn't been merged upstream. Angel Slim released patches for both architecture support and STQ1_0 quantization kernels, but you need to apply those yourself. Check the GGUF readme right before you try anything.

This is moving fast. The timeline was one day. August 28th, HY4 preview launches. August 29th, the 214 GB compressed build drops. That pace of iteration in open source AI right now is relentless. Let's look at what HY4

actually does. Software engineering is Tencent's first focus. Long horizon coding tasks, debugging across large code bases, generating and verifying code at scale. The 1 million token context feeds directly into this You can load an entire large code base into context. Office analysis, documents, spreadsheets, presentations, financial analysis across messy multi-file inputs, game development, generating playable prototypes, iterating with game engines, scientific research, molecular dynamics, mathematics, condensed matter physics.

Tencent also ran a blind internal evaluation. 163 internal experts, 203 engineering tasks. HY4 preview averaged 2.99, GLM 5.3 scored 2.92, Kimi K3

scored 2.94. Against Kimi K3, HY4 won 51.2% of comparisons, tied 7.9%, lost 40.9%. Tencent's own internal results,

useful context, not independent verification. That's the real story of this upgrade. If you want to stay ahead of releases like this and actually build AI into your business, not just watch it from the sidelines, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We cover exactly this kind of release every single week, what it means, how to use it, and how to plug it into a real workflow. We've got 3,600 members building with AI right now. Four live

coaching calls every week where you can get answers to your specific questions, daily step-by-step tutorials, a 30-day roadmap, and a prompt library built around real business applications. The moment something like HY4 becomes practically usable for business, we'll be walking you through it in detail, live. There's always someone online. Link in the description or go to AI Profit Boardroom.com. And one last

thing, if SEO is part of how you want to grow, ranking on Google, showing up in AI search results, building consistent organic traffic to your business, book a free strategy session with my team. AI is completely changing how search works right now, and most businesses haven't adjusted yet. We'll look at your website, your niche, your competition, and build you a personalized roadmap for getting found on Google and in the AI search tools people are using right now. No generic advice, a real plan built around your specific business. It's free. Go to

go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session. Link is in the description. I'll see you in the next one.