---
video_title: "Omarchy AI Linux Just Changed EVERY THING!"
video_id: vDOUoiZ38ZE
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vDOUoiZ38ZE
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Omari Linux 4.0: The World's First True AI Operating System
  
  Omari Linux 4.0 integrates an AI agent directly into the core operating system to automate fixes, themes, and tool building. Discover how this lightweight OS can breathe new life into old hardware while revolutionizing your daily workflow through built-in AI intelligence.
  
  00:00 - The Fastest Linux Install Ever
  00:54 - Who Created Omari Linux?
  01:25 - Quattro 4.0: Single Shell Architecture
  02:10 - Building Plugins with AI Tools
  02:52 - Deep Dive: The Built-in AI Agent
  03:57 - Running Local AI with Ollama
  05:18 - Stability and Performance Upgrades
  06:08 - Reviving Your Old Hardware
---
Umaki AI Linux just changed everything. A guy named Network Chuck sat down, put a USB stick in his desktop, and installed a whole new operating system in 1 minute and 47 seconds. On an older gaming PC, it took him about 3 minutes. He made a video about it on August 21st. That video passed 430,000 views, and the comments filled up with people deciding which laptop they were going to wipe.

The thing he installed is called Umaki, and the reason people lost their minds over it is simple. Umaki has an AI agent built into the operating system itself, not an app you open, not a tab in your browser. It lives inside the computer. So, when something breaks, the computer offers to fix it. When you want your screen to look different, you ask, and it rebuilds itself while you watch. I

want to walk you through exactly what this thing does, because version 4.0 just landed, and it changed almost everything about how the system works. And by the end, I'll show you why this matters, even if you never touch Linux in your life. Quick background, and I'll keep it short. Umaki is made by David Heinemeier Hansson. Most people call him

DHH. He built Ruby on Rails, which powers a huge chunk of the websites you use. He's also the CTO of Basecamp. He put out the first version of Umaki on June 26th, 2025. Back then, it was just his personal setup shared with the internet. Version 4.0 came out in August

2026. It shipped on August 14th. The team calls it Quattro, and they say it's the biggest release since the project started. Here's what changed. Before, the desktop was made of a bunch of separate little programs stitched together. One program drew the bar at

the top, another one ran the app launcher, another handled notifications, another one locked your screen. Eight or nine different tools, all made by different people, all needing to be told to match each other. In Quattro, they threw all of that out and rebuilt the whole desktop as one single program. The bar, the launcher, the menus, the notifications, the control panels, the lock screen, all of it now lives inside one long-running shell. Think of it like a house. Before, every room had its own

light switch, its own thermostat, its own front door key. Now, it's one system and one control panel runs the whole house. Why does that matter? Because now you can plug things into it. That single shell has a plug-in system built in, which means anyone can write a little widget and drop it onto their bar. A

clock, the weather, your to-do list, whatever you check every day. And this is where the AI part gets real. There's a developer named Jannis van Wosik. He wrote about this on his blog. He said writing your own plug-in is super easy and his first one took 5 minutes, just a couple of prompts with Claude. He built

a widget that puts a name next to your workspace. So, his bar says things like invoicing or reading. Then he couldn't stop. 11 of them are on GitHub now and DHH shared five of them publicly. 5 minutes for a person who had never written a plug-in for this system before. That's what happens when the AI

agent understands the machine it's running on. A community plug-in site launched days before the release and it already had close to a thousand plug-ins on it. Now, let's talk about the agent itself because this is the part that separates Amarki from every other version of Linux you've heard of. Every major AI coding assistant, Claude, Codex, ChatGPT, Gemini, comes pre-wired into the system as a launcher. You pick one as your default and it becomes the system's AI. Nothing gets downloaded

until you actually run it the first time. So, the AI isn't bolted on. It's a citizen of the operating system. Think about what that replaces. You get an error message, you copy it, you paste it into a search box, you read four forum posts from 2019, you give up. Now, the

computer just tells you what happened. It goes further. Network Chuck asked it for a cyberpunk neon theme. Then he asked for a Windows XP theme. Both got built and applied while he watched.

There is a skill system that lets the agent change the window manager settings, tweak the top bar, or write a brand new theme from scratch. So, you're talking to your computer and your computer is editing itself. There's also a tracker that shows your usage and weekly limits across every AI service you've connected. One screen, all your AI tools, so you can see where you stand. And if you'd rather not connect to an outside service at all, the install menu offers LM Studio and Ollama, so you can run models on your own hardware, your machine, your files, nothing leaving the building. Quick

pause here because if you're watching this and thinking, "Okay, this is cool, but how do I actually set an AI agent up and point it at my own business?" That's exactly what we do inside the iProfit boardroom. We run four coaching calls every single week where we go deep on agent setups like this one. How to wire an agent into your daily workflow, how to get it building the small tools you keep wishing you had. We've got a 30-day roadmap built around getting your first agents running and saving you hours every week. Daily step-by-step

tutorials, a prompt library you can steal from, and business owners in there right now, a lot of them already running agent setups on their own machines. So, when you get stuck, there's always someone online, plus a member map so you can find people near you and actually meet up. Links in the comments and the description. If you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means

nothing if it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Okay, back to it because the install story is genuinely strange. Qutro

dropped about 17 dependencies, the download file shrank by 30%, installs got roughly 40% faster. On fast hardware, a full install finishes in about 45 seconds. 45 seconds for an entire operating system. They also switched from keeping everything in a folder in your home directory to a properly packaged system, and that alone wiped out around 70% of the bug reports they were getting. Updates now flow through the normal package manager, which keeps your own changes separate from the system's changes. So, an update

is far less likely to break things, and they run their own package repository about a month behind Arch's bleeding edge with stable release candidate edge and dev channels. Translation, they let the risky stuff get tested by other people first. Now, does it run on the laptop you already own? Mostly, yes. One person in the comments runs it on a 2013 MacBook Pro. Another runs it on a

9-year-old Dell with 8 GB of RAM. That old laptop in your drawer, the one that's too slow for Windows now, that's a candidate. Quatro also added dual boot, so you can keep Windows and try this alongside it. And there's a factory reset option that restores the machine to the state it was in right after install, wiping accounts and personal data, and handing you back a clean computer in seconds. There's even a mode where the system gets installed without creating a user account at all, so the person who ends up with the machine sets up their own account, keyboard, and disk encryption on first boot. That's the kind of

feature you build when you expect companies to hand these out to staff. Small things, too. Better handling when you shut your laptop lid, brightness control for external monitors, power profiles that stick, better SSH reconnection, even speaker tuning for the 2026 Dell XPS 14 and 16. That's not a hobby project change log. That's someone building a computer they expect normal people to live in. And a lot of

very serious people just agreed with that. So, here's what to actually do. If you've got an old laptop sitting in a drawer, that's your test machine. Put it in a virtual machine first, then a USB stick, then wipe it once you're sure. Nothing to lose. If you're on Windows

and you don't want to commit, use the dual boot option. Keep Windows, try the other thing. If you don't want to touch Linux at all, that's completely fine. But go and connect an agent to something you actually do every week, and watch how much of it disappears. And if you're a business owner watching this thinking, "I don't have time to learn an operating system." You You don't need to. What you

need is the habit of asking an agent to build the small thing instead of doing the small thing. That habit transfers everywhere. Look, the reason I made this video is that O Maki is the clearest signal yet of where all of this is heading. The agent isn't an app anymore. It's part of the machine. And the people

who learn to work that way now are going to look like magicians in about 18 months. If you want to be one of them, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We run four coaching calls a week where we build agent setups live, the exact kind of thing that just got into O Maki. You bring your workflow, we help you wire an agent into it. Daily tutorials showing you step-by-step how to get agents running your repeat tasks.

A 30-day roadmap that takes you from zero to your first working agent setup so you stop losing hours to admin. A prompt library you can copy straight into whatever agent you're using. And 2,800 business owners inside, many of them already running local agents and building their own little tools. There's a member map, too, so you can find people near you and get help anytime because someone's always online. Links in the comments in the description.

If you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO

strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below.