---
video_title: "NEW Quasar 438B AI Model is WILD!"
video_id: Ip0KDRIMUl4
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ip0KDRIMUl4
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Quasar 438B: The New 438 Billion Parameter AI Giant
  
  Discover Quasar 438B, a massive new reasoning model from Europe built for speed, coding, and handling 1 million tokens of memory. We break down how this powerhouse compares to Claude and Mistral, and how you can use it to automate your business tasks.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Quasar 438B Overview
  00:28 - What is Quasar 438B?
  01:29 - 438 Billion Parameters Explained
  01:56 - Intelligence & Speed Benchmarks
  04:09 - 1 Million Token Context Window
  04:50 - Coding & AI Agent Performance
  05:40 - Document Analysis Capabilities
  06:45 - Final Verdict: Is it Worth It?
---
New Quasar 438B AI model is wild. Today, I'm going to show you a brand new AI model that just landed and it's a big deal. It's huge. It's fast and it might just change how you run your business. This is Quasar 438B and once you hear the numbers, you're going to want to try it. Stick

around because I'll show you exactly how you could use this to grow your business, too. Today, we're talking about Quasar 438B. It's a brand new AI model and it's one of the biggest AI stories to come out of Europe this year. So, what is Quasar 438B? It's a new AI model made by a company called Multiverse Computing.

They're based in Spain. This is their first big model like this and they built it to be a reasoning model. That just means it can think through problems step-by-step instead of just spitting out a fast guess. It speaks English and Spanish. It can hold 1 million tokens in its memory at once. Think of tokens like

little pieces of words. 1 million tokens is roughly 1,500 pages of text. That's like feeding it a huge stack of books and having it remember all of it at the same time. They didn't build this to just chat with you. They built it to work inside AI agents. An AI agent is a

tool that can plan, use other tools, write code and complete tasks with many steps all on its own. So, this model is built for coding, for research and for handling big, messy jobs that take many steps to finish. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every single comment, so make sure you drop one below. Now, let's talk about the number

in the name, 438 billion. That's how many parameters this model has. Parameters are like the tiny knobs inside the model's brain that help it learn patterns. A bigger number usually means a bigger, more complex brain. But, here's the thing, a big number alone doesn't make a model smart. What matters

is what the company actually did with all that size and that's where this story gets interesting. There's a website called Artificial Analysis. They test AI models and give them a score so you can compare them fairly. Quasar scored a 43 on their intelligence index. Now, that's not the highest score out there. Claude Opus 5 scored a 63 on that

same test. So, Quasar is not the smartest AI model in the world. I want to be honest with you about that. But, here's the exciting part. Out of the European models on that list, Quasar is currently sitting at the top. It's the

highest scoring European model on that comparison right now. So, if you care about where AI's heading in Europe, this is a really big moment. You'd think a model with 438 billion parameters would be slow. Big brains usually take longer to think, right? But, Quasar generated 500 tokens, including all its thinking time, in just 15.3 seconds. That's fast

for a model this size. Let me put that next to some other models so you can see it. Mistral Medium 3.5 took 18.8 seconds. Nvidia's Nemotron 3 Ultra took

25.7 seconds. So, Quasar is beating both of those on speed while still being bigger. Only a small handful of models out there are faster than it, and pretty much none of those faster ones score higher on the smarts test, too. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Inside

there, we break down exactly how to use new AI models like Quasar the right way, step by step. So, you're not just watching videos about AI, you're actually using it inside your own business. We show you how to save time on the boring tasks, how to automate the stuff that used to take your team hours, and how to bring in more customers using tools just like the one we're talking about today. You'll be around other business owners who are doing the exact same thing. So, you're never figuring this out alone. It's a simple way to

stay ahead instead of falling behind while everyone else learns how to use AI properly. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. This isn't a sales pitch, it's a real conversation where we look at your website, figure out exactly what's stopping you from ranking, and give you clear next steps you can use right away. Whether you're just starting out or you've been at this for years, the call is completely free and you'll walk away with real answers about your site. Just click the link below and grab a time that works for you. Now, let's

get back to Quasar because the next part is where it gets really wild. Let's talk about that 1 million token memory again because this is where it gets exciting for anyone running a business. Imagine you could hand an AI your entire library of content, every blog post you've ever written, every customer question you've ever answered, every strategy call transcript, and it could read and remember every single word of it at once. That's the kind of job this model is built for. So, picture this, inside something like the AI Profit Boardroom, you could ask a model like this to read through months of posts and conversations and pull out the best strategies members have shared so you get a simple summary instead of scrolling for hours. That's just an

example of the kind of task this model was designed to handle, not something we're claiming it's already done. Next, let's talk about coding because Multiverse built this thing with agents in mind. There's a test called Terminal Bench. It doesn't just ask a model to write a bit of code, it drops the model into a real terminal, like a real computer screen with commands, and watches how it handles real tasks. Things like looking at a project, checking what other code it depends on, fixing bugs, and running tests. Quasar

scored 69.3 on that test. That's 18.7 points higher than Mistral Medium 3.5 and it's 15.4 points higher than Nima

Tron 3 Ultra. Now, I want to be fair here, too. Claude Opus 5 still leads the pack on this test with a score of 89.1. So, Quasar isn't the best coding model out there, but for a brand new model from a company that's never released something this big before, that's a strong first try. Here's another test

worth mentioning. It's called AALCR and it checks how well a model can dig through a huge pile of information and connect the dots between different parts of it. Quasar scored 75.0 on this one. And get this, Grok 4.6 scored the exact

same number, 75.0. Claude Opus 5 only scored a little higher at 75.7. So, for this specific skill, digging through long documents and connecting the dots, Quasar is playing in a much bigger league than you'd expect. So, think

about that for a second. A company that spent years figuring out how to make AI models smaller just turned around and released one of the biggest models in Europe. That's a pretty wild pivot, and it tells you they know a lot about squeezing every bit of performance out of a model. Now, I do want to clear something up because I've seen people get this wrong online. Quasar is not an open-source model. You can't download it

and run it yourself for free. It's a closed model, and you access it through an API instead. I also want to be clear that there's no proof this specific 438 billion model is a compressed version of some bigger model. The company hasn't said that. So, don't repeat that claim if you see it floating around. So,

here's the honest, straight-up truth about Quasar 438B. It's not the smartest AI model on the planet right now. Claude Opus 5 still beats it on the main intelligence score, but it is currently the top-scoring European model on this comparison. It's fast for its size, it's got a massive memory, and it was clearly built with real business tasks in mind, not just chit-chat. So, that's Quasar 438B, a huge new model out of Europe built for agents, coding, and massive amounts of information. And honestly,

one of the more interesting releases we've covered in a while. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Inside there, we break down exactly how to use new AI models like Quasar the right way, step-by-step, so you're not just watching videos about AI, you're actually using it inside your own business. We show you how to save time on the boring tasks, how to automate the stuff that used to take your team hours, and how to bring in more customers using tools just like the one we're talking about today. You'll be around other business owners who are doing the exact same thing. So, you're never figuring

this out alone. It's a simple way to stay ahead instead of falling behind while everyone else learns how to use AI properly. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. It's a real conversation where we look at your website, figure out exactly what's stopping you from ranking, and give you clear next steps you can use right away. Whether you're just starting out or you've been at this for years, the call is completely free, and you'll walk away with real answers about your site. Just click the link

below and grab a time that works for you. Thanks for watching. Drop a comment and let me know what you think about Quasa. Julian reads every single one. See you in the next video.