---
video_title: "Give Hermes One Idea… It Does the Rest"
video_id: 8je7i3eBZbE
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8je7i3eBZbE
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Give one AI agent your idea, and it builds the actual working tool while you do nothing else. See the exact 5-step system — capture, plan, approve, build — that turns a single messy idea into a live app, page, or tool, no coding required.
  
  00:00 Intro – One idea, fully built by agents
  0:44 The Setup – idea board runs on Hermes
  1:30 Real Example – SEO calculator built live
  2:01 5-Step Workflow – capture to build
  2:44 The One Gate – your only decision point
  2:58 Runs in Background – queue ideas, come back done
  4:20 Your Data – saved as markdown in Obsidian
  5:31 Voice Control – hands-free idea capture
  6:27 Recap – the new workflow
---
Give Hermes one idea. It does the rest. What if the only work you did today was tap one button? Not build it, not plan it, not research it, just tap yes. You drop in a rough idea, you walk away, a team of agents plans it and builds the actual thing. By the time you're back,

it's done and running. So, what's really between an idea and a finished tool? One tap. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help people actually learn and use AI tools in their work, not just watch from the sidelines. Today, I'm showing you something I built inside my Agent OS called the Goldie Idea Foundry.

It runs on Hermes and it turns one messy idea into a real working thing while you do almost nothing. Stick with me because near the end, I'll show you the voice version that runs this whole thing hands-free. So, here's the setup. Everything lives on one board inside my Agent OS. On the left, you drop an idea.

On the right, finished things show up built and running and ready to open. In the middle, the agents do the work. You give it an idea, you approve the plan. That's basically it. Two moves from you and the rest happens on its own. And

Hermes is the brain running it all. It reads your idea, works out what it actually is, and hands the job to the right agents. I call this whole thing the Goldie Idea Foundry and I built it into my Agent OS because of a problem I bet you know too well. Every idea used to hit the same wall. I'd write it down and then nothing. No time to research

it, no time to plan it, no time to build it. So, it just sat there. By the time I came back, I'd forgotten why it even mattered. So, the ideas never turned into anything. The foundry fixes that.

You drop the idea in, you walk off, and the agents pick it up. They sort it, they plan it, and they hand you one decision. You tap approve. By the time you're back, the thing is built. Let me show you a real one. I dropped in a

totally random idea, an SEO calculator. That's it, just the words. I hit shape it, the agents planned it out, I approved it, and it built the actual tool. Then, I could preview it, open it up in a new tab, and even tell it to have another go if I wanted. One line in, a working tool out. And it's not

just that one. I've plugged in a to-do list app, a meditation timer, simple web pages, all the same way. Rough idea in, finished thing out, all saved in one place I can come back to anytime. So, let me break down exactly how it works because there are only five simple steps. Step one is capture. You drop the

idea and forget it. No folders, no tags, no structure. It could be a voice note, a link, one messy line, anywhere. It lands in the vault and the agents take it from there. The friction that used to stop you is just gone. Step two is

classify and route. An agent reads your idea and works out what it actually is. Is this a real project to build? A quick task? Something to park for later? A

reference to keep? The good ideas get pushed forward, the noise gets filed and you sort none of it by hand. Step three is the plan. For anything worth building, an agent writes a real plan. What it is, the approach, the first milestones, and which agents will build it. So, you're not staring at a blank

page, you're reading a finished proposal and reacting to it. Step four is the one gate. This is the only place you step in. You read the plan and you either approve it or reject it. That's the whole job, one decision. Step five is

the build. Once you approve, a project manager agent spins up its sub-agents and they build the real thing, not a document about it, the actual deliverable, a working page, an app, a little tool, and you watch it show up running right there in your dashboard. And the best part is all of this runs in the background. You can line up five ideas, walk off, and come back to five built things. It's a team of agents just quietly creating while you get on with your day. That's the real shift. You

stop being the person who does every single step, and you become the person who just points at what to build next. Now, real quick, if you're building tools and pages like this, there's a question that matters just as much as building them. Can people actually find them? When someone searches on Google or asks ChatGPT, Perplexity, or Gemini, or lands on one of those AI overviews, does your brand show up or does it just disappear? That's exactly what a free AI brand visibility session is for. You get

a custom plan for how you show up across all of those, a look at where you're invisible right now, a gap check against your competitors, and straight answers to your questions from a real strategist. It's completely free, no strings attached. The link is down below if you want it. And if you want the actual setup I've been showing you, the whole Agent OS with the Idea Foundry already wired in, that's inside the AI profit boardroom. When you join, you get the full agent OS zip file ready to install with the foundry, Hermes, and the Obsidian memory layer all connected.

You get a 30-day roadmap, so you know exactly what to set up and when. You get walkthroughs on the idea foundry, the approval gate, and the Obsidian setup, plus four live coaching calls every week where you can ask about your own build. So, instead of piecing it together yourself, you just grab the whole thing and start dropping in ideas. Okay, back to it. Here's a piece people miss.

Everything the foundry builds get saved into your Obsidian vault as plain markdown. That means your whole idea pipeline is actually yours. You can search it, read it, and come back to it anytime. Nothing is locked away in some tool you can't get yourself out of. And because it's all connected across my agent OS to what I call the memory galaxy, your agents can use everything you've already built as context for the next idea. So, the more you make, the

smarter the whole thing gets. Every idea you ship makes the next one faster. Now, compare that to the old way. You'd write the idea in a notes app. You tell yourself you'll research it this weekend. You open a blank doc, stare at

it, and close it because you don't have time. Then you forget why it mattered in the first place. Maybe you hand it to someone else and wait 2 weeks. And most ideas just never get built. The new way, you drop one line into the foundry, the agents sort it, plan it, and hand you one decision. You approve it once from

anywhere. The agents build the real thing, and it ends up shipped and running in your dashboard the same day. That's the whole difference. And I know what some of you are thinking. This sounds like a gimmick. Is it really

building real things? It is. These are real working tools and pages coming out of single line ideas. And that one gate in the middle is what keeps it useful. You're not letting agents run wild. You

read the plan, you catch anything off, and only then does it build. It's a quick quality check, and then you're hands off again. Now, here's the part I teased at the start. There's a voice version of Hermes I've been running that can actually control the computer. You set a wake word, it runs in the background, and you just talk to it. It

listens, it replies, and it works with everything else inside the agent OS. So, you don't even have to touch the board. You can literally you your idea out loud and let the whole pipeline take it from there. It's a wild way to run your agents completely hands-free. A lot of people worry this kind of thing is heavy to run, but you can set it up with free models or run it locally on your own machine, so that's really not a problem. You get the whole thing in one

place inside my agent OS without needing anything heavy behind it. I mix it up myself. I test free options. I test local models and I show you what's actually working right now because this stuff changes almost every week and this isn't just me. People inside my community are setting this exact thing up and a lot of them aren't developers.

They're normal people who just follow the steps, got their agents running, connected voice and Obsidian and started building. If they can do it, you can too. It really comes down to actually setting it up instead of just watching. So, just to recap what you've learned. You stop losing ideas because you drop one once and the agents build it. You

stop sorting and planning everything because they classify and route it for you. You stop staring at a blank page because you react to a finished plan instead. You make one call, approve or reject and it gets built and it can all run on free or local models. One human checkpoint, everything else on autopilot. If I had one tip for you, it's this. Capture everything and judge

nothing at the start. Get the idea into the vault first. You can always reject it at the gate later. So, here's your next step. If you want real help getting your own brand seen, not just building things, but making sure people actually find them, book your free AI brand visibility session.

You'll get a custom plan for your site, a clear look at where you're showing up across Google and the AI tools people ask now, competitor insights and straight recommendations you can act on. 100% free, no obligation. Grab it in the link below. And when you're ready to build this whole thing yourself, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. You're about to try dropping ideas into a system like this and you're going to hit little snags. What to set up first,

which models to run, how to wire in Obsidian. That's exactly what the Boardroom is for. You get the full Agent OS zip file ready to install, the 30-day roadmap to get it going, the Idea Foundry walkthroughs, the prompts and four coaching calls a week to get you unstuck fast. There are over 4,000 members already in there building alongside you. Come get the whole setup at AI profit boardroom.com.