---
video_title: "NEW NVIDIA Nemotron 3.5 Lightning is ABSURD!! 🤯"
video_id: hVPt7NtM2Jo
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hVPt7NtM2Jo
video_date: 20260816
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS &  NVIDIA Nemotron 3.5 Lightning  Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  NVIDIA's New AI Model is INSANELY Fast: Neatron 3.5 Lightning
  
  NVIDIA just released Neatron 3.5 Lightning, a breakthrough model that uses a Mixture of Experts architecture to deliver 4x output speeds for AI agents. Learn how this open-source release and the new Nemo Switchyard system allow you to run high-speed automation locally on your own GPU.
  
  00:00 - Intro: NVIDIA Neatron 3.5 Lightning
  00:30 - How the 30B MoE Architecture Works
  01:33 - Speed & Efficiency for AI Agents
  02:06 - Open Weights & Local GPU Support
  03:14 - Nemo Switchyard Routing Library
  04:51 - Mamba 2 & Speculative Decoding
  06:13 - NVIDIA's Full AI Automation Stack
  07:50 - Free AI Workflows & SOPs
---
New NVIDIA Nemotron 3.5 Lightning just dropped, and what NVIDIA did here is actually wild. So, here's the thing. Most AI models, when you run them, they use everything they've got. Every single parameter fires. And when you've got a

big model, that takes time. That slows things down. NVIDIA looked at that problem and said, "What if we didn't do that? What if we built a model with 30 billion parameters, but only made it use about 3 billion of them at a time?" That's Nemotron 3.5 Lightning. 30

billion parameters total, but only 3 billion active per token. And that single decision is what makes this release worth paying attention to. Let me explain why that actually matters. Think of it like this. Imagine you've got a team of 30 people, smart people, experts, but for most tasks, you only actually need three of them. So, why

make all 30 show up every time? It wastes time. It slows everything down. Nemotron 3.5 Lightning has a router built in. When a task comes in, the

router looks at it and decides which experts actually need to handle this. A small group wakes up. The rest stay quiet. You get a fast answer. And you do it again, and again, and again. That's

why NVIDIA claims up to four times the output speed compared to other models in its weight class, and 30% faster completion of agentic tasks without sacrificing much accuracy. Now, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Now, why does speed matter for AI automation in your business? Because AI agents don't just answer one question and stop. They work

in loops. They call tools. They check outputs. They delegate tasks. They run commands over and over. And if every one

of those steps is slow, your whole workflow is slow. Long-running AI agents spend most of their time on high-volume execution, tool calls, result validation, sub-agent delegation. Lightning is built for exactly that, fast, repetitive execution work. Think about what that means for automating lead follow-up, running content pipelines, managing onboarding flows, handling member engagement, anything where an agent is doing the same type of task hundreds of times. With a model this fast, those workflows don't just run, they fly. And this model is open,

fully open. NVIDIA published the weights, training data, and recipes under the Open M D W 1.1 license. You can download it, fine-tune it on your own data, and deploy it however you want. Right now, inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we're building full AI automation systems specifically around models like NeMo Megatron 3.5 Lightning.

We're mapping out exactly how to set up high-speed agentic workflows that grow your pipeline, automate your lead nurturing, handle member onboarding, and take the repetitive work completely off your plate. Every week we run four live coaching calls where you can ask questions about your exact setup and get real answers. There are step-by-step tutorials walking you through each tool as it drops, including this one, a 30-day roadmap so you know exactly what to build first, a prompt library, and 3,700 business owners already running these workflows right now. People who are deep in this stuff and available 24/7. If you want to implement NeMo Megatron 3.5 Lightning in your business

the right way, this is where you do it. Link in the description or go to AIprofitboardroom.com. Now, here's where it gets even more interesting. There's a second thing NVIDIA released alongside Lightning, and it might actually be the biggest story.

It's called NeMo Switchyard. Switchyard is an open-source model routing library for AI agents. It sends each prompt in an agent workflow to the most capable and efficient model for that step, across a mix of open, proprietary, and NVIDIA models without requiring the application to be rewritten. So, picture this. Your AI agent gets a complex task, planning, reasoning, strategy. That goes

to a big frontier model. Then once the plan is set, all the execution work, run this, check that, validate this, format that, repeat, that gets routed to NeMo Megatron 3.5 Lightning, fast, efficient, specialized, one router, two models, way better performance than using one model for everything. Nemotron 3.5 lightning scores 24 on the artificial analysis intelligence index, a nine-point jump over the previous Nemotron 3 nano model.

So, you're not just getting a faster model, you're getting a smarter one, too. Now, let's talk about where this thing can actually run, because this part is genuinely surprising. The model can run on a single consumer GPU, including those in Nvidia RTX PCs or the company's DGX Spark systems. You don't need a data center, you don't need cloud credits. You can run a 30 billion parameter model, one competitive with models four times its size, on a desktop GPU. For business owners who want to

keep their workflows local, keep their data private, and not depend on external APIs for everything, this makes that possible. You own the whole setup. And if you want cloud deployment, Nemotron 3.5 lightning is available on Hugging Face, ModelScope, Open Router, and build .nvidia.com as an Nvidia NIM

microservice, plus a broad range of cloud platforms. Local, cloud, both, mix and match. Let's talk about the architecture, because this is what actually makes it fast. Nemotron 3.5 lightning uses a hybrid Mamba 2 plus MOE plus attention architecture. Mamba

layers handle generation without building up a huge memory cache that slows things down as tasks get longer. The MOE layer only activates the experts you need. Selective attention keeps the reasoning sharp, all three working together. And then Nvidia added speculative decoding on top. Nvidia ships two draft models, DSparc for DGX Spark inference and low concurrency data center workloads, and DFlasher. Here's

how speculative decoding works in plain terms. Instead of generating one token at a time, a smaller draft model makes a quick guess at the next few tokens. The main model checks them. If they're right, which they often are for repetitive work, the model accepts multiple tokens in one step. You generate faster. For an agent doing the

same types of tasks over and over, this is exactly where speculative decoding helps most. Video ships NVFP4 and BF16 checkpoints using the same NVFP4 kernels that power Nemotron 3 Ultra across Nvidia Blackwell, Hopper, and Ampere GPUs. The same file works in a data center and on a desktop DGX Spark. Same model, same weights, same file. You pick where it runs. Now, let me zoom out

because there's a bigger picture here. Nvidia isn't just releasing a model. They're releasing a stack. Lightning, the fast executor. Switchyard, the traffic controller. And Reuters reported

on August 11th that Nvidia is also working on Nemotron 4, a trillion parameter model family with the strategy being to drive the whole ecosystem through model proliferation. So, you've got the small, fast specialist, the router that decides who does what, and a frontier reasoning model on the horizon that handles the hardest thinking. One ecosystem, multiple specialized models, each doing the job it was built for. Nvidia just gave AI automation builders a fast, open, specialized execution model and a routing system to go with it. The only question is how fast you start using it.

Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we're already mapping out exactly how to integrate Nemotron 3.5 Lightning into real business automation workflows. How to set it up with Switchyard so your agents are routing tasks to the right model. How to fine-tune it on your own data. How to build the kind of always-on pipelines that handle your lead nurturing, your member engagement, your content distribution automatically. We

run four coaching calls every week where you can bring your exact setup and get live feedback. Daily tutorials walking you through every step. A full 30-day roadmap for building your AI automation system from scratch. A prompt library built around agentic workflows. And 3,700 business owners inside, a lot of them already building with Nvidia's model ecosystem, who are around 24/7. If

you want to build this properly and actually get results from it, come join us. Link in the description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you want the full SOPs, workflows, and 100 plus AI use cases, including Nematron 3.5 lightning setups, you can plug straight into your business, join the AI success lab. It's

free. 87,000 members. All the notes from this video are in there, plus step-by-step guides for everything we covered today. Link in the comments and description.