---
video_title: "Codex + ChatGPT Just Got WAY More Powerful"
video_id: c8qW6JQkpZY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c8qW6JQkpZY
video_date: 20260815
video_description: |
  Get the Codex + ChatGPT Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  ChatGPT and Codex just got a memory of your actual work — no more losing your train of thought every time you close your laptop. Here's how OpenAI's new "Computer History" feature works, what it can (and can't) see, and the one hidden use most people are sleeping on: turning your repeated tasks into automations.
  
  00:00 Intro – ChatGPT/Codex get a memory upgrade
  00:32 What It Is – Overview
  01:13 Privacy – No screenshots or audio
  01:33 Chronicle vs Now – Why it was rebuilt
  01:48 The Timeline – How it looks
  02:51 How It Works – Events & local files
  03:16 Data Controls – Pause, clear, exclude
  03:24 Smart Linking – Finds your real files
  03:54 Use Case 1 – Pick up where you left off
  04:20 Use Case 2 – Find lost work
  04:44 Use Case 3 – Auto-detect repeat tasks
  05:20 Who It's For
  05:45 Limits – Mac only, plans, rollout
  06:10 Tip 1 – Pause when needed
  06:26 Tip 2 – Curate app access
  06:40 Tip 3 – Act on suggestions
  06:56 Tip 4 – Know your data
  07:13 Next Steps
---
Codex plus chat GPT just got way more powerful. Ever walk away from your computer, then come back and go blank? You stare at the screen, what was I even doing again? Here's the thing, your AI has that exact same problem. Every time you close it, it forgets everything. Well, that just

changed, and barely anyone has noticed yet. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and my whole job is helping you actually use AI tools in your real work, not just play with them for 5 minutes and move on. OpenAI just quietly gave chat GPT and Codex a memory of the actual work you do on your computer. It's called computer history, and in a minute I'll show you the one part of it that most people are going to completely miss, the part that can turn the boring stuff you repeat every week into something that runs on its own. So, stick with me. Let me back up and

explain what this actually is, because the name makes it sound smaller than it is. Normally, chat GPT starts every chat fresh. It has no idea what you were working on 10 minutes ago. It doesn't know which document you had open, which app you were in, or what you were trying to finish. You have to explain all of that from scratch every single time.

Computer history changes that. When you turn it on, it watches your activity across the apps and websites you use, and it turns that activity into memories and a simple timeline. Then, chat GPT and Codex can look at that timeline and actually understand what you've been doing. Now, here's the part people get nervous about, so let me clear it up right away. This is not screen recording. It does not take screenshots.

It does not listen to your microphone or record your audio. Instead, it records what OpenAI calls interaction events, things like clicks, typing, keyboard shortcuts, and switching between apps. It quietly turns those events into short text summaries. That's it. And this actually replaces an older experiment OpenAI ran earlier this year called Chronicle. Chronicle used screenshots,

kind of like a camera taking pictures of your screen. People weren't comfortable with that, so OpenAI rebuilt the whole thing from the ground up. Computer history is that rebuild, and it's a very different, lighter approach. Once it's running, you get a timeline inside your settings. It groups everything by day and time. Each entry has a title, a

short summary of what you did, and the apps that were involved. And you can just talk to it. You can ask things like, "What was I working on before my last break?" or "Where's that document I was looking at earlier today?" Now, before I go deeper, let me tell you where I've been pulling all of this apart properly.

Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, this is exactly the kind of thing we break down the moment it drops. I'm putting together full walkthroughs on computer history right now, how to switch it on the safe way, which apps you actually want feeding it, and how to get real answers out of your timeline instead of vague ones. We run live coaching calls where members bring their own ChatGPT and Codex setups, and we work through them together screen by screen. There's a step-by-step roadmap, so you're not guessing what to do first. And there are prompt packs built around asking your history the right questions, so you get useful answers instead of noise. If

you're watching this and thinking you want to actually use this feature and not just hear about it, the AI Profit Boardroom is where that happens. I'll tell you how to join a bit later. Okay, so let me get into how this really works under the hood, because there are a few details that matter. Computer history creates a stream of those interaction events from the apps and websites you allow. Every so often, it takes that stream and turns it into text summaries and small memory files that live right on your Mac. They're

plain text. You can open them, read them, and delete them whenever you want. Nothing is hidden from you, and you stay in control the whole time. You pick which apps and websites are included. You can pause it from the menu bar at the top of your screen anytime. You can

clear the last 10 minutes, the last hour, the last day, or wipe all of it. Private browsing is never included at all, so this isn't some black box running behind your back. You decide what it sees. There's one more piece worth understanding before I show you it in action. Computer history doesn't just sit on its own little island. When it

spots that a real file, a Slack conversation, or a Google Doc is a better source than its own short summary, it can use the timeline to work out which one you mean, and then go and read that source directly. So, the memory isn't the ceiling. It's more like a map that points you to the real thing. That's a small detail, but it's the thing that makes this feel less like a gimmick and more like something that actually gets your day. And keep in mind, all of this runs on tokens while it summarizes your activity in the background. So, it's doing quiet work

even when you're not looking at it. Okay, with all of that set up, let me show you the three ways this genuinely earns its place using the way I'd actually put it to work. The first big one is picking up where you left off. Say I'm deep in planning a content series to bring more of the right people into the AI Profit Boardroom, and then I get pulled into something else for 2 hours. Normally, I come back and half of it is gone from my head. With computer

history, I just ask what I was working on before the break, and it pulls the whole thread back. Which topics I was mapping, which doc I was in, where I stopped. I'm back in it in seconds instead of 10 minutes of trying to remember. The second one is finding recent work you can't quite locate. This one saves me constantly. I'll know I had

the onboarding outline for new AI Profit Boardroom members open earlier, but I can't remember if it was in a doc, a note, or a chat. Instead of hunting through 15 tabs, I just ask, and the timeline points me straight to it. It remembers the way I remember it, roughly and by feel, and it connects that to the real file. And here's the third one, the part I told you most people are going to miss. Computer history notices when you keep doing the same steps over and over. And

when it spots that pattern, the timeline can suggest turning it into a skill or an automation. So, let's say every week I go through the same routine to prep a recap for the AI Profit Boardroom, checking what got done, pulling the updates together, writing the summary. Computer history would notice that repeated pattern and offer to turn it into a reusable skill or even a scheduled task that builds that recap for me each weekday. I review the suggestion, and then I ask Codex to actually build it from the workflow it recorded. That's the difference between doing a task forever and doing it once and letting it run. That right there is

the real power. It's not just remembering, it's watching for the stuff you repeat and handing you a way to stop repeating it. So, why does this matter, and who is this actually for? If your work lives across a bunch of apps, docs, browser tabs, and tools all day, this is for you because the pain isn't doing the work. The pain is holding all the loose threads in your head and losing them every time you switch tasks or step away. This picks

those threads back up for you. Now, let me be straight with you about the limits because I'm not going to oversell it. Right now, this is Mac only. It's in the ChatGPT desktop app on macOS and it's for the pro, business, and enterprise plans. If you're on a business or enterprise team, your admin has to switch it on before you even get the option. And it's rolling out around most

of the world first with Europe, the UK, and Switzerland coming a bit later. It also needs the memories feature turned on to work at all. So, it's not for everyone yet, but the direction this is going is very clear and getting your head around it now puts you way ahead. Let me give you a few tips so you use this a smart way. Tip one, turn it on deliberately and pause it when you should. It's off by default for a

reason. If you're on a call or messaging someone and their words might get swept into your history, pause it from the menu bar unless they've agreed to it. Same goes for anything with sensitive personal information. You've got a pause button, use it. Tip two, curate what feeds it. Don't just let it watch

everything. Go into the settings and either pick only the apps and websites you actually work in or block the ones you don't want anywhere near it. The cleaner the input, the more useful the memories. Junk in, junk out. Tip three, actually pay attention to those skill and automation suggestions. This is

where the real-time back lives. When the timeline offers to turn a repeated workflow into a skill, don't scroll past it. Review it and if it's right, let Codex build it. That's the whole point. Tip four, know where your data sits.

Those memory files are plain text on your Mac and they are not encrypted by this feature, which means other programs running under your account could potentially read them. So, protect your computer account, leave out anything sensitive, and clear your history when you need a clean slate. Being aware of this is just part of using it like a grown-up. All right, let me point you to the two best next steps. If you want the full process, SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. Links in the comments and

description. You'll get all the video notes from there plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And if you're ready to actually turn this on and use it properly, come into the AI Profit Boardroom. Here's what you're walking into with this exact feature. You'll flip it on and immediately hit real questions. Which

apps do I include? How do I stop it seeing the wrong thing? How do I get answers out of my timeline that are actually useful? And how do I take one of those suggested workflows and turn it into a skill that runs on its own? That's precisely what we work through together on the coaching calls, in the tutorials, with the road maps and the prompts built around it. You get to skip

the fumbling and get to the useful part fast alongside over 4,000 members doing the same. Come join us at AIprofitboardroom.com.