---
video_title: "NEW Hermes Agent Tool Update is INSANE!"
video_id: nXgvEeBYcYg
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nXgvEeBYcYg
video_date: 20260813
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Hermes Agent Tool Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Hermes v0.19: How to Run AI Agents 80% Faster (Quicksilver Update)
  
  Discover how the new Hermes v0.19 Quicksilver release uses parallel tool dispatch to eliminate bottlenecks and slash agent start times by 80%. We also walk through the full Agent OS dashboard, showcasing automated workflows for content creation, research, and team management.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Quicksilver Release
  00:35 - Parallel vs Sequential Tool Calls
  01:42 - 80% Faster: Speed & UI Overhaul
  02:18 - Touring the Agent OS Dashboard
  03:10 - Shared Memory & Kanban System
  04:28 - Hermes Oracle & Astro Workflows
  06:05 - Smart Approvals & Multi-Profiles
  06:50 - How to Get the Full Install
---
New Hermes agent tool update is insane. And in this video, I'm going to show you exactly what changed, walk you through our full agent OS system, and show you how to get the ready-to-install version so you can run this yourself. Let me start with what just dropped. Hermes v0.19, the Quicksilver release, just shipped.

And what makes this one different is that it didn't just add a feature. It attacked every single place Hermes was making you wait. Here's the biggest one. Your agents used to work through tool calls in a queue. You ask Hermes to do five things: search the web, read a file, pull some data, check a source, fetch some content. None of those five

things actually depend on each other. But before this update, Hermes did them one at a time anyway. First one done, second one starts, third one starts, down the line. That's the one-at-a-time problem. And it made agent workflows feel slow, especially once you start building multi-step systems where Hermes is doing a lot of work in one go. The

fix is called segmented tool batch dispatch. What that means in plain English, Hermes now looks at your list of tool calls, figures out which ones can safely run at the same time, fires all of them at once, and only holds back the calls that genuinely need to wait for something else to finish first. Safe calls fire together. Dependent calls wait. Everything else is already done.

Picture five workers standing in front of five doors. The old system sent one worker through at a time. Door one opens, that worker finishes, comes back, then door two opens. In the new system, all five doors open at once. Every worker that can safely go in goes. The

only one that waits is the one that genuinely can't start yet. Everything else is moving. You get the result faster. Your agent feels completely different. And alongside the tool dispatch change, the cold start time, the gap between you hitting send and Hermes actually beginning, dropped from about 4.3

seconds to 0.9 seconds. That's an 80% cut. Reasoning now streams live by default, so instead of a spinner, you can watch Hermes think in real time. The desktop app got a full overhaul, 14 times faster, streaming markdown, instant session switching, diffs that don't freeze, and background sub-agents now have live transcripts. You can watch

exactly what each sub-agent is doing step-by-step as it works. If the process crashes mid-run, results are saved in a durable delivery ledger and redelivered on the next boot, so you don't lose work. Now, this is where I want to show you what our Agent OS setup actually looks like because this update makes so much more sense when you see it running inside a real system. What you're looking at right now is our Agent OS dashboard. This is not bare Hermes. Bare

Hermes is a terminal. This is the full operating system built around it. Mission control, shared memory, a Kanban board, multiple agent profiles all running from one screen. Here, you can see we've got multiple different Hermes agent profiles set up. Hermes Oracle, this one pulls in the latest trending news, sorts it by what's actually getting traction, and then publishes content straight to our website. You can

see it using multiple tool calls here. Before this update, all of those tool calls ran in a line. Now, with segmented tool dispatch, the safe ones fire at the same time. The whole thing moves faster. Down here, you can see the Kanban board.

This is where agents delegate tasks to each other. So, you can give the board a task and the agents inside it pick it up, work through it, and complete it. You can see it's got the Hermes swarm system wired in, multiple agent profiles all working together on the same board. And here's the memory system. This is the piece that most people miss when they try to set up Hermes from scratch.

Every agent in the stack pulls from the same Obsidian memory vault. So, when Hermes Oracle runs, it already knows the business context, the content goals, what's already been posted. You don't re-explain it every time. The memory carries across every session, every agent, every tool call. You can also see the voice agent, Hermes Apollo, right here. So, you can talk to your agent

stack out loud. Say, "Open up Obsidian." And it does it. Say, "Run Oracle." And it goes. All through voice.

And then over here, you've got the studio section, video agents, image agents, music agents, game agents, all plugged into the same system. This is the setup that this tool dispatch update runs inside of. And when your Agent OS is running multi-step workflows across Oracle, Astro, the Kanban board, and the studio, and all the safe tool calls are firing in parallel, you feel the difference. Right, before I go further, here's the thing. You could spend weeks building this setup yourself, wiring up the memory, configuring the Kanban, setting up the agent profiles, building the dashboard, connecting all the tools.

Or you can just get our full Agent OS as a ready-to-install zip file inside the AI Profit Boardroom. The zip has everything in it, Apollo, Oracle, Astros, the Kanban setup, the memory system, the studio, the full dashboard, all pre-configured and ready to drop in. You download it, install it, and your Agent OS is live. There's a full video tutorial walking you through the setup step-by-step, plus four live coaching calls every week where you can ask questions about your specific setup in real time. There's also a 30-day roadmap inside that takes you from zero to running a fully automated Agent OS, so you know exactly what to do each day and in what order. Numbers inside who are

already running this exact stack. Link in the comments and description, or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. Now, let me show you some of the actual workflows you can run with this setup. The first one is Hermes Oracle. This is

the content automation workflow. You can see it here in the dashboard. What Oracle does, it monitors the latest trending content in your space, pulls it in, sorts it by what's actually getting traction, drafts social media content from it, and publishes straight to your WordPress site. Live link within 24 hours, no logging in, no copy-pasting. The whole pipeline runs automatically.

The second workflow is Hermes Astro. This one monitors keywords in your industry. So, let's say you want to track what's rising in AI automation before it trends. Astro picks that up, flags it, and feeds it into your content pipeline as ideas. You can see the keyword monitoring set up here. You give

it your topics, it runs on schedule, it reports back what's moving. And then there's the Kanban system. This is where it gets really interesting. You drop a task on the board and your agent team picks it up. One agent does the research, another handles the writing, a third does the quality check. They all

work through the same board, same memory, same context. And now with the parallel tool dispatch update, the safe steps across all of them are running at the same time, so the whole board moves faster. There's also the group chat setup where your agent profiles can be in a shared space and you can message all of them at once or delegate to a specific one. It's the difference between shouting across a building and having your team in one room. This is what I mean when I say the segmented tool dispatch update matters. It's not

interesting in a terminal demo, it's interesting when it's running inside a real system doing real work across multiple workflows at the same time. Everything you just saw, Oracle, Astro, Apollo, the Kanban, the memory vault, the studio, the full dashboard, it's all inside the Agent OS zip file in the AI Profit Boardroom. You don't have to build any of it from scratch. You download the zip, follow the setup video, and the whole thing installs in one go. It comes with the 30-day roadmap, so you know exactly how to roll it out step by step, what to set up first, what to automate on day two, what workflows to add in week two. Plus there

are daily tutorials showing you how to get more out of the system as Hermes keeps shipping updates. Full coaching calls every week where I go deep on these setups with you live. Members who are running the same stack right now, people you can ask questions to at any time of day. If you want the Agent OS, you don't have to piece it together yourself. You can just get it. Link in

the comments and description or go to AI profitboardroom.com. And one more thing, if you want the full video notes from today, plus access to over 100 AI automation use cases and SOPs you can plug straight into your own workflows, come join the AI Success Lab. It's free. 75,000 members inside. All

the notes from this video are in there, plus a community of people building with AI every day. Links in the comments and description. Run Hermes update. Get the Agent OS. Stop running your workflows in a queue.