---
video_title: "NEW Prime Agent BEATS Hermes Agent!?🤯"
video_id: luOsScJmAlA
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=luOsScJmAlA
video_date: 20260814
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Prime Agent Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Prime Agent vs. Hermes: The New King of AI Agents?
  
  Discover how the new Prime Agent uses recursive memory and self-refining code to outperform human benchmarks and challenge Hermes Agent. Learn how these autonomous workflows can revolutionize your business by automating complex lead follow-ups and content creation.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Prime Agent vs. Hermes
  00:20 - How Prime Agent Works
  01:21 - Recursive Language Models Explained
  01:46 - Multi-Agent Delegation
  03:08 - The Self-Refining Refine Feature
  04:24 - Beating Human Benchmarks
  05:29 - Prime Agent vs. Hermes Comparison
  06:54 - AI Implementation Strategies
---
New Prime Agent beats Hermes Agent. That's the story today, and I want to walk you through exactly why this matters, even if you've never touched a line of code in your life. A new AI agent called Prime Agent just launched. It comes from a company called Prime Intellect, and it does something most AI tools don't do. It can actually change the way it works while it's working. So,

how does it actually work? Prime Agent gives the AI one main tool, just one. It's a live coding environment, kind of like a notebook the AI can write in and run instantly. Most AI agents get handed a toolbox with 50 different tools. Search this, browse that, open a file.

Prime Agent skips all that. It just gives the AI one flexible workspace, and the AI writes small bits of code inside it to do whatever it needs. Search, filter, remember, delegate, all from one spot. Here's why that matters for anyone running a business, not just coders. Picture your customer messages, your leads, your notes, all sitting in one giant pile. A normal assistant has to

read the whole pile every single time you ask a question. Prime Agent's AI can instead write a tiny instruction that pulls out just the piece it needs, like asking someone to grab one file from a cabinet instead of reading every folder in the room. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. While he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. This idea has a name. Prime Intellect calls

it a recursive language model. Don't worry about the name, just remember this. The AI treats its memory like a filing system it can search instead of a stack of papers it has to reread every time. That's why it can handle much bigger jobs without slowing down or losing track. Now, here's the part that should really grab your attention. Prime

Agent can send out mini versions of itself to work on different pieces of a job at the same time. Say it's fixing a big messy project. It can send one mini agent to check the login system, another to check the outside connections, a third to test everything works, all three run together, then they report back to the main agent who puts it all together. Imagine applying that thinking to your own business. One task, checking your leads. One task, checking your

content calendar. One task, double-checking your follow-up messages. All running at once, then handing you one clean summary. That's the kind of workflow structure people are already mapping out for their businesses right now. And that's exactly the kind of setup we build out step-by-step inside the AI Profit Boardroom. If you're trying to

figure out how to actually use an agent like this to save time chasing leads, following up with customers, or keeping your content going out consistently, that's what we walk through live. We've got coaching calls every single week where we go deep on how tools like Prime Agent and Hermes fit into real business workflows. Daily tutorials that show you the exact steps, not just theory. And over 2,800 business owners inside who are already testing these exact kinds of agent setups for their own companies. If coding agents like this are new to you, that's fine. That's the whole point of

being in there. Links in the comments and description, or head to aiprofitboardroom.com. Okay, back to Prime Agent because it gets more interesting. There's a feature called refine. After Prime Agent

finishes a task, it can look back and ask itself three questions. What did I try? What failed? What actually worked? Then it takes the answer and saves it as a reusable skill for next time. So, if

it hits the same kind of problem again, it doesn't start from scratch. It already has the fix ready. I want to be careful with the wording here because it's easy to overstate this. Prime Agent is not retraining itself as a smarter model. The core AI brain stays the same.

What changes is the setup around it. The notes it keeps, the skills it builds, the way it organizes its own memory. So, picture an employee who doesn't get a brain transplant every week. They just keep a growing notebook of what worked, and they get better at their job because of that notebook. You can also let Prime Agent run completely on its own for long stretches. You give it a goal, you set

limits like a maximum number of steps or a check that has to pass before it's allowed to call the job done. Then you walk away. It keeps working, checking its own progress against that goal until either it's done or it hits the limit you set. That's the kind of thing that used to take a person sitting at a desk for hours. Now you set the goal before bed and check the results in the morning. Let's talk numbers because

Prime Intellect actually tested this thing hard. On a test called ARC-AGI-3, which is designed to measure how well an AI can solve brand new problems it hasn't seen before, Prime Agent scored 95.5%. The reported score for a skilled human expert on that same test is 95.4%. So on

this one test, running with a strong underlying model, Prime Agent slightly edged out the human benchmark. Across three separate runs, it scored 95.0%, 95.2%, and 95.5%.

And when it was allowed three attempts instead of one, it hit 99.97%, finishing all 183 out of 183 levels in the test. One of the most impressive demos involved building game emulators completely from scratch in a programming language called Rust with no example to copy from. It successfully rebuilt working emulators for two classic gaming systems. That takes constant back and forth. Try something, test it. It

breaks, fix it, test again. Prime Agent kept doing that loop on its own for a long stretch until it worked. Now let's put this next to Hermes Agent because that's the comparison everyone's actually asking about. Hermes has been one of the most talked about self-improving open agents out there. It's built more like an all-in-one personal assistant. It remembers things

long-term. It builds its own skills automatically. It can schedule things for later. It can browse the web, work across different messaging apps, and run other agents underneath it. It's most recent major update made it noticeably faster to start responding and more reliable when running longer background tasks.

So, here's how I'd actually frame this, honestly. Prime Agent is built like a research lab tool. Sharp, deep, built for long complicated jobs with a very different engine under the hood. Hermes is built like a do-everything personal agent, wired into more places you already use day-to-day. There isn't an official head-to-head test between the two of them from either company, so calling it a clean win either way would be overselling it. The bigger question

underneath all of this isn't really about Prime Agent or Hermes, it's about how fast the ground is moving under everyone right now. A tool that can rewrite its own instructions, catch its own mistakes, and even find shortcuts nobody told it to look for, that's not a small update. That's a different kind of tool than what most of us grew up learning to use. You don't need to be first. You don't need to master every release. You just need to stay close

enough to the front of this that when the moment comes to actually use it, you're ready instead of scrambling. That's the whole game right now. Stay close, stay tested, stay ahead of the people who are still waiting to see what happens. That's exactly why we built the AI Profit Boardroom the way we did. Every time something like Prime Agent or Hermes ships, we don't just talk about it. We test it against real business

tasks, lead follow-up, content creation, customer support, and we show you exactly what worked and what didn't with step-by-step tutorials the same week it happens. You get four live coaching calls every week where you can bring your exact setup and ask questions in real time. A prompt library built specifically for running these agents inside a real business, not just toy examples. And a member map so you can find other business owners near you who are testing the same tools right now so you're never figuring this out completely alone. If Prime Agent or Hermes is something you want running inside your business, that's exactly what we build out together in there.

Links in the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you just want a taste of this before going all in, join the AI Success Lab. It's free. You'll get the full breakdown from this video plus over a hundred other AI use cases already laid out for you inside a community of 75,000 people who are already using this stuff every day. Links are in the comments and

description.