---
video_title: "Grok 4.6 Just Shocked OpenAI and Claude"
video_id: JepK0HFFTIY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JepK0HFFTIY
video_date: 20260813
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Grok 4.6 System 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Grok 4.6 Just Made Frontier AI Cheap: Benchmarks, Speed, Cost & How to Use It
  
  Grok 4.6 launched yesterday and, according to independent testing from Artificial Analysis, scored 61 on an intelligence index—tying GPT 5.6 Sol and sitting one point behind Claude Fable 5—after jumping five points from Grok 4.5 in about a month. Blind benchmark suites reportedly tied Grok 4.6 with Fable 5 overall, but its much lower pricing (about half typical frontier costs and in some tests ~1/10 Claude’s output cost) and fast throughput (~100 tokens/sec) pushed it to #1 on a leaderboard, while also flagging “fake” issues in trap tests and topping Databricks’ office QA benchmark. The script explains xAI’s agentic reinforcement learning approach, new thinking levels up to “extra high,” where to access Grok (Build, Cursor, GrokBot, API), current harness limitations, and unique real-time access to X, plus mentions Grok 4.7 being “a few weeks away.”}
  
  00:00 Grok 4.6 Shockwave
  00:21 Benchmarks And Price
  01:40 Blind Tests Win
  02:08 Trust And Work QA
  03:11 Where To Use It
  03:27 Agents For Business
  04:29 Under The Hood
  05:28 Thinking Levels Control
  05:54 Real Build Demos
  06:47 Harness Problem
  07:28 X Access And Media
  07:59 Grok 4.7 Pace
  08:22 System Beats Models
  09:37 Portal And Upgrade Pitch
  10:31 Final Takeaways
---
Grok 4.6 just changed AI race, it dropped yesterday and it tied the best AI models in the world while costing a fraction of the price. And that last part is the real story here because for the first time, frontier level AI just became something almost anyone can afford to run all day long. So, let me run you through what actually happened because there's a lot of noise around this release and most of it actually misses the point. Artificial Analysis, which is one of the main independent groups that test AI models, scored 4.6

at 61 on their intelligence index. That puts it level with GPT 5.6 so and just one point behind Claude Fable 5. One month ago, Grok 4.5 scored 56. So, XAI

jumped five full points in about a month. To put that in context, most labs take three to six months to make a jump like that. Now, Elon Musk came out and said Grok 4.6 is objectively number one when you weigh intelligence, speed, and cost together. Now, he owns the company, so of course he's going to say that.

But, here's the thing, the independent numbers back him up on the cost part. And that's the part that matters most. So, Grok 4.6 costs about half of what other frontier models charge. And compared to Claude's top models, some testers found it around a tenth of the cost for output. So, you're getting

answers at the same level as the best models on the planet for pennies on the pound compared to what you'd normally pay. And it's fast. Really fast. It runs at roughly 100 tokens per second in testing. That means when you hand it a task, it doesn't just sit there thinking for ages, it just gets on with it. Now,

here's where it gets interesting. And this is a bit most coverage skips. So, independent testers ran Grok through blind benchmarks the same day it dropped, not the official numbers XAI published. Real hands-on tests. In one full test suite, Grok 4.6 tied with

Fable 5 on overall score. Tied it. And because it cost so much less to run, it took the number one spot on the leaderboard. Grok 4.5 sat in 14th place on that same board a month ago. 14th to

first in one single update. Also did something that almost nobody else does when it comes to models. There's a trap test where models get 10 problems to fix and five of them are fake. Most models invent answers for the fake ones. They make stuff up. For example, like Grok

4.6 actually caught them. It said, "This doesn't exist." and moved on. And that matters more than any game demo because making things up is the number one reason people stop trusting AI with real work. Databricks actually tested it as

well. They ran Grok 4.6 on their office QA benchmark, which tests how well a model handles documents and data. The kind of stuff you actually do at work. Reading reports, pulling numbers out of files, making sense of messy data. Grok

4.6 set the top score. That's the picture. Same intelligence as top models, much faster, and way cheaper. And it holds up in independent tests, not just the company's own slides.

There's more coming, too, and I'll get to what Elon said about the next version in a minute, because it changes how you think about all of this. But first, where can you actually use this thing? Because a smart model you can't access is totally useless. So, there's four places right now. Grok build, Cursor, where it's half price until August the 18th, and Grok bot, which is their agent app, and the API if you want to plug it into your own tools. And that last

option is where this gets really useful for business owners. Because Grok 4.6 isn't locked inside one app. You can plug it into Hermes agent, you can run it through Open Claw, you can drop it into whatever agent setup you already have. The model is the brain, your agent setup is the body, and you just give the body a much cheaper, much faster brain.

This is exactly what we teach inside the AI Profit Bot. The moment Grok 4.6 dropped, our members started plugging it into their agent setups and testing it on real business tasks, lead follow-up content research, document work. Inside the AR profitable bottom, you get the HNOS, which is system where you plug in all your agents. You can load Hermes, Open Law, and now Grok 4.6 slots right

in as one of the brains. You get the zip file, a 30-day roadmap for setting all up, video tutorials and daily updates as we improve it, plus four coaching calls every week where you can ask questions live about your Grok setup, how to use it, to get more customers. And we've helped over 3,700 business owners do this. Some of them have never touched AI before they joined. Link in the comments description or go to the ARprofitablebottom.com. Now, let's talk

about what's actually under the hood because it scored higher doesn't tell you why it scored higher. So, XAI trained Grok 4.6 differently. They used Grok 4.5 to generate huge amounts of training examples across different reasoning levels and agent tasks. Then,

they trained 4.6 on a wide range of what's called agentic reinforcement learning. In plain English, instead of just teaching the model to answer questions, they taught it to complete jobs, knowledge work, coding, multi-step tasks where the model has to use tools, check its own work, and keep going until the job is done. So, you want to think of it like the difference between a student who memorized a textbook and a student who did the actual work experience. Both can answer questions, but only one can actually do the job.

And that's why the release notes say the improvement is focused on long-running agents and more ambitious work. The model was built to run for a long time on a task without falling apart. That's a skill that matters in 2026, not answering like one question well, but staying on track through a 50-step job. There's also a new setting worth knowing about Grok 4.6 because it has four thinking levels now, medium, high, and a brand new extra high. The old version topped out at

high. Extra high is for the hardest problems where you want the model to think longer before it acts. Simple tasks, keep it low and fast. Big messy problems, crank it up. You control how much brain power you're paying for. No

other frontier model makes that trade-off this cheap. Now, here's a real example of what it can do. A developer named Matt Palmer used Grok 4.6 to build a 2D simulation of the office. Little characters walking around, personalities features, the works. He said it was a

huge step up from Grok 4.5, both in the quality of what it made and the breadth of the work it handled. He even went and found usable assets for the project on his own. You've seen an example of what we built here. And we've generated tons of stuff with this so far. A lot of the

outputs look really, really good. So, here's a cool example. It can build stuff. You might say, "Why would you test it on games?" Games are just interesting to test it out in terms of reading, reasoning, coding, planning, and gameplay, and also UI and front end as well. So, you can see, for example,

the design on this looks pretty nice and it's fun to use. Here's another example. Create like a Doom style game here as well. And it can build some pretty cool stuff, like even 3D real-world games. We've only been testing it for a couple of hours, but it's built out loads of cool stuff. Now, Grok 4.6 is a great

model with a harness problem. A harness is just the app you use the model through. So, ChatGPT is an amazing desktop app that does everything. Claude has a great one, too. Grok's options are more scattered. Cursor is excellent, but

it's built for coding first. Grok Bot is good for everyday work, but it's limited, it's newer, and it's still growing. And there's no like single Grok app yet that does everything the way ChatGPT's desktop app does. So, the model is frontier, but the wrapper around it quite isn't quite there yet. That's the honest picture, and it's also why plugging Grok 4.6 into your agent

setup makes so much sense right now. You skip the harness problem completely. So, your setup is a harness, and Grok is just the brain inside it. There's also one thing Grok has that no other model can copy. Real-time access to X. Grok is

wired directly into the platform, so there's no plugins. There's no workarounds. So, if your business depends on knowing what people are talking about right now, trends, customer complaints, what's working in your market. Well, Grok can pull that live. Claude can't do that. ChatGPT

can't do that natively. But, for anyone who's doing content, marketing, or research, that's a genuinely unique advantage. It can also generate images. Can turn images into videos. One creator could use this to generate some amazing outputs just from the images alone and then turn them into videos. Now, Elon

says Grok 4.7 is a few weeks away. Weeks. Think about the pace here. 4.5 to

4.6 took about a month and jumped to five intelligence points. If 4.7 lands anywhere near that same jump, it goes from catching up to leading. And xAI has more compute than anyone. They have the

hardware to keep this pace going. And here's what that pace really means for you. And this is where I want to slow down for a second. A lot of people watching this think it's moving too fast. So, I'll wait until it sells out.

I understand that feeling, but look at what actually happened over the past month. The people who already set up, the ones who already had their agent operating systems running, plugged 4.6 in the same day and it dropped and got frontier-level intelligence at 10% of the cost, like instantly. The people who are waiting got nothing because they had nothing to plug into. Every month a new one. I mean, like for example, Deep Seek

V4 Pro just dropped today. Grok 4.6 just dropped today. We've already got it plugged into our systems because we have a system that's ready to go and we can just swap in the models and we keep the system and keep it going. Cuz your setup, your agents, your workflows, your system, that stays. But, trying to keep

up with the models is a losing game. So, learn the system once and every new model becomes a free upgrade. That's the whole point. The skill isn't knowing every model. The skill is having a body ready for whatever brain drops next. And

if you're thinking this all sounds technical, I'm not a coder, look at what we just covered. The developer redesigned his whole website, typed a plain English request, and just attaches a document. The person running loops with the system just changes model, right? So, it's not about coding. You literally just go to the agent and you tell it what you want in plain English. And if you actually want to use

this instead of watching videos about it, here's what's waiting for you inside the AI Profit Bot. The moment Grok 4.6 dropped, we already built it into our Agent OS with Hermes and Open Core and F analysis swap-in brain. You get the Agent OS zip file with a 30-day roadmap so you can plug Grok 4.6 straight into a working system with your video tools, your SEO agents, your AI avatars, all in one dashboard. You get

daily step-by-step tutorials showing you how to use this stuff so you can save on every single job. Four-weekly coaching course a week where you can ask live questions about your Grok setup. And when 4.7 drops in a few weeks, we'll walk you through the upgrade the same day. Plus, you get a prompt a prompt library and a member map to connect with people near you who are already running Grok inside their business. With 3,700 business owners,

there's always someone online who's tested exactly what you're trying to do. Link in the comments description or go to the AI Profit Bot.com. The AI race just stopped being a two-horse race. The best intelligence in the world just got cheap. The only question left is whether

you have somewhere to plug it in. See you in the next one. Cheers for watching. Bye-bye.