---
video_title: "DeepSeek Harness VS Claude Code"
video_id: Gn5x9qHuCkQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gn5x9qHuCkQ
video_date: 20260816
video_description: |
  Julian's AI Profit Boardroom: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Kasra's Rank OS: https://www.skool.com/the-new-search/about
  
  Deepseek Harness vs Claude Code: The Ultimate Coding Showdown
  
  We put the viral new open-source Deepseek Harness to the test against Claude Code to see which AI agent builds better software. Discover the truth about speed, cost, and output quality in this side-by-side comparison of the world's most popular coding models.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Deepseek vs Claude Code
  00:41 - Side-by-Side Build Comparison
  01:34 - Speed Test: 11 Minutes vs 30 Minutes
  02:44 - Deepseek Harness Viral GitHub Growth
  03:10 - How the Open Source Harness Works
  04:53 - Rating the Models: 1 to 10
  06:14 - Token Burn & Cost Efficiency
  07:22 - Final Verdict & Outro
---
Today, we are going to be comparing Deep Seek Harness, the new free open-source harness from Deep Seek versus Claude Code, and comparing them side by side with examples of which one performs the best. Kazz, you've already got examples to show us. Should we just jump straight into it? >> Yeah, let's do it. I have not slept at all. Busy vibe coding my life away with

with Deep Seek Harness. >> Token maxing. >> That that's what the cool kids call it, right? So, just for a little bit of comparison as well, I topped up my account literally just before this video to $10. So, this cost five US $0.05

483,000 tokens by create me this website. And we used the exact same prompt in Deep Seek Harness than Claude Code as well. So, it was basically very simple. We want 3D anime accountancy website. So, as you can see, we've got icons here that are floating around. And we also told it that we want

you to code a game. Very easy Tetris. As you can see, we have got Tetris working there. So, what what's what's your thoughts so far to that, Liam? >> It's not bad. It doesn't blow me away.

It doesn't blow me away, I'll tell you that. >> Yeah, I mean so the color choice I mean, we didn't give it any we didn't give it any color choice. We didn't give it any context at all. It was literally just one prompt and boom, go. I don't think it's terrible. I do think it's very animated

and very cartoony. But that being said, with a cartoon game on accountancy website, it's it's like those two things >> Mhm. >> should never mix and match, right? So, also, by the way, just for a reference, this took Deep Seek 11 minutes to complete from start to actual finish. Then we hopped over in good old trusty Claude, which by the way is still going.

This is this is like 30 minutes in. This is just like non-stop. I do think though one thing to preface cuz I use Claude a lot more, it picked up on more finite. So, if we actually click through to the actual homepage, this is the actual homepage for Claude's website. The animation actually goes with our mouse, so it looks a little bit cooler. It

looks a bit more professional, for sure. Way more professional, but because it knows a little bit more information about us, there's certain things that it's mentioned, like Manchester, Northwest, England, like that. So, I do think Claude just had a little bit more context. And so, this is the actual game that it's actually built. I do think the game looks a lot nicer and it feels a lot smoother as well. What's your

thoughts? >> Yeah, it looks smoother. It looks a bit nicer. No, no, neither of them are like really blowing me away in terms of, okay, these are ready to go. I think like both of them probably just require a lot more back and forth and context and prompting.

>> Yeah, for sure. I I I I would say though that this from a consultancy point of view and a professional point of view it feels a little bit more professional. Would we both agree with that? >> Yeah. And yeah, go on.

>> Yeah, I was going to say, I mean like if if people are not aware, so Deep Seek C++ dropped on GitHub and it is absolutely popping off. Let's pull this up, this pull the numbers up here. So, this is one of the fastest growing GitHub projects of all time. Like this just launched this week, a couple of days ago, so two two days ago pretty much. It's already got 105,000 stars on GitHub. So, like it's it's very, very

popular right now. You can run it for free. The the problem is so like you can run the harness for free, but then you need a brain to plug into it. Now, if you want to use, for example, like Deep Seek for free, you wouldn't use a Deep Seek game. You want to use a Open Code and and use Open Code as a brain inside uh Deep Seek C++ if that makes sense.

>> Yeah, I I think they've been really smart. They've made the harness some form of actual plug. >> Yeah, 100% and if anyone's not familiar with what the harness looks like, so this is Deep Seek C++. The cool thing about it being open source is like you can basically plug it into wherever you want. So, it looks a bit like this and then you can code inside here. The thing

that I would say and Kaz, you'll probably agree here is that you're probably fully adapted with all your workflows into Claude and so I don't see either of us switching over to Z code or Deep Seek Harness anytime soon, do you? >> Man, I'm fully transitioned over into Z code. Moved everything over last night, mate. >> Yeah, so I have been thinking about this quite a lot actually. Cuz in in certain cases, you're using Claude and it's just like super expensive for things. So, I'm

I'm thinking of a way, potentially maybe even plugging and using it Agent OS, where I can use AI as the orchestrator and it basically delegates tasks certain AI systems. So, I think I wouldn't move my day-to-day to Deep, but I would definitely move certain tasks. >> Yeah, that makes sense. So, I mean, for example, even like using and setting up Deep Seek Harness, I would just use Claude to set it up. So, for example, like this is my system for for creating Deep Seek inside the Agent OS, and it's just like, okay, here it is and then it sets it all up and tests it out for me.

And that way, like, you don't even need to touch Deep Seek Harness if you don't want to. You can just get your orchestrator to to handle everything and set it all up for you. >> Out of 10, you need to rate Claude code car What what what what we rating them? >> So, I would say like Claude code desktop is my go-to for everything, every single day. Ever since it came out, it really like changed everything. I think it's

very underrated, like how big that update was. So, for me, I'm I would put that genuinely at a nine. Like it's really really good, especially when you can combine it with Fable 5 or something like that. And then Deep Seek Harness is good, but it doesn't it doesn't excite me that much. You know, like I feel for example, when Open Claude or something like Hermes came out, they were like revolutionary things that came. And

then, for example, you look at Deep Seek Harness and it's cool. Like it's it's good. I'm glad they finally got a harness for their API, but it's not like blowing my socks off. >> Do you know what? I think you're being a little bit harsh. I'm going to put it at

like a seven out of 10, only because I actually like competition. Cuz let's say, for example, in two three few time, Deep does some revolution harness. It might basically say to Claude, like, "Look, we need to buckle up here. They're They're getting good now." Again, I would probably more It's very similar to you. I would lean more

towards Claude code, but I do think there is a space for both. >> Yeah, 100%. And then also, you know, it's only at V0.1. So, it's it's literally like a tenth of what it potentially could be on the day of release like properly. So, it's very,

very early stages for Deep Seek harness, but it's looking good. We're actually saying when Deep Seek 34 Pro came out, like, it needs a good harness. >> Yeah, that that's that's true. One thing that I would say, though, is I almost feel cheated by the amount of tokens ripped through just to build that one-page website. 483,000 tokens, by the way. And Claude was

Claude's still going 20 minutes later, and we are at 48,000 tokens. >> So, it's like a very verbose model. >> Yeah. >> But at the same time, it's like it's 56 What was it? 57 times cheaper than Claude.

>> Yeah, but if you were to compare it with the amount of tokens that it's burned over here to the like to the comparison of 48,000, surely I'm not saying it's going to equal out, but over a long enough period of time, surely Claude would actually especially if Deep Seek can end up upping their price as well, right? >> Yeah, you could be looking at that. I don't know. It's hard to compare. And also, like, did you use Deep Seek 34 Pro or Deep Seek 34 Flash?

>> I used Pro. We also used um Claude Opus 5 on High. So, it was like for like. >> Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, I

think it is worth of checking out Deep Seek harness. I think Open Source projects are always really as well. Deep Seek 34 Pro has just made a huge step up, but overall, you look at the outputs, you're like, "Okay, Claude still has a a giant giant heads up." >> I agree. >> All right, thanks for watching, peeps.

If you haven't already, check out the new search from the man, the myth, the legend himself, Gareth Dash. This is his school group. Basically, you can learn how to rank your website with SEO, and also how to rank inside AI search engines. So, it's super powerful for that sort of stuff. And then also, if you haven't already, check out the AI Profit Bot Room, link in the comments and description, or go to the AI Profit Bot Room.com, and you can basically

learn AI automation. We have a full training on Deep Seek, we have a full course, everything else. So, hope to see you inside there. Cheers for watching.