---
video_title: "NEW Gemini Updates are ABSURD! 🤯"
video_id: _oOBlZKMEdY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_oOBlZKMEdY
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  3 Massive New Google AI Updates You Need to Know (Gemini & Pix)
  
  Google just dropped three major AI updates that revolutionize video analysis, graphic design, and trend forecasting for business owners. Learn how to use Gemini's agentic video understanding and the new Google Pix image editor to automate your content workflow and save on costs.
  
  00:00 - Intro: 3 Huge Google AI Updates
  01:12 - Gemini: Agentic Video Understanding
  02:03 - Turning Videos into Research Assets
  03:15 - How to Automate Business Workflows
  04:41 - Google Pix: The New Canva Rival
  05:51 - Generating Content Assets with Pix
  07:52 - Conclusion: Building with AI
---
New Google updates are absurd. Google just dropped three AI updates at the same time and they're not random. They target three completely different things your business needs to do every day, understanding information, creating visuals and predicting what's coming next. Here's what they are. Gemini can now watch and analyze long videos using up to 88% fewer tokens. Google just

launched a brand new AI image creation and editing tool called Google Picks and Google released a new forecasting model called Times FM3 that can take your business data and predict future trends across multiple connected variables at once. Three updates, three different problems solved. Let's get into all of them. Starting with the video one because this is the one that most business owners are sleeping on right now. Until yesterday, when you uploaded a video to Gemini, it processed it in what Google calls static mode. That

means it looked at one frame per second, the whole video, every single second. It didn't think about what was important. It just watched everything at the same rate. Jay, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie

reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Gemini now uses what Google calls agentic video understanding, a new capability that lets it dynamically scan, search and inspect the parts of a video that actually matter instead of ingesting the whole thing at a fixed frame rate. Think of it like this. If you ask someone, "What did the speaker say about lead generation?" A smart person doesn't rewatch the entire two-hour call from the beginning. They jump to the relevant

sections. That's what Gemini can do now. The numbers are wild. Agentic video understanding reduces token usage by up to 88% and cuts analysis costs by up to 66% while improving accuracy by up to 7% Google. That 88% number is the one to focus on because it means analyzing a two-hour coaching call just got dramatically cheaper and faster. And the

accuracy went up at the Here's how this applies directly to growing the AI Profit Boardroom. Every week we run coaching calls. Members show up, ask questions, share problems, talk about what's working. That's an insane amount of signal packed into every single call. But right now, somebody has to watch the whole call to pull out the insights.

With Gemini's agentic video understanding, you upload the coaching call recording and ask, "Go through this AI Profit Boardroom coaching call and find the top five problems members mentioned about getting more leads and clients. Give me timestamps for each one and suggest a YouTube video topic for each problem." Gemini goes through the whole recording and comes back with answers in seconds. The coaching call doesn't just become a replay, it becomes a research asset that tells you exactly what content to make next, what tutorials to build, and what your members actually need help with without anyone sitting there watching the whole thing. You could also prompt it like this, "Find every moment in this coaching call where a member mentioned struggling with AI automation. Pull out

the exact timestamps and summarize what they said so we can build a step-by-step tutorial around it for the AI Profit Boardroom." That one prompt turns a 90-minute call into a full content production brief automatically. Here's the thing, knowing about these tools is one thing. Actually building workflows with them inside your business is a completely different thing. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we've already built a step-by-step tutorial track specifically around using Gemini to automate your content and coaching workflows, how to set it up, what prompts to use, and how to turn every coaching call or client recording into a growth asset for your business. We run

four live coaching calls every week where you can bring your exact setup and get it reviewed live. There are business owners in there right now actively building AI automation systems. We've got daily tutorials, a full 30-day roadmap, and a prompt library packed with templates you can use straight away. If you want to implement this stuff in your business properly, link is in the comments and description, or go to AI Profit Boardroom.com. And if you

want to get more traffic, leads, and members finding the AI Profit Boardroom through Google and AI search engines, book a free SEO strategy session with our team. We'll put together a custom game plan specifically for your business, showing you exactly how to rank higher, get found by the right people, and turn that traffic into consistent growth. Whether you're trying to grow a community, sell a course, or get more clients, SEO is one of the highest leverage things you can do right now, especially as AI search changes how people find businesses online. It's free, it's tailored to you, and we'll walk you through a clear plan on the call. Link is in the comments and description, or go to goldie.agency

to book your session. Let's move to update number two. Google Picks. Google has officially launched Picks as a direct rival to Canva, bringing its AI-powered creative editor to general availability across web and workspace environments. The new application relies on Google's Nano Banana image generation model, Android Headlines. The core idea

behind Google Picks is simple. Instead of designing from scratch or wrestling with templates, you describe what you want and the AI generates it. Then you edit it by talking to it. You don't need design software skills, you don't need layers or brushes, you just describe what you want and it builds it. It includes object segmentation, meaning users can select and edit specific elements in an AI-generated image, moving, resizing, or transforming objects individually. It also offers

text editing and translation tools that preserve font style and aesthetics. So, let's say Gemini already pulled a content idea from an AI Profit Boardroom coaching call, something like members are struggling with their first AI automation workflow. You now need a YouTube thumbnail, a community announcement graphic, and an email header for that tutorial. That's three assets. Here's the prompt you'd use inside Google Pix. Create a bold,

high-contrast YouTube thumbnail for an AI Profit Boardroom tutorial. The topic is how to build your first AI automation workflow. Use a dark premium tech aesthetic with clean white text. Make it feel urgent and valuable. It generates several versions. You pick the strongest

one, then you click the text, update it for the email version. You resize to square for the community post. You don't leave the app. You don't export. You don't switch tools. It all happens in

one place. Also supports collaborative editing and allows you to create multiple different versions of an image based on prompts, allowing users to choose the best version. So, your whole team can be inside the same image at the same time. That's built in from day one. And if you want to get more traffic, leads, and members finding the AI Profit Boardroom through Google and AI search engines, book a free SEO strategy session with our team. We'll put

together a custom game plan specifically for your business, showing you exactly how to rank higher, get found by the right people, and turn that traffic into consistent growth. Whether you're trying to grow a community, sell a course, or get more clients, SEO is one of the highest leverage things you can do right now, especially as AI search changes how people find businesses online. It's free. It's tailored to you, and we'll walk you through a clear plan on the call. Link is in the comments and description, or go to goldie.agency to

book your session. And if you want to implement these Google AI workflows inside your own business, not just understand them, but actually build them, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. We've built step-by-step tutorials for Gemini video workflows, Google Pix content production, and AI-powered growth systems designed specifically for business owners who want to get more leads and customers using AI automation. Four live coaching calls every week, daily tutorials, a 30-day roadmap that walks you through building your first connected AI system from scratch, a prompt library with templates you can use straight away, and business owners in the community who are already doing this. Link in the comments and description siege or go to AIprofitboardroom.com.

Google just handed us three new tools. The question isn't whether they're powerful, they clearly are. The question is whether you're going to build something with them or just watch other people do it.