---
video_title: "OpenMAIC AI Just Changed AI Agents Forever!"
video_id: Gfe4V0zqhpc
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gfe4V0zqhpc
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Open MIC AI: Build Interactive AI Classrooms in Minutes
  
  Discover Open MIC, a powerful AI tool that creates full interactive classrooms featuring AI teachers, classmates, and live whiteboards. Learn how to transform any topic or PDF into engaging courses with 3D simulations, automated grading, and professional exports.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  01:08 - What is Open MIC?
  01:26 - 4 Core Lesson Features
  02:12 - AI Classmates & Discussions
  03:44 - Deep Interactive Mode
  05:36 - Exporting Your AI Course
  06:56 - Messaging App Integration
  07:33 - Quick Start Guide
---
Open Make AI just changed AI agents forever. Open Make AI builds a full class in minutes. Not a summary, not a set of notes, a real classroom with a teacher who talks out loud, draws on a whiteboard, and asks you questions while you sit there. Here's the number that made me look twice. Open has 20,700 stars on GitHub and 4,100 forks. Version

0.1.0 came out on the 26th of March this year. Version 0.3.2 came out on the 14th of

August. That's 5 months. Most tools don't move that fast and it wasn't built by a startup chasing attention. It came out of Tinqua University in Beijing. The team is called Mic. The lead author on

their paper is Gfanu and the paper is titled from MOO to Mic reimagine online teaching and learning through LLM driven agents. It was published in the journal of computer science and technology this year. Maoong Sun and Juan Leu are on that author list too. These are people who have been working on online teaching for years. Hey, if we have not met already, I am the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of Goldie Agency.

While he is out there helping clients grow, I am here keeping you up to date on everything AI. Julian reads every comment, so drop one below and he will see it. So, this isn't a weekend project. It's research that turned into a tool you can run today. Let me show you what it actually does because the name is a mouthful. Open MEX stands for

open multi-agent interactive classroom. You type in a topic or you drop in a PDF, then it builds you a lesson. But the word lesson is doing a lot of work there. So, let me break it into the four things it can make. First, slides. An AI

teacher stands there and talks through them out loud. There's a spotlight effect that highlights the part being discussed. There's even a laser pointer animation. It feels like someone is presenting to you. Second, quizzes, single choice, multiple choice, and short written answers. The AI grades

your short answers live and tells you what you got wrong. Third, interactive simulations. These are little web pages the AI builds so you can poke at something and watch what happens. Fourth, project work. You pick a role.

Then you work with the AI agents on a project with real milestones and things you have to hand in. And the whole thing is built in two stages. Stage one, it writes an outline. Stage two, it turns every line of that outline into a scene. That two-stage thing matters more than it sounds. And I'll come back to it

because there's one button in there that saves you from a bad course. Most people click straight past it. Now, here's the part that's different from every other AI slide tool you've seen. There are AI classmates, not just a teacher, classmates, other AI agents sitting in the room with you with their own personalities. And they don't wait for you. There's a mode called classroom

discussion where the agents start talking to each other about the topic. You can jump in whenever you want, or the teacher can call on you like a real class. There's a round table debate mode. Several agents with different views argue about the topic, and while they argue, the whiteboard fills up with drawings that back up what they're saying. There's a Q&A mode where you just ask whatever you want and the teacher answers with a slide, a diagram or a drawing on the board. And the

whiteboard is live. The AI draws on it while it talks. It solves equations one step at a time. It sketches out flowcharts. Under the hood, there's an action engine that runs more than 28 different kinds of action. Speech,

drawing, writing, text, shapes, charts, spotlight, laser pointer, all timed to the voice. So when the teacher says, "Look at this bit here." The pointer actually moves there. Here's a simple way to use it. You could build a class that walks brand new AI profit boardroom members through setting up their very first AI agent with a quiz at the end so they know it's stuck. Now, back to that

outline button. Before open builds all the scenes, it shows you the outline first and you can edit it. Change the order, cut a section, add one, then hit go. That one step is the difference between a course you'd actually use and one you'd delete. Because the outline is where AI goes wrong. Once you fix the

outline, everything built on top of it lines up. They added that in version 0.2.2 2 back in June. A lot of people who tried it in March never saw it.

There's also a mode called deep interactive mode that landed on the 20th of April. Standard mode is about speed. Get a class made fast. Deep interactive mode goes the other way. It builds five types of hands-on thing. 3D visuals you

can spin around. Simulations where you change a setting and watch the result. Mini games built around the topic. Mind maps that show how ideas connect. And in browser coding where you type something and run it right there. And the AI

teacher can operate that interface itself. It highlights a section. It sets up the conditions for you. It drops a hint at the right moment. So, you're not left staring at a control panel wondering what to touch. All of it works

on a phone, a tablet, or a laptop. Same class, any screen. Quick word before I get into the export stuff because this next part is where it gets useful for a business. If you want to actually build training like this for your own team or your own customers, that's exactly what we do inside the IP profit boardroom. We've got four coaching calls every week where you can bring your Open MX setup, show us your outline, and we'll help you fix it live. Daily step-by-step

tutorials on setting up tools like this without touching a terminal. A 30-day road map so you know what to build first, second, and third. A prompt library you can pull from, including prompts for turning your existing documents into lessons. Business owners in there right now who are automating onboarding, support, and training so they can spend their time getting more customers instead of repeating themselves. plus a member map so you can find people near you doing the same thing. Link in the comments and

description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com. And if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team

focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Okay. Export. This is the part I think

people are sleeping on. When your class is done, you can pull it out in four different ways. You can export it as a PowerPoint file, a real pptx. You can open and edit images, charts, and even maths formulas come through properly. You can export it as interactive HTML, a self-contained web page that still has the simulations working inside it. You

can export the whole classroom as a zip file. Course structure, media, everything. So you can back it up or hand it to someone else. And since the 21st of July, you can export it as an MP4 video. One click, it builds the video project in your browser. Then a

separate service turns it into a proper video file. That last one changes what this tool is for. Because now you're not just making a class for yourself, you're making a finished video you can put anywhere. There's one more export detail that most people would skip over and it's my favorite thing in the whole release. When you export a classroom, open mic pulls in all the outside pieces the page needs and bakes them into the file. The math library, the 3D library,

the fonts, the images, all of it gets embedded, which means the exported class plays with no internet at all. Think about where that's useful. A training room with bad Wi-Fi, a factory floor, a country with a locked down network, a plane, you hand someone a file and the whole interactive class just works. Classes exported before they added that still reach out to the internet, so you'd need to export them again. Now the openclaw part open connects to openclaw and openclaw connects to the messaging apps you already use fue slack discord telegrams more than 20 of them so the whole flow becomes this you're in slack you type a message asking to build a class on something it builds it and sends you back a link you never open a terminal you never touch a config file to set it up you run one command uh clawhub install openmic or you just ask your assistant to install the open mag skill and it handles it then you pick one of two ways to run it hosted code where you grab an access code from their site and you're done. Or self-hosted

where the skill walks you through cloning it, adding your keys, and starting it up one step at a time. And here's a detail I appreciate. Every step asks you to confirm first. Nothing runs behind your back. Here's what I do this week. If you're not technical, go to

open.mic. And try the live demo with one topic you know well. See if the class it makes is any good. That takes 10 minutes. If you

use Slack, Telegram, or WhatsApp for work, install the OpenClaw skill and build your first class from a chat message. That's the lowest effort path there is. If you already run things locally, clone it, add one model key, and run it. Try Gemini 3 Flash first. And whatever route you take, edit the outline before you let it build. That's

the whole game. If you want help doing this properly, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. Inside, we're building a full playbook around tools like OpenM Make, how to take the documents you already have and turn them into classes that onboard new customers without you being on the call. Four coaching calls every week where you can share your screen and get your OpenMates classroom fixed live. Daily tutorials showing the exact setup, including the Open Claw route so you never have to open a terminal. A 30-day road map that takes

you from your first test class to a full onboarding sequence running on its own. prompts you can paste in to turn a messy PDF into a clean lesson outline. 2,800 business owners in there, many of them already running. Open claw for client work and lead generation and a member map so you can meet people near you who are doing this too. Someone's always online. Link in the comments and

description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank.

And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below.