---
video_title: "Google Just Removed Daily Limits From Gemini Notebook"
video_id: l3v4AGjTeeQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l3v4AGjTeeQ
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google just killed Gemini Notebook's daily cap — but it's not unlimited, and the old way of working now burns through your usage faster. Here's exactly what changed, the 5-hour refresh nobody's using properly, and the habits that quietly drain your compute. Watch this before your next project.
  
  00:00 Intro – Daily limits are gone (sort of)
  00:47 What Changed – Google's new flexible limits
  00:58 Name Update – NotebookLM is now Gemini Notebook
  01:13 Compute Limits – Fuel gauge, not punch card
  01:48 5-Hour Refresh – The biggest practical change
  02:11 Usage Tracking – See cost before you generate
  02:27 Free Session – AI brand visibility offer
  03:22 Reality Check – Weekly caps still apply
  03:47 Your Call – 20 questions or one big output
  04:08 Generate Later – Queue heavy tasks instead of losing them
  04:34 Live Demo – Full onboarding workflow from my sources
  05:12 Mind Maps – Same sources, different shape
  05:29 Save Compute – Sources, chat length, prompt quality
  06:06 Work in Windows – Why batching is now the wrong play
  06:45 Heavy Projects – Spread across days, not one Monday
  07:01 Expert Intelligence – Query books you already own
  07:17 Takeaway – Tight notebooks beat bigger tiers
---
Google just removed daily limits from Gemini notebook. You have been rationing your AI for no reason. Google just changed the way Gemini notebook counts what you use. The old daily cap is gone, but almost nobody read the small print. It is still not unlimited, and if you work the way you always have, you will hit the wall faster than before. I'm the

digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and I help people learn AI tools and actually use them in their day-to-day work. In this video, I'll break down what Google changed, what it means for how you research and create, and the habit that quietly burns through your usage in minutes. Stick with me, because later, I'll show you what came back when I loaded my own AI Profit Boardroom material into a notebook and asked it to build a full onboarding workflow. Let's start with what actually happened. On August the 28th, Google announced new flexible usage limits for Gemini notebook. On September the 2nd, 2026,

that change started rolling out to consumer accounts on web and mobile. Quick note first, in case the name is throwing you, Notebook LM is now Gemini notebook. Google renamed it on July the 16th this year. Same product, same notebooks, same team, new name, and new logo. Your old links still work, so nothing you built has gone anywhere.

Now, the change itself. Before this, Gemini notebook gave you a set number of feature generations per day based on your Google AI tier. So many chat questions, so many audio and video overviews, so many reports. You used them up, and you waited for tomorrow. That's what's being replaced. Google is

moving to compute-based limits. Your overall limit now factors in how complex your prompt is, how long your chat is, how many sources you've loaded, and which models and features you're using. It's less like a punch card and more like a fuel gauge. And you know why the old way was frustrating. You'd be mid-project, three sources deep, finally getting good answers, and the counter would stop you. Not because the work was

heavy, but because you'd used your slots, which brings me to the biggest practical change in this whole update. Your limits now refresh every 5 hours instead of once a day. Read that again because it changes how you plan your work. If you run dry at 10:00 in the morning, you are not finished for the day. You come back later and your usage refreshes. Google says this is so you

can keep working throughout the day instead of waiting for one daily reset. It also helps you keep track. There's a status under the chat telling you when you're getting close and when your limit resets. And in the studio where you generate things like overviews and slide decks, you can see how heavy a generation is expected to be before you run it. So, you're not guessing. Before

I get into the rest of the update, one quick thing that pairs with all of this, if you want to know how your brand actually shows up inside AI answers, not just in Google, I'd like to offer you a free AI brand visibility session. You get a custom visibility plan for your site, a look at where you appear or don't appear across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity and Gemini, a competitor gap analysis so you can see who's being cited instead of you, and direct answers to your questions from a real strategist. It's 100% free with no obligation. The link is in the description. And if you want the deeper training side of this, come and join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. Inside you get

walkthroughs for tools like Gemini Notebook, a vault of over a thousand ready-to-use workflows you can filter by the outcome you want, and five live coaching calls a week where you can bring your own setup and get it looked at in real time. There's a daily Q&A where you submit your bottleneck and get a personal video answer back, plus a 30-day roadmap so you're shipping one workflow a week instead of collecting tutorials you never open. Head to aiprofitboardroom.com and I'll see you inside. Right, back to the limits. Now, let me be straight with

you because a lot of people got this part wrong. This is not unlimited AI. Google still has limits. That 5-hour refresh runs until you hit your weekly limit. Accounts without a plan get standard limits, and the higher Google AI tiers get progressively higher ones.

Google also says these limits can change as the system settles in. So, anyone telling you the caps are gone forever is selling you a headline, not the facts. What actually changed is how the limit gets measured. Under the old system, a one-line question and a full multi-source video overview both ate into the same fixed daily count. That never made sense. Compute-based limits

treat those two things differently because they genuinely are different. So, the control shifts to you. Ask 20 quick questions or put everything into one big output. That's your call. There's one more feature here that most people will scroll straight past, and it's genuinely useful. It's called

generating later. If you hit your limit and you were about to make something heavy like a video overview or a slide deck, you don't lose the request. You can defer it. Google says those outputs generate automatically, and you can set up notifications so you know the moment they're ready. Your notebook will also suggest alternative outputs if the one you picked goes over your limit. So,

instead of being blocked, you're queued. You queue the heavy thing, walk away, and it's waiting for you later. Very different from being told to come back tomorrow. Let me show you what this looks like on a real piece of work. I built a notebook using our own AI Profit Boardroom materials as sources, and I gave it one instruction: create a clear step-by-step onboarding workflow for new members covering the journey from sign-up to becoming an active member, including welcome messages, account setup, platform navigation, key resources, first actions, engagement, and follow-up. What came back was a

full-phased roadmap. Day one was orientation and setup. Week one was deploying your first automation. Weeks two and three were about using the support side of the community. Week four was a 30-day audit. It ended with a

tick-box checklist for every phase. Then I generated a mind map from the same sources. That gave me the whole thing broken into branches I could click through. Things like core community value implementation strategies and critical considerations. Same sources, different shape, one click. And that

second output is exactly what the new system makes you weigh up, because a mind map and a one-line question are not the same load anymore. So, how do you actually work with this without running dry? Watch your sources. Your source count feeds into your limit now. If you've got 30 documents in one notebook and you only use six, you're burning compute on noise. Build tighter

notebooks around one job. Watch your chat length. Long conversations get heavier as they grow because the whole thread comes along for the ride. If you've switched topics, start a fresh chat instead of dragging 100 messages behind you. And watch your prompt quality. This is the one that catches

people out. A lazy prompt doesn't give you one bad answer. It gives you a bad answer, then a follow-up, then a rewrite, then another attempt. Four generations to get where one clear prompt would have taken you. So, write the full instruction the first time.

Tell it who it's for, what format you want, and what a good answer looks like. Then there's your routine, and this is the bit almost nobody has adjusted yet. Under the old system, most people batched. You'd sit down once, use the whole day's allowance in one session, and stop. That was the smart play when the reset was daily. That's now the

wrong play. With a 5-hour refresh, spreading your workout beats cramming it. Do your heavy generations in one window, go and do something else, then come back for the next round. So, plan in windows. Front-load the demanding stuff, the overviews, the decks, the long reports at the start of a window.

Leave your quick questions and small edits for when you're running low, because those are the lightest. Do that for a week, and you'll notice you stop thinking about limits at all. A couple of things to keep in mind as you rebuild your workflow around this. Remember the weekly ceiling exists. The 5-hour refresh is not a magic loop. If you're

doing something genuinely heavy, like building a full content series from 20 sources, spread it across days rather than forcing it all into a Monday. Also, keep an eye on what else is landing. Google recently launched expert intelligence, which lets you add eligible ebooks you already own on Google Play Books into a notebook as a source. Over 100,000 English titles were eligible at launch, and answers come back grounded in that book with inline citations. So, you can question a book the same way you'd question your own documents. Put it all together, and

Gemini Notebook is becoming something you leave open all day instead of something you visit once and get locked out of. And the people who get the most from it won't be the ones on the biggest tier. They'll be the ones writing clearer prompts, keeping their notebooks tight, and working in windows. Before you go, two things. First, book that free AI brand visibility session. Everything I've

shown you helps you create faster, but creating faster does nothing if no one and no AI ever surfaces your brand. On the session, you'll get a clear read on where you stand today, what your competitors are doing that you aren't, and clear recommendations you can act on straight away. 100% free, no obligation, link in the description. Second, if you're going to apply this properly, do it alongside people who already are. The AI Profit Boardroom has over 4,000 members, and the truth is you will get stuck. You'll build a notebook that's

too broad, you'll use up compute on prompts that were never going to work. That's normal, and it's what the live coaching calls, the tutorials, the prompt library, and the 30-day roadmap are there for. Instead of guessing for 3 weeks, you ask on a call and move on the same day. Come and join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.