---
video_title: "Minimax H3 Max Just Took #1 in AI Video"
video_id: whCW9H9KE7I
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=whCW9H9KE7I
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  00:00 Intro – #1 AI video model, clips in 3s
  00:37 Two Models, Not One – H3 vs H3 Max
  00:45 Minimax H3 – open base model, 2K + sound
  01:08 H3 Max – FAL's faster, sharper version
  01:25 The Speed – 5s clip in under 3s
  01:41 Leaderboards – #1 for image-to-video
  02:03 The Honest Detail – which race it won
  02:13 Why Speed Wins – iterate without the wait
  03:12 How It Works – the 3-stage system
  03:51 Resolution – why it caps at 768p
  04:11 Aspect Ratios & Clip Length
  04:20 Two Modes – text & image to video
  04:35 Reference-to-Video – what's coming next
  04:44 Native Sound – audio + video in one pass
  05:29 Who Can Use It Today
  05:38 Free Access – 10 clips a day, no signup
  05:55 Inside Krea & Morphic
  06:14 API Routes – FAL & Minimax
  06:37 License Limits – regions to know
  06:54 Tip 1 – stay at 768p, 5–10s clips
  07:07 Tip 2 – keep prompt expansion on "balanced"
  07:23 Tip 3 – write the sound into your prompt
  07:32 Tip 4 – prompt like a director
  07:48 Tip 5 – use start & end frames
  07:55 Tip 6 – iterate one word at a time
  08:29 Recap – H3 vs H3 Max in 30 seconds
---
MiniMax H3. Max just took number one in AI video. Quick question. What if the best AI video model right now isn't even made by who you think it is? It just took the number one spot. It makes a

5-second clip in about 3 seconds with sound already inside it, and most people still haven't opened it once. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and my job is simple. I help you learn AI tools and actually use them in your work instead of just watching other people talk about them. So, I'm going to break down what this model really is, why the name confuses almost everybody, what it can and can't do, and the settings that change your results. Stick with me because near the end, I'll show you how to run it today without paying anything, plus one setting most people leave on the wrong option and then wonder why it feels slow. Let's start with the thing

everyone gets wrong. There are two models here, not one. The first is MiniMax H3, released on the 31st of July, 2026. It's a general-purpose multimodal video model, which just means it takes text, images, video, and audio in the same request and understands them together. It makes clips up to 15 seconds up to 2K at 24 frames a second, and every clip comes back with native stereo sound. MiniMax also published the

weights, so people can run and build on it themselves. Then there's MiniMax H3 Max. This is the one everyone's talking about. H3 Max was post-trained by Fowl Research on top of those open H3 weights, then optimized for speed by Fowl's inference team. MiniMax lists it in their own docs as a joint release with FL. Same family, not the same

model, and that difference matters for what you get. Here's what H3 Max actually does. A 5-second clip at 768p comes back in under 3 seconds. Fowl says that's roughly 35 times the throughput of the official H3 endpoint, and on average about 15 times faster than models of comparable quality. Those are Fowl's own numbers, so hold them loosely, but the independent boards point the same way.

On Artificial Analysis, H3 Max sits at number one for image-to-video with audio at an ELO of around 1200 measured across more than 2000 samples. On Design Arena's image-to-video board is first as well at an ELO of 1341, just ahead of the base H3 model it was trained from. One honest detail nobody mentions, that number one spot is specifically for image-to-video with audio. On the text-to-video board with audio, Artificial Analysis has it at number three, where the top three sit within about six points of each other. So, it is genuinely at the front. Just be

precise about which race it won. And the speed is the real story here, not the leaderboard. Video generation has always been a batch job. Write a prompt, wait a minute or three, look, tweak, wait again. At 3 seconds of render, that loop becomes something you can sit inside.

You stop being precious about your first prompt, because being wrong barely costs you anything. That changes how you work far more than one Elo point ever will. Now, if you're thinking, "Okay, AI video is moving fast, but where does this actually fit into my site or my brand?" That's the thing I'd get a second pair of eyes on. We run a free AI brand visibility session. Completely free, no

obligation. You get a custom visibility plan and a proper look at how your brand shows up or doesn't show up across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. You get a competitor gap analysis, so you can see where other people in your space are getting mentioned and you're not. And you get to ask a strategist your own questions directly. If you're about to start producing AI video, get it pointed at the right pages first. The link's

below. So, how does it actually work? Once you understand the structure, the limits make sense. Minimax built H3 is a system with a few parts. There's a stage that reads your brief, a base model that renders at 768p, and a separate stage that regenerates that output at 2K. That

last stage is clever. Instead of a normal upscaler, the model regenerates its own low-resolution output in context, so it can go back to your original references and recover fine detail like small text, rather than guessing at it. Here's the key bit. Minimax opened the base model, but not the 2K stage. So, anything post-trained from those open weights has nothing to hand off to for 2K. That is exactly why

H3 Max stops at 768p. It isn't a limit file picked for fun. It's what the open weights produce. So, H3 Max gives you 480p or 768p with 768p as the default. At 16 by 9, that's 1344 by 768 at 24 frames a second. Clips run from 5 to 15

whole seconds. For text video, you can pick 21 by 9, 16 by 9, 4 by 3, 1 by 1, 3 by 4, or 9 by 16. For image to video, the output just follows the shape of the image you upload. So, crop it before you upload, not after. There are two modes live right now. Text to video, where you

describe the shot in words, and image to video, where you hand it a still and it animates it. That second one also takes an optional end image, so you can give it a first frame and a last frame and let it fill in all the motion between the two. Reference to video, where you feed it several images, clips, and audio to lock a character in place, is announced as coming. Today, that one lives on the base H3 model, not on H3 Max. And every single generation comes back with sound. Not music dropped on top

afterwards. The picture and the audio are predicted together in the same pass. So, dialogue lands on the mouth movements and effects land on the action, which is why you should be writing sound into your prompt. I'll come back to that in the tips. If you want the full workflow and not just the tool, that's what we build inside the AI Profit Boardroom. There

are over 4,000 members in there, and AI video is one of the areas we go deepest on because the tools change every few weeks and the workflow is the part that survives. Inside, you get live coaching calls, where you can bring your own setup and ask questions about it directly, daily tutorials, walkthroughs of the model pickers and the API setups, done for you prompt templates, and a 30-day roadmap. So, you're not just collecting tools you never open again. If you're planning to build short-form video into your content system, that's the room where we're working it out together. So, who can actually use this today? If you just want to try it, you

need a browser and nothing else. Runway runs H3 Max on its own free tool page with no sign up at all. That's five clips a day, five seconds each at 768p with sound. Sign in and the Runway Sandbox gives you five more a day at up to 15 seconds each. Both allowances reset on a rolling 24-hour window. So,

you can properly test this against your real briefs first. If you already work inside a creative platform, it's there, too. Korea has Minimax H3 Max in the video model selector, and Morphic has it in their model picker where your takes land on a canvas, so you can run the same brief through another model and compare them side by side. And if you build things, there are two API routes. Fowl has text to video and image to video endpoints you can call from a few lines of Python or JavaScript with no service to manage. Minimax also exposes

it under the model name Minimax-H3-Max on their pay-as-you-go API. That one runs as an async job. You submit the task, get a task ID back, pull it until it succeeds, then download the video from the URL it returns. One more thing worth noting, the open weights for the base H3 model ship under Minimax's own community license. And that license restricts local deployment in some regions including the US, the UK, the EU, and South Korea. If that affects

you, the hosted route is the practical answer because you're not running the weights yourself. Now, the tips that actually move your results. First, stay at 768p and keep your clips between 5 and 10 seconds. That's the range the model is tuned around and it's the starting point Fowl recommends. Second, here's the setting I promised you.

There's a prompt expansion mode. Leave it on balanced. Balanced decides per request how much to rewrite your prompt. So, your total time stays close to your render time. The quality setting can spend up to 30 seconds just rewriting the prompt before it even starts generating, which hands back the entire speed advantage you came here for.

Third, write the sound. Audio is generated in the same pass as the picture, so name the effects, the room tone, and the moment a sound should land. Leave sound out and you're letting the model guess at half of what it's making. Fourth, prompt like a director, not like a search box. Subject, action, camera move, lighting, mood. You get up

to 7,000 characters, so there's no reason to be vague. The more precise you are, the more of your brief survives the render. Fifth, use the end frame. Give it a starting still and a finishing still and let it build the motion between them. That's quietly the most useful thing in here for product shots and before and after content. And sixth,

iterate properly. Generate, watch, change one word, generate again. 10 drafts now take about the time one used to. If you want help working out where all of this fits in your actual business, take the free AI brand visibility session. It's a different conversation to a tutorial. You walk out

with a plan built around your brand, a clear picture of how you're showing up across the AI search tools people are using right now, and specific recommendations you can act on straight away. It costs nothing and there's no obligation. The link is in the description. So, to sum it up, Mini Max H3 is the open base model with 2K and reference generation. H3 Max is Runway's faster, sharper version, capped at 768p, first on the image to video boards, and quick enough that video generation stops being something you wait around for. 10

free clips a day if you sign in. Two modes today, a third on the way, and a leaderboard spot that will move again because Mini Max announced their own fast variant days after this one launched. The part nobody warns you about is what happens after the novelty wears off. You'll generate 20 clips, love three of them, and then hit the real question, which is where these actually go and how you turn them into something that keeps running. That's the bit we solve inside the AI Profit Boardroom with over 4,000 members, live coaching calls every week, tutorials, prompt libraries, and a 30-day road map that takes you from testing a model to having a content workflow that doesn't need rebuilding every time a new model drops. Come and join us at

aiprofitboardroom.com.