---
video_title: "Grok 4.6 AI SEO Just Changed Everything"
video_id: kpMreA9ATOo
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kpMreA9ATOo
video_date: 20260813
video_description: |
  Free SEO Course → https://go.juliangoldie.com/chat-gpt-prompts?utm=julian
  
  Grok 4.6 SEO: How to Rank on AI Search Engines in 24 Hours
  
  Discover how Grok 4.6 is revolutionizing search and how you can rank your content inside AI answers in less than a day. Learn the exact four-step system to find trending keywords and dominate both Google and Grok using the Rank Everywhere method.
  
  00:00 - 00:00 - Intro
  01:50 - Grok as a Knowledge Engine
  02:24 - Method 1: Trend Hunting
  03:34 - The Secret to Fast Indexing
  05:06 - Method 2: Ranking Inside Grok
  07:05 - The 4-Step SEO System
  09:40 - The Rank Everywhere Strategy
  12:19 - Future Proofing Your SEO
---
Grok 4.6 AI SEO just changed everything in this video you're going to see exactly how to rank inside Grok and also with Grok with real proof, real keywords, and real first page results that happened in the last 24 hours. Here's the short version. Grok 4.6 dropped its XAI's new frontier model for coding, agency tasks, and knowledge work. And here inside this release is

something most people are completely missing. So, Grok is now a search engine, a real one. People ask it questions, it searches the web, and it gives answers with sources. And those sources, these are websites, websites like yours. Now, we actually tested this the day it happened. We found a trending

keyword, built content around it. Within 24 hours we were ranking on the first page of Google several times over. Now, we actually found the keyword that trended on X itself, so from Grok's algorithm. So, Grokbot versus Hermes Agent was the keyword, and then we are ranking on Google here and also here with a Reddit post, with my website, with another website we own. And also, if we look at X directly, um we ask Grok the same query as we ask Google that we're already ranking for. You can see

that we're ranking here. We're also ranking here. And we only posted that piece of content 24 hours ago because it's a new trending keyword. And so, you can rank pretty quickly inside Grok directly itself, but you can also rank inside Google finding trending keywords from Grok, right? So, you can get multiple spots, different size videos, too. And then we checked inside Grok

itself, and Grok was pulling our websites into its answers as sources. In fact, twice in a single answer. So, I'm going to show you the exact screenshots, the exact keyword, the four steps, the one indexing trick that made it happen fast. And in the end, there's one thing about how Grok picks its sources for SEO that changes how you should write every piece of content from today onwards. Don't miss out. Now, Grok is a new

frontier model. It's pretty much right up there with GPT-4 and 6 Soul Max, and also Claude Fable 5. But, one of the biggest and most leading parts of this is that it's as a coding release when its real strength is knowledge work. Knowledge work means research, finding things, reading the web, answering questions with sources, which is exactly what happens when someone types a question into Grok instead of Google. And people are doing that every single day. More

More and more people are asking Grok questions instead of searching Google, which means there's a brand new set of rankings forming right now. The rankings inside Grok's answers, and almost nobody is competing for them yet. So, how do you actually rank there? Two methods, both proven, both I'll show you proof of today. So, method number one is trend hunting with Grok and X. And this is

where the speed comes from. So, Grok is connected to X. That means it sees what people are talking about right now, today, this hour. And Google Trends is pretty slow. Keyword tools are slower. Most keyword

data you look at is like weeks or months old if you're using an SEO tool. Grok sees conversations as they happen. That makes it one of the best trending topic finders available right now. Here's a real example, step-by-step. So, let's say for example, new AI tool launched people are comparing it to another agent tool. In this example, it was the

keyword Grok bot versus Hermes, brand new keyword. So, it was only days old, nobody had content for it yet because the topic barely existed. Um we spotted it trending on X. So, we created content around that exact keyword, and here's the important part. We didn't actually make like one piece of content, we made several across different platforms. Like

for example, a full comparison post on the AI Profit Blogging blog, a hands-on comparison on a second website we own, two videos on the topic, and a discussion thread in a community space we own on Reddit. And then we indexed everything first using a tool called Index Exceptional. Indexing just means telling search engines, "Hey, this page exists. Come look at it." Normally, you publish something and wait like days or weeks for Google to find it. Index

Exceptional speeds up massively, and the result is within 24 hours, searching Grok bot versus Hermes on Google showed our content on the first page multiple times. So, the blog post ranked, the second website ranked, both videos showed up in the video results, the discussion thread showed up in the forum section, one search, and the same keyword filled with our content in different spots. And that's the whole game in one example. So, one trending keyword, multiple piece of content, fast indexing, first page in a day. If you're thinking that sounds like a lot of work, it actually isn't anymore because this is exactly what AI is for.

Grok 4.6 can research a topic, draft a comparison, and structure the whole post. A local business owner, for example, could do this for a trending topic in the industry in the afternoon. You don't need a team. You need the method. Now, a quick pause here because

if you're watching this thinking, "Okay, I want this working for my website." We've actually put together a free SEO course that walks you through this whole AI search ranking system, including how to find those trending keywords and rank on Google inside AI search engines like Grok. And it comes with a free one-to-one SEO strategy session with our team where we look at your actual website, build you a custom game plan to get more customers from Google and AI search. It's completely free. Link in the comments description or go to juliangoldie.com to get access. Now,

back to the method because method number two is where this gets really interesting. So, method number two is ranking inside Grok itself. And this is the part almost nobody's doing yet. Here's what happened. After our content went live, we asked Grok the same question people were asking, "Right, Grokbot versus Hermes." Grok thought for

about 19 seconds, searched the web, and then wrote out a full answer, proper comparison, overview, head-to-head table, who should pick what. And inside that answer, Grok cited its sources. Now, it actually pulled from juliangoldie.co.uk twice in one answer. And it also cited

the AI Profit Bot in website. So, in a single Grok answer about a hot new topic, our sites showed up as sources three times. Now, if you stop and think about what that means for your business, when someone asks like what's the best accountant software or which agency should I hire or is this tool worth it? Grok goes and reads websites, then builds its answer from them. So, if your website is one of the sources, you're inside the answer, your brand, your words, your link. If it isn't you, your

competitor is doing this. And here's something we actually noticed that surprised us. So, one of the things that I noticed is that Grok seems to index new content way faster than ChatGPT does. We published, we index with Indexception, and Grok was already pulling our pages into answers whilst other AI search tools hadn't picked them up yet. So, Grok lives close to the live web. It's built for fresh information,

which means the gap between you publish and you're a source inside Grok could be yours in hours, not months. That changes the maths on content complete. And again, I've shown you proof of this, and this is not something I just talk about. It's something that I test every single day. So, >> [clears throat and cough] >> in old SEO, you'd write something and wait like 3, 6, 9 months to see if it ranked. With trending keywords and Grok,

the feedback loop's a day. So, you publish today, you check tomorrow, and you either rank or you learn and you adjust. And that speed means you can test like 10 topics in the time old SEO tested one. So, here's the full four-step system that you can use to implement this. And step number one is finding trending keywords. So, you can

use X and Grok 4.6 itself. You can ask Grok what topics are heating up in your industry this week. That could be like new tools, new comparisons, new questions people just started asking. You want keywords so new that nobody's answered them properly yet. Step number

two is to create content across multiple platforms. One post on your main site. If you have a second site, another angle there. Video if you can make videos. A discussion post in the community.

Different formats, same keyword. Google's first page has slots for regular results, videos, and forum discussions, Each format competes for a different slot. Here's another example of us ranking multiple times for the same keyword using this same system. So, we're ranking inside AI overviews, we're ranking on the first page, we're ranking with our websites, and it's just a system we can rinse and repeat because we know it's tested. Target trending keywords, create the content around them across multiple platforms. I call this

the rank everywhere system because you're literally ranking on every single platform. Now, step number three is indexing. And you can index with index exceptional. So, publishing without indexing is like printing flyers and then just leaving them in your garage. Fast indexing gets your content seen by Google and by Grok whilst the topic is still hot. On trending keywords, the

window is small. Speed is the advantage. And then step number four is ranking fast inside Grok and Google, too. So, you want to check your work. Search your keyword on Google. Ask Grok the

question. See where you show up. See which piece ranked best. Then do it again on the next trend. That's it. Four

steps and you notice something. None of them require you to be technical. That matters because some people think, "Ah, you know, you have to be technical to do this sort of stuff." Absolutely not. You just find keywords, create content, index them, rank, iterate, and improve.

And the next step as well, like some people think SEO's too late. You know, AI means it's over, but I've shown you that it's actually easier than ever before to create content now because of this system, right? If you can create content more often, then you can create content across more and different platforms, you're more likely to rank. And also, it's easier to create content than ever because you've got AI to help you as well. Now, also, some people think ranking takes months. I don't have time to wait

on old crowded keywords. Sure I can. Actually, one thing before I forget as well. So, when we're ranking inside Grok, it's ranking with a website that isn't that powerful when I rank inside Google. So, that's why it's good to have multiple different platforms ranking as well. Post content about that keyword on

LinkedIn, on Reddit, on our websites. We'll post videos about it. We'll rank with Instagram. We'll use different platforms because you sometimes like different AIs value different platforms differently. Here's another example. So,

if we look at this example, X itself is ranking really well. Then you can see us ranking here and also here over here. And additionally, you can see us ranking multiple times from from Reddit, from X. So, it's really different each time you do this. Like sometimes you can have different pieces of content on different platforms that rank differently.

So, that's why this method targets new keywords as well. On the trending keyword we chased, the results came in 24 hours. When you compete where nobody else is competing yet, you don't wait in line. There is no line. Now, the good thing about this is that you can find trending topics in your niche with X.

So, for example, if we go to the explore, we can see new potential keywords that we could potentially go and rank for. And the good thing about this is like we know people are searching for it. We know it's a popular topic, but we also know that nobody else is going to create content that quickly for this particular topic. And so it's a really good opportunity for us to rank directly. And when we look at what Grok actually cited, the pages it chose just had something in common, which is they were honest, hands-on, and specific. So,

if you look at the content that was ranking, it had case studies, it had testimonials, it had actual examples of me using both Hermes and Grok bot, which I think helps a lot. You know, it's it's adding information gain. It's adding something new that people have never seen before on that topic. So, your real experience is now a ranking advantage. You know things in your industry that generic content writers and AI doesn't.

So, AI engines are hunting for exactly that kind of specific industry deep knowledge and honest answers only real people can create. Now, one thing that's really interesting about Grok 4.6 is as your content engine because the same model you're ranking inside is also the best tool for building the content. The 500k contest window means you can feed everything about our topic, your notes, your competitor's pages, the trending conversation, and ask it to write a genuinely complete answer. Now, for me personally, I still prefer to use Claude, but I tend to find that's because it's just got a great harness and it's really easy to use. But, you

could use Grok 4.6 for actually creating the content. I don't see any issues with that. In fact, I think it's actually really powerful because since its real strength is knowledge work, research-heavy content like comparisons, reviews, guides, etc. is exactly what it's built for. And that also happens to

be the exact content types the AI search engines love to cite. So, the tool that ranks you is the tool that writes for you. Obviously, you quality control it. Obviously, you're very careful about that. I've got a lot of training on that inside the free course in the comments and description. But, it's a strange and

beautiful loop, and it's the reason this window of opportunity exists right now. So, let's pull this all together so it's crystal clear here, right? Grok 4.6 just launched, and it turned Grok into a serious answer engine. It's near the top of the independent leaderboards. People

are asking it questions instead of Googling. It sites websites in its answers, and it picks up new content fast, faster than other AI search tools we've tested against it. That means there's a fresh, wide set of rankings sitting inside Grok right now. The system to win them is four simple steps. You want to find trending keywords using excellent Grok, create content across multiple platforms like your sites, videos, discussions, and then index fast with Indexational. They're ranking site

Google and also inside Grok, often within a day if you're targeting trending keywords that have competition. We proved it on multiple examples. We've shown you multiple examples today, and this is the system that we rinse and repeat every single day. The people who move on this in the next few months will own the sources AI engines trust in the industry, and once an AI engine trusts your site, it keeps coming back to it. Every trending topic you catch builds on the last one, and this compounds. We've

actually helped over 3,700 business owners use AI inside their business, inside their AI boardroom. And the pattern is always the same. The ones who win are never the most technical. They're the ones who start whilst everyone else is still deciding whether it's real. So, here's what to do. If you

want this exact system set up for your business, ranking on Google and inside AI search engines like Grok, grab grab our free SEO course. It walks you through the whole AI search ranking method including trending keywords, research, and fast indexing. It comes with a free one-to-one SEO strategy session where our team looks at your website and builds you a custom-tailored game plan to get you more customers from Google and from AI search engines like Grok. It is free. Link in the comments and description or head to juliangoldie.com

and grab it from there. Grok 4.6 is live. The answers it gives tomorrow are being written by someone today. Make sure it's you.