---
video_title: "Google AI Studio + Gemini 3.8 Flash Is Absolutely INSANE!"
video_id: QTyUU6EF1SE
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QTyUU6EF1SE
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Gemini 3.8 Flash: The Ultimate AI Agent Powerhouse
  
  Discover how Gemini 3.8 Flash and Google AI Studio are revolutionizing AI automation with a massive 1 million token context window. Learn how to leverage new agentic workflows to build autonomous systems that handle research, SEO, and lead generation for your business.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:34 - What's New in Gemini 3.8 Flash?
  01:30 - How Agentic Workflows Work
  02:45 - Key Specs: Tokens & Multimodality
  04:43 - Function Calling & Code Execution
  05:14 - 3 Real-World AI Workflows
  07:17 - Conclusion & Next Steps
---
Google AI Studio plus Gemini 3.8 Flash is absolutely insane. Google just dropped something massive for SEO and AI automation. And if you're not paying attention, you're already behind. Gemini 3.8 Flash just landed in Google AI

Studio. It's faster, smarter, and built for AI agents that actually do the work. We're talking a 1 million token context window, insane agentic workflows, and by the end of this video, you'll see exactly how to use it to grow your business with AI automation. All right, let's get into it. Google announced Gemini 3.8 Flash on September 2nd, 2026.

And here's the thing, this is not just another AI model update. Google is calling it their most intelligent workhorse model yet. That's a big claim. And when you look at what it can actually do, the claim holds up. So, what makes Gemini 3.8 Flash different

from 3.7? The old model was fast and efficient, great for simple tasks. But when things got complicated, it hit a wall. Gemini 3.8 Flash doesn't hit that

wall. It pushes through it. Google built this model specifically for situations where AI needs to work through problems over multiple steps instead of just giving you one answer and stopping. They call it greater diligence. Here's what that actually means. Hey, if we haven't

met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Old AI works like this. You give it a prompt, it gives you an answer. Done. Gemini 3.8

works like this. You give it a goal. It makes a plan. It uses tools. It checks its own results. It fixes mistakes. It

keeps going until the task is complete. That is a completely different way of working. And for SEO and AI automation, that difference is everything. Think about what that means for building content systems, researching keywords, analyzing competitors, or building workflows inside something like AI Profit Boardroom. Instead of doing each step yourself, the model does the whole thing. It reasons through the problem.

It calls tools. It evaluates the result and it keeps going until it's done. Here's a real example. Inside AI profit boardroom, we build AI automation systems for businesses. One of the biggest pain points members have is content research. They need to find new

video angles, analyze what's working in their niche, write outlines, and prep social posts. That's a lot of steps. With Gemini 3.8 8 Flash inside Google AI Studio. You could build a content research agent that does all of it. You

give it a goal. Research the latest AI news, find the biggest announcements this week, identify the best angles for AI profit boardroom content, and generate a full YouTube outline with LinkedIn posts ready to go. The agent searches, plans, evaluates, and builds the whole thing for you. That's not hypothetical. That's what this model is designed for. Now, before I go deeper

into the workflows, let me give you the numbers because these matter. 1 million input tokens. That means you can feed this model your entire business. Every document, every tutorial, every coaching call transcript, every FAQ, every playbook, all of it at once. 65,000 output tokens, so it can produce massive detailed outputs, multimodal input, text, images, video, audio, PDFs. It

handles all of it. Now, here's where I want to pause for a second. Because everything I'm showing you in this video, these AI tools, these workflows, these automation systems, they only work if people can actually find you online. And that's a SEO problem. If your content isn't ranking, if your website isn't getting traffic, if your pages aren't showing up when people search for what you do, then none of these AI tools are going to fix that for you. That's

where my team at Goldie Agency comes in. We've helped businesses all over the world rank higher on Google through smart SEO strategy, proper keyword targeting, and highquality link building that actually moves the needle. We don't just talk about SEO. We do it every single day for real clients. If you want us to take a look at your website, your rankings, and your traffic, and show you exactly where the opportunities are, book a free SEO strategy session through the link in the description. There's no

pressure, no pitch, just a real conversation about how to grow your traffic. Go grab that session now. The link is below. And if you want to be in a community where all of this comes together, AI tools, automation systems, real workflows, and people actually building and implementing this stuff every single day, come join AI Profit Boardroom. This is where business owners and entrepreneurs are learning how to use AI to systemize their work, free up their time, and grow faster. We break

down the latest tools, build practical workflows step by step, and show you exactly how to put AI to work inside a real business. It's not theory. It's not fluff. It's the actual playbook and the community inside is full of people doing the same thing you're trying to do. The link is in the description. Come check

it out. Now, back to the model. Let me show you the tools that make Gemini 3.8 Flash so powerful for building real AI systems. First, function calling. The

model can talk to external tools and APAs. So you can build an AI profit boardroom agent that receives a new member question, searches the knowledge base, checks available tutorials, finds the right answer, and creates a support ticket if needed, all automatically. Second, code execution. The model can write and run code as part of solving a problem. Great for data analysis, reports, processing large amounts of information. Now, let me walk you

through some real AI profit boardroom workflows so you can see exactly how this works in practice. Workflow 1, the AI profit boardroom weekly intelligence report. Every week you feed Gemini 3.8 Flash all the major AI announcements, blog posts, product releases, and industry news. The agent filters out what's irrelevant, identifies the biggest updates, explains why they matter for business owners, connects each update to automation opportunities, and builds a full weekly report. Your AI

profit boardroom members get a readyto- read intelligence briefing every Monday morning. The AI did the whole thing. Workflow 2, the member support agent. Upload everything inside AI profit boardroom, every tutorial, every coaching call, every FAQ, every automation template. When a member asks a question like, "How do I automate my lead follow-up system, the agent searches all of that, finds the relevant tutorials, pulls the right coaching call clips, and gives a personalized step-by-step answer." This is a 247

support system that already knows everything inside your community. Workflow three, the lead research agent. A new business owner enters the AI profit boardroom funnel. Gemini 3.8 flash visits their website, analyzes their business, identifies the repetitive processes they're doing manually, finds the automation opportunities, researches their competitors, and generates a personalized outreach message that shows exactly how AI profit boardroom can help them. That's hyperpersonalized lead

generation running on autopilot. We are moving toward AI systems that don't just answer questions. They execute workflows. They build things. They complete complex multi-step tasks without you babysitting every step. And

if you're ready to go beyond learning and want a real team handling your SEO while you focus on building AI systems and growing your business, book a free SEO strategy session with my team at Goldie Agency. We'll look at where you're at right now, where the biggest opportunities are in your niche and exactly what it would take to get your site ranking higher on Google. No pressure, no hard sale, just a real conversation about your traffic and how to grow it. The link is in the description. Go grab that session now before the spots fill up. And if you

want to be in a community where all of this comes together, AI tools, automation systems, real workflows, and people actually building and implementing this stuff every single day, come join AI profit boardroom. This is where business owners and entrepreneurs are learning how to use AI to systemize their work, free up their time, and grow faster. We break down the latest tools, build practical workflows step by step, and show you exactly how to put AI to work inside a real business. It's not theory, it's not fluff, it's the actual playbook, and the community inside is full of people doing the same thing you're trying to do. The link is in the description. Come check

it out. Julian reads every comment. drop one and let him know what AI automation you're most excited to build.