---
video_title: "Agent OS Just Changed AI Agents Forever!"
video_id: VZNF5PXojyw
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VZNF5PXojyw
video_date: 20260813
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Ultimate AI Agent OS Setup: Free Tools & Grokbot Alternatives
  
  Learn how to optimize your AI Agent OS with the best free tools for coding, image generation, and text-to-video. This guide covers open-source alternatives like Open Mousebot and Claude Code Router to help you build a personalized AI team.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Power of Agent OS
  01:34 - Claude Code Router vs Omniroute
  03:06 - Better Text-to-Video Alternatives
  05:02 - Unlimited AI Image Generation
  07:41 - Building Specialized AI Agents
  09:13 - Grokbot vs Open Mousebot
  10:48 - How to Join the AI Profit Community
---
The Agent OS is the most powerful way to run AI agents right now, but only if you have it set up the right way. Today, I'm answering the biggest questions people are asking me about it, the best free tools to plug in, the fastest way to generate images without hitting limits, and how to create videos with nothing but text. Plus, a free open-source alternative to Grok Bot just dropped, and I already have it running inside my system. One click, you've got a brand new agent ready to work for you. By the end of this video, you'll know exactly which tools to plug in, which ones to skip, and how to turn your setup into a super smart AI team that works while you sleep. Let's get into it. Today, we're

going to be answering some of the latest questions on the Agent Operating System that we built, how you can build them, how you can get the most out of them. For example, recently, we recently plugged in Open Mouth Bot. Open is like a free open-source alternative to Grok Bot. As soon as it dropped, which was just yesterday in 24 hours, we already had plugged into our Agent Operating System, along with Claude, along with Hermes, along with all our favorite custom workflows. And this is a super powerful system that works together. So,

today, what I'm going to do is answer the latest questions inside the AR Profit Board, and this is something that I do every single day. It's how I create video tutorials for everyone watching to help you as much as I can, and also to make sure that I know, basically, if you have these questions, and if our audience has these questions, and if the community has these questions, answering them in a video tutorial personalized for you like this helps you as much as we can. So, if you want me to answer your questions like this, feel free to post inside the AR Profit Board community, and I'll answer your questions for you. So, the first question that we had was about Claude Code Router. And so, the question we got here was, "Has anyone tested Claude Code Router?" Here's the GitHub open-source

project. So, basically, this is like one local control plane for every agent. So, what this means is like you can use Claude Code, you can use Claude Design, and you can connect all your compatible API clients with one stable endpoint. Now, we've actually plugged something in already into our agent operating system, which is free Claude code. And so, some of the questions we got were like, "Has anyone used it?" I personally haven't

tested this out yet. There are so many different open-source projects dropping every day. This one looks really cool. Looks like Kimik3 actually worked with them on this project, which is interesting. But basically, from what I can see, they do the same job. So, for

example, Omni route is the one that we've plugged into the agent OS already. Claude code router is heavier, but you can have one local gateway with all of your agents plugged in. Now, Omni route is very similar in this way. This is a free AI coder that we've plugged into the agent OS. But you could use Claude code router as well. And then, I guess

the benefit would be that you can use Claude code, Codex, Kimmy, everything else into one local gateway. One thing I'd actually recommend is like before you plug it into your agent OS, test it out inside the terminal first, point a spare agent at it, run a normal day's work. If the log tells you something you didn't already know, keep it. But if it doesn't, you have your answer. So, you want to just test out the terminal, see if it can actually do something useful for you, and see if it can do something you haven't already got inside your system. We got another question about

text-to-video alternatives to Higgs Field. So, Higgs Field is a great tool, super powerful. You can connect your MCP inside the agent OS as well. So, as an example of that, you can see we've plugged in Higgs Field here, and then we have the gallery, and we can create all sorts of awesome stuff, as you can see, like the the quality of Higgs Field is really, really impressive. It can generate some amazing stuff, and it's pretty fun to play with, as well, right?

But the problem is that if you're on a budget, not the best option. And also, sometimes it's not that easy to figure out the total cost with Higgs Field. So, what I would recommend instead is that if you're looking for a good text-to-video platform, you can actually use Remotion instead. So, Remotion is a really good tool that you can generate video with just using text-to-video. And basically, it teaches Claude or any other agent that you use how to create video for you. This is something we use

inside the video generator of the H and OS. So, if you go to the video agent section, we use Remotion to generate videos that look super nice. And then everything is saved inside a workspace. HyperFrames is another option as well. The great thing about both of those is they're just using HTML. So, it's just

using the tokens from your agent, and your agent is very good at using HTML, and so it can create amazing stuff. You can even, for example, get the API from your AI avatar, and then plug that into video as well with B roll and everything else. Another decent option that you can get on the coding plan is Minimax Minimax H3, and you can just go straight to Minimax directly to get access to that. The cool thing about that is like it's a coding plan, so you're not worrying about credits so much as something like Higgs Field, which does run out quickly. The final option I was going to recommend is Fowl. Fowl is

pretty affordable. They've got a lot of cheaper models on there and you just use the API. So, that's a good option if you want something on a budget, and you just want to use something API based. So, there's four solid options for you right there that you could use when it comes to generating text to video. Next up, we got a question about the best image generator. So, they said they've created

images with ChatGPT. This is Neil Martin. Shout out to Neil. And they're very happy with the quality, but they keep running into usage limits, which slows progress. And they have like approximately 200 images to create. They

have an Llama account as well. Would appreciate any advice on this. So, depending on your setup, if you've got a decent local setup, you can actually use Ernie. Ernie is a good option. Actually, I wouldn't say good, I'd say decent.

So, Ernie from Baidu can run locally. It's open source as well. I don't know how you're generating the images, but if you just go straight to ChatGPT inside the chat, you can tend to generate more images than if you're using Codex, cuz I tend to find that Codex runs out of credits quicker. So, that's another way around it. Veo and Nana Banana 2 really, really good inside Gemini for generating images and it's pretty fast, too. So,

you can just go directly to Gemini and generate images there and they're high quality. If you want to generate images on API, then you've also got Fowl. Fowl has a lot of cheap image options there, too. But, I think between all of these, you know, whether that's Ernie, whether that's, for example, using ChatGPT, Veo or Fowl, you've got some good options. The final option, I know you mentioned you've got Hermes Agent running as well.

So, you can use your Codex for image generation when you select the model for images. So, you can actually use O off with Codex and log in. And then, if you've got a lot of images to create, it could just be worth like upgrading once this month and then you can always downgrade again once you finish that big task. And out of all those, I'd put Ernie last, right? So, just to recap, for generating images, you can use ChatGPT inside the chat if you're running out of tokens on your Codex plan. You can also also use Veo and Nana

Banana 2. Veo is a video generation. Nana Banana is the image generation. You can also use Fowl on API. Fowl API has lots of cheap models for generating images. And then, you've also got Hermes

Agent with Codex plugged in on O off. Additionally, finally, you could use something open source and local and free like Ernie. If you're running a Mac Mini M4, probably not going to run that fast, but that's that's an option. Bear in mind like you could just have that running in the background whilst you're going to do something else. By the way, for anyone watching it, if you want this full setup already wired, you know, every one of these answers is something a member asked and I answer them personally with a video tutorial every single day. And what I do actually when

I answer your questions is I give you the link and also give you the breakdown in text in case you don't have time to watch the personalized video tutorial I've created for you. And then, you get the full Agent OS inside the AR Profit Boardroom. You get the workflows I've talked about, live coaching calls every single week. And there's over 3,700 members inside there. So, feel free to get that link in the comments description or go to the AR Profit Bot Room.com. We got another question here

from Amita. So, shout out to Amita Bot. He says, "How to set an agent up in Hermes in Agent OS?" So, they just watched one of our tutorials on Hermes Agent OS, got loads of ideas, but they're wondering if they can learn how to set up specialized agents for different tasks in Hermes. So, we actually have the full Agent OS system inside the AR Profit Bot Room.

So, you can get our setup directly, okay? And basically, if you're wondering, okay, what do you get inside the Hermes Agent OS? So, you get like all your different profiles here with different You can set up different specialties, different skills, different memories for each one. And then also over here, we have Hermes Apollo, which is a voice agent that can build and create and that sort of thing. You chat back and forth with it. We have Hermes

Oracle that pulls in the latest news and then gives you the headlines that are sorted by which headline is the most interesting. And then additionally, we have Hermes Muse. And we have Hermes Astros, which is great for monitoring your competitors and also looking at what's performing really well for the content you're creating and then how can you create similar or better stuff around that, right? And you also have a studio, you have a mixture of agents, you have a lead generation tool over here, a workspace for everything that you create. Everything is inside one place. And what you actually get is the

zip file directly, so you can just install it, get it ready to go from there. Also, if you're wondering, okay, like I don't want your setup, but I do want to set up a mission control. We have a full like 1-hour tutorial on how to build your own. So, if you like, okay, well, I just want to build something fully custom that's mine from scratch, you can do it right here, too. And the final question we got was from Al or Ali, who asked about Grok Bot. You know,

has anyone used it? Has anyone tested it? Etcetera. So, I tested it and I've got a full tutorial on it. It runs out of tokens fast. Like, it's really cool,

revolutionary idea, makes agents super simple and easy. Some people say it's not that good. That's fair point. Like, if you're already technical, if you understand Hermes, if you're already happy with your setup, you don't need to use it, right? But there's a lot of people out there who are just not technical enough to use something like Hermes Agent. And so, using something

like Grok Bot is really good. Now, there's also a free open-source alternative, and that's called Open Mouse Bot. And we've already plugged it into our Agentic operating system. So, the cool thing about this is the we've got, for example, like an inbox agent. We have SEO researcher. We can create AI

research agents. And it's all inside our Agentic operating system, which has a workspace and everything saved inside it. So, we can come back to it whenever we want, right? So, for example, like this that we created, this is a whole system ready to go inside one place. And you can create a new agent just in one single click, and it's got the full functionality of Grok Bot, but it's open-source and it's free. It also plugs

into like Claude or any other model that you prefer to use as well. So, you can use, for example, like Claude or Codex or whatever you prefer. You can even give your agents a computer in the cloud. So, that's a really cool way to use something that's a free alternative, cuz bear in mind there's a waitlist for Grok Bot as well. So, Grok Bot is cool, but it's just like another app you have to open, right? And it's not

open-source, you can't control it as much. Great idea, amazing for a lot of people. People going to love it who are non-technical. But, if you want something even more customizable, Open Mouse Bot is great, too. So, that's basically everything today. I've

answered all of the latest questions inside the community. What I do every single day is I create video tutorials like this for you, and then what I do is I send you the tutorial, plus I break down the answer in text in case you don't have time to watch the personalized tutorial. So, you can post your questions, I'll answer them within 24 hours for you. Here's an example, right? So, Morgan asked a question, we answered the same day with a personalized video tutorial, and then we also give the breakdown in text as well.

And you also get like all of our best trainings. You get the weekly coaching calls you can jump on, the map and meet people in your local area building with AI agents like you. And you also get the full Agent OS system that I've talked about today with the Open Mouse setup as well. So, you can grab that right here. Link in the comments and description, or go to the AIprofitbomb.com. Thanks for

watching. I'll see you in the next one. Cheers. Bye-bye.