---
video_title: "New Hermes Agent OS is Absolutely WILD!"
video_id: _OC6lvCCurs
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_OC6lvCCurs
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  I Built an AI Operating System: Hermes Agent OS Explained
  
  Learn how to transform raw AI agents into a powerful business operating system that automates content, research, and outreach 24/7. This video walks through the custom tools built on top of Hermes to replace manual admin work and scale your productivity.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Beyond the Terminal
  00:47 - Hermes Astros: Automated Research
  01:49 - Hermes Oracle: Content Generation
  04:17 - Hermes Apollo: Voice & Apps
  05:32 - The Automated Outreach Tool
  06:26 - Systems vs. Simple Agents
  07:33 - How to Install the OS
---
New Hermes Agent OS is absolutely wild and I want to show you exactly what I built with it, what it does every single day without me, and how you can install the whole thing yourself. Now, let's get into it. Most people who use Hermes use it in one of two places, the terminal or the desktop app. And look, it works. It's a strong agent, probably the best AI agent out there right now. But here's

the problem. When you run Hermes in the terminal, you get a text box. That's it. Where's your conversation history? Where are your saved workflows? Where's the

tool that finds you new customers? You can't see any of it. You can't customize it. Every time you close it, you start from zero. So, I built something on top of it, a full operating system for Hermes, and it made the same agent about 10 times more useful. I'm going to walk

you through every part of it, and I'll be honest with you about one part near the end that surprised even me, because we ran an actual test on it, and the result wasn't what I expected. Let's start with the piece that runs while I sleep. It's called Hermes Astros. On screen right now, you can see it. Astros watches our competitors, it watches keywords, and it pulls in every topic that's getting attention right now in our space. Then it breaks each topic

down for me, who posted it, what it says, a link to the original, and then a list of unique titles I could use, plus angles I could take that nobody else is taking. So, I open it in the morning, and I've got a short list of ideas that are already proven to get attention. But that's only half of it. Next to every topic, there are buttons. One click sends that topic to my video agent. One

click sends it to my SEO content tool. One click sends it to a notebook tool. So, I can go from this topic is hot right now to here's a full article about it in one click, or a video, or a PDF research doc, or a slide deck. Here's a real example. Astro spots that people are talking about AI agents replacing manual admin work. I click through, and

it writes a full piece on how the AI profit boardroom members are automating their admin, ready to publish. One topic, one click, done. And that thing runs 24/7. It doesn't wait for me. Now, the second piece works alongside it, and it's the one that saves me the most time every week. It's called Hermes Oracle.

Oracle pulls in all the news in our industry, so I never have to go looking for it. Every card on screen is a fresh update. Click one and it explains the whole story to me in plain words. You can see the timestamps here. Last updated 1 hour ago. It's live. But

here's the part I actually love about it. Look at the numbers next to each story. 88, 92, 95. That's a score. Oracle ranks every story by how much attention it's getting right now. So, I'm not guessing which news

matters. The most talked about story sits at the top and then I can click one button and it writes a full article about that story and publishes it straight to my site. You can literally see it on screen saying writing for juliangoldie.com. It also drafts social posts about the same topic and it sorts everything into categories. So, all the

model news sits together, all the agent news sits together. Six fresh pieces of content every single day. And if I want more, I click consult the Oracle and it goes and gets more. Now, you might be thinking the content it makes is rubbish. Fair question. So, let me show

you one it already made. Here's an article from yesterday. It's formatted properly. It's written in first person, so it sounds like me. It has tables. It

reads well. And it already has the links on the page pointing people to where they can learn more. That part matters because it means the content isn't just sitting there looking pretty. It's doing a job. Quick pause here because this is the exact thing people ask me about. If

you want this Agent OS, you can get it inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Not a guide about it. The actual system. There's a zip file in there ready to install with a video tutorial and a full written walk-through. Download it, install it and you've got Astros, Oracle, Apollo, all of it. I spend 3 to

24 hours every single day improving it and every update goes straight in there. On top of that, you get four coaching calls every week where you can share your screen and I'll help you set your Agent OS up for your business plus daily tutorials on getting more out of Hermes and a member map so you can meet other people near you building agents like this. Link in the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem.

That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team, and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below.

Right, back to the build because the next piece is the one that made my friends actually stop and stare. It's called Hermes Apollo, and it's Hermes, but you talk to it. I switch it on, I speak, it replies almost instantly, and it remembers every conversation we've had is sitting right there. Plus, every single thing it's built for me saved in one place. So, let me show you what built means here. I say open up

Obsidian. It opens in about 2 seconds. It's actually using my computer. I say open up Google. It opens the browser and starts moving through it. I say build me

a to-do list app, and it starts building right there while I'm still talking. It can build small apps, it can build websites, and honestly, some of them look really good. All from one spoken sentence. Now, here's the part of Apollo I use every single morning without fail. Daily briefings. I can set it to daily

or weekly, and it reads the briefing out loud to me. I don't even look at the screen. It tells me my suggested focus for the day. It tells me my open action items, so the stuff I said I'd do and haven't done yet. It tells me what I'm currently working on. And then it reads

out the main headlines in my industry. So, before I've done anything, I know what matters today. And I want you to know something about all of this because it's easy to miss. Astros found the topics, Oracle wrote the content, Apollo told me what to focus on. Nobody typed a single prompt into a terminal. Okay?

Next piece. And this one looks nothing like an AI agent. It's an outreach tool, and honestly, it looks and feels like a proper software product. But underneath it, it's still just Hermes. Here's the dashboard. How many leads we found, how

many were checked and confirmed as real, how many emails went out, who's on the list. And here's the box where I type what I'm looking for. So, I type something like find me business owners who post about wanting to automate their admin work so we can invite them into the AI Profit Boardroom, one prompt, and it goes and pulls the leads, who they are, how to reach them, plus fresh notes on each one so I know what they're actually doing right now. It also filters out the huge companies that were never going to reply to an outreach email anyway, which saves a load of wasted effort. Then I move to campaigns.

I tell the AI what I want to reach out about and it builds the whole campaign for me. All my campaigns sit in one list. I can pause one, I can delete one. It takes seconds. Think about what that replaces. Finding people, checking

they're real, researching them, writing to them, tracking it. That's a full day of work for most people. It happens here in one prompt. Now, let me come back to the thing I said at the very start because this is really the whole point. Hermes on its own is brilliant. I mean

it. It might be the strongest AI agent in the world right now. But run it in the terminal and you get a blank text box. No history, no saved workflows, no outreach tool sitting there with your leads in it, no memory that carries between sessions, no dashboard, nothing you can shape around how you actually work. Same agent, completely different result. The tool was never the limit.

What you build around it is the limit. And that's why I keep hammering this point. People spend all their time hunting for the newest agent when the people getting real results are the ones who built a system around the agent they already have. So, what would you actually do with this? Start simple. Let

Astros watch your space and hand you topics every morning. Let Oracle turn the biggest story of the day into a post on your site with one click. Ask Apollo for your briefing while you're getting ready. So, you walk into your already knowing your top three jobs. Then use the outreach tool once a week, one prompt to find people who genuinely want what you offer, one campaign built for you. That's a full team's worth of work

running out of one system on one screen. And I know what some of you are thinking. This looks complicated. You're worried you'd never get it set up. That's exactly why we don't hand you a tutorial and wish you luck. If you want

this Agent OS, you can get the actual system inside the AI Profit Boardroom, the full zip file ready to install, video tutorial, full written guide, everything you just watched on screen, Astros, Oracle, Apollo, the outreach tool. I'm in there improving it 3 to 4 hours a day, and it gets updated daily. So, what you download keeps getting better. You also get four coaching calls a week where you can share your screen, and I'll help you get your Agent OS running for your business. Post a question inside the community, and I'll answer it with a video tutorial. There

are business owners in there right now, a lot of them running these exact agents to find customers and get their admin off their plate. Plus, a member map so you can meet people near you who are building the same way. Link in the comments and description, or go to ai-profit-boardroom.com. And, if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem.

That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team, and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below.