---
video_title: "Build Your Own AI Agent OS From Scratch"
video_id: NYTJTIpZs9U
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NYTJTIpZs9U
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Stop being the human glue between your AI tools. This video shows you how to build your own Agent OS — one dashboard, one shared memory, and a team of agents that keep working after you close your laptop. No code, just plain English.
  
  0:00 Intro – why your AI tools don't talk to each other
  0:45 The Cost – 4 hrs/week lost app-switching
  1:33 The Blueprint – 5 steps to your Agent OS
  1:41 Step 1 – Build your dashboard (no code)
  2:32 Step 2 – Set up shared memory (Obsidian)
  4:23 Step 3 – Wire in your AI agents
  5:02 Step 4 – Task board that runs overnight
  5:31 Step 5 – Access your Agent OS anywhere
  6:08 Why This Wins – stop switching, start focusing
---
How to build your own AI agent OS from scratch, no code. How many times today did you copy an answer out of one AI and paste it into another? Be honest, that's not you getting more done. That's you doing a robot's job. Right now, you are the glue holding all your AI tools together by hand. What if you never had

to be the glue again? I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help people actually learn and use AI tools in their real work, not just watch demos, use them. And today, I'll show you how to build your own agent OS from scratch. One dashboard, one shared memory, a team of AI agents that keep working even when you close your laptop. No coding, just plain English. Stick

with me. The last step lets you run it from your phone anywhere. Let's build it. First, why does your setup feel broken? You've probably got ChatGPT in one tab, Claude in another, a notes app over here, a video tool over there. Each

one smart, but none of them talk to each other. So, you become the messenger, copying, pasting, explaining yourself for the 10th time. Harvard Business Review found real workers switch between apps around 1,200 times a day. That adds up to almost 4 hours every week just getting your head back in the game. 4 hours gone. And researcher Gloria Mark

found it takes around 23 minutes to fully refocus after one interruption. So, every time you jump tabs, your focus takes the hit. The tools aren't the problem, the gap between them is. And that gap is you. And agent OS closes it.

So, here's what we're building. Think of your agent OS as mission control. One screen with every agent you use, one shared memory they will read from, a task board that runs jobs while you're away, and access from any device. Five steps, and you direct all of it by talking. Let's start with the dashboard.

Step one, build the dashboard, your mission control screen. Most people here build a dashboard and picture months of coding. Forget that, you're going to prompt it into existence. You use something called an agentic harness. That's just a tool that builds and runs things from plain instructions. Claude

code is a great one. You open it and describe the dashboard you want. Something like, "Build me a single webpage that holds all my AI agents in one place. It writes the code, runs it, and a real dashboard appears. You didn't touch a single line of code. That's the

whole shift, and that shift has a name: roles versus tasks. This is the mindset that makes your whole agent OS work. The old way, you do the task. You write it, fix it, chase it. The new way, you decide the task should exist and check the result. You're the manager now, and

you manage in plain English. You never open a code file and type strange symbols. You describe what you want like you text a smart friend. Make a section for a research agent. Add a button that clears the screen. The agent builds. You

direct. If you can write a text message, you can run this. So, what could you point it at? Anything you keep redoing by hand. That weekly report you rebuild every Monday. You describe it once, let

the agent handle it, and check the output. You move up a level. Step two, set up the memory vault. This is the piece almost everyone skips, and it changes everything. Right now, your AI forgets you the second you close the chat. Every new session, you start from

zero, re-explaining who you are and how you like things done. Exhausting. is a shared memory, and the tool I use is Obsidian. It's free. It stores everything in plain text notes on your own machine. Nothing locked away. You

create a vault, which is really just a folder of notes. Then you let your AI interview you. You tell an agent, "Ask me about my work and my goals, and save the answers into my vault." It asks, you answer, it writes it all down. Now you've got a brain that lives outside any single chat, and every agent you add can read from it. Hold that thought

because I'll show you how the agents plug in next. Quick pause because this matters if you want your agent OS pointed at real work. Before you automate anything, you need to know where your brand actually stands. So, here's something free to grab. It's a free AI brand visibility session. You

get a custom plan showing exactly how you show up or don't across Google AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. You get a gap analysis against your competitors, so you see where they're beating you, and you get your questions answered live by a real strategist. 100% free. No obligation. Once your agent OS is running, you want it building the right things, and this shows you what those are. Links in the

description. And if you'd rather skip the from-scratch part, here's a shortcut. Everything I'm showing you today, the whole Agent OS, dashboard, memory, task board, anywhere access, already exists finished inside the AI Profit Boardroom, with Claude, Hermes, open core, and the agents already plugged in. You get the full Agent OS zip file ready to install, an install video, and a 30-day roadmap telling you exactly what to set up each day, so you're never staring at a blank screen. Plus, four weekly coaching calls where you share your screen and get your setup fixed live for your kind of work. That's

the AI Profit Boardroom, links in the description, too. Okay, back to the build. Step three, wire in your AI agents. This is where your Agent OS really comes alive. You've got the dashboard and the shared memory. Now,

you add the workers one at a time with the same simple pattern. You tell your builder, "Add an agent to my dashboard, give it this job, let it read my memory vault before it works, and save notes back when it's done." Repeat it for each agent you want, a research agent, a writing agent, one that watches your competitors. Each shows up on your dashboard and reads the same shared brain. So, they're not strangers, they all know your work. You can even mix

them. A fast free model for the simple jobs, a heavier one for the hard stuff. Hermes is a great open source agent to run at the center because it's free, remembers things, and plugs into just about anything. One at a time, you've built a whole team. And a team needs somewhere to see its work. Step four,

add the task board. This is a Kanban board. If you've never used one, it's just columns. To do, doing, done. You drop your job into to do, the board routes it to the right agent, and the card slides to done when it's finished.

The real magic is that it keeps running when you're not watching. You line up five jobs before bed, close the laptop, and the board works through them overnight. You wake up and check, done. No more babysitting every step. You set the work and the system does it. This is

the part that makes it feel less like using AI and more like leading it. Step five, anywhere access. Right now, your Agent OS lives on one machine, your home computer. Let's set it free. The tool is called Tailscale. It builds a private

network only your own devices can see. No exposing your computer to the internet, no router settings. You install it on your home machine, sign in, and it gives your computer a simple name. Then install the same app on your phone, sign in with the same account, and just like that, your phone can reach your Agent OS. You can add a laptop or even share access with your team. So,

you're not chained to your desk. Open your dashboard from your phone on the train, kick off a job, let it run. Your whole system in your pocket. That's the full build. Now, why does this beat the way you work today? Remember those

numbers. 4 hours a week lost app switching, 23 minutes to refocus after every interruption. That whole drain comes from jumping between tools. Your Agent OS deletes the jump. One screen, one memory, every agent in the same room. You stop switching and you start

focusing. And when a shiny new model drops next month, you don't rebuild anything. You just plug it in day one. But, the best part is what happens to your work. It moves up a level, less time doing small tasks, more time deciding which tasks should even exist and checking the results. Now, let me

guess your doubts. I had them, too. I'm not technical enough. You just watched the whole thing. It's one install and plain English. If you can text, you can

direct an agent. I don't have time. The core build is a single afternoon. Weigh that against 4 hours saved every week forever. The system hands the time back.

It'll be outdated in a month. The models might be. The system won't. The dashboard, the memory, the board don't care which model sits inside them. Mine has swapped models many times, and every swap just made it stronger. And once the

base is running, there's one more layer for when you're ready. A creative studio. Same idea. You describe what you want, the agent builds it. Image generation, voice, live tool, a video generator. You can even connect a

research notebook like Google's notebook LM. All of it in one place. So, here's the big picture. Everyone else is chasing tools. A new model here, a new app there, always one step behind. But,

tools change every week. Your Agent OS is the one stable thing that absorbs all that change. The faster AI moves, the more it matters because you've built the frame every new model slots into. If every new release makes you feel behind, that's not a tool problem. It's a no system problem. And you just watch the

fix. You build it once, you let it improve, and the models keep upgrading your Agent OS for you. So, here's your next step. If you want expert eyes on where your brand stands before you build all this, book your free AI brand visibility session. You get a custom visibility plan, a clear look at how you show up across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini, a competitor gap breakdown, and straight answers from a real strategist. 100%

free, no obligation. Grab it from the link below. And when you're ready to actually build your own Agent OS, come do it with people who've already done it. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you get the full Agent OS zip file ready to install, the 30-day roadmap, walkthroughs for every step you saw today, the prompts, and four weekly coaching calls where you share your screen and get your setup fixed live. You'll hit little snags, everyone does. Instead of being stuck

for a week, you get unstuck in a day. There are over 4,000 members building right alongside you. Come join us. That's aiprofitboardroom.com.