---
video_title: "NEW Hermex Makes Hermes 10X Better on Mobile"
video_id: PwrEg1oTJwY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PwrEg1oTJwY
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Your self-hosted AI agent is stuck on your desk — this free iPhone app puts it in your pocket. I break down Hermex, the native app for driving a Hermes Agent from anywhere, plus the two pages I had it build inside Agent OS.
  Free, private, no subscriptions — and the shared memory vault that stops your agents starting from scratch every time.
  
  00:00 Intro – Your AI agent can't leave your desk
  00:39 Hermes Agent – Self-hosted, persistent memory, every platform
  01:26 Hermex – Free iPhone app, your phone as the control plane
  02:20 Features – Model picks, live streaming, steer mid-run, offline sessions
  03:23 Setup – 15 minutes, bring your own server
  04:07 Build 1 – SEO ROI calculator from one prompt
  05:06 Build 2 – Landing page: why naming sections beats describing looks
  06:44 Memory Vault – Stop re-explaining your brand in every chat
  07:43 Recap – What to install first
---
New Hermex makes Hermes 10x better on mobile. Your AI agent is sitting on your desk right now, and you're not. So, what happens to all that work the second you walk out the door? Most people just wait until they get home. There's a free iPhone app that kills that problem completely, and almost nobody is talking about it yet. I'm the digital avatar of

Julian Goldie, and my job is helping you actually use AI tools inside real work instead of just watching demos. Today, I'm breaking down Hermex, a new iPhone app for driving your Hermes agent from your pocket. And stay with me, because the second half is all about Agent OS, how we run Hermes agent inside it, the two pages I had it build, and the one part of Agent OS that stops every agent starting from scratch. Hermes agent is an open-source, MIT-licensed, self-hosted AI agent built by News Research. It runs on your own machine, on macOS, Windows, or Linux, and installs as a desktop app or straight from your terminal. Most AI tools forget

you the moment you close the tab. Hermes doesn't. It keeps a persistent memory, learns your projects, and writes and saves its own skills from experience. It lives across Telegram, Discord, Slack, WhatsApp, Signal, email, and the command line. One agent, one memory, every surface. And it runs scheduled jobs

while you're offline. But to actually drive it, you were stuck at a laptop or tunneling into your own server. That's the gap Hermes fills. Hermes is a native Swift UI iPhone app for driving a self-hosted Hermes web UI server. A mobile cockpit for an AI agent that lives on a machine you control. And the

way the developer puts it is precise. Your phone is the control plane, not the compute plane. The agent, its tools, and your data stay on your own hardware. Your phone is just a steering wheel. It's free. No subscriptions, no in-app

purchases. It's private, no analytics, no tracking, no third-party relay. The app talks only to your server. And it's native, real Swift UI built for iOS 18 and up, not a web wrapper. It was posted on GitHub by a developer called Uzair Run Suruzi. It's MIT licensed and it's

live on the App Store. One honesty note, Hermex is an independent client. It's not affiliated with the upstream Hermes WebUI project. And Hermes WebUI is itself a separate community project built for Hermes Agent. Three pieces, three teams. Here's what you can

actually do in it. You chat with your agent and you still get the real controls. You pick your model, set reasoning effort, choose your workspace and profile, attach files and images, and watch the response stream in live with the thinking and tool call detail visible. You can steer or stop a run mid-flight. So, if it goes the wrong direction 3 minutes in, you redirect it instead of waiting. You can search and

resume every session on your server and cached sessions stay readable offline. There's a tasks screen for your agent's scheduled jobs, a skills screen for everything it has learned to do, a workspace browser for your server's file system, and read-only memory and insights panels. There's also a share extension for sending files and text from other apps straight into a session, and a live activity widget showing streaming progress on your lock screen and Dynamic Island. It connects wherever your server lives, localhost on the same Mac, across a Tailscale tailnet, or through an HTTPS tunnel like Cloudflare. Setup takes about 15 minutes and Hermex is a client-only, so you bring your own Hermes WebUI server, which brings me to Agent OS. Hermes Agent is one of the

agents we run inside Agent OS, and that is where I can show you real work instead of just talking theory. Before I show you what we've built with it, grab this while you're thinking about it. We're running free AI brand visibility sessions right now. You get a custom visibility plan for your site, a real look at how you show up or don't across Google AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini, a competitor gap analysis showing who's being surfaced instead of you and why, and direct answers to your questions from a strategist. It's 100% free and there's no obligation at the end. Links in the

description. Okay, first thing I had Hermes agent build inside Agent OS. The prompt was this, create a single HTML page for an SEO ROI calculator for AI Profit Boardroom with inputs for monthly traffic, conversion rate, average order value, and estimated SEO lift. That's the whole request. Let me break down why I asked for it that way because the phrasing does a lot of work. Asking for

a single HTML page means everything comes back in one file. No build step, no folder of assets, nothing to wire together. You open it and it runs. Naming the four inputs up front means I'm not leaving the structure to chance. Those four inputs are the calculator.

And naming AI Profit Boardroom tells the agent who the page is for. This is the exact kind of asset that sits on a to-do list for weeks. Small enough that nobody prioritizes it, technical enough that you can't just knock it out between calls. That's the shape of task worth handing to an agent inside Agent OS. And with Hermex, a request like that can start from anywhere. Second one, same

setup inside Agent OS. Create a simple HTML landing page for a free SEO audit offer with a headline, benefits, a form section, testimonials, and FAQ and CTA buttons. Notice what that prompt is really doing. I'm not describing a look, I'm listing sections in order. Headline, benefits, form, testimonials, FAQ, CTA buttons. That's a page skeleton, and

handing the agent the skeleton is what stops you getting something generic back. The word simple is doing work, too. It keeps the output to something you can read and edit yourself instead of a pile of framework code you're scared to touch. Same single page rule as the first one, one HTML file open straight in a browser. And the sections aren't random, either. A headline to set

the offer, benefits to answer why bother, a form so there's somewhere to act, testimonials and an FAQ to deal with the doubt, and CTA buttons at every decision point. That order is the offer written down. Take those two prompts and swap in your own brand and your own sections. That's the pattern. Name the format, name the sections, name who it's for. And that's exactly what the iProfit

Boardroom is for. The full Agent OS zip file is inside, ready to install with a complete 30-day roadmap next to it, so you know what to set up first. You get the Agent OS walkthroughs, the prompts we actually use, including the pattern I just showed you, and live coaching calls where you can bring your own setup and ask questions about it. Over 4,000 members are in there building the same kind of systems. So, if a self-hosted agent you can drive from your phone sounds great, but you don't know where to start, that's the gap it fills. One

more part of Agent OS, and it's the piece people underestimate. Inside Agent OS, there's a shared memory vault every agent can read from, powered by an Obsidian vault. So, what one agent learns doesn't get trapped in that conversation. The next agent already has the context. That kills the re-explaining. You know the loop. Fresh

chat and you're typing out your brand, your tone, your project, your constraints again, every time. With a shared vault, you don't start from scratch. And because it's an Obsidian vault, it's just files. You can open it, read it, and see exactly what your agents know about you. So, here's the most useful next step I can give you.

Book the free AI brand visibility session. Different angle from before. This one isn't about your stack, it's about whether the work is actually landing. You'll get a clear picture of where your brand shows up across search and AI answers, where competitors are being surfaced instead of you, and specific recommendations to act on, walkthrough by a strategist. Free, no obligation, link below. Quick recap.

Hermes agent is a self-hosted agent with persistent memory. Hermex is the free private native iPhone app for driving it. An agent OS ties it together with a shared memory vault so nothing you teach it gets lost. Here's what I'd bet on. You'll get this installed then hit the wall everyone hits. Which model? How to

structure your workspace? What to automate first? What to put in the memory vault so your agents get genuinely useful. That's what we work through inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Agent OS is in there as a ready to install zip with the 30-day roadmap beside it plus the tutorials, the prompts, and live coaching calls where you can get unstuck in minutes instead of weeks. Over 4,000 members. Come join

us at aiprofitboardroom.com.