---
video_title: "Change AI Automation with Agent OS!"
video_id: mhh6J5VV4kQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mhh6J5VV4kQ
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Stop Managing AI Manually: Agent OS & Prime Agent Update
  
  Discover how Agent OS transforms fragmented AI tools into a unified command center with shared memory and 24/7 execution. This update integrates Prime Agent and persistent data to automate your SEO, content pipelines, and business growth.
  
  00:00 - The Problem with Manual AI
  00:40 - What is Agent OS?
  01:52 - The Power of Persistent Memory
  02:28 - Automating SEO with Search Console
  04:20 - Prime Agent & Autonomous Goals
  04:43 - Running AI 24/7 via VPS
  06:20 - Best Implementation Strategies
---
Change AI automation with Agent OS. Most people using AI right now are doing it the hard way. Not because the tools are bad, because the setup is broken. One tab open for Claude, another for Chat GPT. You copy something from here, paste it over there, build a workflow in AI, and it breaks. You fix it, you forget

what you did, you start over next week. You're not running AI, you're running yourself into the ground managing it. Agent OS is built to fix exactly that. One command center, multiple AI agents, shared memory, automations running in the background. And the newest update just made the whole thing significantly more capable. We're going to walk

through what changed, why it matters, and exactly how to use it. Let's get into it. Agent OS is a control layer for your AI setup. Instead of having separate tools doing separate things with no connection between them, Agent OS brings everything into one environment. Multiple agents, shared memory, automation tools, SEO workflows, content pipelines, all coordinated from one place. Hey, if we haven't met

already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Think of it like this. Chat GPT is one employee who forgets everything the moment you close the tab. Agent OS is an entire office

where the team shares memory, builds on previous work, and keeps running whether you're there or not. The newest version just dropped. Prime Agent is now fully integrated into the install files. The 30-day roadmap is updated, the memory system is stronger, and the whole thing can run remotely from a server while you access it from your phone. We'll cover all of that. Here's the core problem

Agent OS solves. Every time you open a regular AI tool, you start from zero. You explain the context again, you get an answer, you close the tab. Tomorrow, same thing. The AI never learns anything about your business. It never builds on

what happened yesterday. You are the memory. You are the one carrying everything forward between sessions. Agent OS has a persistent memory system. Your agents can access previous sessions, previous research, previous workflows. So, instead of explaining

your business every single day, the system already knows, and everything it does compounds on top of what came before. Here's what that looks like in practice for growing the AI Profit Boardroom. You set up an Agent OS workflow specifically around community growth. You give it context, what the AI Profit Boardroom is, who it's for, what kind of people are looking for it, what topics are resonating with the audience. You connect it to your search console.

From that point, the agent is continuously analyzing real search data, spotting which topics are pulling in the most organic interest, flagging which pages are close to ranking and just need a small optimization push, identifying search queries people are already using to find AI automation content that the Boardroom hasn't fully addressed yet. You wake up in the morning. The agent has already done the research. You review the output, approve the next content topic, and the system moves forward. You didn't have to dig through search console manually. You didn't have

to build a spreadsheet of keyword opportunities. The agent handled it. That's the shift. The system runs, you review and decide. Here's the thing, if you want to skip the guesswork and get the full Agent OS zip file ready to install with Prime Agent already configured inside it, that's exactly what's waiting for you inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We've built a complete

30-day roadmap specifically around Agent OS, so you always know what to do next and in what order. No confusion, no dead ends. You get daily step-by-step tutorials walking you through every part of the setup, plus four live coaching calls every single week where we go deep on Agent OS implementation, and you can bring your real live questions and get answers in real time. This is the fastest way to get Agent OS actually working in your business. Link is in the description. Go to

aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you want a personalized look at how Agent OS can drive more traffic and generate more leads specifically for your business, not just a generic overview, but but a real plan built around your niche, your offers, and your goals. We offer a completely free SEO strategy session where we sit down with you one-on-one and build that custom roadmap together. No pitch, no pressure, just a focused session so you walk away knowing exactly how to use Agent OS to grow your traffic and fill your pipeline. Spots are limited, so don't

sleep on this. Head to goldie.agency to book your free session. Link is in the description below. Now, let's talk about Prime Agent. This is what makes the

latest update genuinely interesting. Prime Agent is an open-source autonomous agent. What separates it from a standard AI chat is that it can hold objectives over time. It doesn't just answer a question and stop. It takes a goal, breaks it into subtasks, spins up subagents to handle those tasks in parallel, and keeps working in the background. Let's talk about running

this on a VPS because this is where Agent OS becomes genuinely powerful. Right now, if Agent OS is running on your laptop, it stops the moment you close it. A VPS is a server running online all the time. You install Agent OS there instead. Now it runs 24/7. You

close your laptop, the agents keep working. You connect via Tailscale, which creates a private secure link between the server and your phone. You can access your entire setup from anywhere. For the iProfit Boardroom, this means you could have an agent running continuous monitoring overnight. It's watching which content topics are spiking in search interest. It's

flagging new keyword opportunities in the AI automation space before competitors move on them. It's analyzing which community topics are generating the most discussion and engagement. You wake up, you check the output, you make decisions based on what it found. Your AI team doesn't have office hours. That's the actual advantage here. The

SEO application is worth spending time on because it's one of the strongest use cases. Most content strategies use generic keyword tools. You get the same suggestions as everyone else, the same difficulty scores, the same opportunities your competitors are already chasing. Agent OS flips this. You give the agent read-only access to your Google Search Console. Now it's

working with your actual data, real impressions, real search queries, real click-through rates on your actual pages. Every piece of content is informed by real data. Every topic is chosen because the agent identified actual demand. The whole thing compounds over time as the memory system builds up more context about what works. Here's something worth saying directly before we wrap up. The mistake most people make

when they first get Agent OS is trying to use all of it immediately, every agent, every integration, every workflow, and then nothing works properly and the whole thing feels overwhelming. Start with one workflow, one use case, get it working, then add the next thing. If you're already running a setup that works, you don't need to rebuild everything. Prime Agent is genuinely useful, but if it pulls your focus away from what's already working, that's not a net gain. The people getting real results from Agent OS are the ones who pick the most valuable workflow for their situation.

Get it working properly and build from there. The goal is not the most AI tools. The goal is the right ones working together properly. And here's where all of this is heading. We've been in a phase where AI answers questions. That phase is

ending. The next phase is AI pursuing objectives. Persistent memory, multi-agent coordination, background execution. That's exactly what Agent OS is being built around. For anyone building a community or a business around AI automation right now, the question worth asking is, "What am I doing manually that an agent could be doing instead? What research am I doing

by hand that should be automated? What content decisions am I making without data that the system could be informing?" Before you go, if you're serious about implementing Agent OS the right way, you need to be inside the AI Profit Boardroom. That's where you get the full Agent OS zip file pre-configured with Prime Agent already set up inside it, so you're not starting from scratch. We've mapped out a full 30 days of implementation for you. Daily

tutorials that walk you through the setup step-by-step in the exact right order, so nothing falls through the cracks. On top of that, you get four coaching calls every single week where we go deep on Agent OS, answer your live questions, and make sure you're actually moving forward. If you're done watching and ready to build, go to aiprofitboardroom.com. Link is in the description. And last

thing, if you want to see exactly how Agent OS can work for your specific business to bring in more traffic and more leads, book a free one-on-one SEO strategy session with us. This isn't a cookie-cutter call. We look at your business, your market, and your goals, and we build a custom Agent OS plan designed around what you're actually selling and who you're trying to reach. You'll walk away with a clear, actionable strategy, completely free, no strings attached. This is for business owners who are ready to take this seriously and want a real plan, not just more information. Head to goldie.agency

to grab your spot. The link is right there in the description below.