---
video_title: "This NEW 770B Chinese AI Model Is Seriously Powerful"
video_id: fFmaBdJyT_Q
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fFmaBdJyT_Q
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  A new 770B open-source AI model just dropped from China — and it's punching near the top of coding leaderboards for free. Here's what HY4 actually does well, where it falls short, and whether it's worth swapping into your workflow.
  
  00:00 Intro – Massive new open model drops
  00:43 What Is HY4 – Free 770B-parameter model
  01:12 MoE Trick – Fast despite the size
  01:50 Million-Word Memory – Full codebase in context
  02:15 Benchmarks – How it stacks against rivals
  05:10 Limitations – Preview status, hardware needs
  06:02 Best Use Tips – When to actually use it
---
This new 770 B Chinese AI model is seriously powerful. Here's something strange. The most powerful open AI model right now didn't come from where you'd expect. It's got 770 billion parts inside it. It can read a million words in one go, and you can download the whole thing today for nothing. But

that's not even the wild part. Stick with me. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and my whole job is helping you actually understand and use AI tools in your real work, not the hype, the useful stuff. Today we're breaking down a brand new model out of China called HY4. And by the end of this, you'll know exactly what it does, where it's strong, where it's weak, and whether it's worth your time. Plus,

later on, I'll show you the one thing this model did that no model has really done before. Let's get into it. So, let's start with what this thing actually is. 4 comes from Tencent. That's one of the biggest tech companies in China. They dropped it on August

28th, and they made it open. Open means the model files are out in the world for anyone to grab. It runs under something called the Apache 2.0 license, which is about as open and friendly as licenses get. You can use it, build on it, no permission needed. Now, the headline

number, 770 billion parameters. A parameter is just a tiny dial inside the model that helps it think. More dials usually means more brainpower, and 770 billion is a lot. It's one of the biggest open models we've ever seen. But here's the clever bit. It does not use

all 770 billion at once. HY4 is what's called a mixture of experts model. Picture a big office full of specialists. When a question comes in, you don't wake up the whole office. You just tap the few people who actually know that topic. That's what this does.

Out of those 770 billion parts, it only fires up about 49 for any single word it handles. So, you get the smarts of a giant model, but it moves way faster and lighter than a giant normally would. That's the trick, and it's why these huge Chinese models keep showing up without needing a data center the size of a football field just to reply to you. One more spec that really matters, the context window. That's how much the model can hold in its head at one time.

HY4 handles over a million words at once. A million. Let me put that in plain terms. That means you could hand it an entire code base and it keeps all of it in mind or drop in a giant pile of documents, contracts, research papers, whatever you've got and ask questions across the whole lot without it losing the plot halfway through. Tencent built this one for real work. Three things

really, writing and fixing code, office and document work, and science and research tasks. So, it's less of a chatbot for fun and more of a workhorse for getting things done. And that focus shows up in the testing. Now, quick honesty moment because I always do this for you. A lot of the early scores come from Tencent's own testing. So, take

those with a pinch of salt until outside people confirm them, but there are some independent numbers, too, and they look solid. On a coding test called SWE-Bench Pro, HY-4 scored 65.7. That put it ahead of two other big Chinese models, GLM 5.3 and Kimiko 3. The one that still sits on

top of that test is Claude Opus 5 up at 79.2. So, HY-4 isn't beating the very best closed models, but for an open one you can download for nothing, landing right near the top of the pack is a big deal. There's also a web building leaderboard called Code Arena. HY-4 came in around fifth overall and about third among the open models. Quick note on

that one, it's an early automated score, not final human votes yet, so it might shift a little. But early or not, that's a strong start. Okay. Now, the thing I teased at the top, Tencent says HY-4 helped build itself. And I don't mean that as a cute line. In the release

notes, they explain that the model was actually used during its own training to help improve how it was trained. And it went further than that, it tuned its own running system and made itself over 30% faster at replying. So, the model literally helped to make itself quicker. That's a first, and it's a little bit wild when you sit with it. AI helping to build better AI out in the open, free for anyone to poke at. So, how do you

actually get your hands on it? A couple of ways, the files are up on Hugging Face, free to download if you've got the gear to run it. And Tencent also dropped it inside a few of their own apps and hooked it up to some outside providers, so you can just call it without hosting anything yourself. Running it that way is about as light on usage as a model this size gets. I'll come back to the catch with self-hosting in a minute.

Before we go deeper, though, quick pause because this next part is for anyone who actually wants to use this stuff to grow something real. If you're watching how models like HY4 shift the game, and you're wondering how your own brand shows up when people ask AI a question, I've got something free for you. It's a free AI brand visibility session. Here's how it works. You get a custom plan built around your brand. We show you

exactly how you show up or don't show up across Google AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini, because that's where people actually search now. We run a gap check against your competitors so you can see who's getting picked and why, and you get your questions answered directly by a real strategist. It's 100% free, no strings, no obligation. If getting found inside those AI answers matters to you, go book one. The link's below. And if you want to go a level

deeper than that, come check out the AI Profit Boardroom. This is where I put all of this into practice with real people. When a model like HY4 drops, we don't just read the headline and move on. Inside the Boardroom, we do full walk-throughs on how to test a brand new model, how to plug it into your day-to-day workflow, and how to tell if it's actually better for your work or just louder. We run live coaching calls where you can bring your own setup, ask your questions, and get real answers.

There are step-by-step roadmaps to follow and prompt libraries you can grab and use straight away. So, if you've ever felt behind every time a new model lands, this is the room that keeps you ahead of it. All right, back to HY4. Let's talk about the parts most videos skip right over. First, that word preview. HY4 is a preview release. That

means it's early, it's real, and you can use it right now, but Tencent is still shaping it, so expect it to change and get better over time. Don't treat a preview like a finished product. Second, the size cuts both ways. Yes, it's free to download, but 770 billion parts is enormous. To run it on your own machine, you'd need serious hardware. We're

talking multiple high-end graphics cards, not a laptop. So, for most people, calling it through a provider makes way more sense than trying to host the whole thing yourself. Only self-host if you've got real volume and a real reason to. Third, it's not perfect at everything. It's strong on quick practical coding tasks, but on the really long marathon coding jobs, the kind that run for hours and need the model to keep its head straight the whole way through. It slips behind the

top models. Same story with a few of the harder puzzle style tests. So, it's a workhorse for everyday work, not a magic wand for every single job. Knowing that upfront saves you a headache later. So, here's how I'd actually approach it. Tip

one, don't ditch what's already working. Test HY4 on a real task you do all the time side-by-side with your current tool and compare them. Let the results decide, not the hype. Tip two, lean on that long memory. If your work involves big documents or big code bases, that million-word window is the real reason to try this one out. Feed it something

huge and see how it holds up. Tip three, match the model to the job. Use HY4 for the practical get-it-done work it was built for. Keep a stronger model around for the long complex stuff. You don't have to marry one tool forever. Tip four, watch the outside

scores. Right now, a lot of the numbers are Tencent's own. Give it a couple of weeks, let independent testers weigh in, and you'll know the real picture. Now, if you're sitting there thinking this is a lot to keep up with, you're right. New models drop every single week, and that's exactly why I want to point you to two things before you go.

First, that free session, again, one more time, because it's the fastest way to get real help. If you want someone to actually look at your brand and tell you where you stand in this new AI search world, go book your free AI brand visibility session. You'll get a custom plan, a clear look at how you stack up against your competitors, and straight recommendations you can act on right away. Completely free, no obligation. It's the quickest way to turn everything we just talked about into a real next step for your own brand. The link's in

the comments and the description. And then, if you're ready to stop watching from the sidelines and actually start using tools like this, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. Here's what's waiting for you. You're going to want to try HY4 or whatever model drops right after it, and you'll hit questions. Which provider do I use? Is my hardware

enough? Is this actually better for my work? That is exactly what the Boardroom is for. You get coaching calls where you can ask those questions live, tutorials that walk you through it step-by-step, roadmaps that show you what to do first, and prompts you can use the second you join. There are over 4,000 members in there already, all figuring this out together, so you're never doing it alone. Come join us at AI Profit

Boardroom.com. That's HY4, a giant open model out of China, free to grab, built for real work, and it even had a hand in building itself. Keep testing, keep learning, and I'll see you in the next one.