---
video_title: "DeepSeek's New AI Harness Changes Everything"
video_id: uag_fnGyh10
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uag_fnGyh10
video_date: 20260815
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & DeepSeek Harness Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  DeepSeek Harness: The New Open Source Standard for AI Agents
  
  DeepSeek Harness is a modular, open-source framework that lets you build and customize every part of an AI agent, from the memory to the logic loop. Discover how this project reached 70,000 GitHub stars in 24 hours and why it's a game-changer for independent developers.
  
  00:00 - Intro: DeepSeek's Viral Launch
  00:42 - What is an AI Harness?
  01:42 - The Plugin Everything Model
  02:58 - Growth Stats and Community Tools
  04:39 - How to Run it Locally
  06:07 - DeepSeek V4 Pro & API News
  07:44 - Building an Agent Operating System
  11:40 - The Future of Modular AI
---
DeepSeek just released DeepSeek Harness, and it genuinely changes how AR agents get built. It went live yesterday, and in less than a day, it flew past 60,000 stars on GitHub, which makes it one of the fastest-growing AI projects of the year, and it's completely free, open-source, MIT license. Anyone can download it, change it, and even build a product on top of it without asking for permission. So, by the end of this, you'll know exactly what it is, what's actually new about it, and how it fits inside an agent operating system, right next to Claude, Hermes, Open Claude. And there's also one tiny line buried in the docs that matters more than the whole launch. Most people scrolled straight

past it. We'll get to that. So, first, let's get clear on what Harness actually is, because the name sounds technical, but it really isn't. So, an AI model is a brain. It can think, but a brain alone can't do anything. It can't open files,

can't remember yesterday, can't use tools. The Harness round it is everything wrapped around the brain, the hands, the memory, the workspace, rules. And when you hear AI agent, you're really hearing model plus Harness. Claude Code is a Harness around Claude. Hermes Agent is a Harness around other AI models. The Harness is where the

actual work happens. So, DeepSeek building a Harness means the biggest open AI lab in China just moved from making brains to making the whole body. And that's a whole shift here. Now, what's actually new about this one? Because there are already a load of Harnesses around there. You know, you

got Claude, you got Open Claude, you got Hermes, you got Codex, Anti-Gravity. Fair question. So, if DeepSeek Harness was just another one of those, I wouldn't be making this video. The core idea is this, everything is a plugin, and they mean everything, the model, the tools, the skills, the memory sessions, the sandbox where the agent does its work, the file system, the agent loop itself, which is the part that decides, think, act, check, repeat. Even the screen you look at, every single piece can be pulled out and swapped for a different one. Compare that to the tools

you use now. Most products are like a sealed car. So, you can change the radio station, you can maybe add a phone mount, but the engine is the engine. Deep Seek Harness is a car where you can swap the engine, the wheels, the seats, the steering wheel, and it still drives. If a better memory system ships next month, you can swap that one part. You

don't throw the same car away. Someone will ask, "Well, isn't this just MCP?" Good question. And no, MCP is one of the things the Harness supports. But, MCP only standardized tools. It's a plug

socket that lets any agent use any tool. Harness takes that same socket idea and applies it to the entire machine. Tools will one plug. Now, the model is a plug. The memory is a plug. The loop is a

plug. That's the difference that nobody else has shipped it this cleanly as free open source, apart from maybe like Hermes agent. Now, quick numbers so you can see how fast this is moving. Deep Seek only announced the Harness team in May 2026. The project is led by Tiyani Sir. Probably not pronounced that

correctly, but basically the project is led by them, who joined Deep Seek in March 2026 after working at Jane Street, the trading firm famous for hiring some of the sharpest technical people in the world. Keep that name in mind because that hire explains something bigger, and I'll come back to it. 19 contributors built this from a standing start in May to a public release in August. Within hours of launch, it passed 33,000 GitHub stars. And by this morning, it was actually over 70,000. And the community

moved even faster than Deep Seek did. So, within within hours, someone shipped a desktop version, someone else published a curated plugin list. There are already over 300 community plugins indexed from the official plugin tag, sorted into categories by knowledge, media, workflow, and integrations. That's day one. When a free tool grows an ecosystem in 24 hours, that tells you where the energy is. Now, quick pause. Because

inside the AI Profit Bootcamp, agent setups like this are exactly what we live in every single day. As Deep Seek Harness stabilizes, we'll be walking through it step by step. We're already plugged it into our respective operating systems, so you learn how to get it running, which model to plug into it, and how to point it at real business work, like watching your competitors or drafting content. There are four live coaching calls every week. So, when your setup breaks or your install doesn't work properly, you can ask a human who runs these agents daily, and you get unstuck that same week. Over 3,700

business owners are inside the AI Profit Bootcamp, and some of them had never touched AI before joining. Now, they're absolutely crushing it. Link in the comments and description, or just go to the AI Profit Bootcamp.com. So, how do you actually run this thing? One

command. You type one line into your terminal, and it opens a webpage in your browser on your own machine. That's it. This matters more than it sounds, because harnesses live in the terminal, which scares off anyone who isn't a coder. Deep Seek shipped this web first.

A normal chat page running locally, free. Now, the honest part, because I promised no hype. This is version 0.1, a developer preview. Deep Seek says it plainly in the docs, in capital letters.

There will be breaking changes. Things will move around. Plugins will stop working and get fixed. If you run your whole business on it today, expect bumps. That's normal for a preview. I'd

rather tell you now than have you install it and think you did something wrong. Now, also, the harness supports MCP, supports the agent client protocol, and can read agents.md and claude.md files. In plain English, it speaks the same language as your other agents already speak. Those little instruction

files, agents.md and claude.md, are how you tell an agent about your business, your rules, your style, your projects. Claude code reads them. Open Claude reads them. Hermes reads them. And Deep

Seek Harness reads them, too. Which means this isn't asking you to start over. You can drop it into your existing setup and it picks up the same instructions your other agents already follow. Deep Seek could have made this a walled garden. They did the opposite.

They built it to slot into the world that already exists, including the world Anthropic built. When a challenge is does that, they're playing for adoption, not lock-in. And same day as Harness, Deep Seek ships something else. So, the official release of V4 Pro, their updated flagship model built heavily for agent work, now lives on the web app, mobile app, and API with native support for the Open AI response API and integration with Codex. So, the brain and the body launched together. One more

honest note here as well, developers using V4 Pro through Deep Seek's API will soon pay what they have warned will be a significant more amount for it. So, the Harness is free, but the flagship model behind it won't always be cheap. But remember the whole point of the plugin design, you can aim the Harness at any model you want. So, their model, an Open model, a local model, your choice. Now, the bigger picture on this.

Why would a Chinese AI lab give exactly the kind of software that American labs treat as like their main sort of thing? You know, Claude Code, one of Anthropic's most important developer products. Opening AI got Codex. Deep Seek just published a direct alternative MIT license on GitHub for everyone. Part of it is strategy. So, Chinese labs have

spent 2 years boxed in by chip restrictions. So, they compete where they're strong, efficiency and openness. Open weight models and now open agent harness software. An open harness pulls developers toward Deep Seek no models the same way free roads pull traffic towards the towns they connect. So, part of it is pressure. You know, every free

open release forces the closed tools to get better and cheaper to justify themselves. If you run a small business, that pressure works entirely in your favor. Bear in mind that Deep Seek have recruited like massive talent to build this agent infrastructure and shipped it in 3 months. That tells you how seriously they're taking this layer. So, where does Deep Seek Harness fit if you already run agents? This is where the

agent operating system comes in, right? And honestly, this is my favorite part because Deep Seek just validated the exact way I've been working for months. My whole setup is one dashboard, one mission control with every agency inside by side. You have Claude Code for the deep reasoning work. You have Hermes for research across sessions and memory.

Open Claude running local and private. Free Claude Code running through Omni route or open route to so the bulk of the work can be free. And they will share one memory through my Obsidian vault. So, what one agent learns, the others can see. That sounds familiar.

It's one system where every agent is about. You can swap that's the same philosophy Deep Seek just shipped. They built everything is a plugin into one harness. The agent OS applies it across all your harnesses. It's the same idea, just one level up. And Deep Seek Harness

slots straight into it as the newest tile on the board. So, you can install it on the same machine. And because it reads those agent MD instruction files, it inherits the same context your other agents already have. It doesn't replace Claude, Hermes, or Open Claude. It joins them. So, you've got different agents

that are now good at different jobs. And now there's a free, fully open one in the mix that you can rebuild piece by piece as it improves. To make this real, here's how this plays out in my own work day to day. So, for example, I've got a Hermes article agent that watches trending topics overnight and leaves a summary in my vault before I wake up. My Astros agent pulls in keyword ideas from live search data and drops them into a list for my next content. These jobs

don't care which harness runs them. A modular harness like this one is exactly the kind of engine that this kind of work moves into. Because when a better memory plugin or browsing plugin ships, you can swap it in and the job just gets better. Now, let's talk about you because I know what some of you are thinking. You're thinking this looks like developer stuff. I get it. GitHub

pages, terminal commands, the word plugin 50 times. But if you look at what you actually do with it, it's just one command to the chat page that opens up in your browser. So, you type in what you want in plain English. The plugin system is what makes it powerful under the hood, but you never have to write one. Some people will say, "Oh, you know, things are moving too fast. It's

getting too crazy out there. I'll wait until it settles." It's not settling anytime soon, you know, this is getting crazy. If you look at yesterday, it was like Grok 4.6 came out, Deep Sea V4 Pro, Deep Sea Carnis, and more that we haven't even covered. There's just so

much coming out every single day. So, the models keep getting cheaper. You got more open-source projects like Hermes and Open Claw. This year, everything's moving in the same direction. Also, some people say like, "There are too many tools. Claude, Hermes, Open Claw, now

this. I can't keep up." You don't have to keep up with all of them, and you shouldn't try. You just need one working setup and then the ability to swap a part when something better ships. That's the entire point of plugin design. It's

the entire entire point of running an agent operating system because you're not collecting tools, you're maintaining one system that absorbs new tools. Deep Sea Carnis didn't add to your pile, it made the pile easier to manage. And if you want to get more help on that, that's exactly what we do inside the Airchat Podium. You get the agent operating system itself, the actual zip file, plus a video tutorial, and a 30-day roadmap for setting it up. So, you have the same mission control I've just described with Claude, Hermes, Open Claw, and Deep Sea Carnis plugged into it as well. And it gets wired into that

same system with daily updates as new versions of the agent OS ship. I've already built in tools for videos, SEO agents, AI avatars, and members can build their own workflows on top. There's also four weekly coaching calls you can get help and support whenever you want. We've also plugged in new updates even today like Hermes bots just came out, so it's an alternative to Grok bots. We've plugged it into our system so you can get the most out of this sort of stuff. And you get the full stack,

you know, your agent stack, your automations, and you can even bring those to the coaching calls, get them fixed and improved live. The problem library inside the Airchat Podium covers agent workflows you can copy straight in as well. And there's a member map so you can find people near you running multi-agent setups and compare notes in person with someone online 24/7 when you get stuck at midnight. So, link in the comments and description or go to the air profit boom.com. Last thing, Deep

Sea Connie's is version 0.1. It will break. It will change shape. Some of the 300 plugins will be totally abandoned.

All of that is true and none of it changes the direction. The most important layer of AI just went open and free from a lab that ships faster than almost anyone and builds amazing frontier-level stuff now. And it's built to plug into the agents you may already be running. So, you don't need to master it this week. You do need to understand it because this is a treat agents a system, one they own, one they can rebuild part by part are going to move very differently over the next year than the business still opening a chat window in chat GPT or Claude and starting from zero every morning. Yesterday, building

and owning that system just got a lot easier. See you in the next one.