---
video_title: "Free Claude Code + OmniRoute Is Absolutely WILD!"
video_id: MvqDXetUhWw
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MvqDXetUhWw
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian 
  
  Unlimited AI Coding: Free Claude Code & Omniroot Setup Guide
  
  Learn how to combine Free Claude Code with Omniroot to access over 90 free AI providers and bypass token limits forever. This guide shows you how to use the Agent OS dashboard to build entire landing pages and blogs with a single prompt.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Token Limit Solution
  00:52 - Free Claude Code & Omniroot Explained
  01:31 - Inside the Agent OS Dashboard
  01:54 - Building a Landing Page in Real-Time
  03:00 - Fixing Your SEO Traffic Problem
  04:10 - Managing Local Files & Memory
  04:50 - Smart Routing & Token Compression
  06:25 - 5-Minute Setup Tutorial
  07:15 - Join the AI Profit Boardroom
---
Free clawed code plus omniroot is crazy. This just dropped. You can build all day and never hit a wall. One endpoint, 237 providers behind it and 90 of them are free. It built a full landing page for our AI profit boardroom while I sat here talking. And it takes about 5 minutes to

set up. Stay with me because the dashboard I'm running it all from is the best part. Here's the problem this fixes. I love Claude code. You probably love Claude Code, too. But every session

has a token limit. You're halfway through a build. You're in the zone. The ideas are flowing and then it pops up approaching session usage limit and everything stops. Your build stops. Your

idea stops. You sit there waiting like a kid in detention. That kills more projects than bad ideas ever will. This fixes it completely. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get

more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian reads every single comment on these videos. So comment below and tell me the first thing you'd build with this. So there are two pieces here. The first is free clawed code. It's an open-

source project and all it does is let you point Claude code at any brain you want. Normally Claude code only talks to Claude. With this you choose. The second piece is Omniroot. It's a free AI gateway that connects to 237 providers, 90 of them free, and hands you all of them through one single endpoint. Plug

them together and the exact same claude CLY you already use is now running through 90 plus providers instead of one. And when one runs dry or gets rate limited, it hops to the next one automatically. You don't press anything. You just keep building. But here's the bit that actually matters and it's what you're looking at right now on your screen. This is our agent OS. This is

the dashboard where I run all of it. Free clawed code is just one tab in here sitting next to codeex, next to claude, next to Hermes, next to openclaw. Everything in one window. You've got your prompt on one side, your workspace where every file lands, and a live preview so you watch it build in real time. That's the whole system right there. So, I clicked into the free

Claude code tab and I typed one line, build a landing page for the AI profit boardroom that explains how AI automation saves people time, shows what's inside the community and gets more people to join. That's it. That was the whole prompt and it just started going. While I was recording this, it was building in the background. Then I checked the preview and it had built the page out properly. clean layout, a

section explaining what AI automation actually does for you, a section showing what's inside the community, clear buttons, it looked like something you'd actually put live. Then I scrolled down and it had built out a full blog section for the boardroom, too. Organized, structured, pages where they should be, all from one line. And that's the thing I want you to get from this video. If you want this exact agent OS setup, it's inside the AI profit boardroom. Quick

note, yes, I'm an AI avatar. Julian doesn't film these. And you don't just get a 30-day road map in there, although you do get that too. You get the actual agent OS zip file, the real tool. You download it, you install it, and free clawed code and Omniroot are already plugged in and ready to go. Learn how to

save hours every week and automate your business with AI tools like free clawed code and omnirute. Links in the comments and the description. If you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody's finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are

sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below and you can just keep going. I asked it to build a simple onboarding page for new AI profit boardroom members with a checklist of what to set up first and where to start in the classroom. Done. Then I asked it

for three blog posts about AI agents for business owners, all pointing back to the boardroom. Done. And I never once looked at a token counter. That's the whole point. And because it's all sitting inside agent OS, you can hand things off. So I had free clawed code

building the boardroom pages in one tab. And in another tab, I've got paperclipip lining up the next jobs and a group chat where the agents talk to each other. One screen, one place. You're not jumping between five apps and losing track of what you asked for. Everything you build stays in the same workspace and you can come back to any of it later. Here's the

part people always ask about. So, let me be clear. The providers are in the cloud, but the files are yours. The HTML, the code, all of it gets written locally into your workspace. So, when you come back tomorrow and think, wait, where did that page go? It's just there.

You open the folder and it's sitting right there. You can open any page in a new tab, look at the source, change it, keep going. Nothing disappears on you. And it gets better because inside Agent OS, this is linked to your memory setup. It can read your whole knowledge base.

So if you write down how you want your voice to sound, how you want your pages to look, what the IP profit boardroom actually stands for and who it's for. Free claude code reads all of that first and then builds. So it's not guessing at your brand. It's building in your style. That single step takes the output from decent to something you'd actually publish and almost everybody skips it.

There's also token compression built in. It uses two things called RTK and caveman and both of them squash your tokens down so you use way less for the same work. anywhere from 15% all the way up to 95% fewer tokens. So you've got more providers and you're being smarter with every single one of them at the same time. And this isn't just a clawed code thing either. You can plug omniroot

into codeex into cursor into copilot even into anti-gravity. It works with over 24 coding agents. We've got codeex plugged into agent OS the same way and it builds just as nicely. One endpoint and basically every tool you already use just works. Now, let me show you the settings because this is where you get real control. With Omniroot, you can

pick how it routes. If you just want speed, set the model to auto/fast and it moves. If you want better code, switch it to auto/coding and it points at the providers that build best. You can even flip it to offline. And on top of that, there are different routing strategies, so you decide which models get used and in what order. Fast when you want fast,

quality when you want quality. You're not locked into one setting for everything. Let me be straight with you about the limits, too, because I'm not going to oversell this. You are not getting fable five level outputs from free providers. That's just true. But no

other model matches that anyway. And here's the thing. You don't need frontier level output for everything. For a landing page, a blog post, a simple site, or a quick mini app to test an idea. You really don't. You need

something that works, looks good, and doesn't stop halfway through. That's exactly what this is. And when you do need the heavy stuff, you switch back to normal clawed code inside the same dashboard. best of both. So, how do you set it up? About five minutes. There are

two terminal commands. You run them, switch it over to Claude code, and then it's just one more tab inside your agent OS. And if you're sitting there thinking, "I'm not technical. This sounds like a headache." Here's the trick Julian actually used. He open

Claude, gave it the link to the GitHub, and said, "Set this up inside our agent OS." And it went off and did the whole thing. Super smooth. You just asked the AI to install the AI, which is a very funny sentence to say out loud, but it works. And once it's in there, that's when it gets fun. Because if you've

already got a bunch of tools running inside Agent OS, you can build all day and never think about limits once. Build the page, build the blog, build the mini app, try the weird idea, break it, build it again. There's no meter running in the back of your head telling you to slow down. And that changes how you work. You stop being careful and you start being creative. So if you want my

full setup, the agent operating system with free claude code and omniroot already plugged in, codecs ready, claude ready, Hermes ready, paperclip orchestrating your agents, all of it in one dashboard, come and join us in the AI profit boardroom. And I want to be really clear on this because people miss it. You don't just get the 30-day road map. You get the actual agent OS zip file ready to install, sitting there waiting for you, plus the full step-by-step tutorial on Omniroot, new tutorials added daily based on what's actually working right now. weekly coaching calls where you get help live and Julian personally answers every single question with a brand new video tutorial links in the comments and the description. If you're creating all this

content with AI but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is

in the comments and description below. Comment below and tell me what you're building first. Julian reads every single one. Thanks so much for watching and I'll see you in the next