---
video_title: "Free Claude Code + Omniroute is SCARY GOOD!"
video_id: XDBv_K5cpHU
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XDBv_K5cpHU
video_date: 2026-08-12T06:00:20+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Free Claude Code + Omnirout  Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Build Unlimited AI Apps for FREE: Claude Code + Omniroot Guide
  
  Stop hitting Claude token limits and start building for free. Discover how to combine Free Claude Code with the Omniroot AI gateway to create websites, tools, and apps using nearly 100 free provider models without a subscription.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Free Claude Code Setup
  00:35 - Fixing Claude Token Limits
  01:10 - Omniroot: The Free AI Gateway
  02:15 - Demo: Building a Website for Free
  03:15 - Fallbacks & Token Compression
  04:45 - Choosing Your Routing Mode
  05:55 - Connecting Your AI Memory
  06:40 - 3 Easy Installation Methods
  08:00 - Live Previews & Workspace Guide
  12:10 - How to Get the Agent OS Zip
---
Free Claude code plus Omni root is scary good, and I mean that. Today I'm showing you exactly how it works, why it matters, and how you can set it up in about 5 minutes. Here's the problem most people run into with Claude code. You pay for it, you start building something big, and halfway through you get a message that says you're close to your limit. Your work just stops. You have to

wait or slow down or switch tools completely. Omni root fixes that. It's a free AI gateway. Think of it like a phone switchboard from the old days. One line comes in, the switchboard operator connects you to whichever line is open.

Omni root does that with AI models. You send one request, it connects you to whichever free AI provider is ready to answer. There are over 230 of these providers plugged into Omni root right now. About 90 of them are free, and they all run through one single endpoint. That means you don't have to juggle accounts, keys, or logins for a dozen different services. You just point your tool at

Omni root, and it handles the rest. Hey, if we have not met already, I am the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of Goldie Agency. While he is out there helping clients grow, I am here keeping you up to date on everything AI. Julian reads every comment, so drop one below and he will see it. Now, here's where it gets useful. You can plug Omni root into

free Claude code. Free Claude code is an open source project. It looks and works like the real Claude code command line tool, but instead of running through a paid account, you point it at a different brain. In this case, that brain is Omni root. So, you get the same Claude code experience. Same commands,

same feel, but now it's routed through nearly 100 free providers instead of one paid one. Let me show you what that actually looks like in practice. Inside our Agent OS, we've already got free Claude code wired up and pointed at Omni root. If I type a build request, it starts working right away. No waiting on a subscription, no worrying about a limit hitting halfway through. We asked

it to build a full agency-style website. It built out a homepage, a services page, and started working on a blog all while we kept talking. And when I opened the workspace, every past project was sitting right there. Full sites, small apps, landing pages, all built for free, all saved locally. One thing I want to be honest about, this isn't going to give you Fable 5 level output. Free

models aren't frontier models, but if you're building something practical, like a landing page, a quick internal tool, or a simple site to test an idea, this is more than enough, and it costs you nothing to try it. We also tested the same setup inside Codex. Same idea, point it at Omni route, and it builds using the same free provider network. The output looked just as clean. Now, let's talk about why this actually works well, instead of just working. The first

reason is the fallback system. If one provider is busy, rate limited, or offline, Omni route automatically switches to the next one. It does this on its own in the background while you keep working. You never see an error. You just keep building. Think of it like

a relay race. If one runner slows down, the baton just passes to the next one. The race never stops. The second reason is token compression. Omni route combines two systems called RTK and Caveman to shrink how many tokens each request uses. In some cases,

this cuts token use by up to 95%. In plain terms, that means the same task that would eat through a big chunk of a paid plan barely touches your usage here. You get more building using less. Let me pause here for a second because I want to make sure you actually get value from this video, not just watch it. If you want to learn how to save time and automate parts of your business using AI tools like free Claude code and Omni route, that's exactly what we teach inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Quick

note, part of this video uses an AI avatar for delivery. Inside the Boardroom, we walk you through setting these tools up step-by-step so you can build things like landing pages or internal tools for your business without burning through paid limits. More on that in a minute. Okay, back to how this actually works. Let's talk about routing modes because this is where you get control over quality versus speed.

Inside Omni route, you can set different modes depending on what you need. If you want fast output, you switch the model setting to auto/fast. If you want stronger coding results, you switch to auto/coding, and it prioritizes models built for cleaner code. There's even an offline mode for when you want to work without an internet connection at all. This matters because not every task needs a frontier-level model. If you're building

a simple landing page or writing a blog draft, you don't need the most powerful model available. You need something fast and good enough. Save the frontier-level tools for the tasks that actually require deep reasoning. Now, here's a detail that a lot of people miss. This setup connects to your memory system. In our case, that's an

Obsidian-based knowledge center. If you've written down style guidelines like how you want your writing to sound or how you want a page to look, Free Claude Code can read that memory and use it while building. So, instead of generic output, you get output that matches your voice and your brand. Here's a simple example. Say you wanted a new landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom. You could ask it to build a

page that explains the value of AI automation, highlights the community, and is designed to turn visitors into members. Because it reads your memory files, it can match your existing tone instead of sounding like a stranger wrote it. Let's talk about setup because I know some of you are thinking this sounds technical. It's not. There are three ways to do this. First, if you're

comfortable with the terminal, there's a single command that gets Free Claude Code installed and pointed to Omni Root. Second, if terminals still scare you a little, there are two simple copy and paste commands that do the same thing, just broken into smaller steps. Third, and this is the easiest option, you can just give Claude the link to the GitHub project and ask it to set everything up for you. That's exactly what we did. We pasted the GitHub link, asked it to configure Free Claude Code inside our Agent OS, and it handled the entire setup on its own. Once it's installed,

it lives as one tab inside your Agent OS. Inside that tab, you get three things: a prompt section where you type what you want built, a workspace where every file it creates gets saved, and a live preview so you can watch the actual pages update as they're built. Let me walk you through what that live preview actually shows you. Say you're mid-build on a multi-page site, you can click into the workspace and see when each file was last updated. If you're not sure where a specific page went, it's sitting right there in the file list updated in real time. Then in the preview panel, you

click on any page and see exactly how it looks, fully rendered, not just code on a screen. This is where a lot of free AI tools fall short. They generate code, but you can't actually see the result without exporting it somewhere else first. Here, everything is coded locally. So, the moment it's built, you can preview it, open it in a new tab, or come back to it later, exactly as it was. Let's go back to the token limit

problem for a second, because I think this is the part that matters most for anyone who already pays for Claude. Even with a pay plan, you eventually hit a wall on bigger projects. You'll see a message saying you're approaching your session limit. That's frustrating when you're in the middle of building something and don't want to stop. With this setup, you're using the same Claude code command line tool, but it's routed through around 90 different providers.

If one runs low, it moves to the next one automatically. You can keep building without that wall showing up. That doesn't mean you throw away your paid Claude account. It means you now have a second option for the tasks that don't need frontier level power. Save your page usage for the harder, more important work. Use the free routed

version for everything else. Let's zoom out for a second and talk about where this is heading. A year ago, tools like this were rough. Free routing was slow. Fallbacks failed constantly. Compression

barely worked. Now we're at a point where you can build a full working site, watch it live, and never hit a token wall, all without paying anything to start. That's a big jump in a short amount of time, and it's likely to keep improving, not slow down. So, if you're someone who codes, this means you can prototype faster without worrying about burning through your pay plan on small experiments. If you're someone who doesn't code at all, this means you can still build real things, like a landing page or a simple internal tool, just by describing what you want. If you manage

a team, this means your team can test more ideas without more spend, because the exploration phase is now free. And if you're leading a business, this means the barrier to trying AI automation just got lower because the tools to start are sitting right in front of you at no cost. I want to be straight with you here. This setup will not replace frontier level tools for your hardest problems, but for day-to-day building, testing ideas, and getting things done without hitting limits, it's one of the most useful setups I've tested this year. If you want the exact setup we're using, you don't have to build it from scratch. We've already packaged the

whole thing. That's free Claude code plus Omni route, free to start, no token will stop you halfway through, and now fully packaged and ready to install inside the Agent OS. Go try it inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You get the full Agent OS as a ready-to-install zip file. That includes free Claude code already wired up, Omni route already connected, and the workspace and live preview already configured. You don't set anything up

from zero, you install the zip and it's ready to go. Inside the Boardroom, we also walk you through how to use it step-by-step, including how to set your routing modes, how to connect your own memory files, and how to use it for real projects like landing pages, blog content, and internal tools for your business. If you get stuck, you can ask questions directly and get help fast because there are always people online working through the same setup. Link is in the comments and description, or just go to the AI Profit Boardroom directly. And if you want the full process, the step-by-step guides, and more than 100 AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. It's free. You'll get all

the notes from this video there, plus access to a community of people who are actively building with AI right now.