---
video_title: "Run Hermes Agent FREE With This NEW Model 🤯"
video_id: 24BVktAghjA
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=24BVktAghjA
video_date: 20260817
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Hermes Agent Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Run Longcat 2.0 FREE: New 1.6 Trillion Parameter AI Agent Model
  
  Discover Longcat 2.0, a massive new AI model designed for autonomous coding and complex agent tasks with a 1-million-token memory. Learn how to integrate this powerhouse into Agent OS to build apps and automate your business workflows for free.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:22 - What is Longcat 2.0?
  01:39 - The Power of 1M Token Memory
  03:02 - Live Demo: Agent OS & Hermes
  04:07 - Automated Briefings & Browser Control
  05:44 - Step-by-Step Setup Guide
  06:39 - Final Verdict & Free Resources
---
run Hermes agent free with this new model. Today I'm going to show you a brand new AI model that's honestly kind of nuts. It's huge. It's smart. And right now you can use it for free. It

plugs straight into the exact system I run my own AI agent on. I'm going to show you what it can build live right in front of you. By the end of this video, you'll know exactly how to run this yourself. Let's jump in. There's a brand new AI model you can try right now for free and it's called Longat 2.0. This

thing is big. Like really big. It's built by a team called Mawan Longat and it's made to do one job really well. Coding and running tasks all by itself like a little robot worker. Here's the crazy part. Normally models this big are

locked away and hard to get to. But right now you can plug this model straight into Hermes. And that's a huge deal for me because Hermes is the exact engine that powers our whole agent OS system. So today I'm going to show you what longat 2.0 O is why it matters and then I'm going to show you exactly what it looks like running inside agent OS itself. Hey, if we haven't met already,

I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Okay, let's get into it. Longat 2.0 is

what's called a mixture of experts model. Don't worry, that sounds fancy, but it's simple. Think of it like a huge team of workers. The model has 1.6 trillion little parts inside it, but it doesn't use all of them at once. It only

wakes up the parts it needs for each job, about 48 billion at a time. That's why it can be this big and still stay fast. The really cool part is the memory. This model can hold up to 1 million tokens in its head at one time. Tokens are just little chunks of text. 1

million tokens means it can read an entire project, every file, every folder, all at once without forgetting what it read three steps ago. Now, think about why that matters for something like Agent OS. Our system, the one running Hermes Apollo, the one you've seen build apps just from me talking out loud, needs to remember what you tell it. A bigger memory like this means the agent behind the scenes can hold on to way more of your business, your notes, your projects all at once without losing the thread. If you're serious about using AI to actually save time in your business, and not just chat with a bot for fun, this is exactly the kind of setup you want to know about. And here's

the thing, you don't have to build any of this yourself and you don't have to figure out the wiring, the setup, or which tools actually talk to each other. This whole agent OS system with Hermes Apollo plugged in and working just like I'm about to show you is ready for you to install inside the AI profit boardroom. You get the full zip file ready to install so you can drop it straight onto your own computer. You also get a complete step-by-step walkthrough showing you exactly how to set it up from scratch, so you're never stuck staring at a screen wondering what to click next. And you're not doing it alone either. Inside the community,

there are pages and pages of real wins and results from other people who are already running this exact setup. So you can see what's actually working before you even start. If you want your own business running on the same kind of AI agent I'm about to show you, this is the fastest way to get there. Link is in the comments and description below. Now, let me show you exactly what I mean live right now. This is agent OS running on

top of Hermes. Inside it, we've got Hermes Apollo, our voice assistant. You say one word, Apollo, and it wakes up. Watch this. I ask it how it's doing, and it talks right back instantly, like a real conversation, not some slow chat bot you sit around waiting on. Then

watch this part. I say, "Build me a snake game." No typing, no coding, just talking. And it builds it. Every single thing it builds gets saved. So you can

scroll back and see everything it's made for you stacking up over time. That's the whole point of a bigger, faster model like LongCat 2.0 sitting underneath a system like this. The bigger the memory, the more it can hold on to while it works, and the less it forgets halfway through a task. On a real coding test called Terminal Bench, Long Cat 2.0 scored 70.8. That's

actually higher than one of Google's newest models. It's a little behind some of the top models out there, but this is an open model with a massive memory, and it's built specifically for agent work. That combo is exactly why it caught my eye for agent OS. Now, let's keep going because there's more to show you. Inside agent OS, there's also a briefing feature. You click on briefings and it

pulls up your whole day, your open tasks, your suggested focus, the main headlines from the week. Every morning, instead of digging through old notes trying to remember what you were doing, you just get told straight up. And it's not just answering questions either. There's an agent mode built in for bigger tasks like controlling your browser. I've said open julianoldie.com

out loud and it just opens it. No clicking, no typing. That's a real agent taking action on your actual computer, not just talking back at you. Now, let's connect this back to Longat 2.0 0 for a second because this is exactly why the setup matters. Longat 2.0 uses something

called longcat sparse attention. All that really means is instead of trying to look at everything at once, it quickly narrows down what actually matters, then focuses hard on just that part. That's what lets it hold a giant memory without slowing to a crawl, which is exactly the kind of engine you want running underneath an agent system that's supposed to remember your whole business. Let's talk about how you'd actually use something like this for your own business. Say you're getting ready for a coaching call inside the AI profit boardroom community. You could

say, "Give me three talking points about how AI automation saves business owners time." Or, "Design a landing page for the AI profit boardroom that shows people how AI automation helps them get more leads and customers." A bigger agent-built model like this can hold that whole project in memory while it builds, so it doesn't lose track halfway through the way older tools do. And agent OS doesn't stop at one tool either. There's Hermes Oracle, which pulls in trending news and topics, so you can write fresh content based on what's happening right now. There's

Hermes Astros, which watches your competitors and gives you new content ideas based on what they're doing. All of it connects back to the same system, all running on the same kind of engine. Longat 2.0 is built to be. Now, let's actually talk about how you'd get longcat- 2.0 running yourself. First,

you install Hermes on your computer. It works on Mac, Windows, and Linux. Then you run one simple command Hermes setup followed by portal that connects Hermes to newsportal which is the service giving you free access to longat 2.0 right now. You log in, open the model list inside Hermes and pick Lancat 2.0.

That's it. You're ready to go. Now I do want to be honest with you here because I'm not here to hype something up without telling you the truth. This free access is only for one week right now. So check the current terms when you go try it. These benchmark scores are lab

tests. Your own results might look different. And just because it can hold a million tokens doesn't mean every task needs that much memory. How well any of this works also depends on the tools running around it, not just the model by itself. But I say all that because I want you to actually trust what I'm telling you, not just get hyped for 5 minutes and forget about it tomorrow.

Here's my honest take. Longat 2.0 isn't exciting just because it's a huge number. It's exciting because that size is aimed directly at real agent work with a memory big enough to actually hold on to a whole project or a whole business while it works. And that's exactly the kind of engine that makes something like Agent OS so useful. And

remember, if you want this exact Agent OS system with Hermes Apollo plugged in and ready to run on your own computer, join the AI Profit Boardroom. You get the full zip file ready to install, so you're not starting from a blank screen trying to piece it together yourself. You also get the complete video walkthrough step by step showing you exactly how to set the whole thing up, plus new guides that keep dropping as we test what's actually working. is built for business owners who want a real AI agent handling real work in their business, not just another chatbot sitting in a browser tab. Link is in the comments and description below. And if

you want the full process, the step-by-step setups, and over 100 AI use cases just like this one, come join the AI success lab. It's completely free. Links are in the comments and the description. You'll get all the notes from this video, every prompt, and every step I covered today. Plus, you'll be joining a community of 38,000 people who are already using AI to get real results in their own businesses. Drop a comment

below and let me know, are you going to try Lancat 2.0 this week? Julian reads every single one.