---
video_title: "NEW Google Gemini Update Is Crazy Good"
video_id: kJggsElWdKA
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kJggsElWdKA
video_date: 2026-08-14T05:30:22+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Google Gemini Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Google Gemini’s New Superpower: 13 Game-Changing App Updates
  
  Google just transformed Gemini from a chatbot into a true AI agent by connecting it to 13 powerful new apps. Learn how to automate your business, from summarizing meetings with Otter.ai to editing your website with Wix.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:52 - 13 New App Connections
  01:22 - Chatbot vs. AI Agent
  01:48 - 3 Real-World Use Cases
  03:43 - The Gemini App Ecosystem
  04:14 - How to Enable Integrations
  04:44 - Important Limits & Privacy
  06:13 - The Future of AI Automation
---
New Google Gemini update is crazy good. Today, I'm going to show you how Google just gave its AI a superpower. This update is new, this update is big, this update is easy to use, and it's safe, too. Stick around because by the end of this video, you'll know exactly how to use it for your own business. Google just gave Gemini a huge glow-up. Gemini

can now connect to way more apps than before. We're talking meetings, websites, restaurants, concerts, music, and home repairs. Google announced this on August 12th, 2026, and it's rolling out over the next few weeks. This is the story of how Gemini stopped being just a chatbot and started becoming something that actually gets stuff done for you. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. So, let's talk about what actually changed. Before this update, Gemini could already talk to apps like Gmail, Calendar, Drive, Spotify, WhatsApp, Google Photos, and GitHub. Now, Google is adding 13 more apps on top of that. Let me break them down for

you in simple groups. For work, you get Granola and Otter.ai. These help you turn meetings into notes and action lists. You also get Wix, which lets Gemini help you edit and design your website. For fun and travel, you get

Fever, GetYourGuide, Localizer, OpenTable, and Ticketmaster. These help you find things to do, book dinner, and grab event tickets. For music, you get iHeartRadio and Pandora. And for home, you get Angie and Thumbtack. These help you find real people to fix stuff around your house.

Now, here's why this matters, and I mean really matters. Old AI just gives you an answer. You ask a question, you get some text back, and then you have to go do the work yourself. You open five different apps and do everything by hand. That's the old way. The new way is

different. You ask Gemini for something, and it can actually reach into these apps and help make it happen. That's a massive shift. It's the difference between a robot that talks and a robot that helps you get things done. I want to show you why this feels like Gemini turning into a helper, not just a chatbot. Let's say you run a business

like the AI Profit Boardroom, and you want to grow it. You could type into Gemini, "Summarize my latest team meeting and turn the key points into a simple action list." Because Gemini connects with Granola and Otter, it can pull that meeting info and turn it into something you can actually use. No more forgetting what was said in a call. No more messy notes. Here's a second

example. Let's say you want to plan something for your business, like a live event for your community. You could ask Gemini, "Help me plan an event for my AI Profit Boardroom members. Find a fun venue, a place to eat nearby, and something exciting they can attend after." Because Gemini connects to GetYourGuide, OpenTable, and Ticketmaster, it can help pull real options together for you. This is like

having a personal assistant that never gets tired. And here's a third one. Let's say you want to grow the AI Profit Boardroom online. You could ask Gemini, "Help me update my website with a new page that explains how AI automation helps businesses get more leads and save time." Since Gemini connects with Wix, it can help you make real changes to your site, not just give you ideas on paper. That's the difference between

talking about work and actually doing the work. Now, let's talk about the AI Profit Boardroom, because this ties in perfectly with everything I just showed you. This is the best place to scale your business, get more customers, and save hours of work using AI automation. If seeing Gemini connect to apps like this got you even a little bit excited, just imagine having a whole system built out for your own business using AI tools just like this one. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we don't just talk about AI, we show you exactly how to set it up step-by-step, so it actually saves you time and brings in more customers. We

walk through real workflows, real automations, and real ways to use tools like Gemini to grow what you're already building. You don't need to be techy. You don't need to figure it out alone. We've already done the figuring out for you. So, if you want a shortcut to using AI the smart way, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Go check it

out. The link is in the description. Okay, let's get back into it. Let's zoom out for a second, because this is the part that blew my mind. This update isn't really about 13 new apps. It's

about the idea that one AI can now touch almost every part of your life and your business. Your meetings, your website, your calendar, your dinner plans, your music. When you add the 13 new apps to everything Gemini could already do like Gmail, Docs, Drive, Dropbox, GitHub, Spotify, and Google Photos, you start to see the real picture. This is not a small update. This is Google building a giant web of connections with Gemini sitting right in the middle.

Now, let's talk about how you actually turn this on because this part is super simple. On your computer, you go into Gemini, then settings and help, then connected apps. If you don't see it there, Google says it might be under personal intelligence then connected apps. From there, you find the app you want, you turn it on, and you follow a few steps to connect it. You can turn any of these off anytime you want to.

And here's a cool trick. You can type the @ sign like a Wix or a Spotify right in your prompt box and Gemini will know exactly which app to use. That's such a simple way to control it. Now, I want to be honest with you because I always give it to you straight. This update is not perfect and there are a few things you should know before you get too excited.

First, not everyone will see every app right away. Google says it depends on your country, your language, your device, and your account type. So, don't panic if some of these apps aren't showing up for you yet. Second, the rollout takes time. Google said this is happening over the next few weeks, not all at once, so be patient. Third, and

this is a big one, Gemini needs your permission before it touches any of your apps or your information. Google is clear that Gemini won't grab your personal data without you saying yes first. That's a good thing. It means you're still in control. So, I think this really means for the future of AI.

It's not just about which AI has the smartest brain anymore. It's about which AI has the biggest toolbox. Think about it like this. Smart model plus your information plus tools plus apps plus real actions equals a true AI agent. Gemini already had a huge head start with all of Google's own apps. Now, it's

reaching out into dozens of other services, too. That makes the whole ecosystem part of what makes Gemini powerful, not just the model itself. So, is this the craziest Gemini update ever? I don't think it's because Gemini suddenly got smarter overnight. I think it's crazy because Gemini got a lot more useful, and useful is what actually helps you and your business. Gemini

isn't just a place you go to ask a question anymore. It's turning into a place where you go to get real things done. And here's where I think all of this is heading. Less typing random questions into a chat box, more telling one AI exactly what you want, and letting it work across all the apps you already use every single day. Google just handed Gemini a much bigger playground to work in, and I think we're only seeing the start of it. If this got

you excited about what AI can actually do for your business, then you need to see the AI Success Lab. It's completely free, and it's built for exactly this kind of stuff. Inside, you'll get the full process, simple step-by-step guides, and over 100 real AI use cases, just like the ones I showed you today. You'll learn how to actually use tools like Gemini, not just hear about them. Every video I make, I break down into notes, checklists, and simple guides you can follow along with. And all of that

lives inside the AI Success Lab. Links are in the comments and the description. You'll get all the video notes there, too. Plus, you'll be part of a community of 38,000 members who are all learning AI together, sharing what's working, and helping each other grow their businesses every single day. It's one of the most active AI communities out there, and I show up in there myself. And if you want

to go even further and actually set up AI automation like this inside your own business, come check out the AI Profit Boardroom. It's the best place to scale your business, get more customers, and save hours of work using AI tools like Gemini. If today's video showed you anything, is that AI can now touch almost every part of running a business, from your meetings to your website to how you plan and grow. That's exactly what we help you do inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We show you how to plug AI automation into your business the right way, so you're not wasting time figuring things out on your own. Whether you're

just getting started with AI, or you're ready to go all in, we walk you through it step-by-step with real tools and real workflows you can copy. So, don't just watch these updates roll out, come put them to work inside your own business. Come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. The link is in the description. Drop a comment below and let me know which one of these 13 apps you're most excited to try. Julian reads every

single comment, so don't be shy. I'll see you in the next video.