---
video_title: "NEW DeepSeek Harness is Crazy Good! ( Run it LOCALLY! ) 🤯"
video_id: ED5hWuqqvE4
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ED5hWuqqvE4
video_date: 2026-08-18T00:30:38+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & DeepSeek Harness Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  DeepSeek Harness: Run High-Performance AI Agents Locally
  
  DeepSeek Harness is a revolutionary open-source framework that turns LLMs into fully capable local agents using a modular plugin architecture. Learn how to set up this powerful tool on your machine and integrate it into a complete automation system for your business.
  
  00:00 - Intro: DeepSeek Harness
  00:47 - What is an AI Harness?
  01:34 - Modular Plugin Architecture
  02:13 - Local Setup & Version 0.1 Warning
  03:48 - Building an Agent OS
  05:25 - Transparency & Trajectory View
  05:59 - The 4 Operating Modes
---
New DeepSeek Harness is crazy good and you can run it locally on your own machine today. That's what we're breaking down right now. DeepSeek just released something called Harness. It went live on August 13th and in less than a day it flew past 60,000 stars on GitHub. That makes it one of the fastest growing AI projects this year and it's completely free, open source, MIT license. That means anyone can download

it, change it and build something on top of it. No permission needed. By the end of this you'll know exactly what Harness is, what's actually new about it and how it fits into a full agent system you can actually run your business on. There's also one tiny line buried in the official docs that matters more than the whole launch. Most people scrolled right past it. We'll get to that. First, let's

get clear on what a Harness even is because the name sounds technical, it really isn't. Think of an AI model like a brain. A brain can think but a brain alone can't do anything. It can't open a file. It can't remember what happened yesterday. It can't use a tool. The

Harness is everything wrapped around that brain, the hands, the memory, the workspace, the rules for how it behaves. So when you hear someone say AI agent, what they really mean is model plus Harness. Claude Code is a Harness built around Claude. Now DeepSeek built a Harness of their own and that's a big shift. The biggest AI lab in China just moved from only building the brain to building the whole body around it. So

what's actually new here because Harnesses already exist. Fair question. If DeepSeek Harness was just another one of those, this wouldn't be worth talking about. Here's the idea that makes it different. Everything is a plugin and they mean everything. The model is a

plugin, the tools are plugins, the memory is a plugin, the sandbox where the agent does its work is a plugin, even the agent's thinking loop, the part that decides think, act, check, repeat, that's a plugin too. Every single piece can be pulled out and swapped for a different one. Picture most AI tools like a sealed car. You can change the radio station, maybe add a phone mount, but the engine stays the engine. Deep Seek Harness is a car where you can swap the engine, the wheels, the seats, and it still drives. If a better memory

system comes out next month, you swap in that one part. You don't throw out the whole car. So, how do you actually run this thing yourself? One line. You type one command into a terminal and it opens a page in your browser running right there on your own computer. That's it.

No complicated setup. Now, here's the honest part because we're not going to hype this up more than it deserves. This is version 0.1, a developer preview. Right there in the official documentation, in capital letters, Deep Seek says it plainly. There will be

breaking changes. Plugins will stop working and get fixed later. If you tried to run your whole business on this today, expect some bumps along the way. That's the tiny line we mentioned earlier. It's a warning and it's useful because it tells you exactly how to treat this tool right now. Try it. Play

with it. Don't bet your whole operation on it yet. Here's something else worth knowing. The harness can read the same instruction files other AI tools already use, files like agents.md and claude.md.

Those are files where you write down your rules, your style, your way of doing things. If you've already set those up for another AI tool, Deep Seek Harness can read them, too. You don't have to start over. The same day Harness went live, Deep Seek also released their updated flagship model called V4 Pro. It's built specifically for agent work with a massive context window, meaning it can hold a lot more information in mind at once. Because everything in the

harness is a plugin, you can point it at any model you want, their model, a different open model, whatever fits your setup. Now, here's where this actually gets useful for you because a single tool sitting on its own doesn't run your business. A system does. This right here is the Agent OS. This is the system I run every single day. One dashboard.

Every agent I use side by side in one place instead of 10 different tabs and 10 different logins. They all share one memory. So, what one agent learns, the others can see, too. Deep Seek Harness now plugs straight into it as one more piece on the board. Watch this. One

agent reads through everything happening overnight and drops a summary in one place before I even wake up. Another agent pulls in ideas for what to work on next and lines them up in a list. Neither of them cares which harness is running underneath. That's the whole point of building it this way. When Deep Seek Harness gets better next month or something new comes out after that, I swap that one piece in. The rest of the

system doesn't change. Say you're running a community like the AI Profit Boardroom. You could set an agent inside the Agent OS to watch for new members joining and have it draft a personal welcome message pointing them to their first coaching call. One task handled automatically every single time someone joins. Quick heads-up before we go further, you don't have to build any of this from scratch. Inside the AI Profit

Boardroom, you get the Agent OS handed to you directly. Not a idea, not a theory, the actual zip file ready to install on your own machine. We walk you through setting it up, connecting Deep Seek Harness or whatever model you want into it, and putting it to work on real tasks that save you hours every week. Four live coaching calls every week. So, if something breaks while you're setting it up, you ask a real person and get unstuck fast, not a forum post that never gets answered. Links in the

comments and description or head to the AI Profit Boardroom. All right, back to the breakdown. Let's go a little deeper on how the harness actually behaves once it's running because this part matters if you're going to trust it with real work. Every single run gets logged. Everything the model sees, every step it takes, gets written down in order and never erased. That log is viewable in

something called the trajectory view. So, if the agent does something you didn't expect, you can go back and see exactly why. You can even pause a run, fork it into a new direction, or replay it from any point. That's a level of transparency a lot of earlier agent tools didn't have. There are also four different ways to run it depending on what you need. A standard mode for

everyday tasks, a mode built for calling tools directly through code instead of guessing, a minimum mode stripped down for simple jobs, and a creation mode built for building new things from scratch. Each one loads a different starting set of plugins so you're not stuck with one bloated setup trying to do everything at once. Why should someone who isn't a developer care about any of this? Because you never touch the plugin system directly. You type in plain English what you want done. The

plugins are just what's working quietly underneath making that request happen. You just see the result. Let's zoom out for a second because I know some of you are thinking this sounds like developer stuff. GitHub pages, terminal commands, plugins, I get it. But look at what you actually have to do with it. One

command, a chat page opens in your browser. You type what you want in plain English. That's the whole experience for a regular person using it, especially once it's already wired into a system for you. Some people are going to say things are moving too fast, I'll just wait until it settles down. It's not settling down anytime soon. Look at what

came out in the same week as this. A new model release, this new harness, and that's just what made headlines. And some people say there are too many tools already, I can't keep up. Here's the thing, you don't have to keep up with every single one. You need one working system and the ability to swap a part out the moment something better ships. That's the entire reason the

Agent OS exists. You're not collecting tools one by one, you're running one system that absorbs whatever comes next. Last thing before we wrap this up, Deep Seek Harness is version 0.1. It's going to break sometimes. Some of those 300

community plugins are going to get abandoned along the way. All of that is true and none of it changes the bigger direction here. The layer of AI that used to be locked behind paid closed tools just went open and free from a lab that ships fast and builds serious capable models. If you want the shortcut instead of piecing all of this together yourself, this is it. The Agent OS, the exact system I've been showing you this whole video with Deep Seek Harness already plugged in inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We hand you the full zip file

ready to install. You open it, follow the setup, and you're running the same system on your own machine connected to your own business. Four live coaching calls every week walk you through getting it set up and using it for real. Links in the comments and description or head to the AI Profit Boardroom. And if you just want the free version of all this, the process, the step-by-step guides, and dozens of other AI workflows like the ones we covered today, join the AI Success Lab. It's free. You'll get

the notes from this exact video plus access to a community of people actually building with these tools every day. Links are in the comments and description. See you in the next video.