---
video_title: "Turn Your Hermes Agent into Jarvis"
video_id: yLz6BXdZunQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yLz6BXdZunQ
video_date: 20260815
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS &  Hermes Agent Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  How to Turn Your Computer Into Iron Man's JARVIS (AI Agent)
  
  Learn how to transform your computer into a powerful AI assistant like Iron Man's Jarvis using the Agent OS system. This video demonstrates how to build apps, manage your schedule, and track competitors using voice commands and advanced AI automation.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Meet Hermes Apollo
  00:42 - Turning Your PC Into Jarvis
  01:37 - Coding Apps via Voice Commands
  02:21 - Hands-Free Morning Briefings
  03:14 - How the AI Agent Works
  03:58 - AI for Business & Content Ideas
  04:47 - Long-Term Memory with Obsidian
  05:12 - Tracking Trends & Competitors
---
Apollo, how are you today, sir? >> Impeccably well, sir, and ever ready to assist you. And how are you feeling today? >> Yeah, I'm doing it great. I'm doing great. You just tell me a quick joke,

mate. >> Certainly, sir. Why did the scarecrow get a promotion? Because he was outstanding in his field. >> What's a good word to learn in Chinese?

>> A splendid word to start with might be "xièxie", which means thank you. >> Turn your Hermes agent into Jarvis. Today, I'm going to show you something wild. You're about to see your AI agent turn into Jarvis. Yes, like the AI from Iron Man. It listens for one word, then

it does the work for you. It builds apps. It reads your notes. It even talks back. Stick with me because this changes everything. So, let's talk about this.

Inside our agent OS system, we've got a voice assistant called Hermes Apollo, and it lives right inside your computer. You say one word, Apollo, and it wakes up. Then you just talk to it like a real person. Let me show you exactly what this looks like live right now. I asked it how it was doing. It said it was

doing great and ready to help. Then I asked it for a joke. It gave me one about a scarecrow that got a promotion because it was outstanding in its field. Simple stuff, but it shows you something important. This thing talks back like a real assistant, not a robot reading a script. I even asked it to teach me a

word in another language. It gave me one right away and told me what it meant. A small thing, but it shows how fast and useful this really is. And here's the part that gets me. This isn't some slow chatbot where you wait around for an answer. You talk and it talks right back

instantly like a real conversation. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Now, here's where it gets crazy.

I said, "Build me a snake game." And it built it. No coding, no typing, just talking. Then I asked for a countdown timer. It built that, too. You can see

everything it built stacking up in one place. Stuff from 30 minutes ago, stuff from 7 minutes ago. It just keeps working while you talk to it about other things. And it's not a one-time thing either. Every single app it builds gets saved, so you can scroll back and see everything it's made for you with a little preview of each one. This is what

I mean when I say Agent OS turns your computer into Jarvis. You say the word, it listens. It can run tasks for you. It remembers what you tell it. It can even read you a full morning brief hands-free. And this is just one piece

of the whole Agent OS system. Speaking of that morning brief, let's talk about the briefing feature. You click on briefings and it pulls up your day. It shows your open tasks. It shows your suggested focus for the day. It even

shows the main headlines from the week, and you can look back at old briefings, too, so you always know what you already worked on. Think about what that means if you're running a business. Every single morning, instead of digging through old notes trying to remember what you were doing, you just get told. Straight up, no searching, no scrolling through old messages trying to piece it back together. Now, if you're watching this thinking, "I want this exact system running for my own business." Here's the

thing, you don't have to build it from scratch. This whole Agent OS setup with Hermes Apollo plugged in and working just like you saw is ready for you to install inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You get the full zip file ready to install, plus a complete step-by-step video walk-through showing you exactly how to set it up. It's the best place to scale your business, get more customers, and save hundreds of hours with AI automation. Link is in the comments and description below. Okay, let's get back

into it. Here's how this actually works behind the scenes. It uses a fast AI model to talk with you in real time. That's why it replies so quickly. Then it's connected to an agent on the back end that does the actual work for you.

When it's talking, it glows one color. When it's reading a brief, it's a different color. So, you always know exactly what it's doing, and you can switch modes, too. There's a quick mode for fast answers, and there's an agent mode for bigger tasks like controlling your browser. I tested this myself. I

said, "Open juliangoldie.com." And it just did it. No clicking, no typing, just talking. That means it's not just answering questions anymore. It's

actually taking action for you out in the real world on your actual computer. That's a big difference. Most tools just talk. Agent OS actually does. Now, Now, let's talk about how you could actually use this for your own business. Say you

want new content ideas. You could say, "Give me five marketing ideas for the AI Profit Boardroom." Or you could say, "Write a post that explains the benefits of the AI Profit Boardroom community." Or even design a landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom that shows people how AI automation helps them get more leads and customers. This tool can help you build all of that just by talking out loud. Or say you're getting ready for a

coaching call inside the AI Profit Boardroom community. You could say, "Give me three talking points about how AI automation saves business owners time." Or write a quick post welcoming new members and explaining what they'll learn inside the community. That's real practical stuff you can use the same day. You can even ask it simple stuff like how much space is left on your computer or which files are taking up the most room. It's not just a toy. It's

a real assistant for real work every single day. Here's a feature I really love, memory. This connects to a note system called Obsidian. So when you tell it something, it remembers it. I told it something just a couple minutes before we started and it already knew it when I asked again. It can pull that memory

back up whenever you need it. That's huge if you're running a business and don't want to repeat yourself every single day. Think about how much time gets wasted just re-explaining things, re-explaining your goals, re-explaining your brand, re-explaining what you're working on this week. With memory built in, you say it once and it's just there, ready whenever you need it again. And it doesn't stop there. Agent OS

isn't just one tool, it's a whole system and Apollo talks to all the other tools inside it. One is called Hermes Oracle. This one pulls in trending news and topics happening right now. So you could use it to write fresh content and social posts based on what's trending, which keeps your brand relevant and in front of people. Then there's Hermes Astros, also built into Agent OS. This one

watches your competitors for you. You give it a list of competitors to track, then it studies what they're doing and gives you new content ideas inspired by them. You can turn those ideas into a blog post, a video, or feed them into other tools to build a full piece of content. Three different ways to turn one idea into real content all without leaving the system. That's a huge time saver for anyone building a brand like the AI Profit Boardroom. And the watch

list is easy to change, too. You just swap in new competitors whenever you want to study something different. So, it's always giving you fresh angles, not the same old ideas over and over. Now, some of you are thinking, "Julian, this sounds cool, but voice assistants are just toys, right?" I get why you think that, but this one is different. It's

building real apps. It's remembering real information. It's writing real briefs. And it's fast, faster than the built-in assistant on your phone. And if you're worried about privacy because you're talking about your business out loud, you can actually run this on local models. That means your data and your

notes stay on your own machine. Nothing has to leave your computer if you don't want it to. So, you get all the power without having to worry about your business details floating around somewhere else. Now, I know some of you are thinking that setting something like this up sounds hard. I get that, too. But,

here's something real. Inside the community behind this setup, there are 194 pages of wins and testimonials from people using this exact kind of system. People are actually building with it and sharing their results week after week. And you don't have to figure it out alone, either. There's a full step-by-step tutorial that walks you through the whole setup, plus new guides that drop based on what's actually working right now. So, you're never

stuck staring at the screen wondering what to do next. For now, just know this. You can run Hermes Apollo on Windows or on Mac. You say the wake word, it listens. It can run tasks for you. It remembers what you tell it. And

it can read your daily brief out loud completely hands-free. There's actually even more inside Agent OS I haven't shown you yet, like how it stacks with the other tools to build full campaigns from one idea. That's a video for another day, so keep an eye out. But, even with just what you saw today, you can already picture it. Waking up, saying one word, getting your whole day laid out for you, building an app while you're still drinking your coffee. That's not some far-off future

thing. That's Agent OS, and it's happening right now today while you're watching this. Now, if you're watching this thinking, "I want this exact system running for my own business," here's the thing, you don't have to build it from scratch. This whole Agent OS setup with Hermes Apollo plugged in and working just like you saw is ready for you to install inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You get the full zip file ready to install plus a complete step-by-step video walkthrough showing you exactly how to set it up. It's the best place to

scale your business, get more customers, and save hundreds of hours with AI automation. Link is in the comments and description below. And if you want the full process, the SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. Links are in the comments and description below. You'll get all the video notes from there plus access to our community of 38,000 members who are crushing it with AI. Thanks for

watching, and I'll see you in the next one.