---
video_title: "NEW Chinese 3D AI is INSANE! 🤯"
video_id: 6tO-5bJef1M
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6tO-5bJef1M
video_date: 20260815
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Chinese 3D AI Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-
  7462/about
  
  Tencent's New WorldClaw AI: Build Entire 3D Worlds From Text
  
  Discover WorldClaw, Tencent's revolutionary new AI agent that transforms a single text prompt into a fully navigable, editable 3D world. Unlike typical image generators, WorldClaw builds real geometry and textures, allowing you to create complex environments for games or promos in minutes.
  
  00:00 - Intro to WorldClaw AI
  01:04 - Tencent's 3D AI Ecosystem
  01:28 - WorldClaw vs. Video Generators
  02:13 - The Agentic Building Pipeline
  02:45 - How Terrain is Generated
  03:13 - Populating Regions with Assets
  05:13 - The Self-Correction Loop
  06:35 - Future of AI World Generation
---
New Chinese AI agent is insane. And I'm going to show you exactly what it just did. Tencent just dropped a research system called WorldClaw. And before you think this is just another AI image generator, stop. It's not that. You type

a sentence, something like create a tropical pirate island with cliffs, beaches, dense vegetation, settlements, docks, and ships. And instead of getting a video back or a picture or a rendered animation, you get an actual 3D world. One you can fly through, one you can zoom into, one where you can select individual objects, inspect the geometry, look at the terrain underneath, walk through a village, go behind a mountain, come back out the other side. Real geometry, real meshes, real textures built from a sentence. That's what worldclaw does. And once you

understand how it actually works, the process behind it, it gets a lot more interesting. So let me walk you through this properly. Hey, we haven't met already. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. 10

cent is one of the biggest tech companies on the planet. Their AI division is called Hunuan. And over the last couple of years, they've been quietly building one of the most capable 3D AI ecosystems anywhere. Hunuan 3D for asset generation, HY World 2.0 zero for 3D world modeling and now worldclaw sitting on top of all of it as an agentic world building system. The paper

dropped on August 5th, 2026. This is fresh. And here's the distinction that matters because this is the thing that separates Worldclaw from everything else you've seen. Most AI tools that look like they're generating 3D content are producing video or image sequences or Gaussian splats, which is a way of reconstructing a visual scene from photos. Those things look incredible, but you can't go off the predetermined path. You can't select an object. You

can't edit the terrain. You're watching something, not navigating something. Worldclaw constructs an actual 3D representation. Terrain, individual objects, materials, spatial relationships. Every asset comes out as an independently editable textured mesh, which means it can feed into actual 3D workflows. That's a completely different

category of output. And this is where I want you to pay attention because the way worldclaw actually builds a world is what makes this thing genuinely interesting. It doesn't just take your prompt and hallucinate everything at once. It runs a pipeline step by step. And the pipeline is agentic, meaning the AI is planning, executing, checking, and correcting, not just generating. Here's

how it works. Step one, you give it a prompt. Worldclaw doesn't immediately start building. First, it analyzes your intent. It extracts the theme, the style, the regions, the objects, the relationships, the atmosphere. It

figures out what kind of world you actually want before it does anything. Step two, it builds the land first. Before any objects go in, Worldclaw establishes a global terrain. Mountains, valleys, rivers, beaches, forests, open areas. It creates a semantic map of the whole world, then generates the terrain underneath. height fields, geomorphic

operations, region specific materials. The world has geography before it has anything else. And that matters because everything placed later has to make sense on that terrain. Step three, it populates the regions. For each region, WorldClaw renders the existing terrain, then uses an image generation model to create a 2D composition of what should exist there. Think of it like a layout

blueprint. That composition then gets analyzed by SAM3, a segmentation model which identifies each individual object. Those objects get reconstructed as 3D assets using Hunuan 3D. Individual meshes, individual textures, one object at a time, and then they get placed into the world. Now, here's a real example of how you could actually use this kind of tool. Say you wanted to create a 3D

animated visual for the AI profit boardroom. Something that shows new members what the community actually looks like inside. You could prompt Worldclaw with something like, "Build a modern digital campus with a coaching hall, a resource library, a community hub, and a members only map room." That becomes a navigable 3D environment. You can fly a camera through for a promo video, a landing page visual, or a welcome sequence. The kind of visual

production that used to take a 3D studio weeks, this direction makes it a one-person job in an afternoon. And that's exactly the kind of thing we break down inside the AI profit boardroom. If you want to learn how to use AI tools like Worldclaw to save time, create better content faster, and build automated systems that actually grow your business, come join us inside the AI profit boardroom. We've got daily tutorials specifically showing you how to apply the newest AI generation tools to real business tasks, creating assets, building promo content, automating delivery, and attracting more leads without doing everything manually. Every week there are four live coaching calls where you can bring your specific situation and get real answers. We've

got a 30-day AI automation roadmap, a full prompt library, and over 2,800 business owners inside. A lot of them already using AI generation tools to create content and assets faster than ever. Plus, a member map so you can connect with people near you who are doing the same thing. Link in the comments and description or go to aprofitboardroom.com.

Now, back to worldclaw because here's the part that genuinely surprised me. Step four, the AI checks its own work. Worldclaw has a refinement loop. After placing objects, it renders the scene from multiple diagnostic angles, examines what it sees, identifies problems, and corrects them. An object floating above the terrain, fixed.

Something the wrong scale fixed. Facing the wrong direction, fixed. Partially sunk into the ground, fixed. The terrain itself can even be locally deformed around an object to create a more natural contact point. It's not generating and stopping. It's

generating, looking, judging, and correcting. That loop is what makes it feel less like a tool and more like a process. Here's another practical example tied directly to growing the AI profit boardroom. Imagine you wanted to build a visual for a new membership drive campaign. You could prompt Worldclaw with something like, "Create a thriving community village with a central gathering hall, pathways connecting different knowledge zones, people collaborating, and a visible map of the whole space." You'd get back a 3D

navigable environment you could use as the hero visual on a new landing page or render into a short walkthrough video that shows what it actually feels like to be inside the community. People can see the value before they join. That's the kind of creative asset that drives more people through the door. And it starts with one sentence. The trajectory here is not subtle. A year ago,

generating a single highquality 3D object from a text prompt was impressive. Now there's a system generating coherent large scale worlds with terrain, objects, relationships, and selfcorrection from a sentence. That acceleration tells you exactly where this is going. The people who are ahead on this are already paying attention to how these systems work, not waiting until the consumer app drops and everybody else is already using it. If you want to stay ahead, if you want step-by-step tutorials on how to use AI generation tools like Worldclaw to create faster, build better assets, and run a more automated business, come join us inside the AI profit boardroom. We're

already building tutorials specifically around AI world generation and how business owners can use this kind of tool to create promo content, visual assets, landing page visuals, and community building campaigns without needing a production team. four live coaching calls every week where we go deep on the tools that are actually moving the needle. And you can ask questions specific to your setup, your industry, and what you're trying to build. Over 2,800 members inside right now. Daily step-by-step tutorials, a 30-day AI automation road map so you know exactly what to do and in what order, a full prompt library, and a member map so you can find and connect with people near you who are doing exactly what you're trying to do. Go to

apiprofitboardroom.com or hit the link in the comments and description. And if you want the full notes from this video, plus access to over 100 AI use cases, SOPs, and templates, join the AI success lab. It's free. 87,000 members inside already using these tools every day. We

drop new resources, breakdowns, and walkthroughs every single week. All the notes from this episode are waiting for you in there. The moment you join, you'll have everything you need to start applying this stuff. Links are in the comments and description.