---
video_title: "How to Run Codex for Free! Here's how"
video_id: zwDzyJwYGD0
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zwDzyJwYGD0
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  How to Run Codeex for FREE: Unlimited AI Coding with Omniroot
  
  Learn how to bypass token limits and run OpenAI’s Codeex agent for free using Omniroot and Agent OS. This setup leverages 93 different providers with automatic fallback to ensure your AI coding projects never stop halfway through.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Use Codeex for Free
  00:25 - How Omniroot Solves Token Limits
  00:50 - Live Demo: Building a Landing Page
  01:23 - The Tech: Auto-Fallback & Switchboards
  03:23 - Why Mission Control Matters
  04:43 - Cloud vs. Local Performance
  05:29 - Old Way vs. New Way
  07:16 - How to Set Up Your Free Agent
---
How to use Codex for free? That's what I'm showing you today, and I'm going to show you the exact setup on my screen while I talk. Here's what you're looking at. This is Codex. It's the coding agent from OpenAI. Normally, you run it, and

every single thing it does runs through one provider. When you run out of tokens, it stops. Your build stops. I've hit that wall a lot. Even with a subscription, Codex would burn through tokens fast and then just sit there. So,

I fixed it. What I've done is root Codex through something called Omni root. And Omni root gives Codex 93 different providers to pull from. 11 of those are permanently free. And when one runs dry, it hops to the next one on its own. You

don't touch anything. The build just keeps going. Same Codex, same agent. It still plans. It still writes files. It

still runs commands by itself. Only the back end changed. And I've got the whole thing running inside my Agent OS. That's my mission control dashboard, and I'll show you why that part matters in a second because that's honestly the bit that made this click for me. Let me just prove it works first. I'm going to type

a prompt in right now. Build a beautiful landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom that shows what AI automation can do for a business owner. Watch this. It's thinking. It's writing files. And that

took about 60 to 90 seconds. Look at it. The colors are nice. The spacing is clean. It's simple. It's not going to

win a design award, but for a one-line prompt, that's a solid page. And that came from a free provider. That's the whole thing in one shot. Okay, let's get into how this actually works because the mechanics are simpler than people think. Codex talks to Omni root. Omni root

talks to 93 providers. That's it. Omni root sits on your machine as a little gateway. Think of it like a switchboard. Codex asks for a model. The switchboard

picks one that's working and free. If that one caps out or gets rate limited, the switchboard grabs the next one mid-run. That last part is the piece most people miss. Free stuff gets rate limited. That's just how it goes.

Normally, that kills your build halfway through. You're 5 minutes into something good, and it dies. With auto fallback, the run survives. It quietly moves to the next provider and finishes the job. I've tested this a lot now and it hasn't failed on me once. Omni route itself is

pretty new. It came out recently and it's already sitting at 12,000 stars on GitHub. That's a lot of people testing it in a short window and you can use Omni route on its own as a coding tool. It's got that built in. But if you want the full Codex harness with the way Codex plans and edits and runs commands, you can point Codex at Omni route instead. You get the better agent and

the free brain behind it. Now, if you want this exact setup, here's the thing. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you can download the Agent OS zip file, the actual tool. You install it and the free Codex engine is already sitting inside it wired up and ready. We've also got the full Omni route guide in there step-by-step so you can get the free providers running today. Four coaching

calls every week where you can ask me about your own Codex setup live and members, a lot of them building with this exact routing right now. Link in the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. If you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means

nothing if it's not built to rank and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Now, here's where it gets more interesting and this is the part I actually care about. Why run this inside Agent OS at

all? Fair question. You could just run Codex in a terminal window. But watch what happens on my screen. This is mission control. It's a local dashboard

that runs on my laptop. One screen, all my agents. Codex is one tab, Claude is another, my video agent is another and they share memory and context. So, here's a real example. I can design a landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom in Codex, then pull a video in from the video agent and drop it straight onto that page. Same system, same context. No

copying, no pasting, no switching apps. That's the difference. It all links together. There's another thing that used to drive me mad about coding agents. You build something, you close the window, and it's gone. You can't

find it again. You're digging through folders trying to remember what you named it. Look at this tab. This is the workspace. Every single thing I've built is sitting right here. That demo page,

that's here. The full HTML page from another test, right here. I can open any of them in a new tab. I can save them. I can copy the code. I can flip straight

to the preview and see the live page. So, I can come back to anything whenever I want. That sounds small. It isn't. It changes how much you're willing to build because nothing you make disappears. Let

me run another test so you can see it fresh. I'll say, "Build a beautiful to-do list app." While that runs, let me answer something that comes up every time. Do I need a powerful computer for this? No. And this surprised me, too.

The free providers are cloud-based. So, the heavy thinking happens somewhere else. Codex itself is really light to run. You could do this on a basic laptop with nothing special in it. Compare that to running local models. You can go to

something like Ollama, grab a free model, and plug it into Codex directly. I've tried it. Two problems. First, the outputs from these routed APIs are noticeably nicer, cleaner code, better design. Second, local models eat your computer alive. Your fans spin up,

everything slows down, you're waiting. With this setup, nothing on my machine slows down at all. And the outputs look good. That's a rare combination. Okay, the to-do list is done. Let me open the

preview. There we go. It works. You can add items, tick them off, delete them. It looks clean. That took under a minute

and a half, and it cost me nothing in tokens. You could point that same prompt to anything useful for your business, like a simple page where people sign up to be reminded about your next coaching call. Now, let me put the old way and the new way side by side because the gap is bigger than it looks. Old way, every Codex run goes through 1 m. Agents are chatty. They talk a lot to themselves

while they work. So, a long build drains your tokens fast. And because it drains fast, you start hesitating. You don't want to ask for a big build. You keep things small. You're locked to one

provider, so when they throttle you, that's your day done. New way, same Codex, pointed at one local gateway, 93 providers behind it, 11 that are permanently free, auto fallback if one fails, and you can leave it building all day. That hesitation goes away. That's the real unlock. When you stop rationing your own tools, you start actually using them. Now, some pushback I get, let me

handle it because I had the same doubts. I already pay for ChatGPT. Why would I use this? Run both. That's what I do.

I've got Codex locally as the app, and I've got the Agent OS Codex tab pointed at Omni Root. When one runs out of tokens, I switch to the other. No downtime. Omni Root is ready straight out the box. This sounds advanced. I'm not technical.

It's two commands, maybe three, depending on how you count. One command spins up the gateway. That installs Omni Root. One command writes the free profile. That's literally Omni Root setup Codex. And then inside Agent OS,

it's one click away. That's the whole install. I'm not simplifying it for the video. That's genuinely it. Free AI always gets rate limited and breaks halfway through. Yes, on its own. That's

exactly what the auto fallback is for. One provider caps out, the run moves to the next one automatically, and it finishes. I've watched it happen mid build, and the only way I knew was because I was looking at the logs. Rewiring a coding agent's provider sounds risky. Nothing about Codex changes. It's the real Codex. It plans,

writes files, runs commands exactly as before. You're only changing where it gets its thinking from. So, here's what I do if I were you. Install the gateway, one command. Run the setup for Codex, one command. Open

your Codex tab and build one small thing today. A landing page, a simple form, whatever's been sitting on your list for 3 months. Then build a second one tomorrow, because it's free and there's no reason not to. If you want it all pre-built instead, that's what we've done inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You get the Agent OS zip file, the actual tool, ready to install on your laptop.

The free Codex engine is already in there with Omni Root wired up, so you're not configuring anything from scratch. Our main CLIs and agents are plugged into. There's a full Omni root guide with the token minimization playbook and new tutorials daily as this stuff changes. Four coaching calls a week where you can screen share your setup and I'll help you fix it live. Members are me inside there and I personally answer questions every day with a video walk through. There's a member map too,

so you can find people near you building with the same agents. Link in the comments and description or go to AI profitboardroom.com. If you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means

nothing if it's not built to rank and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below.