---
video_title: "Perplexity Search Just Beat Every AI Search Tool"
video_id: C4kyCW1nLUc
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C4kyCW1nLUc
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Perplexity's Search API just swept the top three spots on Artificial Analysis' search index — and the number everyone missed matters more than the win. I break down how the test worked, what the 47-point swing means for your AI tools, and give you two copy-paste prompts that work today.
  
  00:00 Intro – Perplexity sweeps 1st, 2nd, and 3rd
  00:32 The Setup – What the Search API actually is
  01:31 The Test – Same model, only the search swapped
  01:55 The Scores – 80 vs 75, and why medium beat high
  02:17 The Hidden Number – Search added 47 points on its own
  02:32 Browse Comp – Where the whole lead came from
  03:44 The Catch – One index, one point in time
  04:46 Prompt #1 – SEO ROI calculator, word for word
  05:57 Prompt #2 – Landing page in one sentence
  07:01 Pro Tips – Settings and filters most people get wrong
  07:42 Takeaway – Your search layer decides your output
---
Perplexity search just beat every AI search tool. Perplexity just took first, second, and third place. Same leaderboard, same test. One shot, not three different tools. Three settings of the same one. And most people scrolled

straight past it. So, what did they actually build? I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and I help people learn AI tools and actually use them in their work. In a minute, I'll show you how the test worked, the one number that matters more than the score, and two prompts you can copy word for word. Stay with me. Let's start simple. Perplexity

is an answer engine. You ask a question, it searches the live web, answers you, and shows you the sources it used. But this news isn't about the app, it's about the search API underneath it. The search API is the plumbing. It's how developers plug that same web index into their own tools and agents. Perplexity

says the index covers over 300 billion web pages, refreshed continuously with results ranked in around 358 milliseconds. That's less than half a second to pull ranked results out of the open web. Here's what happened. On the 28th of August, Artificial Analysis posted that Perplexity search had debuted on their search index, and all three context size variants took top positions on the leaderboard. Perplexity's own account put it plainly, "The search API takes the top three spots on the Artificial Analysis search index." Artificial Analysis are

independent. They benchmark everyone and publish the numbers. They don't work for Perplexity. That matters, and I'll come back to it. Here's how they tested it.

Same model every single time. GPT-5.6 Luna at medium reasoning, running inside Stirrup, their open-source agent harness with tools for searching and fetching pages from the web. The only thing they changed was the search provider behind the tool. Same brain, same body, same questions. They only swapped the eyes.

So, any difference in the results comes from the search, not the model. Now, the numbers. Perplexity search on medium scored 80 on the artificial analysis search index. The previous leaders parallel on advanced and brave search on LLM context both sat at 75. High scored 79, low scored 77. All three still

landed above everything else on the board. And here's the number nobody quotes. That same model with no search tools at all scored 33. So plugging in good search lifted it by 47 points. Search wasn't a small boost. Search did

most of the work. So where did the lead come from? Almost all of it came from one benchmark called browse comp. That's the hard one. The answer isn't sitting on a single page. So you have to hop

between sources and land on one exact fact. Perplexity's medium setting hit 87 there. The old leaders were on 77. This isn't about writing nicer summaries. It's about digging. Those three settings

low, medium, and high control how much extracted content each result carries. More content isn't automatically better. More content means your model has to read more on every task. Perplexity's payloads came back smaller, so the model reads less. And notice medium beat high.

The reaction got spicy, too. Perplexity's CEO Arvind Srinivas posted that Perplexity is the best at search at any level of compute, no matter how much compute the competitors use. One reply called it a bold claim from the guy whose company runs the leaderboard. That one's just wrong. Perplexity doesn't run it. Artificial Analysis does. Another

reply was blunter. Sweeping all three spots on debut, someone check on Google. And one more reply zeroed in on the efficient search payloads as the impressive part. That person actually read the post. Most didn't. To be fair

though, this is one index built from three tests run at one point in time. Leaderboards move. Somebody will post better numbers soon. Before I show you the prompts, two quick things. If you want to know what all of this actually means for your own brand, book a free AI brand visibility session. You get on a

call with a strategist, you get a custom visibility plan, you get a straight look at how you show up or don't show up across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. You get a competitor gap analysis, so you can see who's getting pulled into AI answers instead of you, and you get your questions answered by a human. It's free and there's no obligation. Links below. And if you want to go deeper than one call, that's what the AI Profit Boardroom is for. Inside, there are

walkthroughs on the AI search tools, live coaching calls where you bring your own setup and ask about it directly, prompt libraries you can copy, and 30-day road maps, so you're never staring at a blank screen. The full Agent OS zip file is in there, too, ready to install with its own 30-day road map built around it. Over 4,000 members are already in there. All right, the prompts. Here's the first one, word for word. Create a single HTML page for

an SEO ROI calculator for AI Profit Boardroom with inputs for monthly traffic, conversion rate, average order value, and estimated SEO lift. That's it. That's the whole thing. And I want you to notice the shape of it, because the shape is the lesson. First, I said what I wanted built, a single HTML page, not a project, not a folder of files, one page. That one word, single, stops it

handing you something you then have to assemble. Then I said what kind of page it is, an SEO ROI calculator. Two words, and it already knows there are input fields, a button, and a result. Then I named who it's for, AI Profit Boardroom. That gives it context for the wording on the page instead of generic filler. Then

I listed the inputs, monthly traffic, conversion rate, average order value, estimated SEO lift. Four things, spelled out in the order I want them to appear. That last part is the bit most people skip. If you don't name your inputs, you get whatever it guesses. If you name them, you get yours. So, swap those four

for whatever your business actually tracks, and the same prompt still works. Here's the second one. Create a simple HTML landing page for a free SEO audit offer with a headline, benefits, a form section, testimonials, an FAQ, and CTA buttons. Same shape again. Page type first, then the parts in the order I want them. Look at what I did there. I

didn't describe how it should look. Nothing about colors, fonts, or vibes. I gave it a section list. Headline, benefits, form, testimonials, FAQ, buttons. That section list is doing all the work. It's an outline, and filling

in an outline is what these tools do best. When people tell me they got a messy page back, nine times out of 10, it's because they described a feeling instead of a structure. The word simple matters, too. Simple tells it not to bolt on extra sections you didn't ask for. And notice both prompts are one sentence. No role play, no you are an

expert web developer, no long preamble. Say the page, say the parts, stop typing. Take that pattern and point it at whatever page you need next. Change the sections, keep the structure. Now, some pro tips. If you're going to go and

use the search API yourself, start on medium. It's the setting that talked to the board. Low is for short factual lookups. High is for deep research where you need heavy evidence coverage. Don't start on high just because it sounds better, because high scored lower than medium. Use the filters. You can cap how

many results come back from one up to 20. You can allow or block specific domains. You can filter by when a page was last updated. Most beginners leave that wide open, then wonder why the results are noisy. Narrow it, and the quality jumps. And don't confuse the

search API with the chat models. It hands you ranked results and page content, not a finished answer. You feed those results into a model yourself. Here's what I take away from all of it. Same model, 47-point swing based purely on what it could find. The search layer

decides how good your output is. So, pick it like it matters because it does. Two last things before you go. Book your free AI brand visibility session. You just learned how these tools decide what to pull in and what to ignore. The

session is where you find out what that means for your brand right now. Custom plan, competitor insights, clear recommendations you can act on this week. Free, no obligation, link in the description. And come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. When you go and try this yourself, you'll pick the wrong setting, you'll get pages back that look fine but aren't, and you'll wonder why competitors keep showing up in AI answers and you don't. That's exactly

what we work through inside, on the live coaching calls, in the tutorials, in the road maps, and with prompts you can lift and use today. Over 4,000 members are already in there figuring it out together. Go to AIProfitBoardroom.com.