---
video_title: "NEW Claude AgentOS Update is CRAZY GOOD!! 🤯"
video_id: VLuCC592iLI
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VLuCC592iLI
video_date: 20260812
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Claude Agent OS: Build Your Own 24/7 Automated AI System
  
  Discover how to build a powerful AI Agent OS using Claude that manages your research, content, and memory 24/7. Learn to orchestrate multiple AI agents like Hermes and Oracle to automate your business workflow without writing any code.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Claude Agent OS
  01:31 - Meet the AI Agents: Claude & Hermes
  02:14 - Automated Research with Oracle
  03:05 - How to Install the Agent OS
  03:51 - Competitor Tracking with Astros
  04:58 - No-Code Building & Studio Setup
  05:45 - Mission Control Dashboard Overview
---
Claude Agent OS is wild and I built this entire thing using Claude and I will show you how to use Agent OS because it is insane. This is a system where all of my AI agents work together running 24/7 in the background while I do other things and I want to show you exactly what's inside it. So inside the Agent OS, I've got Hermes, I've got Claude, I've got anti-gravity all running together inside of one system, one dashboard, one place where everything connects and the first thing that makes this different from anything else I've tried, it links to a memory system. Here's why that matters. Anytime a new model comes out, I don't fall behind. I

don't have to retrain anything. I don't have to plug in new prompts. The system already has all of my context preloaded using a free tool called Obsidian. Most people lose all their context every time they switch models. Every time something new drops, they're starting from scratch. This system doesn't do that.

The memory carries over. The context stays and everything compounds. And here's something that genuinely surprised me when I first set this up, the automatic note-taking. I wasn't even online an hour before recording this, but the system was. It was taking notes automatically based on what we do each day, plugging those notes into the memory system. And if you go into the

knowledge graph, you can see everything linked together. Each dot is a memory that the agents can understand and work from. So every day the system gets smarter without me having to do anything. Now let me If we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Now

let me show you the agents inside the system because each one has a specific job. We've got Claude running as the intelligence layer. Anytime a new Claude model comes out, we've already got it plugged in and ready to go, automatically updated. We've got Hermes and Hermes is where things get interesting. As soon as something new and useful comes out like a free API, we plug it straight into Hermes. No

rebuilding, no starting over, just swap it in and keep going. We've got Hermes Apollo. This is a custom voice agent. You can talk to it and it talks back real time. It's basically having your own Jarvis. A wake word system, so it's

voice activated. You just say, "Hey Hermes." And it's ready to go. Running on a monitor in the background, so it's always available whenever you need it. And here's something I really want you to see because this is one of my favorite parts of the whole setup. The

Oracle agent. Every 24 hours, Oracle consults the latest news automatically. It pulls in everything from the last 24 hours. It runs on its own. And once it's done, if we want to create social media content around a trending topic, we click one button. If we want to create

SEO content, we click another button. Four things this does. Number one, it runs 24/7. Number two, we can create social media content automatically. Number three, we can create SEO content automatically based on trending topics.

Number four, we never fall behind on industry news again. For the AI Profit Boardroom, this means we wake up every morning with the latest AI news already pulled, already processed, already ready to turn into content. We're not spending hours researching. The system does it overnight. Now, at this point in the video, if you want to get this Agent OS for yourself, I want to tell you about the AI Profit Boardroom because inside the Boardroom, you can download the full Agent OS zip file completely ready to install. You

don't build this from scratch. You get my exact setup. Claude, Hermes, Oracle, the memory system, the mission control dashboard, all pack- aged up with a full installation guide. On top of that, you get a complete 30-day roadmap walking you through exactly how to set up your Agent OS, connect your memory system, configure each agent, and start running automated workflows that save you time every single week. Four live coaching calls every week where you can ask questions about your specific setup.

Daily step-by-step tutorials. And 4,000 plus members who are already building with this, all available 24/7. Link in the comments and description or go to AIprofitboardroom.com. Now, back to the system. We've also got

Hermes Astros. And what Astros does is it pulls in the latest ideas from competitors and keywords we're monitoring. So, we've got a watch list. We can monitor our competitors. We can monitor our keywords. We can add new

ones anytime. And every single day, we get six new ideas pulled from our competitors, personalized to us, not generic ideas, ideas based on our industry, our keywords, our audience. So, for the AI Profit Boardroom, Astros is constantly watching what other AI communities and educators are putting out. And every day, it delivers six content ideas specifically tailored to what our members care about. You click on an idea, and you've already got the angle, the title options generated by Hermes, and you can push it straight into the video agent, the notebook, or the SEO content system. That's hours of

research done automatically every single day. Then, there's the studio. This is where we can plug in models like MiniMax or Grok with Hermes to generate videos, voice notes, or images, all managed inside one place. All the sessions running in the background, visible from the dashboard. And we've got something called Hermes Mixture of Agents. This

combines multiple models with Hermes for tasks that need different capabilities working together. Different models handling different parts of the same job, coordinated automatic. Now, here's the thing I want to be straight with you about. This whole system, everything I'm showing you, was fully built with Claude. I'm not technical. I can't write

HTML. I can't write code. But, I can build a system like this because I describe what I want, Claude builds it, I test it, I iterate. That's the whole process. 3 to 4 hours a day improving it. Then, sharing what I build with the

AI Profit Boardroom community. And because of that, you don't need to build it from scratch, either. Let me show you one more thing, the Mission Control Dashboard. This is where I see the status of every agent at once. I've got my goals list plugged in. I can see my

progress over time. I can see previous logs of what each agent has done, and I can plug in new features as they come out. When Claude came out with Ultra code, we plugged that in so we can run multiple sub-agents and orchestrate everything together inside the same OS. And there's an agent tagging system, so I can say, "Hey Hermes, come up with a new idea." And then the agents jump in, something useful comes out, and it gets automatically noted and plugged into the pipeline. Ready to build, ready to go.

The whole thing just gets better over time, more personalized, more powerful, more automatic. Now, here's the thing most people don't realize. You don't need to build this from scratch. You don't even need to know where to start. If you want my exact agent OS, the full setup I've been showing you in this video, you can get it inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You

get the complete agent OS zip file ready to download and install today. My full installation guide so you can get it running fast. A complete 30-day roadmap built specifically around the agent OS, how to set up Claude, Hermes, Oracle, Astros, and the memory system, and how to start automating the workflows that take the most time in your business. Four coaching calls every week where we go deep on your agent OS setup, and you can ask questions live. Daily tutorials the moment anything new comes out. A

prompt library and a community of 4,000 plus business owners who are already running AI automation, people who've built their own mission control, their own agent workflows, their own automated content systems. There's always someone online, always someone who can help. Link in the comments and description, or go to AI profitboardroom.com. And if you want to go even deeper than that, completely free, come join the AI Success Lab. It's where we share the

full process, the step-by-step guides, and over 100 real AI use cases just like the ones you saw today. You'll get all the notes from this video sitting right there for you, plus access to a community of 87,000 people who are actually using this stuff to work smarter every day. Links are in the comments and in the description. Go check it out. Claude in Agent OS is wild, and now you know exactly what's inside it.