---
video_title: "NEW Qwen Model is CRAZY GOOD!! 🤯"
video_id: 63TcrvA6JQU
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=63TcrvA6JQU
video_date: 20260813
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Qwen Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Qwen 3.6-27B: The Small AI Model Beating 397B Giants
  
  Alibaba's new Qwen 3.6-27B is redefining local AI by outperforming massive 397B parameter models on coding and reasoning benchmarks. Learn how to leverage this compact powerhouse to automate your business workflows and run high-end AI locally on your own hardware.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The New Qwen 3.6-27B
  00:26 - Technical Specs & Open Source License
  01:17 - Dense vs. MoE Architecture
  01:44 - Benchmark Results & Performance
  02:48 - Practical Business Workflows
  04:53 - Strategic Thinking Mode
  05:43 - Getting Started: API vs. Local
  07:51 - The Future: Qwen 3.8 and Beyond
---
New Qwen 3.6-27B just dropped, and if you haven't heard of it yet, you need to by the end of this video. Because Alibaba just built a 27 billion parameter AI model that beats their own 397 billion parameter model on coding benchmarks. A model that is 14 times smaller is outperforming the bigger one, and you can run the whole thing locally on hardware you probably already own. That's the story. Let's get into it. So,

first, what even is Qwen 3.6-27B? It's a dense 27 billion parameter language model from Alibaba released in April 2026. It takes in text, images, and video. It has a 262,000 token context window, and it runs under an Apache 2.0 license, which means it's

fully open. You can download it, run it, modify it, build on top of it. It fits on a single consumer GPU and produces output that competes with models twice its size. But, here's what makes it actually interesting, the size. Qwen's previous flagship was a 397 billion parameter model. It needed 807 GB of

storage to run. Qwen 3.6-27B needs 55 GB, and it beats it on coding. Think about that. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get

more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Alibaba spent years building a massive 397 billion parameter model. Then, they built a 27 billion parameter model that's better at the thing most people actually use these models for. That's not luck. That's a smarter architecture.

Qwen 3.6-27B, dense, not mixture of experts. All 27 billion parameters fire on every single token. More focused, more precise. Now, let me give you the number that stopped me. Qwen 3.6-27B

scores 77.2% on SWE-bench verified. That's the benchmark that tests whether an AI can actually fix real GitHub bugs from real open-source projects. Gemma 431 BE, another strong competitor, scores around 75% in that same range. Qwen 3.6-27B

beats it, and it only needs 18 GB of VRAM to run. 2026 math reasoning, it scores 94.1% MMUMU, which is multimodal academic reasoning, comes in at 82.9%. These are the tests that determine whether a model is actually useful for real work. And

here's the open loop, because this is just the current model. Alibaba announced Qwen 3.8-27B is coming, with next week being the language they used, pointing to this week, the week of August 10th. So, you need to understand Qwen 3.6 right now, because what's coming is even bigger.

I'll come back to that, but first, let's talk about what you can actually do with this thing. And I'm going to use real examples here, all based around growing an AI community, like the AI Profit Boardroom, because that's where the practical stuff gets obvious. So, you open up Qwen 3.6 27B, and you prompt it, "You are a community growth strategist. Write me a 7-day email welcome sequence for new members joining the AI Profit Boardroom, a community of 2,800 business owners learning to automate with AI.

Each email should build excitement, handle objections about learning AI, and drive people to attend the weekly coaching calls." That's it, hit enter, it runs inference in under a second for typical prompts. You get a full seven email welcome sequence that would take a copywriter hours to write, done locally, for free, on your machine. Here's another one. You screenshot your current YouTube thumbnail and landing page. You

drop the images into Qwen 3.6 27B, because it accepts text, images, and video as inputs. And you prompt, "Analyze this landing page for an AI automation community. What's missing? What would stop someone from joining?

And rewrite the headline and first paragraph to increase conversions from business owners who are scared of falling behind with AI." It gives you a full breakdown and a rewrite right there locally. No API cost. Look, what I just showed you is the exact kind of workflow we're walking people through right now inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We've got 4,000 plus business owners in there who are using local AI models like Qwen 3.6-27B

to automate content creation, lead generation, member onboarding, and outreach AI without sending sensitive data to third-party servers. We've built a full 30-day roadmap specifically around setting up and using local AI models in your business step by step starting from zero. Inside, you also get four live coaching calls every single week where you can bring your exact setup, your prompts, your workflows, your questions, and we'll help you get it working. Daily tutorials covering the latest models as they drop including Qwen, a full prompt library with templates you can swipe and use immediately, and a member map so you can connect with other AI Profit Boardroom members near you who are building the same kind of systems. 4,000 plus people.

Someone's always online. Link in the description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. The model also has a built-in thinking mode for extended reasoning. So for deeper strategic work like building out a full 90-day content plan for the AI Profit Boardroom YouTube channel, mapping out which topics to cover, which keywords to target, which videos to use for lead gen, you turn thinking mode on and it works through the whole thing before giving you the output like a strategist running on your laptop. One

more. You paste in the last 30 community posts from the AI Profit Boardroom. You prompt, "Identify the top five pain points members are expressing, then write me five short-form video scripts that each address one of those pain points and end with a CTA to join the AI Profit Boardroom." It reads all 30 posts. It finds the patterns. It writes

the scripts. 262,000 tokens of context. You can feed it your entire content library at once. That's not a hypothetical. That's Tuesday morning. So

here's the practical path. If you're a business owner watching this, start testing Qwen 3.6 27B through the API right now. It's cheap. Open router has it. Use it to automate some of your

content, your research, your outreach sequences. Get comfortable with how it behaves, then think about whether local setup makes sense for you if you're handling client data, or if your API costs are climbing, or if you want to build AI workflows that run 24/7 without ongoing costs. Local AI is worth looking at seriously. Watch for Qwen 3.8 27B this week. If the weights drop and the

community benchmarks hold up, it could be the most capable local model available right now. And don't wait on all of this because here's the thing about AI in 2026. The models that are insane today become the baseline in 6 months. The business owners learning this stuff now are building systems that compound. The ones who wait are going to spend twice as long catching up later.

That gap between people using these tools and people not using them is growing every week, not slowly, fast. If you want to be ready the moment Qwen 3.8 27B drops with a full playbook for running it locally and plugging it into your business workflows, come join the AI Profit Boardroom. Right now we're building out our Qwen local AI setup guides, step-by-step walk-throughs for downloading the model, running it efficiently on your hardware, and connecting it to real business automation workflows for content, lead gen, and community growth. The moment Qwen 3.8 27B lands, we'll have a full

tutorial inside within 24 hours. Four live coaching calls every week you can bring your Qwen setup and get hands-on help. A 30-day roadmap for business owners starting from zero with local AI. 4,000 plus members, a lot of them already running Qwen powered workflows, prompt library, member map, and someone always online to help you troubleshoot. Link in the description or go to AIprofitboardroom.com.

And if you want the full notes from this video, all the Qwen prompts and templates I covered, plus 100 plus AI automation use cases you can use in your business today, join the AI Success Lab. It's free. 87,000 members. Everything's linked in the comments and description. Grab the resources and start building.

That's Qwen 3.6 27B, a 27 billion parameter model beating a 397 billion parameter model running locally, open weights, free after setup. And the next version drops this week. Get ahead of it now.