---
video_title: "Claude Memory Just Got a HUGE Upgrade"
video_id: UEerQfyqbaY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UEerQfyqbaY
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Claude's memory just got a major upgrade — one shared memory across Chat and Cowork, topics you can read and edit, and a settings toggle most people have never opened. I'll show you exactly what changed, what Claude will and won't remember, and how to set it up in under two minutes. Plus what happened when I ran the same memory system across every agent in Agent OS.
  
  00:00 Intro – Stop re-explaining yourself to AI
  01:00 One Shared Memory – Chat and Cowork finally talk
  01:32 Live Memory – Claude saves topics as you type
  01:52 Full Control – See, edit, and delete what it remembers
  02:06 Sensitive Topics – What's off by default and why
  02:34 Hard Limits – What Claude will never store
  02:49 Setup – The two toggles in Settings → Memory
  02:58 Plans – Free, Pro, Max, Team and Enterprise
  04:39 Memory Vault – Shared context for every agent
  05:04 Prompt Demo – Why naming your inputs wins
  06:42 Opus 5 Benchmark – 8.27/10 across 50 tasks
  07:18 Do This Today – Clean up your memory files
---
Claude memory just got a huge upgrade. How many times have you explained the same thing to an AI this week? Your name, your project, how you like things written. Claude just killed that problem for good, and the setting that controls it most people have never even opened it. Stay with me because this changes how you work every single day. I'm the

digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and I help people learn AI tools and actually use them in real work, not theory, stuff you can copy today. In this video, I'll show you exactly what changed with Claude's memory, where the settings live, what Claude will and won't remember, and what I built running Claude inside Agent OS. There's also a shared memory vault inside Agent OS that I think a lot of you are going to want. I'll get to that. Claude is the AI assistant built by Anthropic, web, desktop, phone. There's Claude code for

developers, and there's Claude co-work for bigger tasks with files and tools, and that's where the problem used to be. Chat knew you, co-work didn't. So, you'd explain your project in chat, hand a task to co-work, and start from zero. Here's the first change. There is now one memory across Claude co-work and chat. The memory you use in chat is the

same one co-work uses. When co-work runs a task in the cloud, what Claude remembers from your chats is already there, and it goes both ways. What comes up in co-work carries back to chat. Anthropic gave clear examples. Ask co-work to draft an update for your manager, and it already knows who she is and how she likes updates written.

Brainstorm a conference agenda in chat, then ask co-work to build the budget and logistics doc, and it knows the head count, the city, and the speakers. Explain once how your team defines its metrics, and every quarterly review deck co-work builds after that uses them. No rebriefing. Second change. Claude now adds topics to memory while you chat instead of summarizing conversations after they end. Mention your deadline

moved to September, and your next conversation already knows. You never have to say remember this, and you can pause memory or reset it at any time. Third change. You can see everything Claude remembers. It's a list of files under topics in memory settings. Read

them, edit them, delete them. They're short. Fix your company's old name in one file and every conversation from then on gets it right. Now, sensitive topics. By default, Claude does not store things like your health, race, ethnicity, religious beliefs, politics, or gender identity, but you can turn that on. Then Claude remembers something

like a gluten allergy when it suggests recipes for your weekly meal prep. With it on, you get a notice each time something like that gets saved. It only saves going forward. Nothing gets pulled in retroactively and you can switch it off whenever you want. Some things Claude never stores even with that setting on. Sensitive identification

numbers like a social security number or government ID, criminal history, immigration status, anything that breaks Anthropic's usage policy. Claude tells you when it can't save something. To set it up, open Claude, go to settings, then memory. You'll see two toggles. Generate memory from chats lets Claude build memory from your conversations and turning it on is also what allows sensitive topics. Search and reference

chats lets Claude look through your past conversations for relevant details. Memory is on by default on free, pro, and max across web, desktop, and mobile. Sensitive topics stay off by default. On iOS and Android, update your app for the latest version. On team and enterprise, your admin controls it and memory stays off for you until you turn it on yourself. Quick pause. If you've got a

site or brand, this next part matters more than toggles. We run a free AI brand visibility session. A strategist looks at how you actually show up right now, not just in Google, but in AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. Because Claude remembering your brand doesn't help you if the AI tools your customers use have never heard of you. On that session, you get a custom visibility plan built for your site, a competitor gap analysis so you can see where other people show up and you don't and direct answers to your questions from a strategist. 100% free, no

obligation. Links below, go book it. And the system I keep mentioning Agent OS lives inside the AI Profit Boardroom. The full Agent OS zip file is in there ready to install. You don't build it, you just drop it in. We've also built a

complete 30-day roadmap to go with it. So you know exactly what to do on day one, day five, day 20. Around memory specifically, there are Agent OS walkthroughs on setting up your vault and structuring your contacts files so your agents actually use them. There are live coaching calls where you bring your own Agent OS setup and ask questions about it. And the prompts and templates we run these builds with, including the ones behind the Goldy bench test, are all in there. Now the Agent OS memory

vault, the same idea applied to every agent you run. Inside Agent OS, there's a shared memory vault every agent reads from. Whichever agent you fire up already has context from every other time you've used it. You never start from scratch. It's powered by an Obsidian vault, plain files you can open and edit, so you see exactly what your agents work from. Same idea as Claude's

topics files. Here's the first thing I ran inside Agent OS. The prompt was create a single HTML page for an SEO results calculator for AI Profit Boardroom with inputs for monthly traffic, conversion rate, average order value, and estimated SEO lift. The shape of that prompt is the lesson. One page, not a project, a single HTML file. That's how Agent OS

builds. One prompt, one shot, one file out. Then four named inputs. Monthly traffic is what's coming in. Conversion rate is how much of that turns into action. Average order value is the size

of each. Estimated SEO lift is the change you're modeling. I named all four instead of saying build me a calculator. That's the bit most people skip, vague prompt, vague page. Named inputs and the model knows what fields to put on screen. And because Agent OS holds brand

context in the shared vault, I didn't have to explain what AI Profit Boardroom is before asking. That's the difference between a prompt you type once and one you rewrite every time. Second one, inside Agent OS. The prompt, create a simple HTML landing page for a free SEO audit offer with a headline, benefits, a form section, testimonials, an FAQ, and CTA buttons. Same pattern, single page.

Then I listed the sections instead of leaving it open. Headline, benefits, form section, testimonials, FAQ, CTA buttons. Six blocks named in order, so the page comes back structured the way a landing page actually is. If I just asked for a landing page for a free SEO audit, I'd be guessing at what comes back. Listing the sections is the trick.

And notice what I left out. I didn't describe the offer, the tone, or who it's for. Agent OS keeps that in the shared vault. The context lives somewhere permanent, so your prompt stays short. Two prompts, two pages. We

tested Claude Opus 5 on GoldyBench the day it landed inside the Agent operating system. Same prompt for every model, one shot. Opus 5 has a 1 million token context window. It averaged 8.27 out of 10 across 50 scored tasks. 13 golds,

seven silvers, five bronzes. Two were games. Crypt scored 8.4. Torchlit Crypt, skeleton enemy, full HUD, held back by a heavy red damage vignette. Dragon Realms

scored 8.3. Frozen world, aurora, ruins, armored character with sword drawn, kept below the top by no visible enemies. So this week, open settings, memory topics, and read your files. Fix what's wrong, then feed it the stuff you keep retyping. Document formatting, key

people, metrics. Two things before you go. If you want expert eyes on your own brand, book the free AI brand visibility session. You just learned how Claude builds context about you. That session is about how AI systems build context about your brand and whether they mention you at all when someone asks.

Custom visibility plan, competitor gap analysis, clear recommendations you can act on. 100% free, no obligation, link below. And when you go build with this, here's what happens. Memory feels great for a week, then you hit the real questions. What belongs in the Agent OS vault? How to stop agents pulling stale

context? How to structure your files so a one-shot prompt gives you something shippable instead of something you rebuild. That's what the AI Profit Boardroom is for. The Agent OS zip, ready to install, the 30-day roadmap, the Agent OS walkthroughs, the prompt library, and live coaching calls where you ask about your exact setup instead of guessing. Over 4,000 members building with it every day. Come join us. Head to

aiprofitboardroom.com.