---
video_title: "NEW Hermes Agent OS is CRAZY Good! 🤯"
video_id: 4ATb63ZjZNk
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ATb63ZjZNk
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Hermes Agent OS v0.21.0: The Pantheon Update is a Game Changer
  
  Discover the new Hermes Agent OS v0.21.0 Pantheon release that allows AI agents to communicate in group chats and share persistent memory. Learn how to build a coordinated AI team to automate your business lead generation and content workflows.
  
  00:00 - Intro to Pantheon Release
  00:41 - The Problem with Current AI
  01:33 - What is Hermes Agent OS?
  01:55 - New v0.21.0 Feature Breakdown
  02:48 - Why Persistent Memory Matters
  04:02 - Real-World Business Example
  05:12 - The Oracle Radar Workflow
  06:15 - The Evolution of Hermes
---
The new Hermes Agent OS just dropped, and this one is worth paying attention to. Hermes V0.21.0, they're calling it the Pantheon release, came out September 1st, 2026. And what it introduces is something most AI tools still can't do. Your AI agents can now

talk to each other. They can work in group chats together. They remember what they did yesterday. They run on a schedule in the background. They can control your browser. And you sit above

all of it directing the team. That is a different way of using AI entirely. So, in this video, I'm going to break down exactly what the new Hermes Agent OS can do, why the Pantheon update is a big deal, and show you real examples of how you'd actually use this specifically for growing a business and getting more customers with AI automation. Let's get into it. Here's the problem most people have with AI right now. You open

ChatGPT. You type something. You get an answer. You close it. You open Claude.

You type something else. You copy the answer. You paste it somewhere. You open another tool. You start over. Every AI

tool is its own island. Nothing connects. Nothing remembers. You're the one manually carrying information between everything. And for basic tasks, that's fine. But if you're trying to run

a business with AI, generating leads, creating content, staying on top of trends, growing a community, doing it that way is slow and exhausting. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Hermes Agent OS is built to fix exactly that. Here's the simplest

way to understand what this is. ChatGPT is an AI you talk to. Hermes is an AI that does work. Hermes Agent OS is the environment where multiple AI agents work together as a coordinated team with shared memory, shared goals, and no human manually moving information between them. That's the jump, and the Pantheon release just made that possible in a way it wasn't before. Here's what's

new in V0.21.0. Bot mode, you can create named AI agents with their own identities and avatars. Group chats, multiple agents can participate in the same conversation together. Hermes peer, agents can now

send direct messages to other agents. Persistent Chrome memory, your scheduled automations now remember what they did the last time they ran. Durable notepads, long-running agents keep working context so they don't lose track. Live sub-agent steering, you can redirect an agent mid-task while it's working. MCP command center improvements, desktop browser control, six new model providers, security hardening throughout. That's a serious

update. Let me show you what it means in practice. Before this release, if you ran a scheduled agent, something that say finds trending AI content ideas every morning, it would run, do its job, and then completely forget everything. Next time it runs, it starts from zero. Now that same agent can remember. It

knows what it found yesterday. It knows what it already covered. It knows what performed well. Over time it improves, not because someone retrained it, but because it has actual memory of what it's done. That changes what's possible with automation. If you want the full

Hermes Agent OS setup inside your business, including the zip file ready to install AIO, that's inside the AI Profit Boardroom right now. You get the complete installation guide, the step-by-step video tutorial, every prompt template we use, and the full content workflow we've built for the AI Profit Boardroom itself. Four coaching calls every week where we go deep on exactly this, setting up your Agent OS, connecting your agents, getting your first automated workflow running. Business owners already building with AI automation, a prompt library built specifically around Agent OS workflows, and a member map so you can find and connect with other Hermes users near you. Link in the description or go to AI profitboardroom.com.

And if you want a free custom strategy session where we look at your specific business and map out exactly how AI automation and SEO can help you get more leads and more customers. Book that at goldy.agency. Link in the comments and description. We'll build you a game plan tailored to where you are right now.

Here's a real example of how we'd use this to grow the AI Profit Boardroom. We'd set up a scheduled Hermes agent runs every morning automatically with one job, find the top AI automation topics that our audience of business owners would actually care about today. The prompt looks something like this. You are the AI Profit Boardroom content research agent. Search for the most relevant AI automation news from the last 24 hours. Focus on tools,

workflows, and updates that help business owners save time and grow their business with AI. Rank the top five stories by relevance. For each one, write one sentence explaining why it matters to our community. That runs on its own every single day before anyone opens a laptop. With persistent memory now built into the scheduling system, the agent starts to track what topics it's already covered, which ones got strong engagement, and what gaps exist in our content. It doesn't need to be

told. It builds that understanding over time automatically. Now, let me show you the multi-agent side of this because this is where the Pantheon update gets genuinely interesting. New bot mode and Hermes peer features mean your agents can actually communicate with each other directly. Group chats, direct messages between agents, coordinated workflows where one agent hands off to the next automatically. So, let me walk you

through the Hermes Oracle radar system because this is the specific workflow we've built inside the AI Profit Boardroom and it shows exactly how these layers work together. Layer one is the alarm. A scheduled cron job fires every 24 hours. That's what starts the whole thing. Layer two is the eyes. The agent

searches live news using Grok's live search to find what's actually trending right now, not what an algorithm decided to show you days later. The actual firehose of what's happening. Layer three is the judge. This is the part most people skip when they build automations. The agent doesn't just hand you a list of everything it found. It

scores each story across six relevance signals and ranks them. The most important story for our audience surfaces at the top. Layer four is the messengers. One click and the top story becomes a social post, a video outline, or an SEO article already written, already personalized to our voice and audience. Now, zoom out and look at what's actually being built here. It's

not one AI tool, it's infrastructure, a set of agents with specific jobs, shared memory, scheduled workflows, and the ability to communicate with each other. Hermes feed 0.21 is the first version where all those pieces exist in one place. Look at the version history and you can see exactly where this has been heading. V0.18 added mixture of agents

and agent self-verification. V0.19 added live reasoning streaming, background sub-agents, and smart approvals. V0.20E, the herald release from August 2026, added real-time conversational voice, agent-to-agent protocol, desktop artifacts, and grounded research citations. And now, V0.21 adds group

chats, persistent memory, browser control, and bot mode. Every release compounds on the one before it. The direction is clear. More agents, more memory, more coordination, less manual work from you. One more thing worth knowing about Hermes, it works with multiple AI models, OpenAI, Anthropic, Google Gemini, local models through Ollama, and more. That matters because

different models are better at different jobs. If you want the full Hermes Agent OS setup inside your business, including the zip file ready to install, that's inside the AI Profit Boardroom right now. You get the complete installation guide, the step-by-step video tutorial, every prompt template we use, and the full content workflow we've built for the AI Profit Boardroom itself. Four coaching calls every week where we go deep on exactly this, setting up your Agent OS, connecting your agents, getting your first automated workflow running. Business owners already building with AI automation, a prompt library built specifically around Agent OS workflows, and a member map so you can find and connect with other Hermes users near you. Link in the description

or go to AI profitboardroom.com. And if you want a free custom strategy session where we look at your specific business and map out exactly how AI automation and SEO can help you get more leads and more customers, book that at goldie.agency. Link in the comments and description. We'll build you a game plan

tailored to where you are right now.