---
video_title: "NEW Atlas AI World Model is SCARY GOOD!"
video_id: icnJy0tzVAQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=icnJy0tzVAQ
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Atlas AI: This New "World Model" Is Scarier Than Video AI
  
  Discover Atlas by World Labs, a revolutionary AI that doesn't just generate video, but constructs entire 3D worlds you can navigate. Learn how this spatial intelligence tool allows for total camera control and realistic environment rebuilding from single photos.
  
  00:00 - Intro to Atlas AI
  00:19 - What is an Omnimodel?
  01:12 - Building 3D from One Photo
  02:41 - Cinematic Camera Control
  04:01 - 3D Exports & Gaussian Splats
  05:12 - The Impact on Robotics
  07:09 - The Evolution of AI Models
---
New Atlas AI world model is scary good. Today, I'm going to show you a brand new AI tool that does something wild. It doesn't just make a video, it builds a whole world you can walk through. This tool is called Atlas and it just dropped. It's free to learn about, it's easy to understand, and it's about to change how AI video works forever. Stick

around because by the end of this, you'll know exactly what Atlas can do and why it's a big deal. So, what is Atlas? Atlas comes from a company called World Labs. This company was started by a smart AI researcher named Fei-Fei Li. World Labs calls Atlas an omnimodel.

That's a fancy word. It just means Atlas can work with lots of different things at once. It can use text, it can use pictures, it can use video, and it can use 3D space. All of that gets mixed together into one thing. Here's the crazy part. Normal AI video tools make

one flat video. You type a prompt and you hope the camera moves the way you want. Sometimes it listens, sometimes it doesn't. Atlas does something different. You give it a picture, then you tell it exactly where the camera should go.

Left, right, up, down, all the way around. And Atlas builds the whole scene so the camera can move through it, just like a real movie camera would. No guessing, no crossing your fingers. You plan the shot and Atlas builds the world for that shot. Think about that for a second. You're not asking the AI to

guess what a camera move looks like. You're actually giving it the exact path. That's a huge difference. It's the difference between hoping and controlling. And here's where it gets even wilder. You can give Atlas just one

photo. From that one photo, it can build views that were never even in the picture, like the back of an object or what's around the corner. It's not just stretching the picture bigger, it's actually figuring out where things are, what they look like from other angles, and what's probably hiding outside the frame. That's why World Labs calls it a world model, not just a video tool. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Now, let's talk about something called spatial context. This is a big word for a simple idea. Say you give Atlas two pictures, one picture of a room, another picture of a hallway, Atlas can actually build the space between them. It can

imagine the doorway, it can imagine the walk from one room to the next, then it lets a camera fly right through that made-up space. That's when this really starts to feel like magic. Think about what that means. It's not just looking at pictures one at a time, it's treating them like snapshots of one bigger place, like puzzle pieces that all fit together into the same world. And once it understands that, it can fill in everything in between. That's a

completely different way of thinking about pictures than what we're used to seeing from AI. World Labs showed off a demo where Atlas made a full minute of video in high quality using just a handful of starting pictures. In one example, they used seven pictures. Then a person planned out exactly how the camera should move. Atlas built the entire moving scene from that plan. And

here's the cool part. You can use that same generated world and shoot it with a totally different camera path. Same world, different shot. That's like having a movie set you can film over and over from any angle you want without rebuilding anything. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. It's a

community built for people who want to use AI the smart way, not the confusing way. Inside we break down exactly how tools like Atlas and other new AI updates can save you time, take work off your plate, and help you bring in more customers without you having to figure it all out alone. We share real workflows, real automations, and real ways to put AI to work inside your business step-by-step, so you're never left guessing what to do next. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, my team can help with that, too. Book a free SEO strategy session with us using the link in the description. On that

call, we'll look at where your content stands right now and walk you through what's actually holding you back from ranking higher and getting found by more people. It's free, it's simple, and it's a great next step if you're serious about growing your visibility online. Okay, let's keep going because there's more cool stuff Atlas can do. Atlas doesn't only make video, it can also spit out real 3D stuff, things like depth maps, point clouds, and something called Gaussian splats. Don't worry about the fancy names, just know this.

These are ways of turning a flat picture into something you can actually walk around inside like a video game level. So, one photo goes in and a whole explorable 3D space can come out. And it's not just one photo, either. World Labs says Atlas can take anywhere from one picture to dozens of pictures of a real place and rebuild that place. It fills in the parts nobody actually took a photo of. That opens doors for movies,

games, architecture, digital copies of real buildings, and virtual reality. Basically, any job where someone needs a 3D space but doesn't want to build it by hand from scratch. Here's a demo that really shows how useful this is. World Labs took footage from just a few regular cameras, not fancy movie cameras, just phones and simple action cameras clipped onto tripods. Then Atlas rebuilt the scene using that footage.

After that, they could create camera angles that were never actually filmed. It's like bullet time from the movies, but made with stuff you probably already own. That's a huge deal for anyone who makes videos but doesn't have a big budget for fancy camera rigs. Now, here's the part that really matters for the future. Robots. World Labs isn't

just thinking about filmmakers, they're thinking about robots, too. Atlas can take a real room, rebuild it, and then let a robot practice moving through that space, all inside the computer. It can create new camera angles, new lighting, and new setups, all from the same rebuilt room. World Labs even says Atlas can change things like object positions, lighting, backgrounds, and how the robot moves, all inside that rebuilt space. Why does that matter so much? Because

right now, teaching a robot in the real world is slow. You need real rooms, real objects, real time. If a robot can instead practice thousands of times inside a rebuilt digital copy of a room, that changes everything. It means robots could learn and practice in a safe digital copy of the real world instead of only learning in real life where every mistake costs time to fix. Let's talk about how Atlas actually works under the hood, but I'll keep this simple. Atlas mixes together a few

ideas. It works kind of like a language model where it predicts what should come next. Then it uses something called diffusion, which slowly builds a clear picture out of noise, kind of like clearing fog off a window. And on top of that, it actually understands where the camera is in 3D space. Mix all that together and you get Atlas. Now, World

Labs also shared some test results. They say Atlas beats other video tools when it comes to following a camera path. They also say it beats other 3D tools at rebuilding scenes, but here's something important to know. These are World Labs' own tests. They're not tested by an outside group yet. So, it's smart to see

this as promising, not proven beyond doubt. That's just being honest with you. One more honest thing you should know. Atlas isn't out for everyone yet. Right now, it's in early access. That

means only some partners can use it. There's no date for when everyone gets it, and the tool everyone can use isn't fully open yet either. So, don't go looking for a public sign-up page just yet. World Labs did say Atlas will power future versions of their other product called Marble. So, it's clearly part of a bigger plan. So, why does any of this

matter? Let's zoom out for a second. First, we had AI that understood words, then we had AI that could make pictures, then AI that could make videos. Now, we're moving into AI that can actually model a whole world, not just what one frame looks like, but where things are and what they'd look like from anywhere else in that space. That's a totally different kind of thinking for AI. A

normal video tool asks, "What should the next frame look like?" A world model like Atlas asks, "What actually exists in this space? And what would it look like if I stood somewhere else and looked around?" That's a much bigger question, and it's the direction AI seems to be heading in now. If you want to actually put tools like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. It's the

place where we break down exactly how to use new AI tools like Atlas to save time, cut out the busy work, and bring in more customers step-by-step without needing to be a tech expert. We keep it simple. We keep it practical. And we show you exactly what to do, not just what's new. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll sit down with you,

look at what's working and what's not, and give you a clear plan to help more of the right people find your content. It's free. It's no pressure. And it's a great way to get real feedback from people who do this every single day. Drop a comment below and let me know.

What would you use a tool like Atlas for? Would you use it for videos, for games, or something else? Julian reads every single comment, so don't be shy. Hit subscribe if you want more AI updates like this one. I'll see you in the next video.