---
video_title: "Hermes vs DeepSeek Harness: Best AI Agent in 2026?"
video_id: nipyxCizxRM
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nipyxCizxRM
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Hermes vs. Deepseek Harness — two free open-source AI agents, one six months old, one two days old. Here's which one actually wins for coding, memory, and daily workflow (the answer isn't what you'd expect).
  
  00:00 Intro – Hermes vs. Deepseek Harness, why the "safe" pick isn't obvious
  01:06 What Deepseek Harness Is – local agent, everything's a plugin
  02:42 Hermes' Edge – self-improving memory that learns from past tasks
  03:08 Reliability Check – which one breaks less (best pick for beginners)
  04:12 Output Quality – speed and results on real coding tasks
  06:15 Workflow Fit – browser-based vs. desktop app, the deciding factor
  07:06 Verdict – why running both beats picking one
---
Hermes versus Deep Seek Harness, which AI agent actually wins in 2026? One of these AI agents is two days old, the others had six months to get it right. So, the older one's the safe bet, right? Not even close. Both are free. Both want

to run your whole day, and the one I'd hand to a beginner might surprise you. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and I help people actually learn and use AI tools in the work they do every day. Today, it's Deep Seek Harness versus Hermes, two free open-source AI agents that both want to be the thing running your business. I run both of them inside one setup I call my agent OS. And by the end of this, you'll know exactly what each one nails, where each one falls apart, and why the smartest move isn't the one everyone's arguing about. Stick

with me because the winner flips halfway through. Let's start with what actually happened because this is brand new. A few days ago, Deep Seek dropped two things at once, their V4 Pro model and a developer preview of something called Deep Seek Harness. The model got the headlines, but the harness is the bigger story. In its first couple of days, it pulled in around 113,000 GitHub stars.

Now, it's past 135,000. That's one of the fastest-growing open-source projects anyone's seen. Within a day of launch, the community had already built hundreds of plugins for it. So, what is it? Deep Seek Harness is a local AI agent that runs on your own computer. The model itself

lives in the cloud, but the agent, the part that reads your files, runs commands, edits code, and searches the web, that part runs on your machine. On the surface, it sounds like Claude code or Codex. Underneath, it's built completely differently. And that difference is why developers are losing their minds over it. Now, the other side. Hermes comes from new research,

and it launched back on February 25th, 2026. Six months later, it sits at around 226,000 stars, which made it the fastest-growing open-source agent framework of the year right up until this week, when Deep Seek Harness started chasing that record down. Here's what makes Deep Seek Harness special. Everything is a plugin. That's their actual slogan, and they mean it literally. The model it uses a plugin,

the tools it can call plugins, the memory, the search, the sub-agents, the scheduling, even the main loop that makes the agent think and act. All plugins, every single piece can be pulled out, swapped, or replaced without touching the core. Think of it like this. Most AI agents come to you like a finished toy. It works, but if you want to change one piece, you're stuck. With

Deep Seek Harness, you get a box of bricks and the instructions. Don't like the search engine? Snap in a different one. Don't like the model? Plug in another one. Want to drop in a free

model like Deep Seek V4 Flash as a drop down? Done, anytime you want. The system underneath all this is called Cordis, and this part matters more than people realize because Cordis isn't some experiment they cooked up last month. It's a plugin framework that's been quietly powering an open-source chat project for years. So, this brand new tool actually has years of real-world testing behind it, which is a big reason it feels so solid straight out of the gate. Hold that thought because Hermes

has one trick that genuinely stands apart. It learns. It's got a three-layer memory system and a self-improvement loop. When Hermes solves a problem, it can save what it figured out as a skill. Next time you ask for that job, it's faster because it remembers. Most agents

don't do that. Hermes does. It'll also talk to you through chat apps like Telegram and Discord, so it can run in the background and message you like a teammate. So, on paper, this looks close. Two free agents, huge communities, fast updates. But, once you

actually run them day after day, real differences show up. There are three big ones, and the third decides the whole thing. First one, which agent breaks less? Deep Seek Harness is built more for coding, and it looks and feels a lot like Claude code, clean, simple. You just type what you want in plain English. Hermes is

powerful, but it's fiddly, and honestly, it breaks more. When I ran them side by side, Hermes tripped over itself way more often. So, if you're a total beginner, I'd actually start you on the two-day-old one. Deep Seek Harness is easier, it's more reliable, and setting the model is simple. That's the twist.

The newer tool is the gentler place to start. Here's something I tried just to show you how flexible it is. I opened a new session in Deep Seek Harness, turned on creator mode, and typed one line, "Add a small panel in the bottom corner with my three tasks for the day." It built the whole thing right there, planned it, wrote the code, dropped it into the interface. No digging through settings, no config files. In Hermes,

that kind of custom workflow is possible, too, but it took me hours of coding to pull off. One thing to keep in mind, Deep Seek Harness is brand new and still in developer preview. It's on version 0.1, so things are going to change fast, and yeah, it will break at times, too. It feels smooth right now, but expect it to move around a lot while it's this early.

Difference number two, output quality. For coding and building tasks, Deep Seek Harness just gives me better results, and part of that is the V4 Pro model behind it. Deep Seek built that model and this Harness to work together, and you can feel it. It's also faster. When I asked both of them to build out a mission control dashboard, Deep Seek replied instantly and kept moving.

Hermes took ages depending on the model I plugged in, and on big coding jobs, it timed out completely. It's not really a coding agent, it's better for smaller, scheduled, one-off tasks. To be fair to Hermes, it does show you what it's doing. You can click into any step and see more of what's going on under the hood, but Deep Seek Harness gives you that same visibility with way less noise. You can see your to-dos, what it's working on right now, every move it makes, all laid out. And a nice little

detail, in Deep Seek Harness, you can download your session logs in one click. Easy to grab, easy to read. Little things like that add up when you're in a tool all day. Now, some people say the one edge Hermes has is that it connects to your phone, but you can do the exact same thing in Deep Seek Harness. Someone already built a plugin that pairs it with a mobile device. That's the whole

point of the plugin design. Pretty much anything you see in Hermes, you can build into Deep Seek Harness. Quick thing before we get into the last difference, because this is where a lot of people get stuck. Building the tool is one thing. Getting your brand actually seen is another. So, I run a

free AI brand visibility session. It's a proper look at how you show up across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini right now. You get a custom visibility plan, a gap analysis against your competitors, and straight answers to your questions from a real strategist. It's 100% free, no obligation. Because if AI search can't find you, none of these agents matter.

So, go grab that session. And if you want the exact setup, I keep talking about, my Agent OS with both Deep Seek Harness and Hermes plugged into one dashboard that lives inside the AI Profit Boardroom. When Hermes came out, I plugged it in. When Deep Seek Harness dropped, I plugged that in, too. The full Agent OS zip file is in there ready to install, and I've built a complete 30-day roadmap to walk you through it step by step. You also get walk-throughs

on both agents, weekly coaching calls where you can ask about your own setup, and the prompts and tutorials I use every day. Come join us. Okay, difference number three, the one almost nobody talks about and the one that decides it for me, workflow fit. Deep Seek Harness is basically hosted locally as a website. That sounds small, but it's huge. Most people live in their

browser all day. They don't want another app to click into. Hermes usually runs as a desktop app. So, now you've got Hermes over here, Obsidian as your memory over there, maybe Claude Code running, too. That's three separate things to juggle. Everyone is another

tab, another window, another thing to lose track of. The way I get around that is I run Hermes on a schedule inside my Agent OS. So, it stops being a separate app I have to baby-sit. I've got one Hermes workflow I call Oracle doing research in the background every day, and another one Muse checking over my own content to spot where it can get sharper. Then I pull those outputs straight into whatever I'm building next, all from one screen, no app hopping. And here's the thing about

scheduling, Deep Seek Harness can do it, too. I went into a new session, turned on creator mode, and asked it to build me an option to schedule tasks daily, set the time, set the repeat. It designed the whole thing and plugged it in. Same cron style setup Hermes has, built in a few minutes instead of a few hours. So, which one wins? Honestly, I

don't see it as a choice. I run both. I give each one the lane it's best at. Deep Seek Harness for building and coding, Hermes for the slow, self-improving background jobs, and I manage them from one place. That's the whole reason my Agent OS exists. Because

here's what all of this is really telling you, open-source agents are getting bigger and faster every week. The tools are free. The models behind them can be free, too. You can plug a free brain into both. So, when the next big agent drops next month, it doesn't throw off your whole system. You just

plug it into your Agent OS, same as the last one. The setup gets stronger every time something new comes out instead of starting over. If you force me to pick just one, I'd go Deep Sea Kharness. It's more moldable, more fun to play with, and way more relaxed to use. But, the real answer is don't pick, run both, and let them cover each other. So, here's

your next step. If you want expert eyes on how your brand actually shows up in AI search, the thing that decides whether anyone ever finds you in the first place, book your free AI brand visibility session. You'll get a custom plan for your site, a clear read on where competitors are getting ahead of you, and specific recommendations you can act on right away. Completely free, no strings. And when you're ready to build this out for real, come into the AI Profit Boardroom. You're about to try one of

these agents, and you'll hit the same walls I did. It will break, a model will time out, you'll wonder if you set it up wrong. Inside, we get you past all that a lot faster. You get the full Agent OS zip ready to install, the 30-day roadmap to go with it, walkthroughs on both Deep Sea Kharness and Hermes, weekly coaching calls, and the exact prompts I use. Over 4,000 people are already in there building with us. Come join the AI

Profit Boardroom dot com. I'll see you in the next one.