---
video_title: "Gemini 3.7 Flash Is Faster, Smarter, and WILD"
video_id: WCtCskk-K6A
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WCtCskk-K6A
video_date: 20260815
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Gemini Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Google dropped Gemini 3.7 Flash just 3 weeks after 3.6 — and it's already the default in Antigravity. I break down what actually changed, the benchmark jumps, and the 2 prompts I used to test it live. Plus 6 beginner tips that decide whether you get a mess or something you can actually ship.
  
  00:00 Intro – Why Google shipped a new model in 3 weeks
  00:38 Flash vs Pro – Which Gemini model you're actually using
  01:27 What's New – Better coding, agents, and instruction-following
  02:03 Thinking Levels – Low, medium, high (and why max isn't best)
  02:19 Specs – 1M context, 64K output, Antigravity default
  03:45 Benchmarks – 3.7 vs 3.6 Flash, side by side
  04:58 Design Adherence – Turn a screenshot into a working page
  05:15 Live Test – The 2 prompts I ran
  06:16 6 Beginner Tips – Get usable output on the first try
  07:22 Honest Take – Why benchmarks aren't your workflow
---
Gemini 3.7 Flash is faster, smarter, and wild. What if the AI model you're using right now is already behind? Why did Google ship a brand new model just 3 weeks after the last one? Nobody asked for this. It showed up anyway, and it's

already the default in Google's own agent tool. Most people haven't even opened it yet. Hey, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie. I help people learn AI tools and actually use them in their real work, not just watch demos and forget about it. Today, I'm walking you through Gemini 3.7 Flash. What it

is, what changed, and the two prompts I used to test it. Stay with me because I'll also share the beginner tips that decide whether you get a mess or something you can actually use. Quick reset for anyone new. Gemini is Google's family of AI models. It powers the Gemini app, Google AI Studio, and a lot of what sits inside Google Workspace.

Inside that family, there are different sizes. The pro models are the deep thinkers. The flash models are the fast everyday workhorses. Flash is the one most people end up using without realizing it. So, here's what happened.

On August 13th, 2026, Google released Gemini 3.7 Flash. And the wild part is the timing. Gemini 3.6 Flash had only been out for 3 weeks. 3 weeks. Google

says this release came directly from developer feedback plus new algorithmic work they plan to bring into future models. That almost never happens this fast. Google calls it their most intelligent workhorse model yet for coding and agents, and the gains land in three areas: software engineering, knowledge work, web development. But, the part I care about most isn't a benchmark. Google says the developer experience is noticeably better. It

adapts when it hits a roadblock. It clarifies your intent when your instructions are vague instead of guessing and running off in the wrong direction. It follows instructions more closely, and it puts more effort into multi-step planning and tool calls. Google's own words are that more disciplined execution means less manual oversight and fewer retries. That's the thing nobody puts on a chart, how many times you had to say no, not like that.

There's also a control you should know about, thinking levels. You can set the model to low, medium, or high. Low is for speed, medium is the default, and it's what Google recommends for most complex code and agent work. High is for the genuinely hard stuff, tough reasoning, hard maths, the nastiest coding and agent tasks. High uses more tokens and takes longer, so maximum is not always the right answer. Specs-wise,

it handles a 1 million token context window and up to 64,000 output tokens, so you can feed it a lot in one go. And it's now the default model powering the anti-gravity agent, which is Google's agent-first coding setup. And one more thing worth noting here, this isn't a preview. Gemini 3.7 Flash is generally available and ready for production use with the model ID Gemini 3.7 Flash. It

carries the same suite of built-in tools as 3.6 Flash, so if you already had something running, you're not rebuilding it all from scratch to switch over. Now, here's where most people get stuck. You watch a video like this, you get excited, you open the tool, and then you sit there staring at a blank prompt box with no idea what to build first. That's the gap, and that's exactly why we built the AI Profit Boardroom. Inside there,

you get live coaching calls where you can bring your actual Gemini setup, your actual prompt, your actual half-working page, and get it sorted on the call instead of guessing for a week. You get walkthroughs that show you how to prompt models like 3.7 Flash for pages, calculators, and multi-step agent tasks. You get the prompt library, so you're not writing everything from scratch, and you get a 30-day roadmap, so you know what to build in what order instead of jumping between 11 tools and finishing none of them. If you're watching this thinking I'd use this, I just don't know where to start, that is literally what it's built for. Everything's at

aiprofitboardroom.com. Right, let's look at the numbers because they're not small. On Frontier Code 1.1 main, which tests production code quality, 3.7 Flash scored 43.6%.

3.6 Flash scored 34.4% on Deep SWE version 1.1, which tests long horizon software engineering, so the messy multi-step stuff, 3.7 Flash hit 65.3%

versus 49%. Then knowledge work, there's a benchmark called GDP.pdf that tests how well a model reads and understands complex documents. 3.7 Flash got 34%. 3.6 Flash got

If your job involves dragging in long PDFs and asking questions about them, that gap matters more than any coding score. An automation bench, which tests real business workflow automation, 30.4% versus 17%, nearly double. Web development is the other big one. On Web Dev Arena, a leaderboard where models get scored on web development tasks, 3.7

Flash hit an Elo score of 1588 compared to 1538 for 3.6 Flash. Google says it generates more functional layouts and more feature complete apps in fewer prompts. That fewer prompts bit is the whole story. There's something else here I think is underrated. Google says the

model now has high design adherence and parity based on a reference input. Plain English, you can hand it a screenshot, an image, or a full design system and it will match it more closely. It can even audit an existing code base against a mock to check the design lines up one-to-one. So let me show you the two prompts I ran. The first one, build a single HTML page for an SEO results calculator with inputs for monthly traffic, conversion rate, and an estimated SEO lift. One page, one

prompt. The second one, build a simple HTML landing page for a free SEO audit offer with a headline, a benefit section, a form section, testimonials, an FAQ, and call to action buttons. On the everyday side, Gemini Spark is now running on 3.7 Flash. Spark is the personal agent inside the Gemini app for Google AI Pro and Ultra subscribers in over 160 supported countries. Google

says the update makes Spark better at knowledge work with improved tool use for Google Workspace apps. Google also shipped 3.7 flash with updated frontier safety safeguards around chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear misuse and cyber offense. Now, the beginner tips. These change your results immediately. Tip one, name every section

in your prompt. Look at that second prompt. Headline, benefits, form, testimonials, FAQ, buttons. I didn't say make me a landing page. I listed the parts. The model builds what you name

and it guesses at what you don't. Tip two, give it a reference. Since design adherence improved so much, paste in a screenshot or an image of the layout you want. Describing a layout in words is hard. Showing it is easy. Tip three,

leave thinking on medium. People find that setting and immediately crank it to high on everything. That just costs you time on tasks that never needed it. Tip four, ask for one file when you want one file. In both my tests, I asked for a single HTML page, so I get something I can open in a browser straight away instead of a folder of pieces to assemble. Tip five, let it ask you

questions. This version clarifies intent when your instructions are unclear. If it asks you something, answer it properly. That one exchange saves you five rounds of fixing. Tip six, feed it the long stuff. With a 1 million token

context window and much better document comprehension, don't summarize your PDF before you paste it. Give it the whole thing and ask your question. And one honest note, everything I've quoted here is Google's own testing. Benchmarks are useful, but they're not your workflow. The only test that counts is the one you run on your own task. So, take one thing

you do every week and run it through 3.7 flash this weekend. If you want the full process, SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. Links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And look, here's what's going to

happen when you try this. Your first page will come out about 80% right. The layout will be close, one section will be off, and you won't know whether to re-prompt the whole thing or fix that one part. That's the moment people quit. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, that's the moment we're built for. Bring the

broken build to a live coaching call, and we'll fix it with you in real time. Use the tutorials to learn how to iterate instead of starting over. Follow the road map so your second build is faster than your first, and your 10th is faster again. And pull from the prompt library so you're starting from something that already works. You've got the model, we'll help you get good at driving it. Come join us at

aiprofitboardroom.com.