---
video_title: "Claude Mythos 6 is COMING!"
video_id: P8SXk6nQjGA
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P8SXk6nQjGA
video_date: 20260818
video_description: |
  Get the Claude Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Anthropic just admitted they built a stronger Claude model — and they're not giving it to you. Here's what "Model 2" actually is, why it's locked inside the company, and what the benchmark numbers reveal about where AI is really headed next.
  
  00:00 Intro – Anthropic's secret Model 2
  0:38 The Reveal – a stronger model built in-house
  0:51 Naming Confusion – is it really "Mythos 6"?
  1:20 Why Hold It Back? – the real reason
  2:56 Benchmark Results – Model 2 vs Mythos 5
  3:38 The Ceiling – tests can't tell models apart anymore
  3:56 Safety & Strategy – why Anthropic won't release it
  4:36 AI Building AI – the self-improving loop
  6:12 What To Do Now – 4 practical takeaways
---
Claude Mythos 6 is coming. What if Anthropic already built a better Claude and just decided not to give it to you? It's real. It's finished. It's sitting inside the company right now. They said

so themselves and they have no plans to release it. So, what is it and why are they holding it back? Let me show you. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie. I help you actually learn and use AI tools in your real work. And this week,

Anthropic did something they almost never do. They gave us a peek behind the curtain. Here's what happened. On August 14th, Anthropic put out a report. It's called a risk report. It's where they

talk about how safe their AI is and where things are heading. Buried inside that report was a surprise. They talked about a model most people have never heard of. Inside the company, they call it Model 2. And Model 2 is more capable than Mythos 5. That's their strongest

public model family. So, this new one is better. It's already built. It's already being used inside Anthropic every single day. Now, the internet ran with it.

People started calling it Claude Mythos 6. Some said Mythos 5.1. And that's where the confusion starts. So, let me clear it up fast. Anthropic did not call

it Mythos 6. That name is a guess. It's what fans and news sites are calling it because it looks like the next step up. What Anthropic actually said is simpler. They built a model. It's stronger than

what you can use today. And they're keeping it in-house. That's the real story. And it's a strange one because normally, when a company builds a better AI, they can't wait to ship it. They put it out. They want everyone using it.

Anthropic did the opposite. They told the world it exists and then said, "We have no plans to release this." So, why would they do that? Hang on because the answer changes how you should think about every AI tool you touch. But first, let me show you where this fits.

Think about how fast this is moving. Not long ago, a big AI update came maybe once a year. You'd hear about it for months. Now, there's a new model, a new tool, a new leak almost every single day. Blink and you miss three of them.

And here's the thing nobody tells you. You do not need every new model to do great work. Most people are chasing the newest name at the top of the list. They think the tool they have isn't good enough yet. So, they wait. They keep

waiting for the perfect one, and they never actually build anything. The models you can use right now are already incredibly strong. The one the public has, Fable 5, can already do things that would have looked like magic 2 years ago. The skill isn't having the newest model. The skill is knowing how to use the one in front of you. And that's

exactly why I built the AI Profit Boardroom. Keeping up with all of this is a full-time job. New models, new leaks, new names every week. It's a lot. Inside the Boardroom, we cut through the noise for you. We break down every big

release like this one in plain words, so you know what's real and what's just hype. We run live coaching calls where you can ask me straight up, "Hey, which model should I use for this exact task?" and get a real answer. There are step-by-step walk-throughs for the tools that are actually out right now, and a roadmap that keeps you moving forward instead of drowning in updates. So, while everyone else is confused about Model 2 and Mythos 6 and what any of it means, you'll already know exactly what to use and how to use it. That's what

you get if you join right now. Okay, let's get into what makes Model 2 interesting, and I'll keep it simple. Anthropic runs its own tests on these models. One of them is called Codebench. Think of it like a giant exam made of real problems the company has actually faced, 449 of them. Real engineering

puzzles, the kind their own team solves every day. On that test, Mythos 5 scored about 50%. Model 2 scored almost 63%. So, it's a clear step up. It's better at the hard, messy, real-world stuff. But,

here's the part that keeps it honest. That jump is not huge. Earlier this year, Anthropic went from an older model up to the Mythos family, and that was a giant leap. This time, the gain is smaller. It's better, yes, it's not a whole new world. And that matters

because it tells you something about where AI is right now. There's another clue hidden in that report. Anthropic said some of their own tests are starting to max out, meaning the models are improving faster than their exams can keep up with. The tests can't really tell the newest models apart anymore. Let that sink in. We're at the point

where the people building these things are running low on ways to even measure how much better each new one is getting. So, why keep Model 2 locked away? There are a few honest reasons. The first is safety. A more capable model can do more good, but it can also do more harm in the wrong hands. Anthropic is careful

about this. They would rather test something slowly and thoroughly than rush it out and hope for the best. The second is strategy. Instead of dropping one giant jaw-dropping model, Anthropic seems to be releasing smaller steps over time. Little upgrades instead of one big bang. That keeps them out in front and

it makes it harder for rival companies to copy their very best work. If your strongest model never leaves the building, nobody outside can learn from it. Anthropic even said this plainly. They train lots of these test models inside the company that they never plan to release. Model 2 is just one of them.

And it's not the only one sitting in the vault, either. Now, here's the part that should really get your attention. That same report let something slip about how these models get built. Inside Anthropic, AI is now writing a huge chunk of the code that goes into their own products. Not a little bit, a large share of it. And they said their own

research is moving noticeably faster because of it. Sit with that for a second. The AI is helping build the next AI. Each version helps make the one after it. That's why this is speeding up. That's why there's a new model or a

fresh leak almost every single week now. It isn't random. It's a loop, and the loop keeps getting faster. And that loop is exactly why you can't afford to sit on the sidelines waiting. These tools are getting better whether you're paying attention or not. The people who start

using them now improve right alongside them. The people who wait keep starting over from zero. So, the takeaway here isn't panic, it's the opposite. You don't need to catch every single release. You just need to be in the game learning while the game keeps getting easier to play. So, are we ever getting

Mythos 6? Honestly, nobody knows yet, not officially. Right now, there are no plans to release Model 2. That could change. It might show up later in some form. It might quietly power future

tools. Or it might stay behind closed doors while smaller, safer versions reach the rest of us. What I'd expect is more of what we're already seeing, steady steps, new versions that are a little better each time, not one magic model that changes everything overnight. And that's actually good news for you. Here's why. It means you are not falling

behind. The gap between the best model in the world and the one you can use today is much smaller than the hype makes it sound. You already have access to tools that are wildly powerful. The people winning in this space aren't the ones with some secret model. They're the ones who actually learn to use what's in front of them.

So, here's what I do with all this. First, use what's out right now. Don't sit around waiting for Myth or six. Fable five and the other release models are more than enough to do real work today. Open one up and start. Second,

match the model to the job. You don't need the biggest, strongest model for everything. A lot of tasks run great on a lighter, faster one. Save the heavy hitter for the hard stuff. Third, don't chase every leak. It's fun to follow, I

get it, but following the news is not the same as building a skill. Pick one tool, get good at it. That beats knowing the name of every model that hasn't even come out. And fourth, watch the direction, not the hype. The trend is clear. AI is getting steadily stronger

and easier to use. You don't need to guess the exact next model. You just need to keep building so you're ready no matter what drops. The truth is, model two being locked away doesn't hold you back at all. What holds people back is waiting. So, don't wait. Start now with

the tools you already have. If you want the full process, SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. Links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there. Plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And if you're

serious about actually keeping up, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. Here's what's going to happen. You'll start testing these models yourself. You'll hit questions, which one for this? Why isn't this working the way I expected? Is this new leak even worth my

time? That's exactly where we come in. You get live coaching calls to get unstuck fast, tutorials for the tools that are out today, roadmaps that tell you what to learn next, and ready-to-use prompts so you never stare at a blank screen. It's over 4,000 members all figuring this out together, so you never have to guess alone. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.