---
video_title: "NEW Gemini Notebook Updates are AMAZING!"
video_id: Nq0HOCdTKEk
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nq0HOCdTKEk
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Gemini Notebook: Google’s Massive Update Changes SEO Content
  
  Google has rebranded NotebookLM to Gemini Notebook, introducing game-changing features like AI video generation in over 70 languages and cinematic storytelling formats. Learn how these updates and the 5-hour limit reset can transform your SEO research and global content strategy.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:28 - NotebookLM is now Gemini Notebook
  01:14 - Core Capabilities & Sources
  02:22 - Solving the SEO Traffic Problem
  03:45 - Global Video in 70+ Languages
  04:45 - 3 New Video Formats
  05:34 - New Usage & Reset Limits
---
New Gemini notebook updates are amazing. Google just changed the SEO content game forever and most people have no idea this even happened. Gemini notebook can now turn your research into 60 second videos in 70 plus languages. Your usage limits reset every 5 hours now instead of once a day and if you run out while generating something, it literally finishes the work for you later. This is the biggest upgrade to AI research tools I've seen all year. Now let me tell you

what just happened and why it matters for your SEO content strategy. Google renamed notebook LM. It's now called Gemini notebook. Same tool, bigger vision. Google officially made this change in July 2026 and they're not just rebranding it. They're connecting it to

the entire Gemini ecosystem, Google search and even giving it access to a cloud computer that can write and run code. This is not a small update. This is Google saying Gemini notebook is now a core part of how they want people to do research and create content at scale. So hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie

reads every comment so make sure you comment below. So what does Gemini notebook actually do? You upload your sources, PDFs, websites, YouTube videos, Google Docs, audio files, then Gemini helps you research, analyze, question and transform all of that into completely different formats, reports, mind maps, audio overviews, videos, slide decks, quizzes, flash cards. For SEO content creators, this is massive. Here is why. Let me show you exactly how

we use this inside AI profit boardroom, our AI automation community, to build an SEO content machine. Every single week, the AI profit boardroom team collects the most important AI news, Google announcements, new tools, research papers, YouTube demos, product documentation. We upload all of it into one Gemini notebook and call it AI profit boardroom weekly AI Intelligence. Then we ask it one simple question, what are the five most important AI developments that AI Profit Boardroom members need to know about this week? Focus on opportunities for small businesses, agencies, consultants, and entrepreneurs. In one step, we now have

the foundation for an entire week of SEO content, a written report, an audio overview, a mind map, a slide deck, and now short videos in over 70 languages. That last part, that is the update that changes everything. Now, before we go deeper into the updates, I want to say something important. If you are creating all of this content, but nobody is actually finding it on Google, that is a traffic problem, and it is fixable. Here is the thing most people miss. You can

have the best AI generated content in your niche, the best videos, the best articles, the most consistent publishing schedule, but if your site has no authority, no backlinks, and no SEO foundation, Google is not going to rank you. My team at Goldie Agency has helped hundreds of businesses fix exactly that. We handle the backlinks, the technical SEO, the strategy, all of it, so you can stay focused on building your content and growing your audience. If you want more traffic, more visibility, and more leads coming in from Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team. The link is in the description and pinned in the comments. Now, let's keep going.

And if you want to go even deeper into AI automation, content systems, and exactly how tools like Gemini Notebook fit into a real business growth strategy, come join us inside AI Profit Boardroom. It is where we bring together entrepreneurs, agency owners, consultants, and creators who are serious about using AI to build smarter, faster, and more efficiently. Every week we share new research, new workflows, new prompts, and real strategies you can apply right away. The link for that is in the description, too. Update number one, short video overviews now work in over 70 languages. Gemini Notebook can

now take your sources and generate approximately 60-second vertical videos. And here is the big new part. It can do this in more than 70 languages. Plus, they added Australian English, British English, and Indian English as options. This is rolling out for Google AI Ultra and Pro subscribers on web and mobile.

Let me show you what this looks like for AI Profit Boardroom in practice. Say we research the topic how AI agents can automate content creation for SEO agencies. We upload our research, YouTube videos, AI articles, SEO case studies. Then we generate a short video overview in English. Done. Now we do it

again in Spanish, again in Hindi, again in Arabic. Same research, same notebook, multiple videos for multiple audiences. The prompt we use inside AI Profit Boardroom is simple. Analyze these sources and identify the most important lessons for small business owners who want to grow their SEO traffic using AI automation. That one prompt, that one notebook, can now power a global video content strategy. Update number two.

Three different video formats. Gemini notebook now gives you three video styles to choose from. Cinematic. This is a rich storytelling experience. Inside AI Profit Boardroom, we use this for premium training content and community presentations. Explainer. A

structured breakdown of your sources. We use this for YouTube tutorials and member education. Short. Approximately 60 seconds fast vertical. We use these for YouTube Shorts, Instagram Reels, LinkedIn videos, and TikTok. The

workflow we run for AI Profit Boardroom content looks like this. We research one topic once, then we generate a cinematic version for our premium members, an explainer version for YouTube, and a short version for social media. One research session becomes an entire content ecosystem built for SEO reach across multiple platforms. Update number three. Flexible usage limits. Google is

moving away from rigid daily limits. The new system looks at how computationally heavy each task actually is. A simple question uses fewer resources. A complex deep research task or a video generation uses more. This gives you more control over how you use your available compute.

Think of it like this. Every action has a cost. Simple questions cost a little. Generating a video overview or slide deck costs more. Now, Gemini notebook is honest with you about that instead of just cutting you off with a flat limit.

For AI Profit Boardroom, this means we can plan our content sessions around the work we actually need to do. Light research in the morning, heavy artifact generation later. Update number four, limits now reset every 5 hours. This is a massive productivity win. Old system, hit your limit, wait until tomorrow. New

system, hit your limit, wait 5 hours, keep working. For an SEO content operation like AI Profit Boardroom, this changes everything about how we plan our week. Here is how our Monday research day looks now. 9:00 in the morning, we upload all the week's AI news and research into the AI Profit Boardroom notebook. We generate the research summary, key member insights, and a mind map. Now, before you go, I want to point

you toward two things that can seriously accelerate where you are headed. First, I want to say something important. If you are creating all of this content, but nobody is actually finding it on Google, that is a traffic problem and it is fixable. Here is the thing most people miss. You can have the best AI generated content in your niche, the best videos, the best articles, the most consistent publishing schedule, but if your site has no authority, no backlinks, and no SEO foundation, Google is not going to rank you. My team at

Gold Agency has helped hundreds of businesses fix exactly that. We handle the backlinks, the technical SEO, the strategy, all of it. So, you can stay focused on building your content and growing your audience. If you want more traffic, more visibility, and more leads coming in from Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team. The link is in the description and pinned in the comments. Now, let's keep going.

And if you want to go even deeper into AI automation, content systems, and exactly how tools like Gemini notebook fit into a real business growth strategy, come join us inside AI Profit Boardroom. It is where we bring together entrepreneurs, agency owners, consultants, and creators who are serious about using AI to build smarter, faster, and more efficiently. Every week, we share new research, new workflows, new prompts, and real strategies you can apply right away. The link for that is in the description, too. Julian reads every comment on this channel, so let him know what you thought of this video below. Subscribe

so you never miss an update, and I will see you in the next one.