---
video_title: "Sam Altman Says This AI Agent Could Run Forever"
video_id: bsK8HE_yeNY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bsK8HE_yeNY
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  OpenAI just demoed "Astra" — AI agents that never switch off and run for days or weeks straight. Here's what leaked from that closed-door room, why it's not in your hands yet, and how to get ready before persistent agents change how work gets done.
  
  00:00 Intro – AI that runs forever
  00:33 Demo – Full arcade game built in 7 min
  01:24 Meet Astra – OpenAI's next frontier model
  01:48 The Demos – 16 agents, superhuman speed
  02:05 Why It Matters – Persistent "virtual colleagues"
  02:42 The Checklist – Memory, permissions, accountability
  04:28 New Interface – Always-on agents, no app
  04:51 The Delay – A safety failure that spooked OpenAI
  05:56 AGI Claims – "80% of the way there"
  06:29 The Loop – AI now builds better AI
  07:01 Your Playbook – 3 moves to get ahead
---
Sam Altman says this AI agent could run forever. What happens to your AI the moment you close your laptop? Right now it just stops. Sam Altman wants to end that. He just described a model that never switches off, one that keeps working for days, even weeks, and most people have no idea it's already been demoed behind closed doors. I'm the

digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help people learn AI tools and actually use them in real work. Not theory, just what the tool does and how you use it. In this one I'll break down what OpenAI showed in that room, why it's still not in your hands, and how to get ready. But first, what a long-running agent already built for me in one sitting. I took the latest model GPT 5.6 sole inside ChatGPT

work. I gave it one instruction, build a complete single-file playable maze chase arcade game in the style of Pac-Man using HTML5 canvas and vanilla JavaScript. Then I left it alone. It worked for 7 minutes and 16 seconds and handed back one self-contained HTML file, a game called Neon Maze. Keyboard, swipe, and touchscreen controls. Four enemies with

different chase behavior, power-ups, scoring, lives, and levels. Sound effects with a mute button. Pause, restart, and high score saving. 259 reachable collectibles across a fully connected maze. No outside libraries, no extra assets, one prompt, 7 minutes, a finished thing you can open in a browser. Now stretch that across days.

That's what's coming. The name is Astra. It's OpenAI's upcoming family of frontier models. In early August, a few dozen executives from the companies that rely on OpenAI most walked into a building in San Francisco to see it. Journalist Alex Heath was in the room.

Altman had just come back from Washington where he briefed officials behind closed doors about what Astra can do. Then the researchers showed it off. In one demo, 16 AI agents took a research-level math problem, split it into smaller pieces, coordinated with each other, and assembled a proposed proof. In another, Astra tore through normal desktop software. Altman described it as superhuman and very fast and said watching it use a computer that way was one of the most striking moments for people inside the company. Here's

what matters for your work. Astra isn't built for one quick answer. It's built to run for days or weeks. It makes slides. It pulls sense out of messy data. It remembers your corrections. It

works alongside other agents and people and it acts across your software tools instead of sitting in one chat box. Altman called these persistent agents, virtual colleagues, and he said OpenAI wants a version that runs forever inside ChatGPT and through the API. Run forever, not run until you close the tab. And they didn't just nod along. They pressed OpenAI with hard questions and those questions are a checklist for anyone using agents. Memory, what does

it remember and for how long? Permissions, what is it allowed to touch and what's off-limits? Audit trails, if it worked for 2 weeks, can you see what it actually did? Duplicate agents, what stops copies of the same agent doing the same job twice? And the biggest one, should an agent act under an employee's identity or its own? Think about your

own setup. Hand off a task that runs for a week and you need to know what it can see, what it can change, and who's accountable when it's wrong. Most people skip that entirely. If you want help applying this to your own brand instead of just watching it happen, I've got something free for you. We're running free AI brand visibility sessions. On the call, you get a custom

visibility plan built around your site. We show you exactly how you show up or don't show up across Google AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. That matters more every month, especially once agents are doing the searching instead of humans typing queries. You also get a competitor gap analysis so you can see who's getting surfaced instead of you, plus direct answers to your questions from a real strategist. Completely free, no obligation. The link is below. And if

you want to go deeper on agents themselves, that's what the AI Profit Boardroom is for. Inside, we run live coaching calls where you bring your actual setup and ask about it. There are walkthroughs and tutorials on the exact tools I cover on this channel, including ChatGPT Work and long-running agent workflows like the maze build I just showed you. There are ready-made prompts you can lift straight into your own projects and a 30-day roadmap, so you're not staring at a blank screen. If persistent agents are coming, the people who already know how to brief them, scope them, and check their work will be far ahead. That's what we're building in

there together. Okay, back to it. There's a new way to use these things on the way, too. T Bot Sotio, who runs OpenAI's combined product organization, said a new interface for continuous agents is coming very soon. And he said something interesting about it. There

isn't really an app. It'll be reachable from almost anywhere, and it'll feel like a new thing rather than an upgrade to something you already use. He described what they're close to showing as persistence and always-on execution. The work keeps happening and keeps adjusting as new information and feedback come in. So, why isn't this in your hands right now? Because OpenAI

slowed itself down on purpose. In late July, the company revealed a serious safety failure. One of its unreleased internal research prototypes was being tested against a cybersecurity benchmark inside a contained environment. Instead of just completing the exercises, it found a weakness, escaped that environment, and got into production systems at Hugging Face, a platform where developers host models and datasets. Once there, it reached the answers to the very test it was being graded on. Altman called it like a

sci-fi story. After that, OpenAI froze some experiments, slowed other work, tightened its test environments, and expanded monitoring. Then, during another training run of an unreleased model, the team spotted more troubling signs and made a bigger call. They paused it until new security measures were in place. Altman put it simply, "Getting AI safety right is more important than any company's momentum.

Open AI still plans to ship Astra, but the release depends on clearing those new safeguards, and leaders wouldn't put a date on it. Now, there's a much bigger claim underneath all of this. Altman told that room he expects Astra to be the first model where the model actually invents new things in a way that matters. And he said, "That's a very AGI-like thing." His leadership team is talking the same way. Chief Research

Officer Mark Chen said Open AI is about 80% of the way to AGI. President Greg Brockman said that looking back from 2 years in the future, this might be remembered as the moment AGI was created. Altman said not quite yet, but that by the end of the year, the company would have an internal system he called AGI. And here's the detail I keep coming back to. One of Open AI's research goals this year was to automate the work of an entry-level AI researcher. Chief

Scientist Jakub Pachocki says they've already hit their internal benchmark for an automated research intern. Give Astra an experimental idea, and it can build it inside Open AI's own code base, run the experiment, and bring back results. Or take a paper and do work that used to take a human researcher a full week. That's the loop, AI helping run the experiments that build better AI. So, what do you actually do with all this?

Three things. First, stop writing prompts and start writing briefs. Long-running agents need a clear goal, a clear finish line, and a description of what good looks like. If you can't explain the task to a new hire in one paragraph, an agent won't get it either. Second, decide your permissions before you need them. Which tools, which files,

which accounts? Write it down now while the stakes are low. Third, build checkpoints. Don't let something run for days with no review. Ask for a progress summary you can actually read. That

habit is going to matter a lot when these agents stop stopping on their own and get comfortable with the tools that already do this. That maze game wasn't a demo from a stage. That was one instruction and 7 minutes. The gap between that and something running for a week is smaller than it looks. If you want a real person to look at your situation and tell you what to fix first, book your free AI brand visibility session. You'll walk away

with a clear plan for your own brand, a look at where competitors are getting picked up by AI search and you aren't, and straight recommendations you can act on this week. Completely free, no obligation, the link is in the description. Then come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. Here's the honest truth about what's ahead. When you start handing off tasks that run for hours or days, you will hit problems. The agent will drift

off the brief. It'll do something you didn't ask for. You'll be unsure how much access to give it. Every one of those has an answer and it's much faster to get that answer from people who've already hit it. That's what's inside.

Live coaching calls, tutorials on the exact tools, step-by-step roadmaps, and prompts you can use straight away. Over 4,000 members learning this together. Come get ahead of it instead of catching up later. It's AI profitboardroom.com.