---
video_title: "How to Use GLM 5.3 for FREE"
video_id: 2WsksmRYB6g
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2WsksmRYB6g
video_date: 20260815
video_description: |
  Get the GLM 5.3 Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  How to Access GLM 5.3 for Free: New Frontier Level Coding AI
  
  Discover how to access GLM 5.3 for free using Zed Code, a powerful frontier-level AI that rivals Claude and GPT in coding benchmarks. This video covers the easy setup process, real-world performance data, and how to automate your development workflow today.
  
  00:00 - Intro to GLM 5.3
  00:22 - How to Get Free Access
  00:47 - Zed Code Interface Walkthrough
  01:10 - Orchestrating AI with Claude
  01:27 - GLM 5.3 vs Claude Benchmarks
  02:08 - Open Weights and Coding Use Cases
  02:41 - Training and Community Access
---
You can now get access to GLM 5.3 for free and it's available in Z code. Now, if you're wondering why you would want free access to this free model, it is right up there with Fable 5, Claude Fable 5. It's frontier level technology, but the difference is that with GLM 5.3, you can use it for free. Now, if you're

wondering how to get access, basically new users can try GLM 5.3 on the free tier, no subscription required. All you have to do is just get Z code. So, Z code is an app you can download. It looks very similar to, for example, something like Claude code. And then

once you've done that, you can download this and start using it for free. They do have upgraded plans, but you can use it for free right now and you get a free trial when you sign up and you don't need to put a card in or anything like that. So, for example, once you've signed up to Z code, it's going to look something like this and you can just select your project, then you can select GLM 5.3 and from here you can change the permissions and then build out whatever you want to. So, for example, we actually built out this website. You can

use it for building apps, games, tools and they can build an automate whatever you want. And you can run a few tasks on it for free. Obviously, you don't get that many tokens on it for free, but just want to be 100% transparent with you. And then inside the left-hand side here, you've got search, you've got automations, you've got skills and new tasks. Now, you might be wondering, "Okay, why would you use GLM 5.3?" So,

for me, what I actually like to do is just get Claude to orchestrate it. So, for example, I can actually tell Claude to build stuff with Z code directly and then I don't even need to manage it. I've got my AI to manage it directly for me. And also, if you look at the benchmarks here, if you compare it, for example, on Terminal Bench 2.1, GLM 5.3 scores 88.2

versus Fable 5's 88. Terminal Bench 28.3 versus Fable 5's 33.7. So, they're all within like 1 to 3 points, maximum 5 points of the benchmarks here. And actually, GLM 5.3

outperforms Claude Fable 5's best model here, as you can see, on SWE Marathon V1.1. So, it scores 42.5 versus 33.1 versus 42.5 from GPT-5.6 Soul. So, if

you're looking for like a free frontier level AI, this is pretty good as well. And it can also plug into agents as well as as a CLI. One thing to note is that it will be going open weights as well. So, they're going to drop the weights for it on Hugging Face soon. Bear in mind like you won't be able to host it locally unless you have some absolutely wild local setup. Right? They're just

going to release the open weights. And that makes it open source, but it doesn't mean like you can run it locally or anything like that. Um what it's ideal for really is coding. That's one of the best things it's best at. So, definitely worth checking out. By the

way, if you want to get more courses and trainings on stuff like this, feel free to check out the app at the bottom. I'll answer your questions personally inside the community, inside the classroom. You get access to all of my best trainings. In the calendar, you can jump on four weekly coaching calls. And then also we're dropping a one-hour course on how to use G learn 5.3 very shortly. So, you

get first access to that. And you can meet people in your local area from the map who are building with AI agents and coding agents like this. Also, inside there, cheers for watching. Bye-bye.