---
video_title: "I Tried Hermes + Kimi K3 Together… It’s Insane"
video_id: LXC_G8Fja6o
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXC_G8Fja6o
video_date: 2026-08-30
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  00:00 Intro – Why the best AI model is being wasted
  00:39 Setup – Connect Kimi K3 to Hermes in 2 minutes
  01:05 Model Swap – Change brains in 2 clicks
  01:25 Learn Tool – Turn any guide into a saved skill
  02:49 Blender MCP – Model 3D products from a prompt
  03:51 Hermes Oracle – Auto-pull trends, publish ranking articles
  04:32 Hermes Astros – Track competitors, get unused angles
  05:03 Mixture of Agents – Fuse two models into one answer
  05:26 Goal Mode – Set a goal, let it run for hours
  06:04 Benchmarks – Why Kimi K3 hit #1 in code arena
  06:42 Agent Teams – Director, judge, and builder working together
  07:07 Remotion – It built a promo site and video in one shot
  07:33 Takeaway – Chat box vs. agent, the real difference
---
I tried Hermes plus Kimmy K3 together. It's insane. What if the best AI model out right now is being wasted? Not broken, wasted. Most people are typing to it in a tiny chat box. That's like

hiring a genius and locking them in a room. The second I gave it hands, everything changed. And almost nobody is showing this. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and my whole thing is helping you actually use AI tools in your work, not just read about them. Today, I paired Kimmy K3 with Hermes, and I run both inside my Agent OS. Stick

around because by the end, you'll watch this thing model a 3D product, publish a full article to a website on its own, and even build a video promo while I talk. Let's get into it. First, the setup because it's simpler than you think. Inside my Agent OS, I made a fresh profile just for Kimmy K3 running on Hermes. To connect the model, I open my terminal, start a new tab, and type Hermes model. That pulls up a

little drop-down of models. I pick Moonshot, which is the company behind Kimmy. Then, I log in with the Kimmy coding plan, and that's it. Kimmy K3 is now the brain, and Hermes is the agent doing the actual work. No messy config files to file with. 2 minutes and it's

live inside my Agent OS. Now, if you ever want to swap models, there's an even easier way. I head to the manage dashboard in my Agent OS, click on models and change it right there. I type in Kimmy, hit refresh if the list looks old, and switch. Done. And the reason

this matters is, you're never locked to one brain. One task might want Kimmy K3. Another might want something lighter and faster. Inside my Agent OS, I can flip between them in a couple of clicks without breaking my flow at all. That kind of flexibility is the whole point of running it this way. Here's where it

starts getting fun. Hermes has a tool called learn. I can hand it a link to a guide, type {slash} learn, and Hermes will go read that whole guide, break it down, and actually save it as a skill it can use later. So, it's not just answering me once and forgetting everything. It reads, it digests, and it keeps that knowledge ready for next time. That alone is miles past the

normal chat window, but honestly, that's a tiny slice of what this pairing can really do. Let me show you the bigger stuff. And this is the part I want to pause on for a second because everything I'm walking you through is the exact setup I keep inside the AI Profit Boardroom. When you join, the full Agent OS zip file is in there ready to install with Kimmy K3 and Hermes already wired together, so you're not stuck fumbling with terminals on your own. I built a complete 30-day roadmap that takes you from your very first model swap to running your own agents. There are

step-by-step walk-throughs for this exact Kimmy and Hermes setup, prompt packs you can copy straight over, and live coaching calls every single week where you can share your screen and get unstuck fast. If this video is clicking for you, the AI Profit Boardroom is where you go from just watching to actually doing. And if you want a one-on-one strategy session, instead of staring at a messy spreadsheet wondering what to fix first, we build a plan around your actual site, your industry, your engines, the specific sources you need to get into in the right order so you're not burning weeks on the bucket that doesn't even matter for what you sell. If you want that, grab a session, link in the comment and description below. Okay, back to the good stuff.

This next one made my jaw drop. If you only ever chat with Kimmy K3, it's fun, but it's not powerful. The real magic shows up when you connect it to other tools. So I linked Kimmy K3 through an MCP to Blender, which is the free 3D modeling software. MCP is just the bridge that lets the agent actually control another app instead of only talking about it. And with that link,

Kimmy K3 can model a full 3D product inside Blender and set up the shot for a promo. I call this the Imagination Printer. You describe a world, a product, a scene, and it builds the whole thing in 3D for you. Just came out and it's already this good. One quick heads-up, that bridge runs on your own machine and can run code, so keep it local and keep an eye on what it's doing.

Now remember that learn tool from earlier? After I used it, Hermes showed me exactly what it pulled from the guide, the core lessons, and what it did with them. Then it saved a brand new skill locally right inside my Hermes agent. And that skill is basically how to use Kimmy K3 as the brain of Hermes. So every time Kimmy K3 is thinking and Hermes is carrying out the work, it already understands how the two fit together. Kimmy is the brain, Hermes is

the hands, and that saved skill is the memory of how they team up. Now, let's go bigger. I've got a workflow called Hermes Oracle. It uses Kimmi K3 as the brain to pull the latest trending topics straight from X, sort them by what's hot right now, and then draft content around them. This runs on a schedule all on its own. When I checked it, it had already

refreshed hours earlier without me touching a thing. From there, I can publish a full article to my website in one click, structured to actually rank on Google. I use this to grow the AI Profit Boardroom. I let Hermes Oracle pull the trending AI topics my audience actually cares about, then had Kimmi K3 draft a clean article around one of them that points people toward the AI Profit Boardroom. That's the kind of content that quietly brings the right people into the AI Profit Boardroom while I'm off doing other things. There's a sister

workflow, too, called Hermes Astros. Because Kimmi K3 is so good at long patient tasks, I can point it at my competitors and my keywords and let it watch them on a daily schedule. It tells me what's trending, then hands me unique titles and fresh angles for content that can actually rank. I ran this to feed the AI Profit Boardroom. I had Astros track the topics people in my space keep covering, then Kimmi K3 handed me angles nobody else was using. I turned those

into content built to pull the right audience toward the AI Profit Boardroom instead of chasing the same tired ideas everyone else is already burning out on. Here's a wild one. There's a setup called Mixture of Agents. Think of it like a panel of models working side by side. So, I can have Kimmi K3 and a model like GLM 5.2 fuse together, both

feeding into one answer. You end up with something that can feel sharper than any single model on its own while leaning on lighter open models, so you're not stuck relying on one big name or burning through your limits. Inside my Agent OS, that whole panel just works together and gives me the final output. This next one might be the most powerful of all. Kimmi K3 has a huge memory and can run for a long, long time without you babysitting it. So, I use a goal mode built right

into my Agent OS. I give it a goal, tell it to keep going until it's completely done, and let it run. It might take hours. I can stop it anytime I want. Here's how I'd use it for the AI Profit Boardroom. I tell it to build out a full

content series around the exact questions AI Profit Boardroom members keep asking, drafting the posts, the hooks, and the follow-ups all in one long run. It just keeps working on its own until that whole series is ready, and every single piece is built to bring more of the right people into the AI Profit Boardroom. Now, why is everyone suddenly talking about Kimmy K3? It comes down to the coding. When it launched, it shot straight to number one on the front-end code arena. That's a

leaderboard where real developers vote blind on which model builds the better website without knowing which one made it. Kimmy K3 beat Claude Fable 5 and GPT 5.6 Soul, and it topped six of the seven categories. This is a Chinese open model overtaking the top US models on front-end design, which is exactly why it's blowing up right now. I tested it myself against Fable 5 and GPT 5.6 on

little games and apps, and honestly, Kimmy K3 kept building the nicer, smoother version every time. It still trails the very top models on pure reasoning, so I'm not going to oversell it. But for building things that look and feel good, it's genuinely incredible. You can push this even further with teams. I can set up multiple Kimmy K3 profiles on a Kanban board and let them pass work between each other. One agent plays the

director, one plays the judge checking quality, and one is the builder actually putting it together. I drop in a task, tell them what I want, and they sort it out among themselves. Because Kimmy K3 is so agentic, this kind of teamwork actually holds up instead of falling apart halfway through. And the last one genuinely surprised me. I handed Kimmy K3 a free video tool called Remotion, where the video is basically built with code. It created a moving website that

follows my mouse around with a video playing over the top. There's a progress bar at the bottom. I can skip to the parts I want to watch, and the video itself zooms in and out with clean animations and color text. It scripted it, edited it, and put the whole thing together. A promo site and a promo video in one shot. So, here's why this

actually matters to you. A model sitting in a chat box is only a fraction of what it can do. The moment you give it hands with an agent like Hermes and run the the thing inside one agent OS, it can research, build, publish, and create for you. A lot of people skip open agents because they feel a little clunky and back and forth. But, drop a model like Kim K3 in, and suddenly the whole thing feels smooth, useful, and real. If you

want a one-on-one strategy session, instead of staring at a messy spreadsheet wondering what to fix first, we build a plan around your actual site, your industry, your engines, the specific sources you need to get into in the right order, so you're not burning weeks on the bucket that doesn't even matter for what you sell. If you want that, grab a session. Link in the comment and description below. And if you're ready to actually this yourself, that's exactly what the AI Profit Boardroom is for. You're going to hit little walls, like which model to pick, how to connect Kim to Hermes, or how to get a workflow running on a schedule.

Inside the full agent OS zip is ready to install with Kim K3 and Hermes already pre-wired. There's the 30-day roadmap to follow step by step, walkthroughs for every workflow I just showed you, ready to use prompts, and coaching calls where we get you unstuck live. With over 4,000 members already building right alongside you, it's the fastest way through. Come join us at AI profitboardroom.com.