---
video_title: "DeepSeek V4-Pro vs Expensive AI Models: IT’S OVER?"
video_id: ZiKvlQL1rzY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZiKvlQL1rzY
video_date: 20260817
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & DeepSeek Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  DeepSeek V4 Pro just closed the gap with Claude Fable 5 — nearly matching it while using way fewer resources. Here's exactly what changed, the real independent benchmark numbers, and the 3 catches you need to know before you switch anything over.
  
  00:00 Intro – DeepSeek V4 Pro vs Claude, is it over?
  00:37 Launch – The quiet August update
  00:53 Benchmark – Terminal Bench: 87.9 vs 88.0
  1:02 Live Test – Building a game inside Agent OS
  1:28 Backstory – From rough preview to real release
  1:42 Benchmarks – Where DeepSeek wins, where Claude leads
  2:24 Agent OS – The full setup breakdown
  2:42 Cache Hits – Why this changes everything
  3:36 The Jump – 50-point gains explained
  4:15 Independent Testing – Real numbers vs self-reported
  5:11 Under the Hood – 1.6T parameters, 1M context
  5:34 3 Catches – No vision, cost, and privacy
  6:09 Best Strategy – Plan with Claude, execute with DeepSeek
  6:48 3 Beliefs to Drop – Stop waiting, start building
  7:32 The Bigger Picture – AI competition accelerating
  8:05 Join – AI Success Lab & Agent OS access
---
Deep Seek V 4 Pro versus expensive AI models. It's over. Is the most talked about AI model on the planet suddenly not the smart pick anymore? Something happened on August 12th that most people slept on. A model nobody was really talking about just closed the gap, and it did it while using a fraction of the resources. Stick around because the

model you're defaulting to might not be the smart move anymore. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie. I help you learn AI tools and actually use them in your work, not just talk about them. Today, I'm breaking down Deep Seek V 4 Pro. How close it really got to Claude, what changed under the hood, and the one thing you need to know before you switch anything over.

On August 2026, the full version of Deep Seek 5 4 Pro landed. No blog post, no launch video. They quietly updated the page and let the model speak for itself. On the Terminal Bench 2.1 test, which measures real agent work, it scored 87.9.

Claude Fable 5, one of the most powerful models out there, scored 88.0, a 10th of a point apart while running dramatically leaner. I wanted to see that for myself, so inside my own Agent OS setup, I flipped the model over to Deep Seek V 4 Pro and gave it one prompt. No retries, no fixes on my end. I asked it to build a Doom-style shooter. It came back with a working

first-person maze, a mini map, a weapon, a health bar, and an ammo counter, all built by Deep Seek running right inside Agent OS. Most people also got the backstory half right. This model has technically been around since April, but that version was a rough preview, usable but clearly unfinished. Then July 31st brought V 4 Flash with word that the bigger release was still coming. Then August 12th brought the real thing, and it plays completely differently to anything that came before it. On Deep

Seek's own agent tests, it's close to Claude Fable 5 on two of the three big benchmarks that actually matter for agent work. On Automation Bench, it actually wins outright, 31.8 to to On Humanity's Last exam with tools, Claude pulls ahead clearly, 63.0 to 60.0. So, let's be straight about

this. Claude is still the stronger model overall, ahead by roughly seven points on Deep SWE and six points on the full stack benchmark. What changed isn't who's smartest, it's what you can now leave running all day without a second thought, and that's exactly what I wanted to test properly inside Agent OS, swapping the model over and watching it build without me touching anything. If you want this exact setup done for you, this is what we build out inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Sitting inside there right now is the full Agent OS zip file, ready to install with Deep Seek V4 Pro already wired in, plus a 30-day roadmap, so you're not guessing where to start.

There are also live coaching calls every week, where you bring your own build and get it working on the call. Here's the part almost nobody explains properly. An agent doesn't read your instructions once, it reads the same context again before every single step it takes. Picture someone opening the whole job folder, reading everything inside, doing one small task, then opening that same folder again before the next task. That repeated reread is called a cache hit, and it's where most of an agent's workload actually sits, not the final output. Deep Seek V4 Pro handles those

cache reads far more efficiently than Claude Fable 5, running at roughly a 92% cache hit rate. So, the headline efficiency gap actually understates things for anything that runs for a while. Over 90% of what a running agent processes barely registers anymore. That means you can leave an agent running for hours, checking its own steps, retrying on failures, working in the background without babysitting it. Now, what actually made this jump possible?

Compare the April preview to the August build, and the gains are massive. Deep SWE went from 12.8 up to 62.7. Terminal Bench went from 72.1 to 87.9.

Automation Bench went from 12.8 to 31.8. That's not a small patch. That's close to a 50 point jump on some tests. The

reason comes down to how labs like this build models. They train separate specialist models, one for research, one for building, one for planning, then merge everything they learned into a single brain through a process called distillation. The April version hadn't finished that process. This one has. Independent testing matters more than a company grading its own homework. So,

here's what Valse AI found when they ran it themselves. On the good side, it moved up on their index, landing as the second best open weight model they've tested. Its proof bench score jumped from 10 to 49. Its legal research bench score nearly doubled from 23 to 41. A security testing team found it outperformed every other model at finding vulnerabilities. On the honest

side, DeepSeek reported 87.9 on terminal bench 2.1. Valse AI measured it independently across three full trials and got 54.68% placing it 33rd out of 52 models on that specific test. On the harder tasks

inside that same test, it scored 28.89%. Independent numbers beat self-reported ones every time, and that's worth holding on to before you build anything serious on this. Both things are true at once, the strong gains and the shaky terminal bench number, and that's what a real independent test actually looks like, not just a highlight reel. Under the hood, this is a genuinely huge model. It has 1.6 trillion total

parameters, but only around 49 billion activate for any single task. Like a massive team where only the relevant people walk into the room for each job. It also handles up to a million tokens of context, roughly 10 novels worth of information, and can output up to 384,000 tokens in one go. Before you switch anything over, there are three catches, and you're better off hearing them from me now than finding out the hard way later. First, it can't see. There's no vision support at all.

So, if your workflow depends on screenshots or reading documents as images, this isn't your model. Second, the resource efficiency you're seeing right now won't stay this generous forever. DeepSeek has already signaled a significant shift is coming. No date given yet, just a heads-up. Third, there's a privacy trade-off worth knowing about. DeepSeek's own terms

allow them to train on what you send through their official platform. Other providers host this same model without that condition attached. So, where you access it from genuinely matters. Here's how the people who actually understand this use it, and it's the pattern I run inside my own Agent OS setup, too. They plan with the flagship model and execute with the lean one. Claude designs the

workflow once, gets the logic right, thinks through every edge case, then DeepSeek picks it up and runs that same workflow over and over on every case that comes through all day long without needing to be told twice. The heavyweight model runs once. The lightweight model runs thousands of times quietly in the background inside the same Agent OS dashboard. That's the real advantage here, not picking a favorite model, but using each one for exactly what it's good at. Drop these three beliefs right now. First, thinking

running agents all day is only realistic for big operations. That was arguably true a year ago. It isn't anymore, not with a model this capable running underneath something like Agent OS. Second, thinking things are moving too fast, so you'll just wait until it settles down. It won't. In one single

hour recently, DeepSeek V4 Pro went live, Grok 4.6 dropped, and Qwen released new model weights, and there's no calm point coming after this. Third, thinking the people winning at this know everything about every model. They don't. They picked one workflow, built it properly inside one system, and let every new release make that same workflow better automatically without starting over each time. Chinese AI labs

are shipping frontier-level models almost every month now. DeepSeek, Kimmy, MiniMax, Qwen, and DeepSeek just planted its flag right at the front of that group. Whatever you think about where these models come from, that kind of competition keeps pushing every lab forward, and every business benefits from that, whether you personally run DeepSeek or not. For most everyday automation, a model that's smart enough and running constantly beats a brilliant model you only use occasionally. Smart enough running non-stop is now close to free to operate, and that alone changes what's actually realistic for you to build this year. If you want the full

process, SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. Links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And if you're actually going to wire DeepSeek V4 Pro into your own agents, you're going to hit real questions along the way. Which tasks to hand to the lean model versus the flagship one. How to

set up caching properly so you're not wasting the advantage. What to do about the vision gap if your workflow needs it. How to actually structure the plan with Claude, execute with DeepSeek pattern instead of just guessing at it. That's exactly what we work through inside the AI Profit Boardroom, where the full Agent OS zip file is sitting there ready to install with DeepSeek V4 Pro already built into the workflow, live coaching calls to fix your setup on the spot, daily tutorials, a full roadmap, and a prompt library to match, alongside almost 4,000 members figuring out the exact same setup you are. aiprofitboardroom.com