---
video_title: "Google Just Dropped Their NEWEST AI Model! 🤯"
video_id: 7Dev0La_d6c
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Dev0La_d6c
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google Gemini 3.8 Flash: New AI Agent Workhorse Released!
  
  Google's latest Gemini 3.8 Flash model is built specifically for agentic loops and autonomous business tasks. Discover how to leverage its 1-million token context window and advanced video understanding to automate your content research and lead recovery workflows.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Gemini 3.8 Flash
  01:12 - The Shift to Agentic Loops
  01:31 - 1M Token Context & Specs
  02:35 - New Video Understanding
  04:26 - Workflow 1: Content Research
  05:39 - Workflow 2: Lead Recovery
  06:54 - Building AI Automations
---
Google just dropped their newest AI model. Google just dropped Gemini 3.8 flash yesterday, September 2nd, and I want to talk about why this one is different because most AI model releases are just benchmarks going up a little. This one is different. Gemini 3.8 flash

is built specifically for one thing, AI that can actually stay on the job and complete real work from start to finish. Google themselves are calling it their most intelligent workhorse model yet, and this is their third flash release in 6 weeks. Think about that. 6 weeks, three releases. That tells you something about the pace we're operating at right now. So, let me break down what actually

changed, why it matters, and exactly how I'd use this to grow a business. And I'll use the AI profit boardroom as the example throughout because that's what I know best. Here's what most people get wrong about AI model releases. They think it's just a chatbot getting a bit smarter. Gemini 3.8 flash is not about

having better conversations. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. It's built around long-running agentic loops, which means it's designed to do complex work over multiple steps without breaking down, without stopping, and without needing you to babysit it the whole way through.

Old AI, you ask something, it answers, done. New AI, you give it a goal, it plans, it acts, it checks its own work, it fixes mistakes, it keeps going until the job is finished. That's the shift happening right now. And Gemini 3.8 flash is built exactly for it. Let me

give you the key numbers first so you understand what we're actually dealing with. 1 million token context window. That's enormous. To put that in perspective, the average business book is about 100,000 words. A million tokens means you could hand this AI 10 full books worth of information, your entire customer database, your full email history, your complete product documentation, your past campaign data, and it holds all of that in mind simultaneously while it works through a task. 65,000 token output limit. Now,

let's talk about where Google is positioning this. They released Gemini 3.8 Flash Cyber at the same time, a specialized cybersecurity version restricted to governments and critical infrastructure through their Fairwind program. That's a separate product, not what we're focused on here. The main model, Gemini 3.8 Flash, is available

right now through the Gemini API, Google AI Studio, and for AI Pro and Ultra subscribers in the Gemini app. And Google also recently introduced agentic video understanding alongside this release. That means Gemini can now process long-form video more intelligently, analyzing what's happening across a full recording, not just pulling out static frames. Combined with the agentic capabilities in 3.8 Flash, that opens up a very interesting combination. AI that can watch a piece

of content, understand it, extract the useful information, and then act on it, all in one connected workflow. Think about what that means for a business that produces video content constantly. The AI watches your videos, pulls out the key points, turns them into written content, identifies which topics landed best based on your performance data, and builds a content calendar from it. All automated, all connected. Real quick, if you want to actually build workflows like these for your own business using Gemini 3.8 Flash, come join the AI

Profit Boardroom. We've already built a full 30-day roadmap specifically around setting up AI agents that do your content research, lead follow-up, onboarding, and operations automatically using models like Gemini 3.8 Flash. We run four live coaching calls every week where you can bring your actual business, your actual workflow, and get hands-on help building it. There are business owners in there right now, many of them already running Gemini-powered automations for lead gen and content, and you can ask questions, share workflows, and get feedback 24/7 because there's always someone online. Link in

the description or go to AI profitboardroom.com. And if your business needs more clients coming from Google and AI search right now, book a free SEO strategy session with our team. We'll build you a custom one-to-one plan to get your website ranking and pulling in consistent leads from Google and AI search engines tailored specifically to your business completely free. We'll look at exactly where your site is right now, where the gaps are, and give you a clear roadmap to fix it and start getting found. Link

is in the comments and description or go to goldie.agency to book your session. Now, let me show you exactly how this works in practice. Keeping every example tied directly to growing the AI profit boardroom. Workflow one, the AI profit boardroom content research agent.

Keeping up with AI news takes serious time. You've got to monitor what's dropping, figure out what actually matters to business owners, and decide what's worth covering. What if Gemini 3.8 flash handled that entire process for the AI profit boardroom every single morning? You set it up to scan AI announcements across official sources.

It reads everything. It filters out what isn't relevant to business owners. It identifies the updates that matter to the AI profit boardroom audience specifically. Then it outputs a full breakdown what the update is, why it matters, and a suggested YouTube title and hook for the channel. Here's the prompt you'd use.

You are the content research agent for the AI profit boardroom. Search for AI tool releases in the last 24 hours. For each update, decide whether it's relevant to business owners using AI automation. If yes, write a 200-word breakdown of what it is, why it matters for business owners, and suggest a YouTube video angle and hook for the AI profit boardroom channel. One prompt, Gemini handles the research, the filtering, the content brief every morning. Hours of work condensed into

one automated workflow. Workflow two, the AI profit boardroom lead recovery agent. Someone filled in an interest form for the AI profit boardroom 7 days ago. They haven't joined. They haven't replied. Gemini 3.8 flash handles that

entire sequence. It checks the CRM, reads the previous conversation, works out the most likely reason they went cold, timing, confusion, not sure if it's the right fit. Then it writes a personalized follow-up, not a generic hey, just checking in. A message that says, here's what dropped in the AI profit boardroom this week. Here's what members are building right now. Here's

exactly what you'd be working on if you joined today. Here's the prompt. You are the AI profit boardroom lead recovery agent. A prospect inquired X days ago and has gone cold. Their original question was, why? Their business type

is AZ. Write a personalized follow-up message that references what's new inside the AI profit boardroom this week, addresses their likely concern based on their business type, and gives them a specific reason to take action today. The agent writes the message, decides when to send it, logs the CRM update, and schedules the next follow-up automatically. That whole sequence, spotting the cold lead, crafting the right message, scheduling the next touch, runs without you in it. And if you want hands-on help actually setting up Gemini 3.8 flash automations

for your business inside the AI profit boardroom, we've mapped out exactly how to use this model for content research, lead recovery, member onboarding, and daily operations. We've got step-by-step tutorials walking you through each workflow, a full prompt library with every template I mentioned today ready to copy and use, and four live coaching calls every week where you bring your setup and get direct help building it. There are business owners in there building these exact systems right now. Many of them already using Gemini for content and lead gen, and you can connect with people in your industry, ask questions at any hour, and shortcut months of trial and error. Link is in the description or go to AI profit boardroom.com.

And if your business needs more clients coming from Google and AI search right now, book a free SEO strategy session with our team. We'll build you a custom one-to-one plan to get your website ranking and pulling in consistent leads from Google and AI search engines tailored specifically to your business completely free. We'll look at exactly where your site is right now, where the gaps are, and give you a clear roadmap to fix it and start getting found. Link is in the comments and description, or go to goldie.agency to book your session.