---
video_title: "NEW Claude Fable & Mythos 5.1 is ABSURD!"
video_id: wDSHtlvMIIU
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wDSHtlvMIIU
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  NEW Claude Fable 5.1: This AI Works For Hours Solo!
  
  Anthropic just released Claude Fable 5.1 and Mythos 5.1, marking a massive shift from simple chatbots to autonomous AI agents. Learn how these models double performance scores and how to leverage them to automate your entire business to-do list.
  
  00:00 - Intro to Claude Fable 5.1
  00:45 - Fable vs. Mythos 5.1 Explained
  01:13 - The Research-Plan-Build-Test Loop
  02:25 - Massive Performance Benchmarks
  04:26 - Sneaky Efficiency Upgrades
  05:15 - The Shift to Project Ownership
  07:50 - SEO & AI Automation Strategy
---
New Claude Fable and Mythos 5.1 is absurd. Today I'm going to show you the two brand new AI models that just dropped. They can work for hours by themselves. They can find bugs that stumped real engineers for years. They

got way more efficient overnight, and one version is so powerful most people aren't even allowed to touch it. This is Claude Fable 5.1 and Claude Mythos 5.1. And once you see what these things can actually do, you will never look at AI the same way again. Hey, if we haven't

met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian reads every single comment, so drop one below and let him know what you think. So, here's the big news. Anthropic just released two new AI models. One is called Fable 5.1, the

other is called Mythos 5.1. And here's the wild part. They are actually the exact same brain. The only difference is how many safety rules each one follows.

Fable 5.1 is the version you and I can use. Mythos 5.1 is locked away for trusted groups working on things like cybersecurity and science. Let's talk about Fable first, because this is the one that matters for your business. Old

AI tools answer one question and stop. You ask, it replies, you're done. Fable 5.1 is built different. It can work on a task for hours, sometimes even days, without you sitting there watching it.

It plans the work, uses tools, checks its own answers, fixes its own mistakes, and keeps going until the job is done. Think of it less like a chatbot, and more like a new hire that never gets tired. Picture it like this. You give it one instruction in the morning. It researches the problem first, then it builds a plan, then it starts doing the actual work, then it tests what it built, then it looks at the result and asks itself, "Did that actually work?"

If something's broken, it goes back and fixes it. Then it does that whole loop again and again until the job is actually finished, not just half done. That loop, research, plan, build, test, fix, is the real upgrade here. It's not one smart answer, it's a whole process running on its own. Now, picture that kind of AI working inside a growing business like the AI Profit Boardroom.

Instead of typing, "Write me a blog post," you could tell it, "Look at our whole website, figure out why visitors aren't signing up, redesign the page, write the copy that explains what AI automation does for a business owner, test it, and tell me what changed." That's the shift. You stop being the one doing every step, you become the one reviewing the finished work. Now, let's talk numbers because these are wild. Anthropic ran a science and research test called Terminal Bench Science. The

old model, Fable 5, scored 24.7%. The new Fable 5.1 scored 52.6%.

That's more than double. On a coding test called Terminal Bench 4.0, Fable 5.1 hit 55.8%, up from 42% for the older model, and that also beat Anthropic's other top model, Opus 5. Now, Anthropic themselves

say these science scores can wiggle a few points either way, so don't treat this like an exact measurement carved in stone. But, even with that in mind, the jump is huge. Going from 24.7% to 52.6% isn't a small tweak. That's the kind of

jump that usually takes a whole new model generation, not just a point update. Now, here's the thing. Watching a video about a tool like Fable 5.1 is one thing. Actually setting it up to work inside your business is a whole different skill. That's exactly why we

built the AI Profit Boardroom. It's a community where we take tools like this, the exact same long-running, self-checking AI you just heard about, and show you step-by-step how to plug it into real parts of your business. Lead follow-up, content research, customer support, all of it. You're not figuring this out alone, guessing what prompt to use, or what workflow to build. You're inside a room full of people doing it in real time, sharing what's working, sharing what's not, and building it together. If you want to actually put a

tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom, where we break down exactly how to use AI automation to save time and bring in more customers. And here's the other side of the coin. You can have the smartest AI on the planet working for you, but if nobody can find your business on Google, none of it matters. That's the piece most people skip. My team and I have spent years building an agency around exactly this, getting real businesses found by real customers. So, if you want help making

sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. It's simple and you'll walk away knowing exactly where you stand and what to fix first. Okay, let's keep going because the efficiency news is honestly the sneaky best part of this update. The way Fable 5.1 handles information got a whole lot more efficient. Here's what changed. When the

AI needs to reuse information it already looked at, like your business documents, your past chats, or your website content, that used to take a lot more work every single time. Now, that process got dramatically lighter. And think about why that matters so much for a tool that's supposed to work on its own for hours. An AI agent that runs all day is constantly re-reading the same files, the same instructions, the same background info over and over to stay on track. Every one of those re-reads used to add up fast. Now, it's a fraction of

the effort it used to be. For a normal business task, that means the whole thing runs a lot more efficiently overall. And if you're running the AI on long complex jobs like managing a whole project by itself, the efficiency gains are even bigger. So, the AI got smarter and lighter to run at the exact same time. That almost never happens.

Now, let's talk about the locked version, MeFos 5.1. So, here's the real story behind all of this. It's not just AI got a little smarter, it's that AI is moving from answering questions to actually finishing jobs. First, it was a chatbot. Then, it became a coding

helper. Now, it's becoming something that can own a whole project from start to finish while you go do other things. That's a massive shift and it's happening fast. Think about what that means for a small business or an agency. You don't need a huge team to research, write, build, test, and fix things anymore. One person with the right AI

setup can do the work of five. Imagine handing off your lead follow-up, your content calendar, or your onboarding emails to a system that plans it out, writes it, checks it, and only comes back to you when it's actually ready for review. That's not some far-off idea anymore. That's what Fable 5.1 is being built to do right now. That's exactly

the kind of thing we teach and build together inside the AI Profit Boardroom, real automations using real tools like this made for real businesses. So, here's my honest take. Fable 5.1 is not just another update. It's Anthropic betting that AI's next job isn't answering your questions, it's finishing your to-do list. And Mythos 5.1 shows

just how far that idea can go once the safety rules get relaxed for the right hands. The real question now isn't who has the smartest chatbot, it's who can actually get the work done. And based on what these companies are already reporting, Fable 5.1 might be the first model that genuinely earns that title. And here's the open loop I want to leave you with. Right now, this kind of

long-running, self-checking AI is mostly being used by huge, well-resourced companies. Millennium, MongoDB, Red Hat, these are not small shops, but access just opened up, and history tells us the same thing every single time. What starts as an enterprise tool becomes a small business tool within months. The businesses that win aren't always the biggest ones, they're the ones who learn to use the new tool first while everyone else is still figuring out what it even does. That's the whole reason I made these videos, not to just tell you what happened, but to help you actually get ahead of it. So, before you go, let me

say this one more time because I really don't want you to just watch this video and forget about it in 10 minutes. Tools like Fable 5.1 are moving fast, and the businesses that win are the ones who actually put these tools to work instead of just watching videos about them. That's the whole point of the AI Profit Boardroom. We're a community of business owners using AI automation like this every single day to save time, work smarter, and bring in more customers, and we'd love to have you in there building alongside us. So again, if you

want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom, where we break down exactly how to use AI automation to save time and bring in more customers. And on top of that, none of these AI tools matter if people can't find you online in the first place. That's where my team comes in. We've spent years helping businesses get found, get traffic, and get customers through Google, and we can look at exactly where you stand right now. So if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. No

pressure, no obligation, just a real conversation about where your business is and where it could go. Drop a comment and tell me, would you trust an AI to work on a project for hours without watching it? Julian reads every comment, so let him know. See you in the next one.