---
video_title: "NEW ChatGPT Update is AMAZING!"
video_id: eV_hJZg39YU
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eV_hJZg39YU
video_date: 20260815
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS &  ChatGPT Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  ChatGPT for Linux is HERE! (New Work & Codeex Features)
  
  OpenAI just launched the ChatGPT desktop app for Linux, bringing Chat, Work, and Codeex into a single, powerful workspace. This update allows you to automate business reports, fix code in minutes, and organize everything into projects for maximum productivity.
  
  00:00 - Intro: ChatGPT Lands on Linux
  00:49 - Chat, Work, and Codeex Explained
  01:48 - Organizing with Projects
  02:49 - Codeex: Fix & Test Code Fast
  04:10 - Browser Workflows & Workspace Shifts
  04:33 - Supported Versions & Limitations
  05:48 - Summary: Is it Worth the Switch?
---
New Chat GPT update is amazing. It's big, it's new, and it just landed on a platform nobody saw coming. It's stupid easy to use, it's safe, and it could change how you work every single day. Stick around because by the end of this video, you'll know exactly how to use it. Okay, so here's the deal. Chat GPT

just showed up somewhere it has never been before, Linux. If you don't know what Linux is, don't worry, it's just a type of computer system. A lot of coders and tech people use it. And for years, they had Chat GPT on the website, but they never had the real app, the one with all the good stuff inside it. Now they do. OpenAI just put the Chat GPT

desktop app on Linux. Right now it's in preview. That means it's early, but it's real, and you can use it today. Here's a fun fact before we go further. Just weeks ago, Linux users were on OpenAI's own forum asking, "Where is our desktop app?" They were begging for it, and now

it's here. That's a fast turnaround. So, what makes this such a big deal? It's not just a copy of the website. This app brings three tools together in one place, chat, work, and codex. Let me

break each one down for you in plain simple words. Chat is what you already know. You ask a question, it gives you an answer, fast and simple. Work is different. Work is for bigger jobs, things that take many steps. You give it

a goal, and it goes and does the work. It can research things, it can build documents, it can make spreadsheets, it can even build slides and reports for you. Then you've got codex. Codex is built for coding. It can write code, it can fix code, it can test code, it can look through a whole folder of files and tell you what's wrong and fix it. This

is the one developers are going to love. And all three of these live inside one single app now, not three separate tools, one home for everything. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian reads every single comment, so make sure you comment below and let him know what you think of this update. Now, let's talk about

projects because this part matters a lot. Inside the app, you can create a project. Think of a project like a folder. Your files go in there, your chats go in there, your instructions go in there. Everything stays together in one spot. No more digging through old

chats trying to find that one thing you asked last week. Here's where it gets useful for anyone trying to grow a business. Let's say you run a small brand or you're trying to grow a community. You could open a project, drop in your notes about your audience, and then ask Work to plan out a full content calendar for the month. You could ask it to write posts that explain the real value of using AI automation to save time and get more customers. You could even ask it to

draft an email that explains why joining a community built around AI tools helps people grow faster. That's a real practical way to use this update starting today. Now, let's talk about who should actually care about this. If you're a developer, this is huge for you. If you use Linux every day, this is huge for you. If you're running a business and

you want your team to research, write, and build things faster, Work is going to help you a ton. If you just use ChatGPT to ask quick questions here and there, the website is probably still fine for you. But, if you want everything in one place, this app is worth trying. Okay, back to the update. Let's talk about the coding side because this is where it gets really impressive.

Say you've got a project, maybe it's the code behind a website for your business. You could open that folder inside Codex and say something like this, "Look through this website's code, find what's slowing it down, fix it, test it, and tell me what changed." Codex can actually go do that. It writes the fix. It runs the tests. It shows you the

results. That used to take a developer hours. Now, it can happen in minutes. Now, quick pause here. If you're liking this ChatGPT update so far and you want to actually use tools like Work and Codex to save time and grow your business, I want to point you to something. It's called the AI Profit

Boardroom. It's the best place to scale your business, get more customers, and save hours of work using AI automation. Think about everything I just showed you. Codex fixing your code, Work building your documents, Projects keeping everything organized. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we show you exactly how to take tools like this and plug them straight into your business step-by-step. So, you're not just

watching updates like this one, you're actually using them to bring in more customers and free up your time. If you want to learn how to actually use tools like this new Chat GPT update to automate your business, this is where you go. It's built for business owners who want AI working for them in the background, not another thing sitting on a shelf. Link is in the description and the comments below. Go check it out.

Let's also talk about browser workflows because OpenAI mentioned this, too. This means Chat GPT can work alongside things you're already doing in your browser. It's not just something you visit anymore. It's becoming something that sits right there with you while you work. That's really the big shift happening here. Chat GPT isn't just a

website you open when you need an answer. It's turning into a full workspace, a place where you chat, get real work done, and write code, all without switching between 10 different tabs and tools. Now, let's be fair and honest here because I always want to give you the full picture. This is still a preview. That means it's not the finished polished version yet. Right

now, it only works on certain Linux systems, Ubuntu 24.04, Ubuntu 26.04, Debian 13, Fedora 43, and Fedora 44. It works on both x64 and arm64 computers. If you're on a different system, you'll have to wait a bit longer. Also, not

every single feature is exactly the same as the Mac and Windows versions yet. Some features, like voice inside work or Codex, are currently only available on Mac and Windows. So, don't expect the exact same experience on day one. But, the foundation is there and it's only going to get better from here. Here's something interesting, too. This Linux

launch isn't some random isolated thing. OpenAI already merged Codex into the Chat GPT desktop app on Mac and Windows a bit earlier this year. So, Linux is really just catching up and joining a bigger plan that OpenAI has been building for a while. Chat, work, and Codex all living together on every major system. So, here's the real question I want you to think about. Would you

actually use this instead of your browser? If you're a developer or you run a business and you're juggling 10 tools at once, this might be the thing that brings it all together for you. Let's do a quick recap, so it's crystal clear. Linux finally got the ChatGPT desktop app, and it's in preview right now. It brings chat, work, projects, and Codex together in one app. Work can

research, write, and build full documents and reports for you. Codex can read your code, fix it, test it, and explain exactly what it changed. Projects keep all your files, chats, and instructions organized in one single place, and it currently works on specific Linux systems with more support likely coming soon. This is exactly the kind of update that shows you where AI is heading. It's not just about asking a question anymore. It's about handing off

real work and getting it done while you focus on other things. And if you want help actually putting tools like this new ChatGPT update to work for your business, come check out the AI Profit Boardroom. It's the best place to scale your business, get more customers, and automate the busy work using AI tools like chat, work, and Codex. We walk you through exactly how to set these tools up, how to connect them to what you're already doing, and how to use them to bring in more leads and more customers without adding more hours to your day. If you're serious about growing your business with AI instead of just watching videos about it, this is where you need to be. Link is in the

description and the comments below. And that's exactly the kind of thing we talk about and teach inside our free community. If you want the full process, the step-by-step guides, and over 100 real AI use cases like the ones I just showed you, join the AI Success Lab. It's completely free, and it's full of people just like you who are learning how to use AI tools like this one to work smarter every single day. Links are in the comments and description below.

You'll get all the notes from this video there. Plus, you'll be part of a community of 38,000 members who are using AI to move their work forward every single day. Let me know in the comments if you're going to try this ChatGPT update. Julian reads every comment, so tell him what you think, and I'll catch you in the next one.