---
video_title: "10 Hidden Hermes Agent Skills That Change Everything"
video_id: GBWsrtlWxo0
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GBWsrtlWxo0
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Ten plain-text "skills" that turn any AI agent into a 10x stronger system — no code, no apps. From auto-synced memory across agents to self-running task boards and voice-built apps, this is the exact stack behind a fully automated agent setup.
  
  00:00 Intro – 10 free skills to 10x your AI agent
  00:32 What a Skill Is – plain text, works with any agent
  01:07 Note-Taking – shared memory across every agent
  01:47 Hyperframes – build full videos from text files
  02:18 Oracle – auto-publish trending topics live
  02:45 Muse – find keyword gaps in old content
  04:01 SEO Skill – screen-recorded, fact-grounded articles
  04:40 Kanban Boards – self-running task automation
  05:08 Apollo – build apps by voice, no code
  05:32 Outreach – automated leads and follow-ups
  06:08 Video System – one command, finished video
  06:26 Guide Machine – auto-designed guides, live in one click
---
10 hidden Hermes agent skills that change everything. What if one plain text file could make your AI 10 times stronger? No [clears throat] code, no apps, just words you write down. Most people never even open that folder. That's exactly where the best skills are hiding, and today I'm handing you 10 of them. I'm the digital avatar of Julian

Goldie, and I help people actually learn and use AI tools in their real work, not just watch demos and forget them. Everything I'm about to show you runs on one setup I call my agent OS. That's Hermes, the open-source agent, sitting inside one dashboard with my memory layer wired into it. Stick around because skill number one is the foundation everything else stacks on. And the very last one, that's the skill I'd keep if I had to delete all nine others. Quick thing first, so this will

make sense. A skill is just a written instruction file, a recipe. You write down exactly how you want a job done, save it as a text file, and the agent follows it every single time. No code, plain English, that's it. And here's the part most people miss. Skills aren't

locked to Hermes. The same file works with Claude, with open Claude, whatever agent you run. I use Hermes because it keeps memory across sessions and comes with over 40 built-in tools. But the system works either way. Let's get into number one. Skill number one is

note-taking. This connects Hermes straight to my Obsidian vault. That's just a folder of plain text notes on my own machine. Hermes can read those notes, search them, write new ones, and edit old ones. So it writes to my second brain directly. This sounds small, but

it's the foundation for everything else on this list. Because when Hermes finishes a job, it logs what it did to a memories folder. Then tomorrow, when Claude or another agent opens up, they read that same vault. And every agent knows what the others already did. Most agents have some memory built-in, sure, but they forget the little details, and the details are what save you hours.

Which setting worked, which draft got the yes, which idea you already tried and dropped. Here's what I actually do with it. When Hermes finishes a build, I just say log today's build to my memories folder. One sentence done, and the next day every agent in my agent OS picks up right where I left off. Skill number two is hyperframes. This one's a

video engine, and it does something clever. Instead of dragging clips around a timeline, you describe your video as a simple web page. Text here, image there, this scene, then that one. Hyperframes turns that page into a finished edited video. Why does that matter? A webpage

is just text, and agents are really good at writing text. So, Hermes can build a whole video by writing one file. Change one line, the video changes. No editing software, no timeline. I've got five working example videos shipping inside my Agent OS pack right now, including a full 60-second intro video, all built this exact way. It can even put together

AI avatar videos with the same system. Skill number three is Oracle. Oracle watches what's trending. It runs on a schedule, pulls in what people are talking about right now, and finds topics worth covering. Then here's the smart bit. It can write and publish a

page straight to my website using those topics while the trend is still fresh. No waiting for me to notice it. No writing from a blank page. You set the schedule once, and it keeps feeding. And before you think this sounds techy, setting a schedule is one line in a text file. If you can set a reminder on your

phone, you can do this. Skill number four is Muse. Oracle looks outward at trends. Muse looks inward at your own content. It scans everything you've already published and finds the keyword gaps hiding inside it. Here's why that's

useful. You've probably already written stuff that's almost ranking, pages doing okay, posts that did well on social. Muse finds those near wins, looks at what worked, and tells you what to make next to beat it. So, instead of guessing what to create, the agent points you straight at the easy wins based on what's already working for you. Now, before I show you the next five, quick thing, because a lot of you are watching this going, "That's great for Julian, but how do I make this work for my site?" So, here's something free that

helps with exactly that. We're running free AI brand visibility sessions right now. You hop on, and a strategist builds you a custom visibility plan. They show you how you actually show up or don't across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. You get a competitor gap analysis, so you can see where the openings are, and you get your own questions answered live. It's 100%

free, no obligation, links in the description. And if you want the actual setup, the exact Agent OS from this video that lives inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you get the full Agent OS zip file ready to install with these skills already wired in, AI Oracle, Muse, the SEO skill, the guide machine, all of it. You get a 30-day roadmap for putting them to work step by step. And you get weekly coaching calls where you can ask about your own Hermes setup right next to members already running these skills every day. Plus daily updates because I keep improving the agent OS. It's all in

there. Links in the description, too. Okay, skill number five, the SEO content skill. This one changed how I make articles completely. Here's the process.

I record my screen while I do real work. Actual builds, actual setups, real stuff happening. That recording powers the whole skill. The skill writes an article using only what actually happened on screen. That's the rule and it's the whole point. So, it can't make things up

because it can only reference things that really happened. That's how you get AI content grounded in real work that can actually rank. And here's the wild part. There's a website I've literally never logged into. I can't log into it.

Only my AI agent can because it publishes straight through this skill. It even adds internal links, gets the page indexed fast, and runs a 13-step quality check before anything goes live. Skill number six is Kanban boards. A Kanban board is just a task board, cards, and columns. To do, doing, done.

You've seen one before. Here's what's different. This board runs itself. I type one command and the tasks start moving. An orchestrator agent looks at my big job and breaks it into small cards. Then worker sub-agents pick up

those cards and do them, one worker per card, all at the same time. And there's one line inside this skill that makes the whole thing work. Every worker gets told, "You don't do the work yourself, you hand it out." So, the manager stays a manager, the workers work, and you end up with a little fleet. I can hand it one big job, go for a walk, and come back to a board that's moved on its own.

Skill number seven is Apollo, the voice agent. You talk to it out loud and it builds while you speak. It shows you live previews as it goes. I can say, "Make the button bigger, move that up, change the headline." And I watch it happen on screen, no typing. This is the

one I show people who swear they're not technical. There's nothing to learn here. You already know how to talk. If you can describe what you want out loud, Apollo can build it in front of you. Skill number eight is the outreach skill. This handles reaching out to

people, finding the right contacts, drafting the messages, keeping track of who got what. And here's why it beats doing it by hand. Outreach fails on follow-up. Everyone sends the first message. Almost nobody sends the second and the third. An agent never forgets a

follow-up. It never gets bored on message 40. It sends message 40 as carefully as it sent message one. You tell it what kind of leads you want. It drafts the campaign in your voice, and it can even manage the inbox for you.

You just review before anything goes out. The agent does the grunt work. You stay the decision-maker. And that's the pattern across all 10 of these, by the way. None of them removes you. They just

remove the repetition around you. Skill number nine is the full video system. Remember HyperFrames from earlier? This is the full pipeline built on top of it. With one command, Hermes takes an idea and turns it into a complete finished video. You pick voiceover or presenter,

how you want the B-roll made, which voice, which avatar, and out comes an edited video ready to go all in one place. And because the video is just a file, the agent can make 10 versions as easily as one. Different headlines, different opening scenes, different variations, so you can test what actually lands. And skill number 10, this is the one I'd keep if I had to delete every other skill on this list. The guide machine. When I create a

guide, it's fully designed. Read-along steps, a hero image, a banner, images, the works. It writes the whole thing as a webpage and deploys it live to my website with one click. No human in the loop. So far, it's built out hundreds of guides, each one saved to its own file, so it never repeats itself. And here's

the best part about skills like this. I was in that file this morning making it better. That's the whole magic. You give a skill feedback, and it gets sharper every single day. So, connect the dots.

Muse finds the keywords. Oracle spots the trends. The SEO skill grounds it all in real work. The Kanban board splits the job across workers. The guide machine writes and ships the page. Video

and HyperFrames turn it into something watchable. And the note-taking skill logs all of it back to the vault. So, tomorrow every agent remembers today. That's 10 skills, one system. Each one is useful on its own, but together, they're a machine that runs around the clock. And the whole dashboard is

reachable from anywhere. I've linked mine with Tailscale, so I can run my Agent OS from my phone wherever I am. So, here's your next step. You've just seen what this setup can do. Now, get help pointing it at your own brand. Book

your free AI brand visibility session. A strategist looks at exactly how you show up across Google and the AI tools people actually ask now, hands you a custom plan, shows you where competitors are getting ahead of you, and gives you clear recommendations you can act on straight away. 100% free, no obligation. The link is in the description. And when you go to build this yourself, you're going to hit questions. Which skill to

set up first? Why your agent isn't reading the vault yet? How to get that Kanban board actually running? That's exactly what the AI Profit Boardroom is for. You get the full Agent OS zip file ready to install, the 30-day roadmap to put these skills to work, walkthroughs and prompts for every skill in this video, and weekly coaching calls where you can ask about your own setup live.

There are over 4,000 members in there already, and plenty of them started from zero. Come join us. Go to aiprofitboardroom.com, but don't try to do all 10 at once. Start with skill number one, connect one agent to one vault. Everything else

builds from there. I'll see you in the next one. Cheers for watching.