---
video_title: "NEW Claude Updates are WILD! 🤯"
video_id: t8d3e3OJnZc
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t8d3e3OJnZc
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Claude's HUGE Update: Universal Memory & Built-In Browser
  
  Anthropic just released two massive updates that turn Claude into a powerhouse for business automation and research. Discover how to leverage universal memory and the new built-in browser to build smarter, faster workflows for your business.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Massive Claude Updates
  01:27 - The Old Way vs. The New Way
  02:07 - Claude's Universal Memory System
  03:30 - New: Built-in Browser in Co-work
  05:26 - Real-World Workflow Demo
  06:14 - Building Better AI Workflows
  07:34 - Scale Your SEO with AI
---
New Claude updates are absolutely insane, and I'm going to show you exactly what changed, why it matters, and how to use it to grow the AI Profit Boardroom. Two updates just dropped this week from Anthropic, and when you stack them together, Claude becomes something most people haven't even realized yet. Update one, Claude's memory now works across chat and co-work. One brain, one memory. Everything you've ever told Claude available everywhere you use it.

Update two, co-work now has its own built-in browser. Claude can open websites, read pages, click buttons, fill forms, all inside co-work without touching your personal browser at all. On their own, both of these are significant, but stacked together, this is a completely different tool than it was 2 weeks ago. Here's what most people still don't get about AI tools. They keep treating them like search engines.

Ask a question, get an answer, close the tab, start fresh every single time. That was fine a year ago. That's the old way. What if we haven't met already? I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. What Anthropic just shipped is something else entirely. An AI that remembers your business, knows your audience, understands how you operate, and then goes and does the actual work for you on the internet. So, let me break down exactly what changed, what it means in practice, and I'm going to walk through real AI Profit Boardroom workflows so you can see what this looks like when you actually use it. Before these updates, here was the problem.

Every time you open co-work, Claude had zero context about you. You'd spend time in chat building up knowledge, explained your business, your audience, your content style, your processes, you know, and then the moment you switch to co-work to actually run a task, Claude had no idea any of that existed. Blank slate. You had to re-explain everything from scratch. Again, Claude's memory in chat and co-work were completely separate systems. Two different brains.

No connection between them. Moving from thinking something through to actually taking action meant rebriefing the AI on things it already knew every single time. That friction was huge and it stopped most people from using co-work the way it was designed. That just changed. Claude now runs on one memory system across chat and co-work on web, desktop, and mobile. What you tell it in

one place shows up when you use the other. Everything Claude remembers is listed under topics in settings where you can see it, edit it, or delete anything you don't want it to hold. Memory is on by default for free, pro, and max plans. So, here's what this looks like for the AI Profit Boardroom. You go into Claude chat and have a conversation like this. I run the AI

Profit Boardroom, an AI automation community for business owners and agency founders. Our members range from people just getting started with AI to agency owners automating client delivery. Our content tone is direct, no fluff, practical. We focus on workflows that save time and get more leads and customers. Our community has 3,700 members, four weekly coaching calls, daily tutorials, 30-day roadmaps, and a member map. Claude learns that, saves

it, organizes it as a memory topic. Now, a few days later you open co-work and say, "Plan next week's content for AI Profit Boardroom's YouTube channel." Claude already knows what AI Profit Boardroom is. It knows the audience, it knows the tone, it knows what the community offers. It doesn't ask you to explain any of it again. It starts with

that context already loaded. That's a completely different experience and it compounds. The more you interact with Claude, the more it knows and the better every single co-work task becomes. Now, here's where it gets really interesting because the memory update on its own is great, but then co-work got a browser. We've got a full 30-day Claude co-work roadmap inside the AI Profit Boardroom built specifically around these two updates. How to set up your memory

profile so Claude genuinely knows your business from day one, how to structure co-work tasks so you get useful outputs every time, not vague AI waffle, how to build a content research workflow, a a competitive analysis workflow, and a lead generation workflow, all running inside Co-Work with your business context already loaded. Four live coaching calls every week where we walk through Claude setups live, and you can ask questions about your exact situation. Daily tutorials, a prompt library built around real business tasks, including the exact prompts I just showed you, and 3,700 members already running Co-Work for content, research, and client work. Link in the description or go to ai-profit-boardroom.com.

And if you want more customers finding your business on Google and AI search, book a free SEO strategy session with our team. A lot of business owners watching this are sitting on websites that could be pulling in leads every single day, but aren't they because the SEO hasn't been set up properly for how search works now in 2026. We'll look at your site, map out exactly what's holding it back, and build you a custom plan to rank higher, get more traffic, and turn that traffic into customers. No generic advice. A plan built around your specific business, your niche, and where the real opportunities are right now.

Link in the comments and description, or go to goldie.agency to book your free session. Claude now has a browser built directly into the Co-Work desktop app. When a task needs a website, a browser panel opens, and Claude navigates pages, reads them, clicks through content, and types all inside Co-Work. No extension, no setup.

Your own browser stays completely separate. Your tabs, your logins, nothing gets touched unless you specifically choose to share it. So, here's what this looks like with a real AI Profit Boardroom workflow. You open Co-Work and say, "Research the top AI automation education platforms and communities online. Visit their websites. For each one, pull what they

offer, who they're targeting, how they position themselves, what their main call to action is, and what they charge if it's visible. Then, create a competitive analysis for AI Profit Boardroom, including where the gaps are, what competitors are missing, and where AI Profit Boardroom has the strongest differentiation. Claude opens the browser, goes to those sites, reads the pages, navigates through the content, pulls the information, and comes back with a full competitive analysis, positioning gaps identified, opportunities mapped out, differentiation points laid out clearly. That research used to take an afternoon of manual work. You gave Claude the outcome, Claude went and got it. Now, so

here's where we land, memory across chat and co-work, built-in browser in co-work. The features are significant, but the real thing that changed is what they make possible together. An AI that knows your business and can go do work on the internet with that context already loaded. That's what Claude is becoming. And if you're running a community, an agency, or a business, and you've been watching AI from the sidelines, this is the moment where it starts to make real sense to build actual workflows around it. If you want

to implement everything I just walked through, the memory setup, the co-work workflows, the content system, the lead generation process, it's all inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We've got a full 30-day roadmap built specifically around Claude co-work and these new memory features, step-by-step, day-by-day. So, you're not guessing what to do next. Four live coaching calls every week where we go deep on Claude setups, walk through co-work prompts, and you can ask live questions about your exact business and your exact workflows. A prompt library with the prompts I just showed you, ready to copy and use. Daily

tutorials showing you how to apply new Claude updates to real business tasks as they ship. And 3,700 members, agency founders, consultants, coaches, course creators, a lot of them already running co-work for content, research, client delivery, and lead generation. Link in the description or go to AI Profit Boardroom.com. And if you want more customers finding your business on Google and AI search, book a free SEO strategy session with our team. A lot of

business owners watching this are sitting on websites that could be pulling in leads every single day, but aren't because the SEO hasn't been set up properly for how search works now in 2026. We'll look at your site, map out exactly what's holding it back, and build you a custom plan to rank higher, get more traffic, and turn that traffic into customers. No generic advice. A plan built around your specific business, your niche, and where the real opportunities are right now. Link in the comments and description, or go to goldie.agency

to book your free session.