---
video_title: "OpenClaw 2.0 Just Changed AI Agents!"
video_id: 9GtwR-7OBiY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9GtwR-7OBiY
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  OpenClaw 2.0: AI Agents Just Changed Forever
  
  Discover why OpenClaw 2.0 is the most significant rebuild in the tool's history, featuring shared cloud sessions and persistent memory. Learn how to transform your AI workflow from a simple chatbot into a powerful, multi-user workspace.
  
  00:00 - 00:00 - Intro
  01:23 - Easier Setup & Integration
  01:47 - The Rebuilt Workspace
  02:18 - Multi-User Cloud Sessions
  03:53 - Persistent Memory & Dreaming
  04:54 - Multi-Device & Mobile Support
  05:31 - Automation & AI Swarms
  07:00 - Is It Worth The Update?
---
Open Claw 2.0 just changed AI agents. Today, I'm going to show you the biggest AI agent update this year. It's called Open Claw 2.0, and it's huge. It's

easier to set up, it's way more powerful, and it lets two people work with the same AI agent at the same time. Stick around because by the end of this video, you will know exactly why everyone is talking about this. So, Open Claw just dropped a massive update, and it's called Open Claw 2.0. This is not a small update. This is a full rebuild.

The team went almost seven weeks without shipping anything. That might not sound crazy to you, but before this, they were shipping new updates every single day. Over 100 updates in 230 days. Then they went quiet for seven weeks. And when they came back, they came back with one of the biggest updates in the whole history of the tool. Almost 1,000 people

helped build this update. Over 500 of them had never contributed before, and they made more than 16,000 changes to the code. That is close to half of everything ever built for this tool all packed into one release. So, what did all that work actually build? Let's get into it. Hey, if we haven't met already,

I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian reads every single comment, so drop a comment below and let him know what you think of Open Claw 2.0. Okay, let's talk about the first big win. Setup just got a lot

easier. Before getting Open Claw running took some real effort. You had to set up your models, your plugins, all of it before you could even talk to your agent. Now, Open [clears throat] Claw looks at what you already have. Got a ChatGPT account? It can use that. Got a

Claude account? It can use that, too. Got an API key or a local model on your computer? It can use that, as well. The whole point is to get you talking to your agent fast. You set up the extra

stuff later, only if you need it. Next big win. The whole control screen got rebuilt from scratch. Before, the browser app felt like an extra. Now, it's the main event. Inside it, you get

your sessions, your projects, your files, your tasks, a terminal, and live dashboards all in one place. You can literally watch your agent think, plan, and work step-by-step right in front of you. This is where OpenClaw stops feeling like a chat box. It starts feeling like a real workspace. And here is a feature that is going to blow your mind, shared cloud sessions. This means

another person can jump into your agent's work while it's still running. Not a copy of the chat, the actual live session with all the same context. So picture this, you start a task with your agent, then you hand that exact session to a teammate. They can read what's happening, suggest changes, or take over completely. No copying and pasting, no explaining everything from scratch. Now

here's something you need to know before you get too excited. This is not the same as full team security. OpenClaw is upfront about this. One agent setup equals one trust zone. So the sharing controls decide who can join and what they can do, but it's not built to keep out a hostile stranger. It's built for

trusted people working together. Keep that in mind before you go handing out access to just anyone. Before we go further, I want to pause here for a second. If you're watching this and thinking, "This is great, but nobody can even find my business online." That's a different problem, and it's one my team fixes every day. If you want more leads,

more traffic, and more customers finding you on Google, book a free SEO strategy session using the link in the comments and description, and let my team handle your SEO and backlinks while you focus on growing your business. And while we're on it, if you're trying to figure out how tools like OpenClaw actually help you get more customers, save time, and grow without hiring a huge team, that's exactly what we break down inside my AI Profit Boardroom. We take AI updates like this one and turn them into real systems you can use in your business. Go check out the AI Profit Boardroom, the link is right below this video, too. Okay, back to the update.

All right, let's talk about memory because this is a big one too. Open Claw 2.0 can now remember your past conversations with the same agent. It can also run something called grounded dreaming in the background where it reviews old sessions and keeps a diary of what it learned. On top of that, it can pick up useful lessons on its own and turn them into skills it uses later and you stay in control. You can see

which conversations added to its memory and you can delete what it learned without deleting the original chat. So now it's not just an assistant that forgets everything the second you close the tab. It's building up knowledge over time. Let's talk about sessions. In Open Claw 2.0, your conversations don't just

disappear. You can search old sessions, rewind them, branch off into a new direction, archive them, or come right back to where you left off. Your progress even stays visible after you close the app and reopen it on your laptop, your phone, or your desktop. This is a big shift. Before, an AI agent was one single conversation. Now it's

more like a workspace that stays with you. And speaking of staying with you, agents can now move between machines. You can start a task on your laptop, let it keep running on a cloud machine, then check on it from your phone, then jump back to your laptop later. Same session, same memory, different device whenever you need it. Next up, dashboards and widgets. Instead of just replying with a

wall of text, Open Claw can now build you an actual interface. Think buttons, charts, and live results click on and use. You can even pin these to a dashboard so you can check on your agent's work at a glance. Automations got a nice upgrade too. Before, you had to approve the same task over and over.

Now you can approve one type of task once and it will keep doing that exact job without asking again unless something changes. You can also set up daily checks, email triggers, and task boards so your agent handles the repeat stuff on its own. There's also something new called agent-to-agent messaging plus an early feature called swarm, where one main agent can send out smaller helper agents to work on different parts of a job at the same time, then bring it all back together. Swarm is still experimental, so don't expect it to be perfect yet, but it shows you where this is heading. On the local model side, Open Claw got smarter, too. It can now

detect models already on your computer and help you download new ones, which matters because the whole idea here is using the tools you already have, not being forced into one option. Security also got some real upgrades. Agents can now ask for passwords and secrets through a hidden prompt, so they never get typed directly into the chat. There are also new controls on where secrets are allowed to go, and before you install any plugin, you can see what it does and whether it passed a safety review. One more thing worth mentioning, all of this session and memory data now runs on a proper database behind the scenes called SQLite. It's not flashy,

but it's what makes all these new features, like memory and shared sessions, actually possible to run smoothly. If you're already using Open Claw and about to update, just know there are some breaking changes. An old plugin called Open Pros has been removed, so you'll need to run the fix command after updating. Some old model routes changed names, too. So, back up your data first, then update. So, here's

my take on all of this. Open Claw 2.0 isn't one single killer feature. It's the whole direction of the thing changing. It went from being a smart assistant that questions to being a persistent agent with memory, a real workspace, the ability to run on different devices, and now the ability to work together with other people and other agents. That's a big shift, and

it's worth keeping an eye on, especially if you're building anything with AI right now. And one more thing, if you run a business and you're trying to figure out how tools like Open Claw actually help you get more customers, save time, and grow without hiring a huge team, that's exactly what we break down inside my AI Profit Boardroom. We take AI updates like this one and turn them into real systems you can use in your business. Go check out the AI Profit Boardroom. The link is right below this video. And if you're building

all these smart AI systems, but nobody can find your business online, that's where SEO comes in. If you want more leads, more traffic, and more customers finding you, book a free SEO strategy session using the link in the comments and description, and let my team handle your SEO and backlinks while you focus on growing your business. Thanks for watching. Drop a comment and let Julian know what you think about Open Claw 2.0, and I'll see you in the next one.