---
video_title: "Hermes AI's New Loop Command Changes Everything"
video_id: f2-Z1DDQig8
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2-Z1DDQig8
video_date: 20260815
video_description: |
  Julian's AI Profit Boardroom: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Kasra's Rank OS: https://www.skool.com/the-new-search/about
  
  How to Use Hermes AI Loops to Automate Your Business 24/7
  
  Discover the brand new Loops command in Hermes AI that allows your agent to monitor your business while you sleep. Learn how to set up automated checks that deliver real-time updates straight to your phone with this powerful free update.
  
  00:00 - Intro to Hermes Loops
  01:07 - How to Update Hermes
  01:15 - The /loop Command Explained
  02:23 - Loops vs. Goals vs. Schedules
  02:54 - Practical Use Cases for Loops
  03:52 - Safety Features and Token Usage
  05:54 - Summary and Next Steps
---
Hermes Loops are one of the best free updates Hermes has ever shipped and Hermes just got a brand new command that makes your AI agent work whilst you don't. So, you can simply type a line and your agent checks on your business every few minutes all by itself. So, it watches your stuff, it messages you the moment something changes like a text from an employee who never forgets to report in. And here's the best part, it lands right in WhatsApp on your phone in your pocket. So, there is one setting most people going to miss and it decides whether this update saves you time or wastes it. I'll show you exactly what

that is later in this video. If you stick with me to the end, I promise you walk away with an AI agent that watches your business 24/7 for free whilst you sleep, whilst you go to the gym, and whilst you do literally anything else. Let's get straight into it. Kaz, have you seen this new update {forward slash} loop? >> I have seen the announcement. Um I'm

hoping that everything you've said I'll be able to achieve by the end of the video. >> There we go. There we go. We actually we can't end this video until you actually achieve what I've promised here. So, [laughter] just to be clear if anyone watching like first of all, this is Hermes agent. So,

you can just use this new feature. You have to update. So, you want to make sure that you update Hermes. You can just run Hermes update inside your terminal. And then once that's done, you can type {forward slash} loop and you actually say how long you want the loop to go for. So, how long it's going to

loop around for. And then from there, you can say for example, I don't know like check if my blog post is indexed yet. Just as a totally random example. And basically what this does is you've got the command, you set how often it's going to loop around for, and then it basically circles around and wakes up every 5 minutes until something stops it. Until for example >> So, this is almost like a a cron job where it just continuously goes and it if if something happens it will actually end up sending you a WhatsApp or a Telegram >> Yeah, exactly. So, like even the

co-founder of of Hermes actually said that it's like a cron jobs but inside a session, right? So, it behaves like a scheduled job but it lives inside your chat with your contacts and everything else that you're doing. Whereas, for example, like a normal cron job wouldn't live with that. And also, it wouldn't be inside a normal conversation. And um yeah, that's that's one of the big differences between >> That's that's really interesting. Do you

know what? They kind of reminds what Claude Bot. Um obviously, with with Claude Bot, it would always like collapse on itself and it would end up forgetting the cron. >> Yeah, that's it. And you you know, some people will be watching this and and still not get it. Like, why would you

use uh loops if you have goals and you have schedules? But like, schedules is something that runs every single day. Goals is something that runs like for long-term, long horizon coding tasks, 3-hour tasks. But loops are really just for like checking or watching something in like one conversation. So, it's like it's something that you do short tasks.

>> So, it it it it could be, for example, okay, would you set this as a loop? Ping me a message whenever Julian Goldie uh would that would that would that be a loop or would that be a goal? >> Yeah. Yeah, that's it. So, it can be something where it's It could be like, "Okay, let's say, for example, you're monitoring your competitors." And you're

like, "Okay, check uh check, for example, if my competitors have changed the page like every 1 hour inside that conversation. And then, once that's done, then tell me." And that's when the loop would finish. So, it's looping around. So, it's like it's really good for for checking. It runs on a timer.

It's just keeping watch. Like, it's not chasing. If you look at a scheduled task like a cron job, it would do that on a schedule whether I'm here or not. So, this is more for a conversation. This is more for like a scheduled task. And for

slash goal, some people as I covered it, this is more for like get it done and just keep going until it's done. >> Okay. So, when let let's say we set up for like your Twitter and it's doing a loop and it's task to just message me on Telegram whenever you do it. Will it only do it the first time? Or let's say you do five tweets, will it do it for everyone?

>> No, I think it would just it would finish when that job is completed as far as I'm aware. So, like there's there's five ways that the loop can end itself. So the agent says it's done, there's proof that it's finished, maybe you had like a timing cap that you set, you can end it anytime, and also that there's actually a safety net, so like it's not just run forever and using up all your tokens. >> All right, okay. >> So for example, some people be like, okay, well, when do you run a loop and when do you run for example like a a goal? And the goal would be

like, okay, well, you need to build a website and you just need it to run for hours. Whereas for example, a loop is something where you set the timing and you and you just keep going. Also, you can have like self-paced loops as well, where you actually leave the time out. >> That's very interesting. What one thing that you showed that the at the top you you meant specify time, right? I think I

think by default the prompt five five and would you be able to do it for like a day? So like every five day five >> That's an interesting one. I haven't actually tested that out. I was just thinking in terms of minutes cuz it's inside the session that you're already running. So like >> If you if you go away, you're probably going to end the session and so you would probably want like something like a scheduled task for that, like a cron job.

>> That makes sense. So that this is for more short bursts. Like like let's say for example, you are using it to like get certain tweets or certain trends for example. That that makes a lot >> Yeah, like I mean another example for some people watching this would be super relevant is like it could be like, okay, tell me let's say for example, all the hype is saying like, okay, Claude Fable 5.1 is coming out soon. So it could be like Right,

okay, check the Claude Twitter and tell me once they tweet and it just loops around every five minutes or every 30 minutes. >> That's very interesting. I think people need to be a little bit careful with this as well cuz you don't want it doing something every 30 seconds, one minute and your eye back. So I I I think I think people need to be careful. >> Yeah, yeah, that's it for sure, for sure. By the way, your camera's switched

off. >> [laughter] >> So either way, that is my friends. And uh Cat fur is looping round as well. So, that's basically it. I mean, as promised, you now have a system where you can walk away, your AI agent watches everything 24/7.

It is a free update. You know how to update, you know how to set it, which is {forward slash} loop. You know how to set the time interval. And also, you don't have to set the time if you don't want to. So, that's basically the system. If you want to learn more about

this sort of stuff, check out the new search from Cat fur dash. This is a school group where you can learn how to rank with SEO, how to rank with AI SEO as well. And then also, if you want to learn more about AI automation, how to use it, how to grow with it, feel free to check out the AI Profit Board. Link in the comments and description, or go to the aiprofitboard.com. Thanks for

watching.