---
video_title: "Heres How to Run Qwen 3.8 Free Forever! 🤯"
video_id: 3YJDJRYP_RQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3YJDJRYP_RQ
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Qwen 3.8 Max: Run This Powerful AI Model Free Forever
  
  Discover how to access Alibaba's massive Qwen 3.8 Max AI model for free without any usage caps or hidden fees. Learn how to leverage its 2.4 trillion parameters and 1 million token context window to build high-converting landing pages and automated business workflows.
  
  00:00 - Intro to Qwen 3.8 Max
  00:23 - How to Access Qwen for Free
  01:02 - Technical Specs and Context Window
  02:00 - The Agent OS Dashboard
  02:50 - Real-World Automation Prompts
  04:48 - Building Landing Pages with Qwen
  06:22 - Scaling Your AI Business Workflow
---
Here's how to run Qwen 3.8 free forever Qwen 3.8 Max is free to use right now and most people have no idea. This is Alibaba's biggest AI model ever 2.4 trillion parameters a 1 million token context window and according to Alibaba is the second most powerful AI model on the planet behind only Claude Fable 5.

You can use it at chat.qwen.ai for free no credit card just sign in and go. Let me show you exactly how. Go to chat.qwen.ai

sign up or login it only takes a minute. Once you're in open the model drop down and select Qwen 3.8 Max. That's it. You're now running one of the most powerful AI models in the world completely free. Hey, if we haven't met

already. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie CEO of SEO agency Goldie agency. While he's helping clients get more leads and customers. I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates and Julian Goldie reads every comment. So make sure you comment below. Now here's

the thing. Most people think free AI means watered down AI worse results slower responses. Qwen 3.8 Max is not that. It's a 2.4 trillion parameter

model running on a sparse mixture of experts architecture. That means only around 95 billion parameters activate per token keeping it fast while still having enormous capacity. It supports text images and video and it's got a full 1 million token context window. That means you can feed it massive documents long threads entire reports and it holds all of it in memory at once. Now why does any of this matter?

Because the gap between free AI and paid AI is closing fast like really fast. A year ago you had to pay for any serious AI access. Then free tiers came out but they were always limited slower models fewer features usage caps during peak hours. Qwen 3.8 Max on chat.qwen.ai

doesn't have those peak hour limits. You're running the same flagship model no compromises. The model recently got a major update with big improvements in front end work and Agentyc tool calling reliability. So, it just got better, and it's still free. Now, let me tell you about the Agent OS and how it works. The

Agent OS is a complete dashboard that connects all your AI tools, Qwen, Claude, and others into one mission control. Left rail has your agents. Center shows live activity and today's goals. Workflow tiles let you trigger your most used automations in one click, things like content pipelines, outreach sequences, video workflows, and there's a shared memory layer, so every agent knows your context, your business, your goals. That's a pretty big deal. Let me

show you how I'd actually use this for something real. Let's say you're running an AI automation community, like the AI Profit Boardroom. You've got 3,600 members. You do four coaching calls a week. You drop new tutorials daily. You

need content, copy, automations, onboarding emails, landing pages, constantly. Here's a prompt I'd run right now in Qwen 3.8 Max. Write a 7-day onboarding email sequence for new members of the AI Profit Boardroom. Each email should teach one AI automation win, feel personal and conversational, and drive members to attend the weekly coaching calls. Qwen 3.8 Max will knock

that out in seconds. Full sequence, proper copy, ready to paste into your email tool. That kind of output used to cost real time or real money. Right now, it costs nothing. By the way, if you want the full system for running Qwen 3.8 inside a proper AI automation setup,

the Agent OS inside the AI Profit Boardroom is exactly that. It's a complete dashboard where Qwen, Claude, and all your other tools run together in one place with shared memory. Left rail has your agents. Center shows live activity. Workflow tiles let you trigger your automations in one click. The full

zip file is ready to download and install in minutes. You also get four coaching calls every week where we go deep on tools like Qwen 3.8, daily step-by-step tutorials, a full prompt library built around AI automation, 30-day road maps, so you always know your next move, and 3,600 members who are already building with this stuff right now. Someone is always online. Get the Agent OS Zip at the link in the description or go to AIprofitboardroom.com.

And if you want more customers finding your business on Google and AI search engines right now, book a free SEO strategy session with my team. Search is changing fast. AI overviews, AI search engines, new ranking signals, it's a completely different game from 2 years ago. We'll look at your website, your market, your competitors, and build you a custom step-by-step game plan tailored specifically to your business, not a generic template, a real strategy built around where your customers are searching and how to get in front of them. We've done this for hundreds of businesses, and we know exactly what's working right now. No obligation,

completely free. Hit the link in the description or go to JulianGoldie.com to book your free session today. Now, let me walk you through what Qwen 3.8 can actually do, because this isn't just a chatbot, it's built for complex long-horizon tasks, full-stack work, data analysis, and professional productivity workflows. Let's say you

want to build a landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom that actually converts. You could prompt it like this: Design a full landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom. It needs to explain what AI automation is, show why a business owner needs it, cover the key benefits, coaching calls, daily tutorials, the Agent OS, the member map, and end with a strong call to action. Qwen 3.8 Max will write that full page, headlines, subheadings, body copy, CTA, the whole thing. You copy the HTML, paste it into

your builder, and you're done. That took maybe 20 seconds. Here's where it gets even more useful. Most AI tools make you choose between speed and quality. Fast models give you average output. Powerful

models take longer. Qwen 3.8 Max has multiple reasoning settings, low, high, and XI with XI as the default. So, it's running at maximum reasoning power automatically. You don't have to configure anything.

Now, the most powerful OpenAI models are just free. You go to a website, you log in, you use them. The people who learn how to actually use these tools right now, who build workflows, who understand what prompts get results, who integrate this into how they run their business, those people are going to be operating at a completely different level than those who don't. And the gap between those two groups is getting wider every month. This isn't about being early.

Qwen 3.8 Max is already here. It's already free. The question is whether you're actually using it. If you want the full setup, not just access to Qwen 3.8, but the full Agent OS you can

install in one go, that's inside the AI Profit Boardroom right now. The Agent OS is a complete zip file. Download it, install it, and you've got a full AI automation operating system ready to run. We've built it specifically so the tools like Qwen 3.8 plug straight in.

So, if you want to run Qwen 3.8 inside a full AI automation system, not just an occasional chat window, get the Agent OS inside the AI Profit Boardroom. It's a complete mission control dashboard ready to install straight from a zip file with Qwen wired directly in. One place where all your agents share memory, your workflows run on one click, and nothing gets lost. You also get four live coaching calls every week going deep on exactly how to use tools like Qwen 3.8

in your business, daily tutorials, a prompt library packed with ready-to-run automations, 30-day road maps, and a community of 3,600 business owners all building with AI right now. There is always someone online to help. Get the full Agent OS zip file at the link in the description, or head to AIprofitboardroom.com and grab it today. And if getting more customers from Google and AI search engines is on your list, book a free SEO strategy session with my team at juliangoldie.com.

AI is completely changing how people search and how businesses get found. If your website isn't set up for that right now, you are already losing traffic to competitors who are. We'll go through your site, your niche, your current rankings, and hand you a personalized game plan, exactly what to fix, what to build, and how to show up where your customers are already looking. It's a proper one-to-one session, completely free, no strings attached. Hundreds of businesses have already gone through this and seen real results. Link is in

the comments and description or go directly to juliangoldie.com to book your free session now. See you on the next one.