---
video_title: "NEW Claude Update is Absurd!"
video_id: 4oXTfzlJ9SA
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4oXTfzlJ9SA
video_date: 20260813
video_description: |
  Free SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Get the Agent OS & Claude Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  New Claude Update: Persistent AI is a Game Changer for SEO
  
  Claude's new Co-work update transforms the AI from a simple chatbot into a persistent workspace that follows you across Chrome, mobile, and desktop. This video covers how persistent sessions, browser skills, and data connectors will revolutionize your SEO research and content creation workflow.
  
  00:00 - The Huge Claude Update
  01:02 - What is Claude Co-work?
  01:28 - Persistent AI Sessions
  02:40 - Skills & Connectors in Chrome
  04:52 - How to Get Access
  05:17 - Warning: Browser Agent Risks
  05:59 - The Future of AI Workspaces
---
New Claude update is absurd. This is a huge SEO update because Claude just changed how you can research, write, and rank content all in one place. Let's get into it. Today, I'm going to show you the new Claude update that just dropped. It lets your AI follow you everywhere you go. It's new, it's big, it's stupid

easy to use, and it's safe, too. Stick with me because at the end, I'll show you the one thing you need to watch out for. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Okay, let's talk SEO because

that's what this whole update is really about. If you do content research or link building, this changes how you work. Here's the problem Claude just fixed. Old AI tools live in one place. You open Chrome, you do some research, then you close your laptop. That work is

gone. You have to start over on your phone. You have to start over on your desktop. It's annoying. It wastes time, and time is the one thing you can't get back when you're trying to grow something like the AI Profit Boardroom.

Anthropic announced a fix for this on August 12th, 2026. It's called Claude Co-work, and now it works right inside Chrome. Here's what changed. Before, Claude in Chrome was just a side panel. You'd open it next to a webpage. It

could read the page, it could click things, it could type things, but that was kind of it. The session lived in the browser, and that's where it stayed. Now, that Chrome side panel turns into a full co-work session. That means your work is not stuck in your browser anymore. It's tied to your Claude account. So, you can start a task in

Chrome, close it, and pick it right back up on your phone or your desktop. Let's break down the three big things this update gives you. Number one, your sessions follow you. Let's say you're doing SEO research. You tell Claude, "Research the top ranking pages for AI automation communities and pull out what makes them convert." Claude starts

working in Chrome. You close your laptop. Later, you open Claude on your phone. Same session, same research, nothing lost. Number two, your conversations get saved. This sounds

small, but it's not. Before, your browser chat felt temporary, now it becomes part of your actual Claude history, so you can research in Chrome, keep going on desktop, check it on your phone, then come back to your desktop and finish the job. You're not starting from scratch every single time. Quick pause here because I want to bring up something important for anyone doing SEO content like this. If you're creating all this content with tools like Claude, but nobody's finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO

comes in. If you want more leads and more traffic coming into your business or your community, my team can help you rank higher on Google. Check the link in the description and book a free SEO strategy session and let us handle the heavy lifting while you focus on growing what you're building. Okay, back to the update. Number three, your skills and connectors come with you. This is the

part I want you to really pay attention to because this is where SEO people win big. Skills are like little workflows you build inside Claude. Connectors let Claude pull in data from places like Google Drive, Slack, Notion, and GitHub. Now, those work right inside the browser, too. So, Claude can look at a web page, use a skill you built, pull data from a connected tool, and get real work done. Not just chat, real work. Let

me paint a picture for you. Let's say you're building out content for the AI Profit Boardroom and you want more traffic and more leads coming in from search. Here's how this could look. In the morning, you're in Chrome. You tell Claude, "Research the top questions people ask about AI automation for small businesses and find the content gaps our competitors are missing." Claude starts

digging through pages right there in the browser. You close your laptop and head out. Later, on your phone, you open Claude. Same session is right there. You ask, "What are the three biggest content gaps you found?" Claude tells you, based

on the research it already did. You get back to your desk. You say, "Turn this into an outline for a landing page that explains the value of the AI Profit Boardroom and why people should join." Claude already has the context. It doesn't ask you to explain everything again. It just keeps building. That's

the real shift here. You're not moving files around. You're not copying and pasting summaries into a new chat. The session itself moves with you. Now, here's another example, and this one's about link building since that's close to my heart. Say you want to find sites

that link to your competitors but not to you. You start that research in Chrome, Claude pulls pages, checks them, starts a list. You switch to your phone on your commute and ask, "Which of these sites look the easiest to reach out to?" Claude keeps going using the same research it already gathered. This is the direction AI is heading. It's not a

chatbot you open and close anymore. It's becoming more like a workspace that just stays with you. Here's one more way this could help with SEO work. Say you want to check how your competitors are talking about AI automation, and you want to build a piece of content that beats them. You start in Chrome, you tell Claude, "Look at the top five pages ranking for AI automation community and tell me what they cover and what they're missing." Claude reads through those

pages right there in the browser. Then later, from your desktop, you say, "Now write a content outline that covers everything those pages missed, and make it about the AI profit boardroom." Claude already knows what it found, you don't have to explain it again. It just keeps building on what it already did. Now, let's talk about who gets this right now. According to Anthropic's

announcement, it's available now for Max and Team plans. Pro users are getting it soon, rolling out over the next few weeks. So, if you're on Pro and you don't see it yet, that's why. It's coming. To use the Chrome side of this, you'll need Google Chrome, a Claude account, the Claude in Chrome extension, and a plan that supports it. Right now,

the extension isn't built for mobile browsers, but you can still reach your session through the Claude mobile app. Now, let's talk about the one thing you need to be careful about. Because Claude can now click, type, and interact with websites on your behalf, you need to treat this with some caution. Anthropic has actually said this directly, "Browser agents come with real risk." Here's why. A webpage can

contain hidden instructions that aren't meant for you. They're meant to trick the AI. This is called prompt injection. Basically, a bad page could try to tell Claude to ignore what you asked it to do and do something else instead. Anthropic has been testing their systems against exactly this kind of attack. So, the

short version is this. Don't treat every single webpage as safe just because Claude is the one browsing it. Keep an eye on what it's doing, especially if it's interacting with pages you don't fully trust. That's the one warning. Now, let's zoom out because I think this is bigger than people realize. We're

moving away from AI being a chatbot you open, type into, and close. We're moving toward AI being a workspace that just follows you. Your laptop, your phone, your desktop, they're all becoming different doors into the same room. And that room remembers everything you've been working on. For SEO and content work specifically, this matters a lot.

Most of what we do isn't one task. It's research, then writing, then editing, then publishing, then checking rankings, then doing it again. That's a process that happens across days, not minutes. Having a session that doesn't reset every time you switch devices actually fits how this work really happens. Think about how much SEO work gets lost between devices right now. You research

keywords on your laptop at your desk. You think of a great headline idea while you're out and about on your phone, but you forget it by the time you sit back down. You start writing on your desktop, but you want to double-check a stat on your phone, and now you've got two different chats going with no connection between them. This update is Anthropic's answer to that exact problem. One session, every device, nothing forgotten. I think this update is a sign

of where things are going. Less about opening an app, more about picking up right where you left off, no matter what screen you're on. All right, that's the update. Sessions that follow you across Chrome, desktop, and mobile. Conversations that actually get saved. Skills and connectors that

work right in your browser. Available now on Max and Team coming soon to Pro. And one real warning, watch out for pages with hidden instructions, since Claude is now doing more browsing on your behalf. And one more thing before you go. If you're completely new to SEO and want to build a solid foundation alongside these AI tools, how content strategy works, how to approach link building, what a good keyword looks like, we've got a free SEO course in the description with over 260 lessons. It

covers everything you need to get started. Go check that out, too. The link is below. And one more time, something important for anyone doing SEO content like this. If you're creating all this content with tools like Claude, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO

comes in. If you want more leads and more traffic coming into your business or your community, my team can help you rank higher on Google. Check the link in the description and book a free SEO strategy session and let us handle the heavy lifting while you focus on growing what you're building. Drop a comment below and let me know what's the first thing you'd have Claude research for you in Chrome. Julian reads every single one, so don't be shy. Thanks for

watching and I'll see you in the next one.