---
video_title: "I Built My Own AI Operating System With Claude"
video_id: KLhTCaJz0S0
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KLhTCaJz0S0
video_date: 2026-09-05
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS → https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Why does running Agent OS locally beat VPS hosting? This Q&A breaks down agent harness picks (Hermes vs Claude Code vs DeepSeek), the Obsidian memory system that gives every AI agent instant context, and how a single custom Agent OS grew into a full toolkit — straight from real user questions.
  
  00:00 Intro – Live AI agent Q&A begins
  00:14 VPS vs Local – why local hosting wins for Agent OS security
  02:46 Best Harness – Hermes vs Claude Code vs DeepSeek compared
  03:57 Design Workflows – custom image tools vs ChatGPT
  04:53 Obsidian Setup – the infinite context engine explained
  08:31 Hermes vs OpenClaw – why a custom Agent OS wins
  09:45 Building Agent OS – from side project to full toolkit
  11:21 Real or AI? – confirming it's a real person
---
So, today we're going to run through some of the latest AI or questions that we've had first of all. And if you're watching you have any questions, feel free to ask. I am happy to help you. And we're just going to get straight into this. So, these are the questions from the AI Profit Boardroom community. So, question

by Issy Akhi, which is VPS for Agent OS. Why do the pros avoid cloud hosting? So, Issy was saying, you know, I've read the read the community Q&A's daily. Notice the trend. You often mention you prefer running Agent OS locally instead of VPS.

What's the reason for this? Is it strictly for data privacy? Is it too slow? So, let's get straight into this. So, question number one. Personally, I

prefer to use the local hosting instead of cloud hosting for an Agent OS simply because I think like it's really good for security, right? Like if you look at most of the problems that happened with Open Claw when it was first released, it all came down to having VPS's, right? Like there's people actively searching for VPS and people actively like looking for access to VPS's. So, I don't think it's the best way to run an Agent OS. And also bear in mind like you don't need a powerful setup. So, like even if

for example you just normal laptop or even a Chromebook or something like that, you can use Agent OS locally because it's just like a web app, right? So, when you're building out with this, it's super lightweight. It's just like a website. And so, you don't need a powerful setup to run it locally at all. Then second question is here many of us are running like a micro business at this stage. Enterprise level

data isn't the bottleneck. Agent volume is fairly low. So, it seems like a practical solution. So, if you run an Agent OS on a VPS and then someone gets access, doesn't matter whether you're an enterprise or a small business or not, the biggest issue is like someone could actually access your local computer, right? If you basically accidentally give out access to Agent OS. So, that's

not good for anyone, no matter what sort of business you run. And that's why I always recommend like just running Agent OS locally instead of hosting it inside the cloud. Having said that, some people to run a VPS, but I just don't see any benefit. You definitely don't want to give anyone access to that. You definitely don't want to give anyone access to your local setup, which is where your Agent OS is running. So, for me

personally, I just Yeah, I'm always going to run it locally instead of on a So, that's basically it for Isaac's questions. Let's have a look what we got here. Vin says, "I want to create some workflow for interior This. What sort of workflows do you want to build? If you can be a bit more specific, I can probably help you out and give you some good tips on that.

Muhammad says, Welcome. Hello. Good to see you. Vin says, "Which AI harness do you use?" Good questions. All

right. We'll get straight into that in a sec. So, for me personally, my two favorites in terms of agent harness are Hermes and Claude. I also really liked Deep Seek Harness. I think anyone watching this, the best thing you can do is just focus on one at a time. So, if

you're not sure which harness to use, just If you wanted to get my best recommendation, it'd be Claude Code. Everyone has their own preference. So, for example, you know, if you like open source, then you can uh Hermes, cuz it's much more flexible as a as a harness. If you like something that is less buggy and more likely to work every single time you use it, then I would go with something like Claude Code instead. For For me, for example, I don't particularly like Codex as agent harness. I just find it's like a little

bit too distracting. And also, with Deep Seek Harness, like when I use it, I just I feel like the UI is just too basic for me. Like it's it's not fun to use Deep Seek Harness. It As as useful as it is, it's From a UI perspective, it's not that easy to use. Whereas like Claude Code, my brain is fully trained. That's

why I prefer to use something like Claude code instead. And which is the best way to start design workflows? So, for me personally, this two things that I like. Number one is building my own design workflows. So, if check out the image generator that I built in the Agent OS.

Um we can easily in the custom workflows I have here. And it creates beautiful images. It's really easy to build. So, that's that's option one. It's like Basically, option one is build own workflow. UI look exactly how

you want it, which is what we did with the Agent OS and the image generation section here. Option number two is the you can just use something like Chat GPT image generator. You know, image images 2.0 inside Chat GPT is really nice. And if you need to build a custom workflow like the Agent OS, you can just get the API or Chat GPT image 2.0 and then build a beautiful tool like

you can see inside the Agent OS. So, Materso was asking, you know, where is the Obsidian setup? So, for me personally, my favorite Obsidian setup is with Omi, Obsidian, and the Agent OS. And I'll link to that below. This is using a system I call the infinite context engine, which is basically where you can get Number one, uh Hermes agent or any other agent that you prefer to use to update your Obsidian memory for you. So, for

example, every time we use the Agent OS, uh agents update the memory system for us. Then Omi actually records my screen and takes notes on me and what I do all day and, you know, what I'm working on so that basically the notes are automatically updated and I don't have to do anything. And also, it has context for me. And then that's logged into Obsidian, which runs locally. It's a free open source app. And

this works as a second brain that we can plug into all our agents. So, I can plug into Claude, into Hermes, into anti-gravity, whatever I prefer, and they have instant contacts from day one. So, if we open up Obsidian here, this is an example of the the knowledge base that we have. So, I would recommend starting with this training right here, the infinite contacts engine, a guide, plus it has a video tutorial on it as well. You don't have to use Omi as well, so just know that you don't have to use Omi if you don't like it, or if you don't want to give access to your screen to an AI agent, that's totally fine. You

can just, for example, say to Hermes, or Claude, or whichever agent you use, "Every time I use you, please update Obsidian directly for me." But, that's basically the system, but yeah. Um Obsidian is my favorite setup, super simple, super easy to use. Um literally so easy to be because your agents already have memories that they can plug into the system. Works really nicely. If you have

any other questions, feel free to ask Mataza. Thanks very much for joining. Let's see what we got here. So, Alexander, wow, this is pretty amazing. Pretty amazing. Congrats, Alexander, on

the win. Awesome to see the progress you've made. I think that's pretty much it for all the questions that we had today. Let's see what we got on here. All right, two good questions here. So,

number one, do you use uh Obsidian or have an AI brain setup? So, I actually think that I mean, Obsidian is a brain, right? It is a second brain. So, that's the way that How do I use it? So, basically, the first thing that I do is inside our agentic operating system, I have a a system which you can see right here, where we basically have a a memory knowledge graph, right? And so, all of

my memories, everything about me, is automatically noted by my AI agents, plugged into Obsidian, and then Obsidian is used to train my other AI agents in all the contacts and all the projects I'm working on. So, it's kind of like a giving positive feedback loop, where when When with an AI agent, it notes its memories into Obsidian. And then when I use other AI agents, they can pull that context from Obsidian and use that to give me more personalized, better outputs. But the other great thing about that is when I get those personalized, better outputs, anything that I do from then on onwards and logged into Obsidian. So, Obsidian feeds into the agents, the agents feed into Obsidian, and that makes both of these tools more powerful. So, for

example, every time I do something useful with Hermes, that will be logged into our Obsidian database. So, you can see, for example, here we've got a new memory, which is Hermes Astro custom workflow we've got, which looks at our competitors and gives me uh new ideas for creating content. And so, that's all logged into our Obsidian memory vault, so that we can pull from that for future workflows. And like, I could take that information and go to Claude and say, "Hey, create a video about this." Or create a blog post about this, etc. Um

the next question we got was what do you prefer, Hermes or Open Claude? So, for me personally, I I don't use desktop Hermes or desktop Open Claude at all. What I prefer to do is have both of them built into an agentic operating system like this, where I can build custom workflows. For example, if you look at um Hermes, and that's kind of what Hermes desktop does well. But then we also have, for example, uh Hermes bots, Hermes Apollo, Hermes Oracle, Hermes Muse. These are all beautiful custom

workflows that I've built specifically for myself, I can take the full power of Hermes, but I can design and mold it exactly how I want it, right? Whereas, for example, if I open up Hermes desktop, it doesn't as useful, as personalized as this, right? Uh so, that's the biggest difference between all of this is that you don't want to use like Hermes desktop or Hermes or Open Claude desktop straight out of the box. The problem with those is like they're not customized and personalized to you. Whereas, for example, if you have an agent OS like you can see right here, um and we give it to members inside the Air Profit Boardroom. It

looks more personalized. It feels more personalized. It's more unique to us, right? And that's way more powerful for me personally. Another question we got is, did you build the web app? So, yes,

the whole of the Agently Operating System I built from scratch. It literally just started off as like a basic Claude and Hermes as a chat. And then the more that I used I used Claude Code Desktop to build it. The more that I used Claude Code Desktop to build it, the more I realized, "Wow, like you can pretty much do anything with an Agent OS, and you can pretty much build anything that you want into it." So, the great thing about this is that we could keep building building more stuff into it.

And the more we use it, the better it got and more powerful it became. So, like for example, I had an idea for a lead generation tool, and I built that into our Agent OS system, and I basically built like a SaaS tool out of it. So, it started as like one idea, and I think I started building that out like probably end of April, something like that. And then from there, just added like more features more features. Sometimes to test my own creativity, sometimes just out of curiosity, and sometimes because it would save me a lot of time, right? Um in fact, if you're going to

build out an Agent OS or if you're going to use ours from the Air Profit Boardroom, what I'd recommend to you is that you look at what time on, and then you start automating from there. So, for example, if you look at latest course that we have inside the classroom, the beginner to expert course here, the in the first week, you'll learn how to basically automate anything um and build custom workflows around that. And then you can build those into the Agent OS, and that makes it ultimately more powerful, more personalized to you. So, that's the first place I'd start. And then you can add like another brick another brick another brick, right? It's

kind of like building a house, but it's it's AI and it's way more fun. >> [laughter] >> And less tiring. Um the final question we got here was I can't if this is a real person. This is a real person. This is uh Julian. But that's pretty crazy

that you can't tell that it's a real person. Does that mean we're at the point now where you basically don't know if someone's AI or not. But yeah, this is 100% human. Don't worry about that. So, just to recap, we've covered all the questions inside the AI Profit War Room. I've shown you

the Agent OS. I've shown you how I think about it and how I build stuff out with it, and also how I build custom workflows. I've answered all your questions today. And also, we've answered all the questions inside the community, too. If you want to join the community, if you want me to create personalized videos for you like I've done today questions, then feel free to join. We've got over um we've got so

many five-star reviews now, which is amazing. For example, all these five-star reviews from awesome people inside the community, which is absolutely amazing. Blows my mind that we've got such a a cool group of people who are really positive. If you want to grab the Agent OS system itself, it's inside the new Daily Upside section. I've got that over here. And you can

grab the zip file to install over here. We show you all of our best trainings and tutorials and that sort of thing. Inside the community, you can ask questions and I personally answer them every single day as well. So, we create personalized tutorials and then we answer your questions and try and help you as much as we possibly can. So, for example here, uh Jeremy was asking about hardware choices, and then we we get back to him ASAP.

Right. Uh yeah. And so, for example like Tobias, he was asking a question as well. We created a personal video for him. Um then we noted down all the aspects to it as well. And people

absolutely loved it. So, that's what it's about. It's just helping people as much as we can. We've got a four-week coaching course where you can get help and support in real time. And then inside the map, you can actually meet people who are building out with AI agents like you. So, feel free to get

all of this inside the AI Profit War Room. Link in the comments description or just go to the airprofitwarroom.com. Thanks so much for watching. I'll see you on the next one. Cheers. Bye-bye.