---
video_title: "Hermes AI Agents Just Went Portable"
video_id: vpibH71_uq0
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vpibH71_uq0
video_date: 20260813
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Hermes Agent Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Hermes AI Agents Go Portable: Own Your AI Identity Forever
  
  Nous Research just changed the game by making Hermes AI agents fully portable and shareable via single-file exports. Learn how to move your agent's persona, memory, and skills between machines while keeping your sensitive API keys secure.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Hermes AI Agents Go Portable
  00:40 - The New Export & Import Commands
  02:17 - What’s Inside the Export File?
  04:02 - Safe Sharing: Stripping API Keys
  05:47 - 4 Major Unlocks for Productivity
  07:58 - Community & Shareable Profiles
  08:42 - AI Identity vs. The Model Brain
  12:04 - Summary: The Future of Portable AI
---
Hermes AI agents just went portable. So, News Research shipped an update a few hours ago and it changes how you think about owning an AI agent. Your Hermes agent is no longer stuck on one machine. You can now save your entire agent as a single file, move it to any computer and it wakes up exactly how you left it. Same personality, same skills, same memory, same schedule, everything. And

there's one detail buried in this update that most people are going to skim right past. It's a part that actually makes agent sharing actually safe. I'll go into that in a minute. First, exactly what shipped? So, News Research added two commands to Hermes. The first one is

export. You can type one command and Hermes packages your whole setup into one file. Your persona, your skills, your memory, even cron jobs, your plugins, your settings, even your desktop themes and layouts. All of it goes into a single archive. The second command is import. So, you can take that

file to any other machine, run one command and your agent is back and fully set up, ready to work. Two commands and that's a whole feature, but what it unlocks is much bigger than it actually sounds. Here's the problem it solves. And if you spend any real time with Hermes, you already feel this pain. A good Hermes agent takes weeks to build.

Not weeks of coding, weeks of tuning, weeks of training. You shape the persona file so it's also what you want. You build skills for the tasks you repeat. The memory fills up with context about your business, your customers, your projects. You set up cron jobs so it runs tasks on a schedule whilst you're at the gym. You can add plugins. You get

everything just right. And until today, all of that lived on one machine. Now, you could, for example, connect this to your phone or you could use Tailscale to connect to multiple different devices, but really most of it was just stored in one place. So, if your laptop broke, your agent was gone. All that tuning was gone. If you wanted the same agent on

your desktop at home, and this is really the key point, and your laptop when you travel, or for example, if you wanted to share this with your team, you kind of have to rebuild it by hand, piece by piece. And if a friend asked how you set yours up, the honest answer was a long, painful walk-through. And that problem is now solved with one file. So, let me walk you through what's actually inside the export file, because each piece matters more than the last. Piece one is the persona. In Hermes, this is a file

that defines who your agent is, how it talks, what it cares about, what it's allowed to do. This is the thing most people spend the most time getting right, because it shapes every single response, and that whole identity now travels with the file. Piece number two is skills. Skills are the reusable abilities your agent builds up over time. Maybe you taught it how to write emails in your exact tone. Maybe it

learned how to research your competitors in a certain way. In the past, skills lived really on one machine. Now, you could export those, but now they ship directly inside this export of the whole Hermes agent. Piece number three is memory. Now, this is a big one. Hermes

is built around persistent memory. It remembers your past sessions, it knows your business, it knows what you asked for last week and what worked. That memory is the most valuable part of your agent, because it took real time with you to build, and it can't be rebuilt from scratch, because it came from your actual history together. And that memory now moves with the file, too. Part four is cron jobs. So, these are the

scheduled tasks, the stuff your agent does on its own at set times without you asking. Morning research runs, daily summaries, checks that happen whilst you sleep. All those schedules carry over. You import on a new machine, and the agent picks its routine back up. So, piece number five is plugins and settings. Every tool you connected,

every option you changed. And piece number six, which honestly surprised me, is desktop themes and layout. So, even the way you set up on desktop looks moves over. It's a small thing, but it tells you how complete the export is. New research didn't ship like a partial backup system. This one is the whole

agent. Now, here's the detail that I mentioned at the start, the one that makes it safe. So, when Hermes actually exports your profile, the API keys and credentials are stripped out automatically. So, your login tokens, all sensitive stuff, none of it goes into the file. So, when you import on a new machine, you authenticate fresh. You

add your keys again on that machine. The agent's brain travels, but your private access does not. Why does that matter so much? Because it's the difference between a backup feature and a sharing feature. If your keys are inside the file, you could never really safely hand it to anyone cuz you could never post a profile for your community, you could never send your setup to a teammate. One

leaked file and someone else's running up usage on your accounts. So, with credentials shipped, the file is safer to share. You can send your entire agent to another person and they plug in their own keys on their end. So, to get your agent's brain, they use their own app access. And that one design choice turns it from a backup tool into something much bigger because you can actually share it with people in your team, share with your friends, share with your community. Now, quick thing first, if

you're running Hermes or you want to, this is exactly the kind of update we move on fast inside the Air Traffic Bot. We've got members running Hermes agent for their business right now and the daily tutorials walk you through everything step-by-step. Setting up Hermes, building persona, the memory, the cron jobs that run whilst you're out and now exporting and moving your agent between machines. Plus, you get the agent operating system where you can plug in Hermes alongside Claude, open Claude, free Claude code all inside one dashboard. With the zip file, a video tutorial, and a 30-day roadmap to set it all up. If you want your Hermes agent

actually working in your business instead of sitting half finished, it's at the airtrafficbot.com or you can hit the link in the description now. So, the file is portable and safe to share. But, here's what that actually unlocks and each one of these is more useful than the last. The first unlock is now something you can protect. So, export

once, save the file somewhere safe. You could do this once a week, and you never lose your setup again. So, for example, if you you know, if your laptop breaks or your hard drive fails, it doesn't really matter. You can import the file on a new machine, and your agent's back within minutes with its memory and skills intact. If you put weeks into tuning an agent and you're running it locally, that alone is worth updating it for, but it's the least interesting unlock on this list. The second unlock

is moving your agent to a different machine or to better hardware. Um you know, you can connect Hermes already to different machines, but with this system, you could take the whole agent that's running, and you could build it on a separate setup. So, you could have it running on multiple machines, you could have multiple agents running on multiple machines. And also, if you have to restore something, it's going to run way quicker. Before today, that move pretty much meant rebuilding everything from zero on the new machine. Now, it's

like export, copy the file over, import, add your keys, done. Your agent goes from part-time to around the clock, and it keeps everything it learned if you set this up on a 24-hour device as well. Now, if you run a small business, this is your research agent going from something you poke out on your laptop to something that checks your niche every morning before you wake up. And the third unlock, this is really, really big one for businesses, is teams. And this is where it starts getting interesting for anyone who works with other people.

So, let's say you've built a Hermes agent that handles the task well, writing product descriptions in your source voice, for example, summarizing content or custom messages, pulling together a weekly report you've tuned. It works, but now you can hand that exact agent to someone on your team. You can export the file, you can send it over, they import it, they add their own keys, and in seconds they're running the same agent you spent weeks perfecting. Same persona, same skills, same approach. But before this update, onboarding a teammate onto your agent setup meant like a long call where you walked them through every setting. Now,

the setup is the file. So, you export once, share everywhere, and new team members skip the manual setup function completely. For a small agency, that could mean, for example, the agent one person built for client research becomes the agent everyone uses the same day. The fourth unlock is one that the Hermes community are excited about, and it's the one I want you to sit with. So, shareable agent profiles. Because once

an agent is a single safe file, agents become things people can pass around. So, let's say, for example, someone builds a great research agent and shares the profile. Someone builds a content agent tuned for newsletters and shares that. You can import it, you can add your keys, you adjust it to fit you. You're no longer starting every agent from a blank page. You're starting from

someone else's finished work. Community members already talking about building meta agents around this. Agents that manage collections of other agent profiles. And that part is early, so treat it as a plan, not a shipped feature, but the direction is clear. Agent setups are becoming something you can share, collect, and improve together the same way people share templates today. And that leads to the biggest

idea in this whole update. Bigger than backups, bigger than sharing, your agent's identity is now separate from any machine. Now, if you follow me here, this is the part that changes how you should think about agents going forward. An agent has two parts, right? There's a model, the AI brain underneath, and that's the thing doing the raw thinking.

And then, there's everything you build on top, the persona, the skills, the memory, the routines, the setup. The model belongs to whoever made it. It could be Lightning AI Research, could be Anthropic, could be, for example, Grok 4.6, could be Deep Seek. Whoever it it gets updated, and it gets swapped, and it gets replaced. You don't control that

part, but everything you build on top, that's yours. And until now, yours meant trapped on one computer. It wasn't really an asset. It was more like a plant rooted in one pot. You couldn't move it without breaking it. This update

pulls the agent out of the pot. So, your agent's whole identity now fits into one file you hold. So, you can copy it, move it, share it, store it. The machine is just a place the agent happens to be running today. And here's why that matters over the next year. Models keep

improving. Every few months there's a better brain available. When your agent's identity is a portable file, you keep the identity and upgrade the brain underneath it. All those weeks of tuning don't reset every time the technology moves. Your work compounds instead of signing over. The people who get this

are going to build agents differently because they'll spend time into the persona, the skills, and memory because that investment is now permanent and portable. The people who don't get it will be treating agents like throwaway chat sessions and wonder why they never get improving results. Now, I know what some of you are thinking, so let's deal with it directly. Some of you are thinking, "Isn't this just like a backup feature, like a fancy backup feature? Other software has export buttons. Like,

what's the actual big deal?" And that's a fair question. And if all this did was backup settings, you'd be right. But agents aren't settings, and agents' memory is the record of everything it learned from working with you. Its skills are abilities it built over time.

When that whole living ecosystem and setup becomes portable, you get sharing, team distribution, you get hardware freedom, all from the same file. A settings backup doesn't do that. This does. Now, some of you might also be thinking, "This sounds technical. I'm not a technical person. I'd probably

mess it up." But here's the honest answer. The feature is two commands, export and import. And if you can save a file and open a file, it you can do this, right? The Homey setup itself takes a bit more effort than some tools.

That's true, but that's a one-time cost. And it's exactly the kind of thing that's easier with someone showing you the screen. More on that in a minute. And some of you are thinking, "I haven't even started with agents yet. Everyone's ahead of me. Too late." But if you look

at the date on this feature, it shipped hours ago, right? Portable agents are brand new for everybody. The person who's been running Homeys for 6 months and the person who installed it this weekend both got this ability on the same day. And honestly, the new person has an edge the early people never had. You can now start from a shared profile instead of a blank setup. So, the

starting line just moved closer to you, not further away. And here's a simple thing to think about about where this is going. Right now, when you want an agent, you build one. In the near future, when you want an agent, you'll import one. Someone will already have built a version that you need, and you'll start from their file and make it yours. So, building from scratch will be

the exception, not the rule. Every big shift in software followed this pattern. Websites went from like hand-built to template-based. Documents went from blank pages to shared formats. So, now agents making the same move from hand-built and stock in one place to packaged and portable. Hermes made that

real today with two commands. So, that's the update. Your Hermes agent is now one file. The persona, skills, memory, cron jobs, and plugins and themes all travel together. Credentials get stripped automatically, so the file is safe to hand to anyone, and you can back up your agent, move it to a machine that day that maybe it runs day and night, maybe it runs on a VPS, and you can hand it to your team, or you can share it with your community. And the bigger shift here,

the deeper shift, is that your agent's identity now belongs to you in a file you control, independent of any machine and any single model underneath it. Now, if you want help actually doing this, here's where to go. Inside the AI Profit Boarding, we've helped over 3,000 personas get going with AI, and plenty of them have never touched it before joining. For Hermes specifically, you get the step-by-step tutorials on the full setup, the persona, the memory, the skills, and the cron jobs that run your tasks on a schedule. You get coaching calls four times a week where you can ask questions about your own Hermes setup live, and see how other members are using their agents to save time and bring in more customers. You get a

prompt library you can pull from to build your agent's skills faster, and you get the agentic operating system, the dashboard, where your Hermes plugs in right next to your Claude, your open Claude, and your free Claude code with shared memory across all of them. That comes as a zip file with a video tutorial, a daily roadmap, and daily updates as we improve it. There's also a member map so you can find people near you running Hermes and compare setups in person. Go to the AI Profit Boarding.com or hit the link in the comments and description. Your agent just became

something you can keep for good. Build one worth keeping.