---
video_title: "NEW Gemini Notebook Update is MIND BLOWING"
video_id: l5r6PX02sA8
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l5r6PX02sA8
video_date: 2026-08-14T07:30:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Free SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Get the Agent OS & Gemini Notebook Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Gemini Notebook New Copy Feature: 10x Your SEO Research
  
  Google's latest Gemini Notebook update introduces a powerful copy feature that transforms how you handle SEO research and content strategy. Learn how to build reusable master templates for competitor analysis and keyword research to automate your workflow and save hours of manual work.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Gemini Notebook's Big Update
  01:05 - What’s Inside a Gemini Notebook?
  01:34 - Creating SEO Research Templates
  03:02 - Copying vs. Sharing: Why It Matters
  03:50 - 3 Powerful SEO Notebook Use Cases
  05:13 - Building Reusable AI Workflows
  05:57 - Step-by-Step Guide: Try It Yourself
  06:45 - The Future of AI Research Systems
---
New Gemini notebook update is mind-blowing. Today, I'm going to show you how Google just changed the game for SEO research. This is new. This is big. This is easy to use and it's safe. No

sketchy hacks here. Just a simple update that could save you hours every single week. Stick around because by the end of this, you'll know exactly how to use it. SEO is all about research. You need to find the right sources. You need to pull

out the right ideas and you need to turn that into content that ranks. Google just made that process way easier with a new update to Gemini notebook. And I think this one is a really big deal for anyone doing SEO. Here's the simple version. You can now copy an entire Gemini notebook. Not just the notes, not

just one file, the whole thing. Sources, artifacts, everything. So, if you build a notebook full of SEO research, you can copy that whole notebook and turn it into a fresh starting point. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads

every comment, so make sure you comment below. Let me explain why this matters so much. A Gemini notebook can hold a lot of stuff. It can hold your sources like PDFs, web pages, and YouTube videos. It can hold notes. It can hold

reports. It can hold data tables. It can hold flash cards and quizzes. It can hold slide decks. It can hold infographics. It can even hold audio and

video overviews. So, a notebook is not just a folder. It's more like a full research setup. Before this update, if you found someone's amazing notebook, you could look at it. You could learn from it. But if you wanted your own

version, you had to rebuild the whole thing by hand. That took time. Now, you just hit copy. Everything comes with it. Then you make it your own.

Think about what this means for SEO work. Say you build a notebook called SEO competitor research. Inside it, you have competitor backlink reports. You have keyword research. You have content gap analysis. You have summaries of top

ranking pages. That's a lot of work to build once. But now, every time you start a new project, you don't rebuild it. You copy it. Then you swap in new sources for the new client or the new niche. Then you generate fresh reports

from there. Now, flip that into an SEO mindset. Instead of a study notebook, picture an SEO content research notebook. Instead of a marketing team, picture your content team or your link building team. Same idea. Build the

research system once, copy it forever. This is where it gets exciting for anyone doing content and SEO at scale. Imagine you build a notebook just for keyword research. It has your keyword sources. It has search intent notes. It

has content outlines. It has a data table of top pages. You keep that as your master notebook. Every time you get a new client or a new topic, you copy that master notebook. Then you swap in the new sources. Then you generate a new

content brief in minutes instead of hours. And one more thing, if you're creating all this SEO research with Gemini notebook, but nobody is finding your content on Google, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. If you want more leads, more traffic, and more customers, my team can help you rank higher on Google. Check the link in the comments and description to book SEO strategy session. My team

can help with your backlinks and your content strategy while you focus on growing your business. Okay, let's keep going because there's more to this update you need to know. Gemini notebook already let you share a notebook with someone, but sharing and copying are two very different things. Sharing means, here's my notebook, come look at it or work inside it with me. Copying means, here's my notebook, now go make your own version of it. That's a much bigger

shift. Sharing keeps everyone tied to one notebook. Copying lets everyone branch off and build their own thing from the same starting point. For SEO, this changes how teams could work. Right now, a lot of SEO teams rebuild the same research process over and over. New

client comes in, someone starts from scratch, pulls competitor data again, builds keyword lists again, writes content briefs again. That's a lot of repeated work. But with a copy feature like this, you build the process one time. Then every new project starts from that same strong foundation. Let's talk about what you could actually build inside one of these notebooks for SEO work. You could build a notebook just

for YouTube video research. Sources would be competitive videos, articles, and transcripts. Then Studio could generate a research report, a video outline, and even a FAQ section. That FAQ section alone is gold for SEO because Google loves content that answers real questions people are searching for. You could also build a notebook just for backlink research.

Drop in your competitor's backlink reports. Drop in case studies about link building. Then generate a summary report that shows you where the opportunities are. You could build one for local SEO. Drop in your client's Google Business Profile info, local competitor pages, and customer reviews. Then generate a

report on what's working and what's missing. The point is, once you build one of these research notebooks, well, you don't throw it away after one project. You copy it, you reuse it, you keep the structure and swap the sources. That's a real time-saver for anyone doing SEO content research on repeat. Now, here's something important I have to mention because I only want to give you facts, not hype. Google's own Help

Center still says notebook duplication is not supported yet. That's straight from their FAQ page. But the announcement covering this new copy feature says it is now available. So, there's a bit of a lag between what Google's documentation says and what's actually rolling out. My advice, don't take the old FAQ as the final word. Go

check the notebook interface yourself to see what options you have because Google is clearly rolling this out right now. Let's zoom out for a second and look at where Gemini notebook has been heading. It started as a place to chat with your sources. Then it became a place to understand your sources better. Then it became a place to generate things from your sources like reports and slide decks. And now, with this copy feature,

it's becoming a place to reuse entire research setups. That's a pretty big jump if you think about it. For SEO specifically, this means you could start building what I'd call SEO research templates. A content brief template notebook, a competitor analysis template notebook, a keyword research template notebook. Build each one once with the sources and reports set up exactly how you like them. Then copy them again and

again for every new project, every new client, or every new page you're trying to rank. Here's a simple way you could try this yourself this week. Open Gemini notebook, start a new notebook just for one SEO task like researching a competitor. Add your sources, maybe their top pages, their backlink profile, and a few articles about their strategy. Then use Studio to generate a report.

That notebook becomes your master template. Next time you need to research a different competitor, copy that notebook and swap out the sources. That one small habit could save you a lot of setup time on every future project. I want to be clear about something, too. I'm not going to pretend I know every single detail of how this rolls out for every account because Google's own documentation hasn't fully caught up yet. What I can tell you, based on the

announcement and what Google has documented about notebook features, is that the direction is clear. Sources plus artifacts plus the ability to copy the whole thing equals a much faster way to build repeatable SEO research systems. So here's the big takeaway. The copy button itself isn't the exciting part. The exciting part is that Gemini notebooks can now become reusable research workflows. Build the system

once, copy it, customize it, then let it generate new work for you every time. If you're doing SEO, content research, or competitor analysis, this is worth testing out this week. Build one strong notebook, treat it like your master copy, then reuse it for every new project going forward instead of starting from zero every time. Before you go, I want to give you two more things and both of them are free. First, if you're completely new to SEO and you want to build a solid foundation alongside all these AI tools, I made a free SEO course just for you. It covers

how content strategy works, how to approach link building, and what a good keyword actually looks like. There's over 260 lessons in it and it covers everything you need to get started. The link is in the description. Go check that out. Second, if you want to keep learning how to use AI tools like this one to grow your business, come join the AI Profit Boardroom. It's a community

built around exactly this kind of stuff, real AI tools, real strategies, and real people helping each other grow. The link for that is in the description, too. And last thing, research and content are only half the SEO game. You can have the best notebook in the world, the best content briefs, the best keyword research, but if your site isn't set up to rank, none of that traffic shows up. That's exactly what my team helps with every day. If you want help turning

great content into real rankings, real traffic, and real customers, click the link in the comments and description and book a free SEO strategy session with my team. We'll look at where you're at and show you what it would take to get you ranking higher on Google. That's the update. Google just made Gemini notebook a lot more reusable, and if you're doing SEO, that's a tool worth adding to your process. Drop a comment and let me know if you're going to try building your own SEO research notebook this week. Julian

reads every single comment, so don't be shy. I'll see you in the next video.