---
video_title: "New Antigravity Update Is ABSURD!"
video_id: l8fECWB24yU
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l8fECWB24yU
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Gemini 3.8 Flash: Build Full Apps & Games in One Prompt
  
  Discover how the new Gemini 3.8 Flash update in anti-gravity is revolutionizing AI agents with better reasoning and self-correction. Learn how to use looping prompts and the new thinking dial to automate complex business tasks effortlessly.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Gemini 3.8 Flash
  01:20 - Benchmarks & Performance
  02:01 - How It Thinks: Multi-Step Jobs
  02:40 - The New Thinking Dial
  04:53 - The Looping Prompt Trick
  06:14 - Anti-Gravity App Updates
  07:21 - Using Artifacts for Feedback
---
New anti-gravity update is absurd. Google just dropped Gemini 3.8 flash into anti-gravity and with one prompt it built a working version of Google Maps, not a picture of one, a playable one. It has real locations, real directions, and street view and it was built in a single prompt inside Google anti-gravity. One prompt, one and that wasn't the only thing. With one simple prompt using a

looping trick in anti-gravity, the same model built a full 3D game, a wizard walking through a castle with puzzles, with a story that changes based on where you go and with all the textures made by Nana Banana. I want you to sit with that for a second. A game from a prompt. Now, I know what some of you are thinking. I don't build games, I don't build maps, who cares? Stay with me because the

thing that made those demos possible is the exact same thing that changes how you run your business and I'm going to show you what it is and I'm going to show you how to use it today. Let's start with the speed of all this because it's honestly hard to keep up with. Gemini 3.8 flash came out 3 weeks after 3.7 flash. It's Google's third flash

model in 6 weeks. 6 weeks, three models. Logan Kilpatrick, who runs a big part of Google's AI developer side, posted about it. He said 3.8 flash is the same price as 3.7, runs at about the same speed and

it's already live in the Gemini API, in AI studio, in anti-gravity, and in the Gemini app. Same speed, same cost, way smarter. So, how much smarter? There's a test called Terminal Bench. It checks if a model can actually finish real work on a computer, not chat about it, finish it. Gemini 3.7 flash scored 81.6% on it.

Gemini 3.8 flash scored 90.8%. That's a 9-point jump in 3 weeks on the same test from a model that costs the same and runs at the same speed. Now, here's a detail people skipped. arena.ai put 3.8

flash at number 14 in their agent arena rankings above Deep Seek 5 4 Pro and it was a huge jump from where 3.7 flash was sitting. A flash model, the small fast one, beating models much bigger than it, but none of that is the real story. The real story is why it got better. And once you understand this one thing, you'll know exactly how to use it. Here

it is. Google changed how the model thinks on hard, multi-step jobs. 3.8 Flash takes smaller thinking steps, uses its tools over and over, and checks its own work as it goes. Read that as it stops, looks at what it just did, and asks, "Did that actually work?" Think

about hiring someone new. The first type finishes the job fast, hands it to you, and half of it is wrong. The second type finishes a piece, checks it, fixes it, then moves to the next piece. Slower on step one, way better at the end. 3.8

Flash is the second type. Google even says the model will use more tokens on long, hard tasks, and that this is on purpose. If a task is simple, you can turn the thinking effort down. That's the part I love. You get a dial. And in

the antigravity update, that dial is right there in the model drop-down. You pick low, medium, or high thinking per model. Now, if you want to actually use Gemini 3.8 Flash and Antigravity in your own business, instead of just watching demos, that's what we do every single day inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You get daily tutorials where we show you the exact looping prompts to run in Antigravity. So, an agent builds your

landing page, your lead form, and your follow-up sequence while you're doing something else. Four coaching calls every week where you can share your screen, show us your Antigravity setup, and your thinking levels, and we'll fix it live. A 30-day roadmap built around agent workflows like this one, a prompt library you can copy straight into Antigravity, and you get the Agent OS zip file, the actual dashboard you install on your own machine to run Gemini, Claude, and other agents from one screen. Link in the comments and description, or go to aiprofitboardroom.com.

And one more thing, if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a

free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Okay, back to it. So, let me make that real for you. Low thinking is for quick jobs. Rewriting a

headline, sorting a list, answering a fast question. High thinking is for the jobs you'd normally give to a person for a full afternoon. Here's an example from my own world. Inside Anti-Gravity, on high thinking I'd say, "Build a landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom that explains what AI automation actually does for a business owner, shows the community and makes it dead simple to join." That's it. That's the prompt. And

the agent goes and builds it, checks it, fixes it and shows you the result. Which brings me to the second big thing in this update and this one is easy to miss. The default changed. The Anti-Gravity Agent, the main agent, the one that runs when you don't pick anything, now uses Gemini 3.8 flash. The

Anti-Gravity SDK uses it by default, too. So, if you open Anti-Gravity today and just start working, you're already using it. You didn't have to do anything. The tool got smarter while you slept. And that's a pattern worth noticing because it's happening across every tool you use. Now, let's talk

about how you actually drive this thing because the demos everyone shared have one trick in common and almost nobody is explaining it. It's the looping prompt. In Anti-Gravity, a single looping prompt can carry the model through an entire build. Instead of you sitting there typing, "Okay, now do this. Now fix that. Now try again." you write one

instruction that tells it to keep going until the thing works. That's the whole trick behind the Maps demo. That's the trick behind the game. So, here's how you'd use it. One prompt, "Build a simple page where new AI Profit Boardroom members pick their goal, then show them the right first tutorial and keep testing it until every button works." Then you walk away and that's a

very different feeling than using AI. That's closer to handing work to someone. Let me show you what Google did with that same idea because the examples are genuinely useful. One of them is a topographic map of famous places built inside Anti-Gravity using real data from the US Geological Survey and Open Weather. It has live cross-sections, 2D views and science explanations built in. Real data, live

from a prompt. Another one is called hardware anatomy, a 3D tool built in Google AI Studio that pulls devices apart layer by layer so you can look inside them. So think about what that means for a normal business. If a model can pull live weather data and map data into a working tool, it can pull your own numbers into a working tool, a dashboard, a tracker, a member directory, a simple page that answers the five questions people always ask before they buy. You don't need to be a coder. You need to be able to describe

what you want because antigravity itself got a big update, too. And one feature in it changes how you work more than the model does. It's called remote control. You can now securely connect to agent sessions running on your own machine from any browser, and you get push notifications when an agent finishes a task or needs your input. Let that land for a second. Your laptop is at home,

the agent is working, you're at lunch, your phone buzzes, done. Or I need you to pick one of these two. You open a browser, you answer, it keeps going. That's the part people are going to feel first because the problem with agents was never smart. It was that you had to baby sit them. And it goes further. The

same update added a terminal right inside the sidebar so you can run things without switching apps, Git version control in the review pane so you can see changes, stage them, and save them inside the app. And a built-in antigravity guide that answers questions about antigravity itself. That last one matters more than it sounds. The tool now teaches you the tools. They also cleaned up the small stuff, faster startup, faster project switching, less lag in long sessions, and notifications that stack in the corner instead of covering your screen.

Small things, but they're the things that make you actually keep using it. Now let's talk about the part of antigravity that most people still don't understand because it's the reason this whole thing works, artifacts. When an agent works in antigravity, it produces real deliverables as it goes, task lists, plans, screenshots, browser recordings. You can look at those and check the agent's thinking at a glance. If something's off, you leave a comment right on it like commenting on a doc, and the agent takes your feedback without stopping. You comment, it keeps

working, it adjusts. Now, let me pull this back to you because this is the thing I keep saying and people keep ignoring. Look at the shape of the last 6 weeks. Three flash models in 6 weeks. Same speed, same cost. Every one of them

better at agent work than the last. Google's Tulsi Doshi and Raluca Ada Popa wrote in the announcement that 3.8 is their best reasoning and coding model yet at the same speed and low cost as 3.7. And it's not only Google's people saying it. A company called Loop It put

3.8 flash into their game creation agent for coding, asset work, and quick visual checking. What stood out to them was how well-rounded it is. Well-rounded. That's the word. It's not sharp in one place

and useless everywhere else. If you want the shortcut on all of this, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. We're running antigravity and Gemini 3.8 flash inside there every week. You get step-by-step tutorials on the exact looping prompts that don't spin forever, how to set your thinking levels so agents finish instead of running all night, and how to use remote control so your agents keep working while you're away from your desk. Four live coaching

calls a week where you can bring your own antigravity build, and we'll go through it with you. A 30-day roadmap so you know what to do first, second, and third. A prompt library you can paste straight in. The agent OS zip file you install and run yourself so all your agents sit on one screen. And a member map so you can find people near you doing the same thing. There's always

someone online. Link in the comments and description, or head to aiprofitboardroom.com. And again, if you're building all of this with AI, but nobody's finding you on Google, the SEO side is what's holding you back. My team does this every single day. Book a free SEO

strategy session with us, and we'll show you exactly what it takes to get your site ranking and bringing in real traffic. Links in the comments and the description.