---
video_title: "NEW Claude Agent OS is ABSURD! 🤯"
video_id: -DPmeOTQDv8
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-DPmeOTQDv8
video_date: 20260818
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Claude  Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Claude Agent OS: Build an Autonomous AI Empire
  
  Discover how to build a powerful Agent Operating System that automates news tracking, computer control, and content creation. This system uses advanced memory loops and autonomous agent teams to handle heavy lifting across your entire workflow without manual intervention.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Claude Agent OS
  00:37 - Hermes Oracle: AI News Automation
  01:24 - Hermes Jarvis: Computer Control
  02:03 - Custom Dashboard vs. Terminal
  03:16 - Memory Galaxy & Obsidian Sync
  04:24 - Autonomous Loop Systems
  05:28 - AI Video Agent & Workspace
  06:26 - How to Install the Agent OS
---
New Claude Agent OS is absurd, and today I'm going to show you my agent operating system, what I've built into it, what I'm working on right now, and some of the things I've learned building this along the way. If you've ever wanted a system where you can plug in all your agents, where all your workflows are available in one click, where everything runs without you, and it's all synced up together, this is it. This is crazy powerful. Let me guide you through it. So, basically, what this is is a way to organize all your agents and plug in all your tools together in one place. One

screen, one system. The first thing I want to show you is Hermes Oracle. This is a new update I added recently. Every idea I have where I'm like, this would be super useful, I build it in straight away. So, Hermes Oracle is a system where I can get the latest AI news updates instantly. I

click on it and it takes me straight to the latest posts in my industry. It ranks them by what's most trending and useful. It categorizes them by topic. So, this one, for example, is about agents. I can open it up and go directly to the post, and it can find a relevant angle for social media content. It shows

me what it's about, the ranking, the category, the headline, when it was posted, how trending it is, and then it drafts a post about it automatically, all ready to go. And this runs on a schedule inside Hermes. I don't touch it. It just runs. >> Hey.

>> Now, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. While he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Now, we've also got Hermes Jarvis. I say to it, Hermes, can you open Google for me? And it just opens it right there. Automatically, in

real time. It controls my computer, it controls my browser. I'm showing you this not to show off. I just want to show you the power of what's possible here, because I've not seen anyone with this sort of system at all. I've seen little slices of it here and there, but nobody's pulled it together in such a smooth way. And this is something I

spend hours building every single day just to make it as powerful as it can be. We can also put this in war mode. It can build stuff for us as a preview directly inside the chat. We can get a daily briefing. We can see all of our conversation history. Everything we

built is right there. So, you've got Hermes Oracle, and you've got Hermes Jarvis. Now, you might be asking, why build this inside a custom dashboard? Why not just use Hermes straight from the terminal? Here's the thing. If you

go into the terminal, where's the conversation history? Where's the voice agent? Where's the visualization that makes it fun to use? Where are the custom workflows you actually want? You can't build that into a terminal. You

can't build it into a desktop, but you can build it into a custom dashboard like this, where you can plug everything in, and this is just one small piece of it. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom right now, you can download the full Agent OS as a ready-to-install zip file. Everything I'm showing you today, Hermes Oracle, Hermes Jarvis, the memory system, the loops, the agent teams, already built, already configured, ready to install. You don't have to build this from scratch. We've got a full step-by-step masterclass on the entire setup, daily tutorials every time something new gets added, and four live coaching calls every week, where you can jump on, share your screen, and ask questions about your exact Agent OS setup. 3,700 people already running this

system right now. The zip file is ready and waiting. Link in the comments and description, or go to AIprofitboardroom.com. Now, let me show you something that is a really important layer of this whole system, the memory galaxy. Every single

one of these stars is a memory. And when I was showing you Hermes Oracle just now, that automatically gets plugged into our Obsidian vault. So, what this means is our agents have context. They have an archive of everything we've looked at recently in terms of AI news, and this applies to your industry, too. It means your agents are way more up-to-date, because they understand what's happened recently, and I don't have to update this memory myself. It

just gets automatically scheduled into the vault. And the cool thing is, if we use any other agents, like our conversation with Jarvis, that automatically gets added to the Obsidian Vault, as well. This was updated 2 minutes ago. This one 30 minutes ago. Everything we're doing here gets automatically added inside the memory vault. And this is a positive feedback

loop. The agents use the memory to give you better answers. Better answers create better context. Better context improves the next output, and it just compounds. Every single day this system gets smarter without you doing anything extra. I'm totally hands-off. I'm not

organizing this at all. And the whole philosophy of the Agent OS is exactly this. It has to be autonomous. It has to work without me. Now, let me give you an example of how that actually works. The

loop system. I set a goal. I choose which model does the building. I choose which model judges the work. And I set a quality threshold, like 80 out of 100.

If the work doesn't hit 80, it loops back. The judge gives feedback. The builder goes again, and it keeps going until it passes. Then it ships, completely hands-off. This is where it gets really interesting, because now we're talking about a full team of agents working together. Paperclip is a fully

autonomous AI setup, where you've got an AI agent acting as the CEO of the team. And then they build and create things 24 hours a day. And you can see all the builds and everything we've created. Some people say, "You're not actually building real things with this." But you can see right here. These are actual

live things we built, because we've got teams of agents working together. Some people also say, "Doesn't this use a lot of tokens? Just use free APIs. Just use local models. Just use a CLI you've already subscribed to. And that way, you

solve the problem completely." Now, let me show you another part of this. The video agent. I type in a topic, one single prompt, and it generates a full video. It's got B-roll. It's got a fully

researched script. All the research is done by the agents, and they just work together. My only input is the idea. I am the strategist. I am the orchestrator. And if you're building a

system, you want to make sure it's as hands-off as it can be, maybe a human in the loop for the actual content style, but the heavy lifting is done. And there's also the workspace. Everything I've built previously is all right here. I don't search my downloads folder. I don't dig through old chats. It's all

inside the workspace. All organized, all looking clean. And this isn't just an 18-second video. This is a 5-minute fully produced AI video. The agents replace a whole team, better edited, better research, better scripted, because everything is working together in one orchestrated system that you tweak and improve every day. Every time

you have a new idea, you plug it in and it gets better and better. Multiple models, multiple agents working together. One shared brain, one system. If you want my setup ready to go, you can get it inside the AI Profit Boardroom. If you want to run every agent from one screen, you've seen the whole Agent OS, every surface, every reason it matters. And if you want the

full setup ready to install, it's all inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You get the complete Agent OS as a zip file, already built, already configured, ready to go the moment you download it. Claude, Hermes, OpenCode, GLM, and more, all inside one dashboard with one shared memory. Mission Control, Memory Galaxy, Hermes Oracle, Hermes Jarvis, every feature from today's video included. A full Agent OS Masterclass walking you through every part of the setup from scratch. Daily tutorials added every

single time we update the system. Four live coaching calls every week where you can jump on, share your screen, and get your Agent OS questions answered in real time. 3,700 members already building with this. Prompt library, member map to connect with people near you. The zip file is ready. Link in the comments and

description, or go to AIProfitBoardroom.com. And if you want everything from today's video in one place, join the AI Success Lab. It's completely free. You'll get all the video notes from this episode, the full Agent OS breakdown, the Memory Galaxy, the Loop System, Hermes Oracle, Hermes Jarvis, model swapping, all of it. Plus access to 87,000 members using

AI automation right now and sharing what's actually working. New tutorials going in constantly, real examples from real people. And because there's always someone online, you can get help at any time, day or night. Someone's in there right now. If you want the notes, the community, and 100 plus AI use cases like the ones we covered today, link in the comments and description. Join the

AI Success Lab. It's free.