---
video_title: "NEW AGENT OS is WILD! 🤯"
video_id: ubd4y_ym1lM
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ubd4y_ym1lM
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Agent OS: The Secret to Scaling AI Agents Fast (2026)
  
  Stop wasting time switching between different AI tools and learn how to build a unified Agent Operating System. Discover how shared memory and centralized task management can turn your individual AI tools into a high-performing team.
  
  00:00 - Why You Need an Agent OS
  00:54 - What is an Agent Operating System?
  01:42 - The Shared Memory Layer Explained
  02:40 - Managing AI Tasks with Kanban
  04:37 - Should You Delete Memory Files?
  05:22 - Building a Simple AI Architecture
  06:22 - How to Install Your Agent OS
---
New agent OS is wild. And if you're still running five different AI tools in five different tabs, this video is going to save you a lot of wasted time. Here's what's actually happening right now in 2026. Most people using AI are doing it the hard way. They've got Claude open in one tab, Hermes in another, open Claude somewhere else, a bunch of files scattered across their desktop, and none of it talks to each other. So every time

they want to get something done, they have to start from scratch, re-explain the context, copy and paste between tools, repeat themselves over again. And the agents, they have no idea what each other is doing. That's not an AI problem, that's a setup problem. And today I'm going to show you exactly how to fix it. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get

more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. The fix is called an agent OS, an agent operating system. And once you understand what it is and how it works, you're going to wonder how you ever ran AI without it. Let me break this down in the simplest way possible. Think about your AI agents

like workers. Claude is one worker, Hermes is another, open Claude is another. Right now in most setups, each one of those workers is sitting in a completely different room. They can't see what the others are doing. They don't share notes. They don't remember

yesterday's work. So you're the one running between rooms. You're the bottleneck. You're doing all the connecting by hand. An agent OS is the office building. It's one place where

all your workers show up. They see the same notes. They share the same memory. They work as a team. And you stop being the person who has to hold it all together. That's the whole idea. One

system, all your agents, one shared brain. Now here's where it gets interesting, because inside the agent OS, there are a few things happening that most people don't realize are even possible. First is the shared memory layer. This is the piece that changes everything. Right now your agents don't remember anything between sessions. You close

Claude, it forgets the conversation, you start a new chat with Hermes, it has no idea what Claude said. You're always starting from zero. In the Agent OS, every agent pulls from the same memory. So, when Claude makes a decision about your content strategy for the AI Profit Boardroom, Hermes already knows about it. When Open Claude is running a workflow, it's working off the same context. Nothing gets repeated, nothing

gets lost. Real example, you could ask Claude to build a growth plan for the AI Profit Boardroom, new members, more leads, smarter outreach, and then hand that exact plan straight to Hermes to execute. No copying, no re-explaining. The plan moves, the agents move, you watch the output. That's a different way of working. And once you've done it

once, going back to the old tab switching, copy-paste method feels painful. The second thing inside of proper Agent OS is the Kanban board. If you've never used the Kanban board before, think of it like sticky notes on a wall. You drop a task in the to-do column, an agent picks it up, it moves to in progress. When it's done, it lands in complete. In the Agent OS, you're not

doing the tasks, your agents are. So, you drop in a task like write five LinkedIn posts for the AI Profit Boardroom showing what members get from the coaching calls, and an agent picks it up and runs it. You come back and review the output. That's it. You're the director, they're the crew.

Look, if you want the exact Agent OS setup I just walked you through, we've got the full zip file ready to install inside the AI Profit Boardroom. This isn't a tutorial you have to piece together yourself. It's the complete system, Claude, Hermes, Open Claude, all wired together, shared memory configured, Kanban board ready, prompts included. You download it, follow the video walk-through, and your Agent OS is live. On top of that, we run four coaching calls every week where we go deep on exactly how to use this setup to automate your workflows, get more done, and grow faster with AI agents. 3,600

members already inside, a lot of them running this exact stack right now. Daily tutorials, a prompt library built around Agent OS, and someone online 24/7 when you get stuck. Link in the description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you want to take this further, if you want to know how to use AI agents like this to rank your website, get more traffic from Google, and show up in AI search results like ChatGPT and Perplexity, book a free SEO strategy session with my team. We'll look at your

site, your current setup, and build you a custom roadmap for getting more customers finding you through search. This is a one-to-one session completely tailored to your business, not a generic call. We'll show you exactly where the gaps are and what to fix first. Link in the description or go to juliangoldie.com to book your free session. Now, back to

the questions, because inside our community, we get these every single week, and I want to answer the ones that are going to be most useful for you right now. Someone asked, "Should I delete all my current memory files before setting up the Agent OS?" The answer is no. You don't need to wipe anything. The Agent OS works with whatever you've already got. If you've

already been running Claude and you've got memory files built up, those can plug straight in. If you've got Hermes set up with its own memory system, same thing. You can wire it into the OS without starting from scratch. The only time it makes sense to clear out memory is if you're using so many tokens that it's actually slowing things down. And for most people, that's not the problem right now. So, pick up where you are,

don't delete anything, just add the structure on top of what's already working. Another question that comes up a lot is about architecture. How complicated should my setup be? And the honest answer is way simpler than you think. Most people who get into AI agents start building like engineers.

They want two separate systems for two separate projects. They want sub agents under sub agents. They want Hermes orchestrating Claude orchestrating Open Claude. And before long, they've got a setup so complicated that they spend more time managing the agents than actually getting work done. Here's the thing, you almost never need more than one Agent OS. Even if you've got

multiple clients, multiple projects, multiple goals, one system can handle all of it. One clean setup with a clear hierarchy of which agent does what will outperform a chaotic multi-system mess every single time. Simpler is faster. Simpler is more reliable. Simpler is easier to fix when something goes wrong.

If you find yourself drawing diagrams with five layers of agents before you've even started, stop. Strip it back. Get one clean setup running first. Then add complexity only when you have a specific reason to. That's what the agent OS gives you, clarity. One clean mission

control for everything you're running. Now, if you're sitting there thinking you need to be technical to set this up, you don't. The version inside the AI Profit Boardroom is a zip file. You download it, you install it, and you've got the full system ready to go. No coding, no terminal commands, just a clean setup with everything already configured, plus the step-by-step video walk-through to get it running.

And then inside the community, you've got coaching calls every week where we go deep on how to use it, how to wire in your specific agents, how to build the workflows for your business, how to grow your reach and get more people finding out about your work using AI automation. There are always people online in there, too. So, when you get stuck at 11:00 p.m. on a Tuesday, someone's around to help. The agent OS zip file, ready to

install, is inside the AI Profit Boardroom right now. You get the full setup, the prompts we use, the memory configurations, and full coaching calls every week where we walk through how to build and grow with this exact stack. 3,600 members and growing. Daily tutorials showing you step-by-step how to use agent OS to save time and get more done. A member map so you can connect with people near you who are building the same things. Link in the

description or go to AIprofitboardroom.com. And one more thing, if you want to use AI agents to actually grow your search traffic and get more customers coming to you from Google and AI search engines, book a free strategy session with my team at juliangoldie.com. We'll look at your website, your current content, your rankings, and put together a custom game plan built specifically around AI-powered SEO for your business.

One-to-one, completely free, no generic advice. Just a clear roadmap for getting found online and turning that traffic into customers. Link in the description or go to juliangoldie.com to grab your spot. One system, all your agents. Let's build it right.