---
video_title: "Grok Bot DESTROYS Hermes Agent?"
video_id: okELDY1YY9Y
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=okELDY1YY9Y
video_date: 2026-08-12T03:19:16+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Grok Bot Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  xAI’s Grokbot Beta: Cloud AI Agents, App Logins, and the Feature Everyone’s Missing
  
  On August 11, xAI launched Grokbot in public beta, a team-based AI agent system where each agent gets its own cloud computer, can log into apps, run multi-step tasks, and keep working after you leave—returning only when finished or when approvals are needed. The script tours availability (Mac, Windows, Linux, iPhone; Android soon), pricing ($200 with some access via top Grok/Cursor tiers and a waitlist for bigger companies), and notes xAI built it with Cursor and that it began as an internal tool reportedly boosting staff output 2–3x (no independent tests). The host demos onboarding, agent customization, Gmail integration, and drafting email replies in the user’s tone, praising the UI and app connections, but criticizes “computer use” as extremely slow and unreliable, saying they wouldn’t switch from Claude and existing agent setups.
  
  00:00 Grokbot Beta Reveal
  00:34 Pricing Platforms Access
  01:12 Built In House Proof
  01:57 Cloud Computer Agents
  02:31 UI Setup Onboarding
  03:30 Connect Gmail Workflow
  04:15 Draft Replies Scheduling
  05:18 Computer Use Speed Test
  07:01 Honest Pros Cons Verdict
  07:35 Should You Switch
  08:09 Community Training Outro
---
Grokbot just changed AI agents forever and here's why. So, on August 11th, just yesterday, xAI launched Grokbot in public beta. It's a team of AI agents. They each get their own computer in the cloud. They can log into your apps. They

can do multi-step work. They can keep working after you close your laptop and walk away. You can give it a job. You'd leave. It comes back when the work is done or when it needs you to approve everything. So, that's a whole idea. And

there's one feature buried in this announcement that almost nobody's talking about. And honestly, it matters more than everything else combined. I'll get to that in a minute because you need the full picture first. So, let me run you through what actually launched. So, Grokbot is in beta right now on Mac, Windows, Linux, and iPhone. Android is

coming soon. It is a bit expensive, uh $200 right now. I actually got the free trial just being a Twitter subscriber already. And access starts with the top Grok and Cursor subscription tiers as well. There's also a waiter, uh sorry, a waitlist for bigger companies. xAI

actually built this with Cursor, and the two products are tied together at launch. Also worth noting, after the merger with SpaceX in July, the company now operates as SpaceX AI. Same Grok brand, same team behind it. And here's a detail that's pretty good. So, Grok didn't start as a product. It actually

started as an internal tool. So, the AI team built it for themselves originally. Their sales people are using it, the marketing people are using it, their operations people. And then it spread across the company so fast they decided to release it to the public, kind of like Claude code. xAI says their own staff report getting two to three times more done with it. Now, that's a company

grading its own homework, so take it as kind of like an internal benchmark where you have to test out yourself. There are no independent tests actually on that note. So, when a team builds something for itself first and it can't stop using it, usually that means it's pretty good. Just like Claude code and how that evolved and came out. It was first an alternative internal tool. Now, you

might be thinking, okay, what makes this tool different from everything else you already seen? Now, one cool feature about this is that it actually gets its own computer in the cloud. So, this is a real machine running out there that belongs to the agent. So, it can sign into your apps with accounts. It clicks, it types, it reads, it moves through the actual work the way a person would. It

only comes back to you when it finishes or when it hits a decision that needs a human. So, this basically has like its own sandbox computer in the cloud. You can also see, for example, here, it has its own screen and it can handle PDFs and all those sort of files. Now, if we have a look at this, for example, we've got different roles assigned to different agents on the left-hand side, and then we can speak to it directly here. Now, if we go back to Grok Bot, this is what it looks like once you've signed in.

So, it gets the team ready, and then you can see here that we've got a test agent. So, what we can do is just customize this. We can give it a new name, so we can say, okay, CEO. Then, we give it a title and a description. We can set up whether we want notifications for it or not, and we can switch them off cuz I don't want to be distracted with something else these days. And

then, from here, we're going to X off that. Now, it actually asks you, what should you focus on first? So, day-to-day ops, SEO, inbox, calendar, or something else? Now, you might be thinking, okay, what's different about this versus something like Hermes or, for example, something like Open Claw. Well, one of the big differences I see is that it's just a lot more user-friendly. So, if we have a

look at this, you can see that it's basically onboarding us in a simplified way, which is something we don't normally get with our AI agents like Hermes. So, if we select, for example, inbox and calendar, it's now going to start loading. We can also pin this, we can move it to a new section, mark as unread, edit the profile, duplicate, copy the conversation, and hide from the sidebar. So, what we can do now is decide whether we want to connect our calendars and our Gmail. So, I'm just going to connect Gmail for now.

And then, this should link to the app. So, it's really easy to use. Kind of feels like Telegram or WhatsApp when you're speaking to it. And then you can have a different conversation for each. So, it's like having a AI dedicated version of Telegram or a dedicated version of WhatsApp, for example. From

here, we can authorize this. So, let's authorize that now. And then we can just sign in to one of our email accounts. And then we can select everything and just continue. So, that is complete.

Now, if we go back to Grok Bot, getting too many apps down here, to be honest. It's connected to Gmail. So, what we can do is just draft replies. And actually, one thing I will say is like it feels way smoother and way easier than something like Codex. I don't know, there's something about it when you use it. I don't want to hype it

up cuz there's a million apps already do this right now, you know, you've got Claude, you've got you've got Hermes, but it does feel nice when you use it. I will tell you that. Now, also, what it's doing when it's pulling in the email account here is it's actually drafting the replies based on our previous sent emails. So, it's smart enough to like look through figure out, okay, what should we actually send in the tone of Julian? And then it's going to figure that out and start sending them.

So, now it's pulled in these responses, as you can see, and it can start sending the emails. And we can just save those as drafts, so we don't need to actually send them directly. But it's super easy. And then if you want to add like a new agent that works on our specific workflow, we can go from there. We can also schedule this daily, so you can add schedules. And also, it

can work in the cloud. So, if we create a new bot here, we can select what we want it to do. And then we can say, "Okay, SEO content." Or let's say, for example, I want to see if we can actually use the computer. So, let's test this out. Can you

go into your personal computer and then open up Google and say hello? Just want to test if it actually works or not. I also want to see the speed of it because sometimes those computers in cloud super slow. So, it's opening up Google on its own computer now. So, the cool thing about this, kind of like having a AI employee where it can use its own computer, its own laptop. I

mean, if you've ever had people work for you, sometimes their laptops go down. Sometimes something happens, they're not available. But, the cool thing about this is that the agent's going to have 24/7 access to the computer. However, one thing I'd be worried about is like, cuz it's quite expensive already, I can imagine that it would get more expensive the more you use stuff like computer use, cuz those typically take up like a lot more tokens than normal tasks. But, you can see that it's now using the computer. So, I think this is like a

live screen. Also, it seems to be super slow. So, you can see here like it's just opening up the screenshot by screenshot. And again, like I just want to give you the honest perspective here. I don't want to BS you. I don't want to

mislead you into thinking this is amazing if it's not. So, you can see how slow that actually is. Like, just to type hello into a computer in this the cloud. So, it is kind of like just as bad as normal computer use agents. I probably wouldn't recommend it. I think

the only time you'd actually use something like this is if it's working on a task on its computer and you're just okay with giving it like 5 hours to type hello into Google. Like, that's the only reason that I can see people doing this. And, you know, most YouTubers won't tell you this, but I just want to be honest with you. So, pretty cool tool, super useful. Uh I do think the links to applications are far more useful. I like the UI. I like how

smooth it is. I don't like the computer use. I think that's super slow. I think a lot of people are not going to like the price tag. We can also take over the computer. So, you can see here it can't

even use Google. Like, it's probably better off using apps. But, as you can see right here, it's it's pretty bad at computer use, which is pretty much the standard for every single AI agent I use. Not very good at using a computer use. So, you can also add more plugins. You can customize it

more here. It's a pretty cool tool. Would I switch anything I've got set up currently right now to Grok Bot? Absolutely not. I'm really happy with Claude. I don't think I'm going to

switch that anytime soon. I prefer my agentic OS system if I want all my agents working together. However, I think there's something you could learn from this as well. So, for example, if you have a look at this, like you could have your own agents on the left-hand side and they could start you could set up, for example, something like this inside Hermes or inside Telegram. So, you could have one chat for Claude, one chat sorry, one chat for Hermes, one chat for Open Claude, all that sort of stuff.

So, thanks so much for watching. If you have any questions about using something like this sort of stuff, you can post inside the community. I personally answer them every single day of a video tutorial. Inside the calendar, you can jump on weekly coaching calls, ask questions, get help and support in real time. Inside the classroom, you get access to all of our best trainings and you can also meet people in your local area who are building out with AI agents like you.

So, feel free to get that. Link in the comments description or go to the aiprofitbom.com. Thanks for watching.