---
video_title: "Google Gemini NEW Updates are Crazy!"
video_id: Letz9XfTihg
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Letz9XfTihg
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google Gemini’s New AI Agent & Video Tools: 4 HUGE Updates
  
  Google Gemini just evolved from a simple chatbot into a powerful AI assistant that can manage your inbox, create 4K videos, and even 'talk' to your books. Discover how these four massive updates to Gemini Live and Omni 1.1 Flash will help you automate your business and save hours of work.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  01:04 - Gemini 3.5 Transcribe
  02:12 - Gemini Omni 1.1 Flash
  04:01 - Gemini Live & AI Agents
  05:21 - Expert Intelligence & Notebook
  06:46 - The Future of Gemini AI
---
Google Gemini, new updates are crazy. Today, I'm going to show you the craziest Google Gemini updates ever. This is new. This is huge. This is easy to use, and yes, it's safe, too. Gemini

just went from a chatbot to something that can talk, create, and even act for you. Stick with me because update number three might change how you run your whole business. Okay, so Google just dropped a bunch of new Gemini tools, and I need to break this down for you because it's a lot. We're talking about a tool that can turn messy talking into clean text. A tool that can make and edit videos just from words. A tool that

can check your email and plan your day for you. And a tool that can read books and answer questions from them. Four updates, one big idea. Gemini is turning into something way bigger than a chatbot. It's turning into a helper that understands your voice, makes you content, and even works while you're not looking. Let's get into it. Hey, if we

haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. While he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Let's start with the first update. It's called Gemini 3.5 Transcribe. Now,

normally when you talk into a tool and it writes it down, it just writes down every single word, even the ums, even when you say the wrong day and then fix yourself. This new tool is smarter than that. It listens to what you actually meant, not just what you said. So, say you're on a call and you say, "Let's meet Tuesday. Wait, no, Wednesday." A

normal tool writes both. This tool understands you meant Wednesday and cleans it up for you. Here's how you could use this for growing something like our AI Profit Boardroom community. Say you just finished a coaching call inside the group. You could say into Gemini, "Turn this call into a clean summary with the main tips and list three action steps for the members." That messy audio turns

into a clean, easy-to-read summary in seconds. No more messy notes. It can also tell speakers apart, understands over 85 languages, and gives you a timestamp for every word. That's huge if you're making content for people all over the world. Imagine you're recording a podcast interview about growing a business with AI. Instead of typing it

all up yourself, you just drop the audio in and out comes a clean transcript ready to turn into a blog post or a set of social clips. That alone could save you hours every week. Now, let's talk about the second update and this one is the big flashy one. It's called Gemini Omni 1.1 Flash and it's Google's video making and video editing tool. You type

words and it makes a video, but now it's way more powerful. You can stretch a scene up to 40 seconds long. You can pick the exact first frame and the exact last frame of your video and you can preview it small and fast, then blow it up to full 4K when you're happy with it. Think about what this means for building a business online. Let's say you want a short video to explain why people should join the AI Profit Boardroom. You could

type something like make a short video showing a business owner stressed out doing everything by hand, then show them relaxed because AI automation is doing the work and end with the AI Profit Boardroom logo. That's it. That's your ad. No camera, no editor, no stress. All right, before we go further, I need to stop and tell you something important. If you want to actually use

tools like this to save time and grow a real business, you should check out my AI Profit Boardroom. It's the best place to scale your business, get more customers and save yourself from doing everything by hand with AI automation. Since this whole video is about Google Gemini doing more of your work for you, that's exactly what we teach inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We show you how to use tools like Gemini to save time and automate your business step-by-step so you're not stuck doing everything alone. The link is down in the description. Go

check it out. Um while I've got you here, one more thing. If you're creating all this content with tools like Notebook LM or Gemini, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. If you want more leads, more traffic and more sales, my team can help you rank higher on Google. Check the link in the

comments and description to book a free SEO strategy session and let us handle your backlinks while you focus on growing your business. Okay, let's keep going because the next update might be the biggest one of the four. Gemini Live just became way more agentic. That's just a fancy way of saying it doesn't just answer you anymore, it goes and does stuff for you. First up is something called daily brief. Instead of

you asking Gemini what's on your plate today, it looks at your email, your calendar, and your tasks, and it just tells you. Like a personal assistant that shows up every morning with your to-do list already made. Then there's Spark. This is Google's background agent. You give it a task and it works on it even while you're doing something else. Google has shown it building

things like full travel plans just from information sitting in your email. There's also something called personal intelligence. This lets Gemini use information from your connected apps to give you answers that actually fit you, not just generic answers anyone would get. And you get to choose what it can see, so you stay in control. And last, Gemini Live can now manage your Gmail with just your voice. You can say,

"Summarize the important emails from today and tell me which ones need a reply." And it just does it. Or say, "Find the emails about client onboarding and summarize them for me." That's you managing your inbox without even opening it. Now, think about running a business with this. Say you're managing the AI Profit

Boardroom community. You wake up and Gemini already told you who messaged you overnight, what needs a reply, and what's on your schedule. That's hours saved every single week. That's the whole point of AI automation. Less busy work, more time actually growing your business. All right, let's talk about

the last update and honestly, this one is pretty underrated compared to the flashy video stuff. It's called expert intelligence and it lives inside something called Gemini notebook. Here's the idea. Normally an AI just knows stuff from the whole internet, but now Gemini can actually read real books that you own from Google Play Books and answer questions straight from that book, not the internet, the actual book. Then it can turn that book into things like an infographic, a quiz, or even a short audio summary you can listen to.

But, here's the really cool part. You can combine the book with your own notes and your own research at the same time. So, it's not just the book's knowledge, it's the book's knowledge plus your knowledge mixed together. Google says this launches with over 100,000 books already available. Think about how useful that is if you're learning how to grow a business with AI. Say you just

picked up a book on marketing or automation, you could load it into Gemini notebook and ask, "Give me three ways I could use the ideas from this book inside my own business right now." That's like having the author sitting right there answering your questions. You could even turn that book into a short audio summary and listen to it on your commute. So, you're learning while you drive instead of scrolling your phone. Now, here's something important I have to mention. Not every feature is

available to everyone right away. Some of this depends on what plan you have, where you live, and whether your account is eligible. Daily Brief, for example, started rolling out to certain subscribers first, and Expert Intelligence only works with books you actually own. So, don't expect everything to work the exact same for you right away. It's rolling out. So,

let's zoom out for a second because here's the real story behind all four updates. Gemini used to just answer your questions. Now, it understands your voice. It creates your videos. It manages your inbox. It works in the

background while you sleep. It personalizes itself to you. And now it can even learn from real books you own. That's not a chatbot anymore. That's starting to look like a full AI assistant for your entire life and your entire business. If you're a content

creator, Omni is going to save you so much time making videos. If you're running a business, Gemini Live and the Gmail features are going to save you hours every single week. If you're learning and growing, Expert Intelligence means you can actually talk to your books now. And if you're a developer, both Transcribe and Omni have tools you can build with directly. This is exactly why I built the AI Profit Boardroom because tools like this are moving so fast, and if you're not using them, you're doing everything the hard way while everyone else automates it.

Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we show you exactly how to use AI tools like Google Gemini to save time, get more customers, and grow your business without doing it all by hand. If today's video got you excited about what AI can do for your business, that's exactly what we teach inside. The link is in the description. Go join us. And before you go, one more time, if you're putting out great content but nobody can find it on Google, that's a traffic problem, not a content problem. My team can help fix

that. Book a free SEO strategy session using the link in the comments and description, and let us help you get found, get more leads, and get more customers while you focus on running your business. That's it for today's Gemini updates. Google isn't just upgrading one feature at a time anymore. They're connecting your voice, your videos, your inbox, and your knowledge into one system. And honestly, this

might be the most exciting direction Gemini has taken yet. Drop a comment below and let me know which update you're most excited to try. Julian reads every single comment, so don't be shy. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.