---
video_title: "NEW H3 Max Live is Crazy Good! 🤯"
video_id: I0GpAsZ288k
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I0GpAsZ288k
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  H3 Max Live: Faster Than Real-Time AI Video Generation
  
  H3 Max Live is a breakthrough in AI video, generating high-quality clips with audio faster than you can watch them. Discover how this new tool from FAL and MiniAX eliminates wait times and how you can implement these automated workflows into your business today.
  
  00:00 - Intro: H3 Max Live
  00:30 - Speed Comparison & Benchmarks
  00:51 - Technical Hardware: Nvidia GB200
  01:39 - Audio & API Features
  02:34 - MiniAX & FAL Collaboration
  03:16 - Free Tier & Access
  05:21 - Workflow: Personalized Onboarding
---
New H3 Max Live is crazy good, and I want to show you exactly what this does because this isn't a small update. H3 Max Live just made video generation faster than real time. It's an infinite broadcast where every frame is generated on the fly, and every scene is directed by chat. You type a prompt, it's on screen in seconds. X, think about what that means. The video doesn't exist

before you watch it. The AI builds it while you're already watching the previous scene. That's a completely different way for AI video to work. Before H3 Max, you'd write a prompt. You'd wait 2 to 5 minutes. You get a

short clip, then you start again. Every single time you're waiting. Now, H3 Max generates a 15-second video clip in just 9 seconds. X, 15 seconds of video, 9 seconds to generate it. The video is done before you've even finished watching the one before it. Here's where

it gets interesting technically. Fal didn't just flip a switch to make this faster. They trained and served H3 Max entirely on Nvidia GB200 NVL72 systems. And on a per chip basis, GB200s deliver up to twice the performance of the previous generation accelerators they used to train and serve their models. Fal. Hey, if we

haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. While he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. And the key discipline here is this. Optimizations were only kept if they did not degrade quality in internal evaluations. Speed work that cost output

quality was rejected. So, this isn't a faster model that looks worse. It's faster, and it held quality. Explains Fal announced H3 Max on August 27th, 2026, claiming a 5-second clip generates in under 3 seconds, a vendor run number measured against a comparison set Fal chose. The model is Fal's post-training of what it calls the open Weights Minimax H3 digital apply team. And it

comes with audio baked in, not just visuals. Pika announced it with text-to-video and image-to-video API endpoints, native synchronized audio, 5 to 15 second durations, and an optional final keyframe. One prompt, one generation, video and sound done. And a kuku, the API responses even expose a timings.inference field with Pika reporting roughly 2.5 seconds of backend

denoising for a 5-second clip. So, the transparency is there. You can see the actual inference time in the API response itself. H3-Max. Now, here's what Minimax, the team who built the original model, said about this. H3-Max combines SOTA video quality

with a step change in generation speed, making high-quality video generation practical across a much broader range of real-world applications. And Minimax confirmed they've worked closely with Pika since day one. So, this isn't a third party just quietly tuning someone else's model. This is a sanctioned collaboration, Explains. Wharton Professor Ethan Mollick's reaction was, "A line in AI video was crossed." And

his point wasn't about quality. Video generation has been a batch job since it existed. You write a prompt, you wait, you look at what came back, you adjust, you wait again. That loop is now broken. And there's a free tier, too. Without an

account, five 5-second 768p generations with native audio every day. Signed in, five more per day at up to 15 seconds each. The allowance resets on a rolling 24-hour basis. That's up to 10 free clips a day. If you want to use tools like H3-Max to get more people finding the AI Profit Boardroom or your own business on Google and AI search right now, book a free SEO strategy session with our team. We'll put together a

completely custom game plan for your specific business, looking at where you rank today, what's blocking you from getting traffic, and exactly how to get leads coming in from search without you having to chase them. We work specifically with business owners using AI automation, so we know how to build SEO strategies that work alongside the systems you're already running. It takes around 30 minutes, is completely free, and you leave with a clear action plan built around your business. We'll also show you how AI video content like H3 Max fits into a wider SEO and content strategy that compounds over time. Link in the comments and description, or go to goldie.agency to book your session.

If you want to be using tools like H3 Max to automate your content, generate leads, and grow your business without adding to your workload, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We have business owners in there right now running AI automation in their businesses every day. Four live coaching calls every week where we go deep on tools exactly like H3 Max, building workflows live, showing you how to use AI video for content, onboarding, lead gen, and client demos. We have a 30-day AI video and content automation roadmap, a prompt library with templates you can use straight away specifically built around AI video use cases, step-by-step tutorials updated constantly as new tools drop, and a member map so you can connect with people near you who are already doing this. The moment H3 Max live moves from experimental to production-ready, we'll be building it live alongside you inside the community.

Link in the comments and description, or go to AI Profit Boardroom.com. Now, let's look at what this actually means for a real business using the AI Profit Boardroom as the example throughout. Because every workflow I'm about to show you is directly relevant to how you'd use this to grow your own business or community. Workflow one, personalized member onboarding videos for the AI Profit Boardroom. Right now, when

someone joins, they get a welcome email sequence. With H3 Max, you generate a short personalized video based on what business type they selected at sign up. The prompt looks like this. A business owner joins an AI automation community called the AI Profit Boardroom. Show them seeing their first automation go live, leads coming in, follow-up emails sending automatically, calendar filling up, warm cinematic office environment, synchronized ambient sound, 15 seconds.

That renders in under 10 seconds. Drop it into the welcome email. The new member sees their future visualized before they've even clicked into the dashboard. If you want to use tools like H3 Max to get more people finding the AI Profit Boardroom or your own business on Google and AI search right now, book a free SEO strategy session with our team. We'll put together a completely custom game plan for your specific business, looking at where you rank today, what's blocking you from getting traffic, and exactly how to get leads coming in from search without you having to chase them.

We work specifically with business owners using AI automation, so we know how to build SEO strategies that work alongside the systems you're already running. It takes around 30 minutes, is completely free, and you leave with a clear action plan built around your business. We'll also show you how AI video content like H3 Max fits into a wider SEO and content strategy that compounds over time. Link in the comments and description or go to goldie.agency to book your session. If

you want to be using tools like H3 Max to automate your content, generate leads, and grow your business without adding to your workload, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We have business owners in there right now running AI automation in their businesses every day. Four live coaching calls every week where we go deep on tools exactly like H3 Max, building workflows live, showing you how to use AI video for content, onboarding, lead gen, and client demos. We have a 30-day AI video and content automation roadmap, a prompt library with templates you can use straight away specifically built around AI video use cases, step-by-step tutorials updated constantly as new tools drop, and a member map so you can connect with people near you who are already doing this. The moment H3 Max Live moves from experimental to production ready, we'll be building it live alongside you inside the community.

Link in the comments and description, or go to aiprofitboardroom.com.