---
video_title: "Google Antigravity FULL COURSE 6 HOURS (Build & Automate Anything)"
video_id: dCZ4GCWZ0EY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dCZ4GCWZ0EY
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
---
Google Anti-gravity full course for six hours, learn how to build and automate anything. What if you could hand a whole task to AI and just walk away? Not a hint, not a snippet, the finish thing. That's what Google Anti-gravity does now. And most people have no clue it can. They're still copy pasting into a

chat box. Let me show you what they're missing. Today, I'm giving you the full crash course on Google Anti-gravity. what it is, the model running under the hood, the looping trick behind those jaw-dropping demos, and how to run whole teams of agents that check their own work. I'll also show you agent OS, the setup that makes all of this actually stick. And near the end, I'll tell you

the one skill that separates the people who fly with this from the people who stay stuck on day one. Stay with me. Let me start with something real. Google just dropped Gemini 3.8 Flash into anti-gravity. And with one prompt, it

built a working version of Google Maps, not a picture of one, a playable one. It has real locations, real directions, and street view. And it was built in a single prompt inside Google Anti-gravity. One prompt, one. And that wasn't the only thing. With one simple

prompt using a looping trick in anti-gravity, the same model built a full 3D game, a wizard walking through a castle with puzzles, with a story that changes based on where you go, and with all the textures made by Nano Banana. I want you to sit with that for a second. a game from a prompt. Now, I know what some of you are thinking. I don't build games. I don't build maps. Who cares?

Stay with me because the thing that made those demos possible is the exact same thing that changes how you run your business. And I'm going to show you what it is. And I'm going to show you how to use it today. Let's start with the speed of all this because it's honestly hard to keep up with. Gemini 3.8 Flash came

out 3 weeks after 3.7 Flash. It's Google's third flash model in 6 weeks. 6 weeks. Three models. Logan Kilpatrick,

who runs a big part of Google's AI developer side, posted about it. He said 3.8 Flash is the same price as 3.7, runs at about the same speed, and it's already live in the Gemini API, in AI Studio, in anti-gravity, and in the Gemini app. Same speed, same cost, way smarter. So, how much smarter? There's a

test called Terminal Bench. It checks if a model can actually finish real work on a computer, not chat about it, finish it. Gemini 3.7 Flash scored 81.6% on it.

Gemini 3.8 Eight, Flash scored 90.8%. That's a 9-point jump in 3 weeks on the same test from a model that costs the same and runs at the same speed. Now, here's a detail people skipped. Arena.ai

put 3.8 Flash at number 14 in their agent arena rankings above Deepseek 54 Pro, and it was a huge jump from where 3.7 Flash was sitting, a Flash model, the small fast one, beating models much bigger than it. But none of that is the real story. The real story is why it got better. And once you understand this one

thing, you'll know exactly how to use it. Here it is. Google changed how the model thinks on hard multi-step jobs. 3.8 Flash takes smaller thinking steps, uses its tools over and over, and checks its own work as it goes. Read that as it

stops, looks at what it just did, and asks, "Did that actually work?" Think about hiring someone new. The first type finishes a job fast, hands it to you, and half of it is wrong. The second type finishes a piece, checks it, fixes it, then moves to the next piece, slower on step one. way better at the end. 3.8

flash is the second type. Google even says the model will use more tokens on long hard tasks and that this is on purpose. If a task is simple, you can turn the thinking effort down. That's the part I love. You get a dial. And in

the anti-gravity update, that dial is right there in the model drop down. You pick low, medium, or high thinking per model. Now, if you want to actually use Gemini 3.8 eight flash and anti-gravity in your own business instead of just watching demos. That's what we do every single day inside the AI profit boardroom. You get daily tutorials where

we show you the exact looping prompts to run in anti-gravity. So, an agent builds your landing page, your lead form, and your follow-up sequence while you're doing something else. Four coaching calls every week where you can share your screen, show us your anti-gravity setup and your thinking levels, and we'll fix it live. A 30-day road map built around agent workflows like this one. a prompt library you can copy straight into anti-gravity and you get the agent OS zip file the actual dashboard you install on your own machine to run Gemini Claude and other agents from one screen link in the comments and description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com

and one more thing if you're creating all this content with AI but nobody is finding it online you've got a traffic problem that's where SEO comes in great content means nothing if it's not built to rank and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Okay, back to it. So, let me make that real for you. Low thinking is for quick

jobs, rewriting a headline, sorting a list, answering a fast question. High thinking is for the jobs you'd normally give to a person for a full afternoon. Here's an example from my own world inside anti-gravity. On high thinking, I'd say build a landing page for the AI profit boardroom that explains what AI automation actually does for a business owner, shows the community, and makes it dead simple to join. That's it. That's

the prompt. And the agent goes and builds it, checks it, fixes it, and shows you the result. Which brings me to the second big thing in this update, and this one is easy to miss. The default changed. The anti-gravity agent, the main agent, the one that runs when you don't pick anything, now uses Gemini 3.8

Flash. The anti-gravity SDK uses it by default, too. So, if you open anti-gravity today and just start working, you're already using it. You didn't have to do anything. The tool got smarter while you slept. And that's a

pattern worth noticing because it's happening across every tool you use. Now, let's talk about how you actually drive this thing because the demos everyone shared have one trick in common and almost nobody is explaining it. It's the looping prompt. In anti-gravity, a single looping prompt can carry the model through an entire build. Instead of you sitting there typing, "Okay, now do this. Now fix that. I'll try again.

You write one instruction that tells it to keep going until the thing works. That's the whole trick behind the maps demo. That's the trick behind the game. So, here's how you'd use it. One prompt.

Build a simple page where new AI profit boardroom members pick their goal. Then show them the right first tutorial and keep testing it until every button works. Then you walk away. And that's a very different feeling than using AI. That's closer to handing work to someone. Let me show you what Google did

with that same idea because the examples are genuinely useful. One of them is a topographic map of famous places built inside anti-gravity using real data from the US Geological Survey and Open Weather. It has live cross-sections, 2D views, and science explanations built in. Real data live from a prompt. Another one is called hardware anatomy, a 3D tool built in Google AI Studio that pulls devices apart layer by layer so you can look inside them. So, think

about what that means for a normal business. If a model can pull live weather data and map data into a working tool, it can pull your own numbers into a working tool, a dashboard, a tracker, a member directory, a simple page that answers the five questions people always ask before they buy. You don't need to be a coder. You need to be able to describe what you want because anti-gravity itself got a big update, too. And one feature in it changes how you work more than the model does. It's

called remote control. You can now securely connect to agent sessions running on your own machine from any browser. and you get push notifications when an agent finishes a task or needs your input. Let that land for a second. Your laptop is at home. The agent is

working. You're at lunch. Your phone buzzes done. Or I need you to pick one of these two. You open a browser. You

answer. It keeps going. That's the part people are going to feel first. Because the problem with agents was never smart. It was that you had to babysit them. And

it goes further. The same update added a terminal right inside the sidebar so you can run things without switching apps. Get version control in the review pane so you can see changes. stage them and save them inside the app and a built-in anti-gravity guide that answers questions about anti-gravity itself. That last one matters more than it sounds. The tool now teaches you the

tools. They also cleaned up the small stuff. Faster startup, faster project switching, less lag in long sessions, and notifications that stack in the corner instead of covering your screen. Small things, but they're the things that make you actually keep using it. Now, let's talk about the part of anti-gravity that most people still don't understand because it's the reason this whole thing works. Artifacts. When

an agent works in anti-gravity, it produces real deliverables as it goes. Task lists, plans, screenshots, browser recordings. You can look at those and check the agent's thinking at a glance. If something's off, you leave a comment right on it. Like commenting on a dock and the agent takes your feedback without stopping. You comment, it keeps

working. It adjusts. Now, let me pull this back to you because this is the thing I keep saying and people keep ignoring. Look at the shape of the last 6 weeks. Three flash models in 6 weeks.

Same speed, same cost. every one of them better at agent work than the last. Google's Tulsi Doshi and Ruca Adapa wrote in the announcement that 3.8 is their best reasoning and coding model yet at the same speed and low cost as 3.7. And it's not only Google's people

saying it. A company called Loopit put 3.8 Flash into their game creation agent for coding, asset work, and quick visual checking. What stood out to them was how wellrounded it is. Well-rounded, that's the word. It's not sharp in one place

and useless everywhere else. If you want the shortcut on all of this, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. We're running anti-gravity and Gemini 3.8 Flash inside there. Every week, you get step-by-step tutorials on the exact looping prompts that don't spin forever, how to set your thinking levels so agents finish instead of running all night, and how to use remote control so your agents keep working while you're away from your desk. Four live coaching

calls a week where you can bring your own anti-gravity build and we'll go through it with you. A 30-day road map so you know what to do first, second, and third. A prompt library you can paste straight in. The agent OS zip file you install and run yourself so all your agents sit on one screen and a member map so you can find people near you doing the same thing. There's always someone online. Link in the comments and

description or head to apiprofitboardroom.com. And again, if you're building all of this with AI but nobody's finding you on Google, the SEO side is what's holding you back. My team does this every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with us and we'll show you exactly what it takes to get your site ranking and bringing in real traffic. Links in the

comments and the description. Ever notice how Apple developers always get the AI stuff last? That just stopped being true. Google's coding agent now runs inside Xcode, not a chat tab, not a second app on your other screen, inside the exact place you already build. And most iOS devs still have no idea it's sitting there. I'm the digital avatar of

Julian Goldie. And I help people learn AI tools and actually use them in real work instead of just watching videos about them. In the next few minutes, I'll break down what anti-gravity really is, what changes now that it lives inside Xcode, the exact clicks to turn it on, and the one requirement that will stop most people from using it today. Stay with me because near the end, I'll cover the limits question, which is the part nobody wants to talk about. Let's start with what anti-gravity even is because the name confuses people.

Anti-gravity is Google's agentic development platform. That word agentic gets thrown around a lot, so let me make it simple. Most AI coding tools are helpers. You type, they guess the next line. You highlight some code, they explain it. Useful but small. An agent

is different. An agent takes a task, makes a plan, does the work step by step, and shows you what it did. You're not asking for a snippet. You're handing off a job. Google says the agents can operate across the editor, the terminal, and the browser, and carry out bigger end-to-end tasks. Building features,

changing how a screen looks, fixing bugs, doing research. That's a different shape of tool than autocomplete. Now, here's the news that made me want to record this. On the 20th of August 2026, Google announced anti-gravity extensions and Xcode is on the list. You can now use anti-gravity directly inside Apple's Xcode. Google's docs say you can build

across the Apple ecosystem without leaving your native development environment. That means Mac OS, iOS, iPad OS, Watch OS, and Vision OS, all from inside Xcode. That last part matters more than it sounds. Think about how most people use AI for Apple development right now. You're in Xcode.

something breaks, you copy the error, switch to another app, paste it, then paste some code, then paste another file because the AI needs more context. You copy the answer back, and half the time it doesn't fit because the AI never actually saw your project. Putting the agent inside Xcode removes that loop. It's already where your code lives, where you debug, where you build, where you run on a simulator. And what you get inside the editor isn't just a chat box.

Google describes the extensions this way. You talk to agents in a dedicated side panel. You review detailed lineby-line diffs. You inspect interactive plans. You hand off multi-step engineering tasks. Notice the

word plans. The agent tells you what it intends to do before it does it. And you can read it and adjust it. On a small script, autocomplete is fine. On a real app with dozens of files, networking, and tests, you want something that can look around, form a plan, and work through it while you watch the diffs.

So, how do you actually get this? Here's the path straight from Google's documentation. And listen carefully to the first requirement. You need Xcode 27 beta 6 or later on Mac OS. That's the gate. If you're on an older Xcode, this

doesn't exist for you yet. That's what will stop most people watching this today. You also need a Google account with an anti-gravity plan. The free T accounts. Once you've got those is four steps. Open Xcode, go to Xcode, then

settings, or just press command and comma. Select the intelligent settings panel. Then install anti-gravity by clicking get. After it installs, select anti-gravity and use the three dots button to start authentication. You sign in with your Google account in your browser and your session connects to your plan. Quick note if you're on a

team. Google says enterprise support for Xcode is currently in preview and that route goes through Gemini Enterprise with your Google Cloud project. So it exists but it's early. Now before I get into how far this goes beyond Xcode. Quick word. If you're building

something, people are supposed to find you can ship the best app out there and still be invisible. People don't only search on Google anymore. They ask Chat GPT for recommendations. They ask perplexity. They ask Gemini. They read

the AI overview at the top of the page and never scroll. So we're running free AI brand visibility sessions. It's a call where you get a custom visibility plan for your brand or your site. We look at how you actually show up or don't show up across Google AI overviews, chat, GPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. You get a competitor gap analysis so you can see who's being recommended instead of you and why. And

you get to ask a real strategist your own questions and get direct answers. It's 100% free and there's no obligation. The link is below. And if you want the deeper training, that's the AI profit boardroom. Inside we go through tools like anti-gravity properly. There are walkthroughs of

agentic coding setups so you're not guessing which settings to use. There are live coaching calls where you bring your own project and your own stuck point and ask about it directly instead of digging through forum threads at midnight. And there are prompt libraries, tutorials, and 30-day road maps that give you an order to learn things in. If you're planning to try anti-gravity and Xcode this week, that's exactly the kind of thing members bring to the calls. Join now and you can ask about your setup on the next one. Okay,

back to it. Because Xcode is only one piece of this. Anti-gravity extensions didn't launch for Xcode alone. They launched for Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio, Jet Brains, Zed, and Xcode. For VS Code, it's a lightweight extension in the marketplace running on Mac OS, Linux, and Windows. For Visual Studio,

it's an extension for Visual Studio 2026. Currently in preview, Jet Brains covers the whole IntelliJ family, IntelliJ Idea, PyCharm, Webtorm, Goland, Cion, Ryder, and more starting with version 2026.2.1. And Zed gets a one-click install. Read

what that tells you about the strategy. Google isn't trying to drag you into a brand new editor. The standalone app still exists, but with extensions, they're going to where developers already are. Xcode is the loudest signal of the lot because it's the one editor Apple developers can't just walk away from. Now, zoom out one more level because the extension is a small part of something bigger. Anti-gravity has

several surfaces. Anti-gravity 2.0, the standalone desktop app described as a command center for running agents across projects and workspaces. the anti-gravity CLY, the terminal version for fast keyboard driven work and SSH sessions, the SDK, a Python framework for building your own agents with custom tools and safety rules, and the IDE side, which is what we've been talking about. Google says these all run on a shared agent system, and the extensions share context with the rest of the ecosystem. So, the mental model isn't my

editor got a new button. It's the same agent setup follows me from my terminal to my editor to my desktop app. You're not learning one plugin. You're learning a workflow that moves with you. Now, the limits question I promised. There is a

free tier and it works with the Xcode extension. On it, you get Gemini models as the core agent, unlimited tab completions, and access to product features, but your quotota refreshes weekly and there's a weekly rate limit. Google AI Pro gives you a higher quotota that refreshes every 5 hours until you hit the weekly limit. Google AI Ultra gives the most generous quotota, the highest weekly limits, and access to thirdparty models. Here's the part most people don't read. Google says the

limits are tied to how much work the agent actually does, not how many messages you send. So a small task might barely touch your quotota. While one big messy refactor could eat a lot of it. Google also says these limits can change as they manage capacity. Practically the free tier is great for trying it, learning the flow, and doing focused tasks. If you plan to run an agent all

day on a real app, you'll feel the ceiling. So what does all this actually mean? For years, the pitch was AI suggests code. Now the pitch is AI does the task and shows you the plan and the diff. Those are not the same product.

One saves you typing. The other changes who does the work and turns you into the person reviewing it. And when Xcode, one of the most locked down development environments out there, opens its intelligence panel to an outside agent. That tells you which direction things are moving. Editors aren't fighting the agents anymore. They're hosting them.

Which leaves the real question, would you actually trust an agent with your Xcode project? Not one file. The whole thing. Drop a comment and tell me honestly because I think this one splits people right down the middle. If you want help applying any of this to your own brand, book your free AI brand visibility session. It's the fastest way

to get expert eyes on where you stand right now. You'll get a custom plan and look at what your competitors are doing that you aren't and clear recommendations you can act on straight away. 100% free, no obligation. Links in the description. And when you go and try anti-gravity and Xcode, you're going to hit friction, the beta requirement.

Deciding how much freedom to give the agent, reviewing diffs properly instead of just clicking accept, working out which tasks are worth handing over. That's normal and it's much faster to get through with people already doing it. That's what the AI profit boardroom is for. Coaching calls where you bring your setup, tutorials and walkthroughs on agentic coding tools, tested prompts and road maps that give you a clear order to follow. Over 4,000 members are already inside working through this together. Join us at

apiprofitboardroom.com. Today I'm going to show you something new inside Google anti-gravity called Boost. It's not just a smarter AI, it's a whole team of AI agents working together on one hard problem. It's brand new. It's kind of wild. And once you see

how it works, you're going to start thinking about your own business completely differently. Stick with me because I'm going to show you exactly how it works and exactly how something like this could run in the background of a business like mine. So, Google just dropped something called boost inside anti-gravity. And when I first saw it, I thought, okay, this is just another button that makes the AI think longer. But it's not that. It's way bigger than

that. Boost is a new way to hand off hard problems to a group of AI agents instead of just one. And every time I look at a feature like this, I don't just ask what does it do. I ask how would this actually run inside a real content business. So today I want to break down exactly what Boost does, how it works, and where I already see it fitting into a business like AI profit boardroom. Let's start simple. Normally

when you use an AI tool, you give it one task and one AI agent tries to solve it. One brain, one shot. But with Boost, you type one command and anti-gravity turns that one task into a full team effort. It splits the problem into pieces. It sends those pieces to different AI agents. Those agents dig in, try out

solutions, test them, and check their own work. Then everything gets combined and checked again before you get your final answer. Hey, if we haven't met yet, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of Goldie Agency, an SEO agency. Julian reads every single comment, so drop one below. He will see it. Think of it like this. Old way, you

ask one person to fix a broken system by themselves. New way, you send in a full team. each person checking a different part before anyone hands you the final answer. That's the shift here. And honestly, that's the exact shift I want to see happen inside my own operations, too. Instead of one AI doing one shallow

pass on a task, you've got a system that investigates, builds, and double checks itself. Google breaks Boost down into three steps, and each one maps to something a growing AI education business actually needs. First step is strategy. The main AI agent called the orchestrator looks at the whole project first and breaks the problem into smaller pieces it can actually test. Now picture this inside AI profit boardroom.

Instead of me manually planning out a full content calendar, breaking it into YouTube scripts, newsletter angles, and community posts one at a time. An orchestrator style system could take one big goal like grow engagement this month and break it into the actual pieces automatically. Before that planning eats up hours of my week. After that planning happens in minutes and my team spends that time actually talking to members instead of building spreadsheets. Second step is investigation and building happening at the same time. Different AI

agents get assigned different jobs working in their own separate space so they don't step on each other. Here's where it gets really interesting for a business like mine. Imagine AI profit boardroom gets flooded with community questions every single day. Instead of one AI trying to handle everything in one shot, one agent could sort every message by topic. One agent could draft replies to common questions and one agent could flag the messages that sound like someone is ready for deeper coaching or a premium offer. Before that

means either hiring a huge support team or messages sitting unanswered for a day. After questions get sorted and drafted instantly and the highest value conversations get surfaced straight to a real person fast. Quick pause because this is exactly the kind of shift I built. The AI profit boardroom around. If tools like anti-gravity and boost feel exciting, but you're not sure how they connect to an actual content or coaching business, that's the whole point of the boardroom. We break down

automation systems, content scaling, and lead generation workflows built with AI. So, you're not just watching cool tech. You're actually using it to save your team time and grow your community. Link is down in the description if you want to check it out. If you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in.

Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Third step is verification. And this might be the most

useful part of all for content and community work. Once the agents finished, anti-gravity puts it all together, checks it, and if something's off, it sends it back to get fixed before anything gets finalized. Now, think about content production. Imagine a single YouTube script gets turned into a full package automatically, a newsletter version, a Twitter thread, and a short lead magnet for new members. A verification step means before any of that goes out, it gets checked against your actual brand voice and your actual facts, not just generated and shipped blind. Before one piece of content stays

one piece of content and turning it into five formats is manual work for the team. After one script becomes an entire content funnel checked and ready without anyone pulling an allnighter formatting Twitter threads. Now here's a question you might be asking. Wait, doesn't anti-gravity already have sub aents? Doesn't it already have something called teamwork? Good question. Google actually

put out a comparison and it explains where Boost fits. Normal anti-gravity is best for everyday quick tasks and it's on every plan including free. Boost is for harder problems that need real digging and it currently sits on higher access tiers. Teamwork is for huge projects that might run for hours or days, also on higher access tiers. Translate that into a content business and you get three levels, too. Level

one, quick daily tasks like drafting a caption or cleaning up a transcript. Level two, the harder stuff like researching a whole new offer, mapping out a full onboarding sequence or auditing every touch point a lead has before they join the community. Level three, the massive stuff like rebuilding an entire content system or automation stack from scratch. One thing I want to be really clear on, Boost is not a new AI model. Google didn't build a smarter brain and slap a new name on it.

Anti-gravity still lets you pick from different reasoning models. Boost changes the process around the task, how the work gets planned, split up, and checked. That distinction matters because the real advantage isn't a smarter answer. It's a more reliable process. and reliable process is exactly what lets a small team run like a much bigger one. Where can you use it? Two

places, anti-gravity 2.0 and the anti-gravity command line tool. And using it is stupidly simple. You just type /boost, then describe your task. No extra setup screen. Now, let's talk

about when you'd actually use this. Google points to four kinds of problems where boost shines. Race conditions, tricky algorithm issues, big multifile refactors, and deep root cause investigations. Here's the example Google actually uses. A concert ticket system with one ticket left and 50 people trying to buy it at the exact same time. Without protection, more than

one person can end up winning that last ticket. That's a race condition. A genuinely messy problem that needs real investigation, not a quick patch. Now, flip that into a growth context. Picture a limited spot launch for a coaching program inside AI profit boardroom where 100 people are trying to grab five open spots at once. A system built with the

same investigate deeply then verify mindset isn't just fixing code. It's the exact same logic you'd want behind a checkout system. So nobody gets double charged, no spot gets sold twice, and the whole thing holds up under real pressure instead of quietly breaking during your biggest traffic spike. Okay, let's keep going. When should you not use something like Boost? Honestly, for

small stuff, a oneline copy edit, a quick caption, a small formatting fix. You don't need a whole team of agents investigating a tiny task. That's like calling a full team meeting to fix a typo. Save the deep multi- aent process for the problems that actually deserve it. The big funnel builds, the full automation systems, the stuff that touches a lot of moving parts. And if

tools like antigraph feel exciting, but you're not sure how they connect to an actual content or coaching business. That's the whole point of the boardroom. We break down automation systems, content scaling, and lead generation workflows built with AI. So, you're not just watching cool tech. You're actually using it to save your team time and grow your community. link is down in the

description if you want to check it out. If you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly.

That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. See you in the next one. On August 26th, Google shipped anti-gravity 2.11.0.

And the headline change in that release is one line long. Generative UI, which renders HTML artifacts right inside the chat. That sounds small. It isn't. Here's what it actually means. Up until

now, when you asked an AI agent to explain something, you got text back. Maybe a picture, maybe a mermaid diagram, which is that boxes and arrows thing that looks like a flowchart. That was the ceiling. words, a picture, a flowchart. Now the agent can build you a working thing, a real thing you can click, a chart you can hover over, a slider you can drag, a map of your project you can grab a node on and move around. It shows up in line right in the

chat and again in your artifacts panel. Google's own words for it are rich interactive artifacts. Their example prompt is dead simple. Help me visualize the dependencies in my project. And what comes back isn't a paragraph about your project. It's a graph you can drag,

filter, and click into. Click any node and a side panel opens up telling you what that piece does. Stay with me because there's a detail buried in this release that I think most people are going to miss. I'll get to it in a minute and it's the part that makes this useful for people who don't write code at all. First, let's ground this.

Anti-gravity is Google's agent tool. It launched on November 18th, 2025. And back then, it was basically a code editor with agents bolted on. It was a fork of VS Code. Then at Google IO in May 2026, Google relaunched it as anti-gravity 2.0 and the whole point

changed. The editor stopped being the main event. Managing teams of agents became the main event. You can run up to five agents side by side. And the thing those agents hand back to you is called an artifact. Plans, screenshots,

recordings, task lists. The idea was always that you shouldn't have to read every single line the agent wrote to trust it. You look at the artifact instead. You check the work without doing the work. So, artifacts have been there since day one. What changed on

August 26th is what an artifact is allowed to be. It used to be a document. Now, it can be a tool. Let me show you the difference with something you'd actually do. Say you want to see how people move through the AI profit boardroom after they join. Which day

they show up to their first coaching call, when they open their first 30-day road map, where they drop off. Before this update, you'd ask an agent and get a wall of text describing it. Now, you ask for it as a visual artifact, and you get a flow you can click through, filter, and poke at. same data, completely different experience. Bap the shift. You stop reading about your stuff

and start touching it. Google gave three demo examples on their blog and I want to walk you through them because they tell you exactly how far this goes. The first one is that dependency graph. You ask what your project depends on and the agent goes and reads your files, thinks about it for a few seconds, then builds a live map. There are filters at the top, runtime, internal, dev tools. You

can reset the zoom. You drag nodes around. Click one and a panel on the right tells you what it is and what it connects to. The second one is a quad tree visualizer. That's a way computers split up space to find things fast. In

the demo, you click on a canvas to drop points down. You drag a box to run a search. And the counter tells you how many checks it did versus how many a slow search would have done. You're not reading about the idea. You're playing with it until it clicks. The third one

is my favorite. It's a solar system explorer. 10 planets. You can flip between top down and a tilted 3D view. Turn orbit trails on and off. Show the

asteroid belt. Switch the scale between artistic, logarithmic, and realistic. Speed the whole thing up to a year per second. Click Earth and get its distance, its orbital period, its speed, its tilt. That's not a diagram. That's a

little piece of software built on demand from one sentence. And here's the part I said I'd come back to. Every one of those runs with zero dependencies in plain English. Nothing gets downloaded. Nothing gets installed. It runs on your

machine. It works offline. And you can export the whole thing as a single standalone HTML file and open it later. Think about what that unlocks. You ask an agent to build you a visual tool. It

builds it and you get a file. One file. You can email that file. You can put it on a shared drive. You can open it on a laptop with no internet on it. The

person opening it doesn't need anti-gravity. Doesn't need an account. Doesn't need to install anything. That's the bit that takes this out of developer land and puts it in normal people land. Because here's a use case anyone watching could run today. Ask the agent

to build an interactive onboarding checklist for new AI profit boardroom members where each step opens up to show the exact tutorial to watch. Export it, send it, done. That's one sentence in, one working file out. Quick pause here because this is exactly the kind of thing we're doing every day inside the AI profit boardroom. If you want to actually build with anti-gravity's generative UI instead of just hearing about it, come join us. We've got four

coaching calls every single week where you can share your screen, show us the artifact you're trying to build, and get it fixed live. There's a 30-day anti-gravity road map that takes you from installing it to running agents that build dashboards and reports for your business without you touching them. Daily step-by-step tutorials, including how to write prompts that get the agent to build the visual you actually wanted the first time. A prompt library you can copy straight into anti-gravity. Business owners in there, a lot of them running Google's agent tools right now, so if you get stuck at 11 p.m.,

someone's online, and a member map so you can find people near you doing the same thing. link in the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. Right, back to it. Let's talk about what else came in that same release because generative UI didn't ship alone. Google

added support for KEXMath, chart.js and plotly charts inside generative UI widgets and artifact previews. Let me unpack that. Chart.js and plotly are the two most common ways to make charts on the web. Plotly is the one that gives

you charts you can zoom into, hover over, and download. KEX is for math formulas, the proper ones with fractions and symbols that normally turn into gibberish in a chat window. So, the agent can now hand you a real working interactive chart, not a screenshot of a chart, a chart that matters for anyone who deals with numbers and doesn't want to open a spreadsheet. Ask the agent to chart which AI Profit Boardroom tutorials get watched the most each week, and you get something you can hover over and filter sitting right there in the chat. They also added something small that tells you how seriously Google is taking this. One of

the fixes in 2.11.0 was that form controls and scroll bars inside generative UI widgets weren't matching your dark or light theme. Someone found that. Someone fixed it. You only fix

scroll bar theming when you expect people to live inside these things. There were 30 fixes in this release. 30 against 10 improvements. That's a team hardening something they plan to build on. Now, let's zoom out a bit because this update makes way more sense when you see the 3 weeks before it. August

20th version 2.9.1. Google shipped remote control. You can now connect to agent sessions running on your own machine from any browser. Push

notifications when an agent finishes or needs you. August 24th, version 2.10.0. They put a terminal directly in the sidebar. They put Git version control in

the review pane so you can stage and commit without leaving. They added audio file attachments, MP3, web, M4A, and more up to 20 megabytes. You can drag a box on any image and leave a comment on that exact spot. and URL artifact cards. Now open Google Docs, Sheets, Slides, and Drive links inside an inapp preview pane. August 26th, version 2.1 1.0.

Generative UI, three releases, 6 days. Look at the shape of that. Remote control so you can reach your agents from anywhere. Then audio, images, comments, Google Docs, previews, so the agent can take in more kinds of stuff. Then interactive output, so it can hand back more kinds of stuff. The input got

wider, the output got richer, and you can now reach the whole thing from your phone browser. And if you want the shortcut, come get it with us. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we've built a 30-day anti-gravity road map that walks you through this exact thing, installing it, running your first agent, and getting it to build interactive dashboards and clickable reports for your own business, step by step. Four coaching calls a week where you bring your anti-gravity screen, and we fix your prompts live so you stop getting artifacts that almost work. daily tutorials that cover new releases like this one within days of them shipping.

So, you're never learning a version behind a prompt library with the exact generative UI prompts we use. And business owners using this stuff to save hours a week, get more leads, and bring in more customers with a member map so you can find the ones near you. Link in the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you want the full process, the SOPs and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI success lab. It's free.

Links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community members who are crushing it with AI. Today, I'm going to show you how Google's new AI tool can change SEO forever. This is new. This is big. It's

easy to use, and it's safe to try. I'll show you how to use it to get more traffic. Stick around because this changes how you rank. SEO is changing fast, and today I want to talk about a tool that is part of that change. Google just dropped a wave of updates to a tool called anti-gravity. It's Google's AI

agent workspace, and this matters for SEO more than you think. Search is changing. Google is putting AI agents right inside search itself. So, if you want to stay ahead in SEO, you need to know what these AI tools can now do. Let's break down the five biggest updates and I'll show you how each one connects to real SEO work using a project I'll call the AI profit boardroom as our example the whole way through. Hey, if we haven't met already,

I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Update one is the big one. Anti-gravity can now build interactive visuals right inside the chat. Before the AI could only give you

text or a picture. Now it can build a real interactive chart, a graph or a live dashboard. You can click it, you can filter it, you can drag it around. Google calls this generative UI. It rolled out on August 26th. And here's

why it matters for SEO. SEO is all about data, rankings, traffic, keywords, backlinks. Now you can ask the AI to turn all that messy data into a clean, clickable dashboard in seconds. Say you're tracking SEO growth for the AI profit boardroom community. You could say this to the AI. Create an

interactive SEO dashboard for the AI profit boardroom. Show organic traffic growth, keyword rankings, content published, and backlinks earned. Let me filter by page type and see which pages are driving the most traffic. Watch it build the whole thing right there. That's not a screenshot. That's a live

clickable report for any SEO team. That is huge. You stop wasting hours in spreadsheets. You get answers in seconds. Now push it further. You could

say, "Turn this into a map of our content system. Show how a blog post moves from keyword research to writing to publishing to link building to ranking. Make every step clickable so I can see where content is stuck." That kind of visual used to take a designer a full day to build. Now it just appears while you watch. And here's the part

that matters most for SEO teams. Google says these dashboards can work offline and get saved as one simple file. That means you can build a report for a client, save it, and send it over without needing any special software to open it. No login, no extra tools, just a file that works. Think about how many SEO reports you've sent as a boring spreadsheet. Now, imagine sending a

client an interactive dashboard instead. One they can click through and filter themselves. That is a much stronger way to show your SEO results and prove the work is paying off. Now, here's my first favor to ask. If you're creating all this content and building all these SEO reports, that's great, but it doesn't mean much if nobody can find your website on Google. You can have the best

dashboard in the world, and it won't fix that problem. That's a traffic problem. And that's exactly where SEO comes in. If you want more leads, more traffic, and more customers finding your business on Google, my team can help. We've spent years helping businesses rank higher and get seen by the right people, and we can take a look at your site, too. Just

check the link in the description below and book a free SEO strategy session. There's no cost and no pressure. We'll walk through your site together, show you exactly what's holding you back, and give you a clear plan to start climbing the rankings. And the dashboards, the workflows, the automation ideas, those are the exact kind of things we build out and teach inside the AI profit boardroom. It's a community for business owners who want to actually put AI to work in their business, not just talk about it. Inside, we walk through real

workflows, step by step, the same kind of prompts and setups I showed you today, but applied to content on boarding, tracking, and everyday operations. You get training, real examples, and a group of people doing this together. So, you're not figuring it out alone. If you're serious about using AI to save time and grow your business, it's worth checking out. The link is in the description below. Okay,

let's keep going. Update two is voice. Google announced a new speechtoext model called Gemini 3.5 transcribe on August 26th. Google says it's their most accurate transcription model yet. It

understands over 85 languages. It cleans up your ums and stumbles. And inside anti-gravity, it can even use what's on your screen to understand what you're saying more accurately. Why does this matter for SEO? Because now you can build entire SEO workflows just by talking. No typing, no code. Just say

what you want. Picture this. You say to Anti-gravity, "Create an SEO content workflow for the AI Profit Boardroom. Every new blog post should get a keyword check, an internal link check, and be flagged for review if it's missing a meta description." Then you catch yourself and say, "Actually, change that. Also, flag any post that hasn't

been updated in 6 months since old content can lose rankings." That's the real shift here. You're not typing commands anymore. You're just talking to the tool like a team member. and it builds the SEO system for you. Update 3

is about where you work. Google added anti-gravity extensions for tools like Visual Studio Code, Jet Brains, and even Apple's Xcode. This came out around August 20th. Apple confirmed it in their Xcode 27 release notes, too. So, now anti-gravity isn't just its own separate app. It can show up inside the tools

your developer already uses. for SEO. This matters if you run a site with an app or you need technical SEO fixes done fast, like site speed, structured data, or mobile issues. Your dev doesn't have to leave their normal setup to get AI help with those fixes. For example, someone building an app for the AI profit boardroom could say, "Build a simple page inside our app that shows members their SEO content progress, like which pages are published and which keywords are ranking." The developer

doesn't need to understand every line of code behind it. They just describe what they need. This matters more than people realize. A lot of SEO problems actually start as technical problems. Slow pages, broken redirects, missing tags, images that are too big. Those fixes usually

need a developer. Now, that developer can pull an AI agent right into the same window they already work in instead of switching tools or waiting on a separate team. That means technical SEO fixes can happen faster, which means your site stops losing rankings from small, silly errors. Now, if you already understand the basics and you're ready for the next step, here's the thing. Building great content and using great AI tools is only half the job. Getting that content found

on Google is the other half. And that's exactly what my team does every single day. If you want more leads, more traffic, and more customers actually finding your business on Google, book a free SEO strategy session using the link in the description below. There's no cost to it. We'll sit down, look at where your site is losing traffic right now, and walk you through a clear, simple path to start ranking higher. No

pressure, just a real look at your site and real next steps you can take. And a lot of what I showed you today, the dashboards, the workflows, the automation ideas, those are the exact kind of things we build out and teach inside the AI profit boardroom. It's a community for business owners who want to actually put AI to work in their business, not just talk about it. Inside, we walk through real workflows step by step. The same kind of prompts and setups I showed you today, but applied to content, onboarding, tracking, and everyday operations. You

get training, real examples, and a group of people doing this together. So, you're not figuring it out alone. If you're serious about using AI to save time and grow your business, it's worth checking out. The link is in the description below. That's it for today's AI update. If you found this useful, let

me know in the comments what you want me to test next. Julian reads every single comment. So, drop your questions below. I'll see you in the next one. Why do two people use the exact same AI and get completely different results? Same

model, same prompts, one's stuck, one's flying. The difference isn't the tool, it's the setup nobody bothers to build. And once you see it, you won't go back to using AI the old way. Hey, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie. And I help people actually learn and use AI tools in their real work, not just poke at them for 5 minutes and give up.

Today, I want to show you the exact setup that turns Google Anti-gravity into something way more powerful than it is out of the box. It's called Agent OS, and it's the thing that changes how the whole tool feels to use. Stick with me because the part most people skip is the part that makes all the difference and I'll show it to you before the end. So, let's start with what anti-gravity even is. Anti-gravity is Google's agent first development platform. That's a fancy way

of saying it's a launchpad for AI agents. Instead of typing into a chat and getting one answer back, you point it at a goal and it sends out agents that work on real tasks for you. Google shipped the big 2.0 version at their developer event and it runs on a model called Gemini 3.5 Flash. Now, don't let

the word flash fool you. Normally flash means the small quick one. This time it's the workhorse. It beats Google's older pro model on most tests. It runs about four times faster than other top models. And it's tuned for exactly this

kind of agent work. So the engine here is seriously good. But here's the thing. A great engine isn't the same as a great result. And this is where the two people problem comes back. You can hand two

people the exact same engine and one wins the race while the other barely moves. It's not the engine. It's the vehicle you drop it into. A brand new race engine in a beat up old car still loses. The engine only matters when the whole thing around it is built to use it. And that's the problem with using

anti-gravity raw. When you open it on its own, a few things quietly hold you back. First, there's no memory. Every session starts cold. You explain who you are and what you're doing. Then you

close it and the next day it's forgotten all of it. Second, it's not organized. You build something great on Monday and by Thursday you can't find it. Third, and this is the big one, there's no improvement loop. Every session is the first session. Nothing stacks. Nothing

gets smarter. You're basically dropping that race engine into a slow little car and wondering why you're not winning. So, the fix is to stop using anti-gravity as a chat box and start running it inside a system you actually control. That's what agent OS is. It's a dashboard I built that wraps anti-gravity in a proper command center, gives it real memory, and sits it right next to my other agents. So, everything

runs in one place, same engine, completely different vehicle, and the results honestly aren't even comparable. Now, before I show you how the memory and the loop work, I want to quickly tell you where you can grab this whole thing because it ties directly into everything I'm about to show you. The full agent OS setup lives inside the AI profit boardroom. When you join, you get the complete agent OS zip file with anti-gravity already wired in, so you're not starting from a blank screen. You get a 30-day road map that walks you from install to running your first agents. There are step-by-step

walkthroughs for the anti-gravity CLI, the memory layer, and the dashboard. So, the confusing parts get simple. We run coaching calls every single week where you can bring your own setup and ask questions live. And there's a full library of the prompts I actually use. So if you've been watching this thinking it looks powerful but complicated, the AI profit boardroom is where we make it click for you around this exact tool.

Okay, so let me actually break down the setup because it's really five simple layers and Julian calls the whole thing the Goldie gravity grid. Think of it like an orbit around your work instead of a hammer you pick up and put down. The first layer is the engine which is anti-gravity plus Gemini 3.5 flash. That's the raw power. The second layer

is memory. This is huge and it's the piece almost everyone is missing. I use a free tool called Obsidian as a memory vault. It's just plain text notes on my own machine. My agents read from it before they start a task and write new notes back into it when they finish. So,

the setup actually remembers who I am, what I'm working on, and who's on my team. It never starts cold again. The third layer is the dashboard itself, which is agent OS. This is the command center. Picture your phone's home screen, but instead of apps, you've got agents. In one window, I've got

anti-gravity plus other tools like OpenClaw, Hermes, Gemini, Codeex, and even Notebook LM all sitting side by side. I can see what each one is working on, preview what they've built, and launch a brand new task with a single prompt. No more five tabs open, reexplaining myself 15 times a day. The fourth layer is customization through the anti-gravity CL. Google rebuilt this part and it now replaces the old Gemini command line tool. The CLI is what lets

me shape anti-gravity into the setup I actually want instead of being stuck with the default look that a lot of people didn't like. And honestly, running it through the dashboard just looks and feels nicer. Plus, I can preview everything I build in a click. The fifth layer is the one that matters most, and it's the loop. I'll come back to that in a second because it's the reason this whole thing keeps getting better on its own. So, let me show you

what I actually do with this because that's where it gets real. I used agent OS with anti-gravity to build out a full content series designed to pull the right people into the AI profit boardroom. I pulled a list of topics AI profit boardroom members were already asking about straight from my memory vault, handed it to my agents, and let them draft the scripts, the hooks, and the captions in one run. That kind of content is exactly what brings the right audience into the AI profit boardroom. And I didn't have to start any of it from scratch because the setup already knew what we were working on. Here's

another one. I ran this setup to map out the entire day, one onboarding flow that new AI profit boardroom members go through. The agents planned the welcome messages, the first walkthrough, and the resource list, all from one prompt, and then saved the whole plan back into the vault. So, it's there next time. That means new AI profit boardroom members land inside and instantly know what to do next instead of feeling lost on day one. Now, let me come back to the loop

because this is the part that changes everything. Most people start over with every prompt. Their AI is exactly as good on day 100 as it was on day one because nothing carries forward. The loop fixes that. Every output my agents make gets fed back into the memory vault. More outputs means more context.

More context means smarter agents. Smarter agents means better outputs next time. And better outputs give you even more to feed back in. It's a flywheel. You never start from zero again. That's

the difference between a tool and a system. A tool you use once and forget. A system compounds. My agent OS from a week ago versus now isn't even comparable. And I didn't do anything clever. I just let the loop run. And

once that loop is turning, the use cases open right up. For example, I'd point this setup at a full lead generation flow for the AI profit boardroom. I'd have the agents plan the content, write the hooks, map the follow-ups, and line up the next steps all in one workflow, all pulling from what's already in the vault. That means more of the right people quietly finding their way into the AI profit boardroom while I focus on other things. All right, let me give you a few quick tips so you actually get this right instead of fumbling it. Tip

one, set up your memory vault before you type a single prompt. The memory layer is what makes everything else work, so do it first. An empty vault fills up fast once your agents start writing to it. Tip two, run anti-gravity 2.0 alongside a code editor, not instead of one. Google actually built 2.0 to work

this way, running the orchestration app next to your editor. A lot of people got frustrated when an update changed the layout, but the intended flow is to use both together. Tip three, start every task on Gemini 3.5 Flash and only reach for something heavier if it struggles. Flash is fast and it handles most jobs fine. So, let it do the work before you

upgrade. Tip four, always save your outputs back into the vault. This is the loop in action. If the work just sits in a chat window and disappears, you broke the flywheel before it started. Tip five, keep it simple. One dashboard, one

memory layer. You do not need 10 tools running to get a huge amount out of this. The simplest setups are almost always the ones people actually stick with. So, that's the whole thing. Anti-gravity 2.0 is genuinely one of the

most capable agent platforms Google has ever put out. But on its own, it has no memory, no organization, and no way to improve. You get the engine without the vehicle. Agent OS wraps it in the four other layers it needs to actually win. And if you take just one thing from this whole video, make it the loop. Because

that's what separates a tool you play with from a setup that gets better every single day. If you want the full process, the SOPs, and over 100 AI use cases just like this one, come join the AI success lab. The links are in the comments and the description. You'll get all the video notes from in there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are all learning to do this stuff and getting real results. And if you're ready to actually build this anti-gravity setup for yourself, the AI profit boardroom is where I'd start.

Because the moment you try this, you're going to hit questions. Which model to run for, which job, how to wire the memory vault so your agents read it before every task, how to get the CLI doing what you want. Inside the AI profit boardroom, you get the full agent OS zip with anti-gravity already set up. the 30-day road map that takes you from zero to running agents, walkthroughs for every layer. I just showed you the prompts I actually use and weekly coaching calls where we work through your setup together. It's a community of

over 4,000 people building exactly this so you'll never suck on your own. Come join us at apiprofitboardroom.com. Today, I'm going to show you a new update that lets your AI agent build you a working tool, not just talk about one. This just dropped and it's honestly kind of nuts. No coding, no design skills,

nothing hard about it. Stick around because the last demo in this video will blow your mind. Let's get into it. Okay, so normally when you ask an AI agent for help, what do you get back? Text, maybe a picture, maybe a boring diagram with some boxes and arrows. That's it. That's

been the deal for years. But there's a brand new update to a tool called anti-gravity. And it changes that completely. Instead of just telling you stuff, it can now build you a working clickable tool right there in the chat. You can click it, you can play with it, you can move things around on it. Think

about that for a second. You ask it a question and instead of a wall of text, it hands you something that feels like a real app. That's the whole story of this video. And by the end, you're going to see three examples that get crazier and crazier. The last one is going to make your jaw drop. I promise you that. Hey,

if we haven't met yet, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of Goldie Agency, an SEO agency. While the real Julian is out there helping clients get more leads and more customers, I'm here to keep you updated on the newest AI tools so you never fall behind. And hey, Julian reads every single comment on these videos. So, drop a comment below. He actually sees it. All right, let's

talk about what actually changed. The update is called anti-gravity 2.11.0 and it came out on August 26th, 2026. The big new feature is called generative UI.

In plain words, that means the AI agent can now build small interactive tools and screens for you right inside the chat. Not just words, not just a flat picture, a real working little app. So, here's the old way things worked. You ask, you get text or code or maybe a plain diagram. Here's the new way. You

ask and you get something you can actually use. You can click on parts of it. You can filter it. You can zoom in and out. It feels less like reading a report and more like using an app someone built just for you. Let me show

you the first example. And this one is big because it shows the AI actually understanding your stuff before it builds anything. Say you had a business project with a bunch of moving parts like all your tools, your systems, your automations all connected together. You could simply ask the agent, "Help me visualize how everything in my business connects. Show me an interactive map.

Let me click on each piece to see details and let me filter by category." And it does not just draw a static picture. It actually looks at everything first. Then it decides how to lay it out. Then it builds you an interactive map you can click through. You can tap

on one part and see exactly how it links to everything else. That's a completely different level from just getting a text explanation. Now, here's why that matters for anyone running an online business. Like the kind of people inside my AI profit boardroom. Imagine asking the agent, "Show me an interactive map of everything happening in my content and lead system so I know where customers are dropping off instead of guessing." You'd get a clickable picture

you can actually explore. That's the kind of real automation win we teach people inside the IP profit boardroom. Turning AI tools into simple systems that save you hours and bring in more customers. And speaking of that, if you want to learn how to actually use tools like this new anti-gravity update to save time, and grow your business, that's exactly what we do inside the AI profit boardroom. It's the best place to scale your business, bring in more customers, and cut out hours of manual work using AI automation. Go check the

link in the description. I'll leave it right there for you. Okay, back to the good stuff. Let's talk about the second demo because this one turns plain data into something you can actually play with. Say you had a spreadsheet full of numbers, website visits or leads coming in each week. Normally, you'd stare at

rows and columns trying to make sense of it. With this update, you can just say, "Take this data and build me an interactive dashboard. Add charts. Let me filter by date and show me a summary at the top." And it builds it. Charts

appear. You can hover over the charts and see the exact numbers. You can change filters and watch the whole dashboard update in real time. This update added support for popular chart tools so the graphs actually look clean and professional, not some rough sketch. Picture doing this with your own business numbers. Ask it. Build me a

dashboard showing how many leads came in this month broken down by where they came from. Instead of a boring spreadsheet, you get something you can actually explore and understand at a glance. That's the difference between staring at data and actually using data. Now, here comes demo number three. And honestly, this is the one that made me stop and just sit there for a second.

You can ask the agent to build you a full interactive simulation, like an actual 3D solar system you can control. Select a planet, change how fast it moves, zoom in, zoom out, turn on the little trails behind each planet as they orbit. All of that built from one simple request typed into a chat box. That's not a picture of a solar system. That's a working simulation you can control with your mouse. Think about what that

means outside of just planets. If an AI agent can build a working 3D simulation like that from one sentence, imagine what it can build to explain a business process, a customer journey, or a step-by-step system in a way that's actually fun to look at instead of another boring slide. Now, let's talk about how you actually use this thing because it's stupidly simple. You open your project and you type a request like, "Help me visualize this." Or you can use a shortcut command built right into the tool. The agent goes to work

and then it hands you a preview you can interact with immediately right there on your screen. And here's a detail I really like. These interactive tools can run without needing a bunch of extra downloads. Many of them can even work offline. Plus, you can export what it builds as a single file. You can keep,

share, or open again later. So, it's not locked inside the chat forever. You can actually walk away with it. Now, I do want to be fair here because I'm not going to hype this up more than it deserves. This is not the AI building you a full complete business application from one sentence. It's not replacing

developers. What it is doing is making it way faster and way easier to build small interactive tools, prototypes, and visuals right when you need them without leaving your chat window. But here's the bigger picture, and I think this is the real story. AI used to only talk to us with words. Then it started making pictures. Then it started making basic

diagrams. Now it's starting to build small interactive tools to explain its own thinking to us. That's a big shift. It's not just answering your question anymore. It's building you a tool to help you understand the answer. So who

should care about this? If you run projects with a lot of moving parts, you can finally see how everything connects without hiring someone to build that for you. If you deal with data, you can turn boring spreadsheets into dashboards in minutes. If you're trying to explain something tricky to your team or your customers, you can build an interactive demo instead of a slide with bullet points nobody reads. And that's really the theme of everything I cover on this channel. AI keeps closing the gap

between having an idea and actually seeing it work. First it was writing, then it was code. Now it's full interactive tools. That gap keeps shrinking. And honestly, that's exciting for anyone trying to grow a business without a massive team behind them.

Before you go, two quick things. If you want to learn how to use updates like this anti-gravity release to automate your business, bring in more customers, and get hours of your time back, that's exactly what we help you do inside the AI profit boardroom. It's built for people who want real AI systems working for them, not just AI tips they never use. The link is in the description. Go check it out. And if you want the full

process, the exact prompts, and over a 100 more AI use cases just like this one, join the AI success lab. It's completely free. Links are in the comments and description. You'll get all the notes from this video, plus access to our community of over 38,000 people who are using AI to grow their businesses every single day. Drop a comment below and let me know. What

would you build first if your AI agent could create an interactive tool for you on the spot? Julian reads every comment, so tell him what you think. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one. How long can one AI agent really work before it falls apart? An hour, maybe two. Google just smashed that

ceiling. Their agents now keep working for days while you sleep. And almost nobody's talking about how they pulled it off. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help people learn AI tools and actually use them in their work. Not just watch demos, use them. In the next

few minutes, I'll show you what anti-gravity teamwork really is. The exact agent roles Google built into it. And the one part of the system that stops these agents from confidently building on top of their own mistakes. That last piece is the thing most people skip and it's the reason this works at all. So let's start with what teamwork actually is. Teamwork is a multi- aent

orchestration framework inside Google anti-gravity. Google announced a big set of updates to it on the 27th of August 2026. In plain English, it puts a whole team of AI agents on one job instead of one agent doing everything. The agents propose ideas. They critique each other's work. Then they refine it all on

their own over hours or days. Google's own words are that the agents work autonomously over hours or days. You start it with a slash command called teamwork preview. It runs on paid plans in anti-gravity 2.0 on desktop and web and in the anti-gravity CLI too. Here's

how I'd use this for the AI profit boardroom. Teamwork ships with a document review pattern built for multi-angle critique of papers, design docs, and technical writeups. So, I'd point it at an AI profit boardroom training dock or a prompt library before members ever see it and let a team of agents pull it apart from different angles. One reads it for gaps. One argues against it. That's a much

stronger check than me reading it once and hoping I caught everything before it lands inside the AI profit boardroom. Now, why bother with multiple agents at all? One good agent sounds simpler, right? Google actually explains this. For routine tasks, basic multi- aent setups are usually fine, but on hard problems, loosely organized agents go off track fast. They agree with each

other's early mistakes. Then they build confidently on top of flawed ideas. That's the real failure. Not that the AI is dumb, it's that nothing in the system ever tells it it's wrong. So teamwork makes the whole loop deliberate.

Generate candidates, stress test them, combine the best pieces into something stronger, and keep going. Here's how it actually runs step by step. There are two phases. Phase one is prompt crafting. Google calls it a scoping interview. The main agent interviews you

before anything gets built. The rule it follows is simple. Specify what, not how. It asks about your scope and objectives, what you want built, and who it's for. Then it drafts requirement blocks covering only what you actually care about. Then, and this is the smart

bit, it agrees on independent verification for each requirement. That means a test suite, a benchmark, a metric script or a separate agent judging against a clear rubric. It sets acceptance criteria. So, there's a testable definition of done and it sets up a dedicated project folder to work inside. At the end of phase one, you get a prompt artifact. You read it, you

tweak it, you approve it with one confirmation. Then phase two kicks in and the team runs on its own. Before I go further into the roles, a quick word on something related. Inside the IP profit boardroom, we go deep on exactly this kind of multi- aent setup. We run live coaching calls where you can bring your own anti-gravity screen and ask what's going wrong with your scoping interview or why your agents keep drifting. There are step-by-step

walkthroughs for agent tools like this one, prompt libraries you can copy straight over, and 30-day road maps so you're not just collecting tools, you're actually shipping with them. If you're watching this and thinking multi- aent workflows are the next skill you need to learn, that's the exact thing we're working through with members right now. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com. Right back to the agents because the roles are where this gets interesting.

There's a coordinator called Sentinel. Sentinel takes over once you approve the prompt. It records your request, roots, tasks, posts, progress updates, and calls in the final reviewer at the end. Then there's the project orchestrator. This one is a dedicated manager. It

breaks the approved brief into milestones, runs parallel work tracks, and delegates every single unit of work. And here's the clever part. Between milestones, the project orchestrator hands off to a fresh successor. A brand new orchestrator takes over. Google built that in to stop context degradation. That's when a long session

gets so cluttered, the agent starts forgetting what it was doing and making sloppy calls. You felt it if you've ever had a long chat go stupid on you. Then you've got explorers. These are read only research agents. They explore the codebase and trace how things connect, but they can't change a single file. So,

they can look without breaking anything. And you've got workers. These are the builders. They get terminal and file tools and they build components, refactor code, and write tests in focused tracks that don't overlap. So, that's four roles doing the work. Now,

here's the part I promised you because building is easy. Catching your own mistakes is the hard bit. Teamwork has what Google calls adversarial verification gates. work has to pass independent checks before a milestone is approved. There are four of them. The

critic does independent code reviews, correctness, logic, robustness, whether it matches the project style. The challenger actively attacks the work. It builds adversarial test suites, edge cases, failure path probes, and worst case inputs designed to stress the thing until it breaks. The auditor checks the evidence. And this one matters more than it sounds. The auditor checks test

evidence against real command output to make sure tests genuinely passed instead of being mocked or skipped. So the AI can't just tell you it worked. It has to prove it. And finally, the success auditor. That's the last reviewer spawned by Sentinel. It runs a full

endtoend verification pass and has to confirm everything works before the finished project ever gets shown to you. That's the answer to the question everyone asks. How can agents run for days without going completely off the rails? because there's a chain of agents whose entire job is to say no. There's more built around it, too. Every

operation runs inside a dedicated project folder, so your main repo stays clean. Files get exclusive ownership, meaning two workers never edit the same file at the same time. Every agent gets its own scratch directory for notes and logs. And you can watch live progress across every agent track in the sub agent panel or the CLI status bar. You also pick how strict it is. There are

three integrity modes. Development mode is the default and it's lenient built for fast iteration. Demo mode is moderate. Benchmark mode is maximum strictness where everything has to be built from scratch with only the standard library. So what has this actually been used for? Real things.

Google reported that teamwork built a cycle level risk 5 CPU simulator from scratch that boots an operating system to shell and runs over a 100 standard benchmarks with an average cycle alignment error of 0.71% on unseen test workloads. It found a suboptimal implementation in ien a widely used C++ mass library built a faster path for it and that change was accepted and merged into the upstream library through normal open-source review. It contributed to a faster concurrent hasht that hit two times the throughput on initial inserts with 64 threads. And on the research side, it addressed seven open problems in maths and theoretical computer science, scoring 71% on an internal benchmark called TCS Bench, up from 67.7%.

Those are real merged contributions, not demo videos. Here's what I'd run it on for the AI profit boardroom. There are member-f facing tools I want built properly, a resource hub, a searchable prompt library, things that need to actually work, not half work. I'd hand teamwork the brief, agree the acceptance criteria in the scoping interview, and let the workers build while the challenger tries to break it. Then I'd only look at it once the success auditor signs off. The version AI profit

boardroom members touch is the version that already survived being attacked. I'd also use it for the boring, painful jobs. large-scale refactoring is listed as a core use case. And every growing project ends up with old code holding it together. Rather than me picking through it, I'd let a teamwork run modernize the back end of an AI profit boardroom tool across dozens of files while the critic checks every step. So why does any of

this matter to you? Because the skill is shifting. For the last two years, the skill was writing a good prompt. That's still useful, but the skill now is scoping a job well enough that a team of agents can run it without you. That's a different muscle. It's about defining

what done looks like. It's about deciding what independent proof you'll accept. It's about knowing when to be lenient and when to demand everything be built from scratch. And here's the honest part. Teamwork is a preview feature on paid plans. It's built mainly

for large projects and deep research. Though there's a lighter iterative path for one self-contained job, like a single bug fix if you tell it to keep things small. But the pattern behind it, agents that argue with each other before anything ships, is going to show up everywhere. Learning it now means you're ready when it does. Start small. Try the

scoping interview on something real. Watch where your own brief falls apart because that's the exact skill you're building. If you want the full process, SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI success lab. Links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And

if you're about to go and actually try Teamwork, know what you're walking into. Your first scoping interview will feel awkward. You'll und specify the acceptance criteria and the run will drift. You'll pick the wrong integrity mode and wonder why the agents cut corners. That's normal and it's fixable fast when someone shows you. That's what

the AI profit boardroom is for. We run coaching calls where you can bring your actual setup and get it unstuck live. We build tutorials and road maps around agent tools like this so you know what to run in week one and what to run in week four. And with over 4,000 members, someone in there has already hit the same wall you're about to hit. Come and build with us. Go to

apiprofitboardroom.com. Today, I'm going to show you how Google just gave your AI agent legs. You can now leave your computer, walk away, and your AI agent keeps working. You can control it from your phone, from anywhere. This is one of the biggest AI

updates this year, and it's honestly a little scary. Stick with me, and I'll show you exactly how it works and how you can use it to grow your business. Google just made it so you can walk away from your computer and still talk to your AI agent from your phone. It's called anti-gravity remote control. And once you see this, you're going to think about AI completely differently. Here's

the old way this worked. You start an AI agent on your computer. You sit there. You wait. You watch it work. If you

leave your desk, you're cut off. You have no idea what's happening until you come back. Now, watch this. You start a task on your computer. You close your laptop. You walk away. You open your

phone. You open a browser. and your AI agent is right there, still working, still talking to you. You can tell it what to do next right from your phone. That's not remote desktop. That's not

screen sharing your whole computer. That's something new. You're not controlling your computer. You're controlling your AI worker. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. So, let's break down what's actually new here. Google added something called remote control to anti-gravity, which is their AI coding agent tool. It lets you check on, talk to, and steer your AI agent sessions from another device. That includes your

phone, your tablet, or another computer. It works through a normal web browser. No extra app needed. And it works on both iPhone and Android. Google is rolling this out to Ultra subscribers first, then it will roll out to everyone else after that. Here's why this matters

so much. anti-gravity was already built to work without you sitting there watching it. It can run long tasks. It can run scheduled tasks. It can run more than one agent at once. So, remote

control is the missing piece. Now, you don't need to be at your desk to use any of that. Think about how this actually plays out. You start a task before you leave your desk. You walk away. Your

agent needs your input to keep going. You just answer from your phone. No need to run back to your computer. If you want help actually using tools like this to grow your business, that's exactly what we teach inside the AI profit boardroom. It's the best place to scale your business, get more customers, and save hundreds of hours using AI automation. If you want to learn how to

save time and automate your business with AI tools like this anti-gravity update. Go check it out. Link is in the description. Say you're building out a new automation for your business. You could ask it, "Build me a simple automation that collects new leads from a form and organizes them into a spreadsheet. Then write a short summary

of each lead. You kick that off, close your laptop, and go do something else. Your agent is still working. When you check your phone later, you can see the plan it made, look at what it's already built, and tell it to keep going or make a change. That's the whole point. You're

not glued to a screen anymore. Your AI agent becomes something you check in on like a real employee instead of something you have to babysit. Now, let's get back into it. Let's talk about what you can actually do once you're connected remotely. First, you can monitor. You can see exactly what your

agent is doing in real time. Second, you can interact. You can send new instructions right from your phone. Third, you can steer. If the agent is heading the wrong direction, you can redirect it without going back to your desk. Fourth, you can review. You can

look at the work it already finished. And fifth, if you have more than one agent running, you can switch between them. So, this becomes like a little control panel for all your AI workers, no matter where you are. Let's go through some real situations where this is actually useful. You're about to start a big content project for your business. You kick it off before lunch.

You go eat. When you're done, you check your phone and the work is already moving forward. You're testing something big like a new automation or a big code change. You start the test. You don't have to sit there watching it run. You

check the results later from your phone. You've got multiple agents working on different parts of a project. One is writing content. One is fixing something on your website. You use your phone like a dashboard to check on both. You're

just away from your desk and something needs your answer. Instead of losing time, you just reply from wherever you are. You're at the gym or grabbing coffee or picking up your kids and you remember you forgot to give your agent one more instruction. You don't have to rush home. You just pull out your phone and send it. You're traveling for work

and you still want your automations and content running back home. Now, you don't need to bring your laptop everywhere just to keep an eye on things. Now, let's talk about why this is different from something like remote desktop software you might have used before. Remote desktop gives you your entire computer on a tiny screen. Every icon, every window is clunky on a phone.

Anti-gravity remote control isn't that. It only shows you what matters. The conversation with your agent, the plan it's following, the task it's working on and what you want to tell it next. That's it. It's built for talking to an AI agent, not for clicking around a whole operating system. And this matters

even more because it works on mobile. This isn't just a new web page you check from another laptop. This means your AI agent can follow you onto your actual phone. That's a much bigger shift than it sounds like. Also worth mentioning, this isn't totally out of nowhere.

Before Google officially added this, people in the anti-gravity community were already trying to build their own versions of remote access just to solve this exact problem. So, this was something people actually wanted. Google just built it properly and shipped it for everyone. Now, let's zoom out for a second because I think this is the real story here. Anti-gravity has been moving in one clear direction. It started as a

coding tool. Then, it became an agent platform with agents that could run in the background, run scheduled tasks, and manage bigger jobs on their own. Now, with remote control, those agents can follow you anywhere you go. That's a big shift. We're moving from AI that only helps you while you're sitting at your computer to AI that keeps working after you've already walked away. Now, I do

want to be fair and mention the limits here because I'm not going to oversell this to you. This is a gradual roll out, so it might not be on your account yet, especially if you're not an Ultra subscriber. Your computer still needs to be connected to the internet for this to work. If your computer loses connection or goes to sleep, the remote link can't stay connected. Background tasks can keep running as long as your computer stays connected, though. And this is not

the same as running your AI fully in the cloud. Your agent is still running on your actual computer. The remote control just lets you follow along and steer it from somewhere else. So don't think of this as anti-gravity now lives in the cloud. Think of it as your anti-gravity session stays on your computer and the control screen follows you wherever you go. So here's my honest take on this.

Remote control doesn't make the AI agent smarter. It doesn't change what the AI can actually do. What it changes is how hard it is for you to walk away from it. And I actually think that's the bigger deal here because the harder something is to walk away from, the more it becomes part of how you actually run your day and your business. Think about how you run things right now. Most

people still treat AI like a tool they open, use for a bit, then close. This update pushes AI closer to something that just runs in the background of your life and your business the same way an employee would. You give it a task, you walk away, you come back later and check the progress. And that's a completely different way of working than most of us are used to. And honestly, this is probably just the start. If Google is

already letting you follow your AI agent onto your phone, I wouldn't be surprised if this gets even deeper over the next year. More devices, more agents running at once, more ways to steer them without sitting at a desk at all. If you want the full process, the step-by-step guides, and over a 100 real AI use cases like this one, come join the AI success lab. Links are in the comments in the description. You'll get all the video notes from this one, plus access to our community of over 38,000 members who are using AI to grow their skills and their businesses every single day. And if you

actually want to put updates like this anti-gravity remote control to work in your own business, that's what the AI profit boardroom is for. It's the best place to scale your business, get more customers, and save hundreds of hours using AI automation like the tools I showed you today. Come join us and let's build this out together. Link is in the description. Thanks for watching.

Comment below and let me know if you'd actually use this to run your AI agent from your phone. Julian reads every single comment. So, I'll see you in the next one. Google just gave its coding agent, anti-gravity, a new brain called Gemini 3.7 Flash. This isn't a small

patch. It's a real jump in what one prompt can do. Here's the part that got my attention. You type one sentence describing a screen. Something like build me a sign in screen. Anti-gravity

doesn't build it once. It builds it four times in four different coding languages at the same time. Swift UI for iPhone. React Native for crossplatform apps. Jetack compose for Android. Flutter for

apps that run almost anywhere. Same prompt, four native results. Then it opens simulators and emulators and checks that each one actually works. A year ago, if you wanted a screen built for iPhone and Android, you hired two developers or one who knew both. That took days, sometimes weeks. Now,

Anti-gravity does the first draft of all four versions before you finish your coffee. I get the skepticism. A lot of people hear AI builds an app and picture one shaky prototype that breaks the second you touch it. That used to be fair, but Gemini 3.7 Flash was built to think through more steps before it acts.

In plain words, it plans its work first instead of guessing one step at a time. Less trial and error, fewer broken loops where it tries something, fails, and tries again. Here's how the multiplatform trick works. Anti-gravity doesn't have one AI doing four jobs badly. It splits the work. Think of it

like a head chef handing out tickets in a kitchen. One cook handles the grill, one handles salads, one handles dessert. The head chef doesn't cook every dish alone. Anti-gravity reads your prompt once, then hands a sub agent to each coding framework. Each one focuses only on its own language and rules. Then

anti-gravity checks all four plates before they leave the kitchen. That's why the four versions actually match each other instead of looking like four different apps. Here's a practical example. Say you want a clean signin screen for a members area, something a real business would use every day. You tell Antiggravity to build a login screen with a name field, an email field, a password field, and a button that says enter. One prompt, four native

versions. You preview it on a phone screen, and an Android screen before you touch a line of code yourself. If you're building anything with a login, a dashboard, or a members area right now, tools like this are worth watching closely because this is where AI profit boardroom members are already spending their time. Inside there, we cover exactly how to use tools like anti-gravity to build real screens for your business. Fast actual walkthroughs of member login pages, onboarding screens, and simple business tools, the kind a real company would ship. If you

want help setting up your first build, that's exactly what we go through on our coaching calls. link in the comments and description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com. This update isn't just for developers. A small business owner with zero coding background can describe a screen in plain English and get a working native version back. That knocks down a wall

that used to require hiring someone or learning to code yourself. You describe it, the AI builds it, you adjust from there. Think about what that does to a small team. A one-person business used to need a developer just to get a login page live. Now, that first version exists in minutes, and a non-technical founder can preview it, tweak the wording, and move on to the next screen.

The bottleneck isn't can we build this anymore. It's do we know what we want to build. That's a much easier problem to solve. Try a booking form instead of a login screen. Something with a date picker, a service dropown, and a confirm button. Same idea applies. You describe

the form once. Anti-gravity spins up its sub agents and hands you back a version for iPhone, a version for Android, and a version that works across both. You're not managing four separate projects anymore. You're managing one instruction and reviewing four results. There's a smaller detail worth knowing, too. When

the sub agents finish, anti-gravity keeps the design choices lined up across all four. So, the button color, the field order, and the wording match on every platform. That used to take a design system and a team meeting to sort out. Now, it's part of the build itself. For a small business, that means your app looks like one brand everywhere, not four slightly different guesses. The

testing piece matters just as much as the building piece. Anti-gravity opens the simulators and emulators itself and checks that the screen actually loads and works the way you asked. That's the difference between a rough draft and something you can actually show someone. A lot of AI coding tools stop at here's some code, good luck. Anti-gravity checks its own work first. Here's the

trend line if you zoom out. 6 months ago, AI coding tools were mostly single language. You picked React or you picked Swift and the AI helped inside that one lane. Now we're at multi framework, multi- aent building from one prompt with testing built in. If that pace holds, the next jump is probably fewer prompts needed overall where you describe a full app in one go instead of screen by screen. If you're a business

owner with no coding background, pick one screen your business actually needs, a login page, a simple form, a booking page, and describe it in plain English inside Anti-Gravity. Don't overthink the prompt. Just describe what a customer should see and what happens when they click the button. If you already know a little code, use this to skip the boring setup work. Let anti-gravity handle the first draft across platforms, then adjust the details that matter to your brand. If you manage a small team, this

changes how you plan projects. You don't need to wait for a developer to be free before a screen gets built. You can have a rough working version ready for feedback the same day someone asks for it. And if you're running a business solo, this is one more task you don't have to outsource or learn from scratch. That's real time back in your week. Time

you can spend talking to customers instead of waiting on a build. Every time one of these updates drops, some people get excited and some get nervous. Both reactions make sense. Learning a new tool takes effort, and it's fair to feel behind sometimes, but the businesses that stay ahead aren't the ones with the most technical skill. They're the ones willing to test new tools early and figure out where they actually help. You don't need to master

anti-gravity today. You just need to try it once on something small. Try building one screen with anti-gravity this week. Just one. See what comes back. That's

how you actually learn if a tool fits your business. Not by watching one more video, but by typing one prompt and seeing what happens. None of this replaces knowing your own business. Anti-gravity can hand you four working screens, but it can't tell you what your customer actually needs to see when they land on your app. That part is still on you. The tool speeds up the building. It

doesn't do the thinking about why you're building it in the first place. What I keep coming back to is how small the starting point is. Now, one sentence used to get you nothing. Now, one sentence gets you four working drafts you can actually test. That gap used to take a whole team and a whole budget of time to close. Today, it takes a few

minutes and a clear idea of what you want. So, don't wait for the next update to feel ready. Open anti-gravity. Describe one screen your business actually needs and see what comes back. That one small test tells you more about where this is headed than any video ever will. There's also a mindset shift

buried in here that's easy to miss. When building was slow, you thought carefully before you started because starting was expensive. Now that starting is cheap and fast, the smarter move is to build the rough version first and think while you're looking at it. You learn more from a working screen on your phone than you do from a plan in your notes. I'd also pay attention to how fast these updates are stacking. First, it was one

language at a time. Then it was AI helping inside your code editor. Now it's four platforms from one sentence tested automatically before it reaches you. Each jump made the last one look small. There's no reason to think that pattern stops here. If you've been

putting off building something for your business because it felt technical or out of reach, this is the update that closes that gap. You don't need to know what Swift UI or Jetack Compose even stand for. You just need one clear sentence about what you want your customer to see and a few minutes to try it out. If you want to sit down and build this out step by step, that's what we do inside the AI profit boardroom. We've got members using anti-gravity right now to build member login pages, booking forms, and simple business tools for their own companies. four weekly

coaching calls where you can bring your exact screen idea and get help live. Daily tutorials that walk you through tools like this one as they update, a 30-day road map built around using AI automation to save time and get more customers. A prompt library with readytouse prompts for tools like anti-gravity and a member map so you can find other business owners near you building the same kind of thing. Link in the comments and description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com.

And if you want the full process, the SOPs, and over a 100 AI use cases like this one, join the AI success lab. It's free. Link in the comments and description. You'll get the notes from this video, plus access to a community, people using AI to get real work done every day. Today's topic is huge for SEO. Google just dropped a new AI model

called Gemini 3.7 Flash, and they put it inside a tool called Google Anti-gravity. If you do SEO or you run a website or you build landing pages, this matters to you. Let me explain why. First, let's talk about what happened.

On August 13th, 2026, Google released Gemini 3.7 Flash. This came out just 3 weeks after the last model, Gemini 3.6 Flash. Google calls this new model its most intelligent workhorse model yet for coding and for agents. That means it's

built to do real work, not just chat. Real work. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Now, here's

the part that matters most for SEO. This new model isn't just sitting in a chat box. Google put it inside anti-gravity. Anti-gravity is what Google calls an agentic development platform. In simple words, that means the AI can actually work on your website. It can write code.

It can test it. It can fix errors. It can check the result in a browser all by itself. Think about what that means for SEO. Your website speed matters for rankings. Your site structure matters

for rankings. Your user experience matters for rankings. And now you have an AI that can go into your website, find the problems, and fix them. That's not a small deal. That's a big deal.

Let's talk numbers for a second because the numbers show real improvement. Google tested this new model on coding tasks. On a test called Frontier Code, the old model scored 34.4%. The new model scored 43.6%.

On another test called Deepswe, the old model scored 49%. The new model scored 65.3%. That's a huge jump in just 3 weeks. Google says these gains show up in fixing bugs, solving real issues, and writing code that works the first time.

Here's an open loop for you. I'm going to show you exactly how this connects to a real SEO task later in this video. So, keep watching. Let's talk about web design because this is where it gets exciting for SEO. Google says this new model builds better, more complete websites in fewer prompts. They also

tested it on something called WebDev Arena. The old model scored 1538. The new model scored 1588. Google also says the model is better at copying a design from a screenshot or an image. So you could show it a landing page design and it can build that page for you. Let me

give you a real example. Say you want a new landing page for a business. You could type this prompt, design a landing page for the AI profit boardroom that converts visitors into leads. Show the value of AI automation clearly. Explain the benefits of the community. Make it

simple, fast, and mobile friendly. The AI agent inside Anti-Gravity can plan that page, build that page, test that page, and check it in a browser. That's the kind of workflow SEO agencies dream about. Now, let's talk about the agent side because this is honestly the best part. Google says Gemini 3.7 Flash

thinks more carefully. It plans better across many steps. It uses tools better. It adapts when it hits a problem. It follows instructions more closely and it needs less help from you. Picture this

workflow. The agent gets a task. It plans the task. It edits the files. It runs the code. It tests the code. If

there's an error, it doesn't stop. It adapts. It fixes the error. Then it checks the final result. This is exactly the kind of process you need for fixing a slow website, cleaning up broken links, or building a new page that's ready to rank. And one more thing, if

you're creating all this content with new AI tools, but nobody's finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. If you want more leads and more traffic, my team can help you rank higher on Google. Check the link in the comments and description to book a free SEO strategy session and let us handle your SEO while you focus on growing your business. We'll get on a call, look at your website, and show you a clear plan to get more traffic. Just

click the link below. Okay, let's keep going because there's more you need to know. This update isn't just about code. Google also tested it on knowledge work. On a test called GDP.pdf,

the old model scored 22%. The new model scored 34%. On a test called Automation Bench, which measures real business workflow tasks, the old model scored 17%, the new model scored 30.4%. That's almost double. Why does that matter for

SEO? Because SEO isn't just about code. It's about research. It's about content. It's about workflows. An AI that's

better at handling documents and business tasks can help with keyword research, content briefs, and reporting. That's real time saved for anyone running SEO for their business. Let's go back to anti-gravity for a second because I want you to understand the full picture. Anti-gravity isn't just one tool. It has four main parts.

There's anti-gravity 2.0 which is like a command center where you manage many AI agents at once. There's the anti-gravity CLI which lets you run agents right from your terminal. There's the anti-gravity SDK which lets developers build their own custom agents. And there's the anti-gravity IDE, a full coding environment with an agent manager built in. So, when Google puts a smarter model

like 3.7 Flash inside all of this, it's not just a smarter chatbot, it's a smarter brain inside a system built for agents to actually do the work. Here's another open loop for you. Google also showed something wild at their event this year. Stick around because I'm going to tell you what that was and why it matters even more with this new update. At Google IO 2026, Google

introduced anti-gravity 2.0 as a full desktop app. Along with it, they showed off the CLI, the SDK, agent API access, and a bunch of new features. Things like sub agents, which are smaller agents that help the main agent, scheduled tasks, so agents can run on their own on a schedule, hooks, projects, work trees, and even voice transcription. Let's bring this back to SEO one more time, because that's why you're here. Imagine

using an agent like this to audit a real website. You could give it a prompt like this. Audit this website. Find the biggest problems hurting the user experience and page speed. fix the highest impact issues, test the changes, confirm everything works in the browser.

That's not a fantasy. That's the exact kind of task Google says this model is built for. Or think about content. Say you're building out content and pages for something like the AI profit boardroom community. You could ask the agent to build a resource page, structure it cleanly, add clear headings, and make sure it loads fast on mobile. The agent plans it, builds it,

and checks it. You review the final result. This is where SEO is heading. Less time spent on manual fixes, more time spent on strategy. But I want to be honest with you here too. We are not at

a point where you hand an AI your entire website and walk away. You still need to check the work. You still need strategy. You still need to understand your audience. AI can speed up the process.

It can't replace the strategy behind good SEO. If you want to try this yourself, here's what to do. Update or download anti-gravity. Select Gemini 3.7 Flash inside it. Give it a real task,

something small at first. Let it plan. Watch how it handles the work. Check the model selector in your version because these tools update fast and the exact steps can change. And that brings me to my last point. All the AI tools in the

world won't help you if your site isn't set up to be found on Google. You can build the fastest, cleanest website using tools like this, but if it's not optimized the right way, it still won't show up in search. That's the missing piece for so many businesses right now. If you're completely new to SEO and want to build a solid foundation alongside these AI tools, we've got you covered. things like how content strategy works, how to approach link building, and what a good keyword actually looks like.

We've got a free SEO course in the description with over 260 lessons. It covers everything you need to get started. Go check that out, too. The link is below. If you want to go deeper and learn alongside other people doing this every day, come join the AI Profit Boardroom. It's a community built around

using AI to grow a real business, share what's working, and learn together as these tools keep changing. You'll find the link for that in the description, too. And if you want help with your own website, my team at Goldie Agency can help you rank higher on Google, get more traffic, and get more leads coming to your site. Check the link in the comments and description to book a free SEO strategy session. We'll look at your site, find the gaps, and show you a clear plan to fix them. Thanks for

watching this one all the way through. Julian Goldie reads every single comment, so drop your thoughts below. Let me know if you're going to try Gemini 3.7 Flash inside anti-gravity and what you'd build with it first. I'll see you in the next video. Google just

dropped anti-gravity 2.10.0 and this one is genuinely different. I'm going to walk you through exactly what changed, why it matters, and how you can use it right now. Especially if you're running a business and want AI doing more of the heavy lifting for you. Let's

get into it. So, here's the thing about building with AI tools. You be anti-gravity. The AI writes some code and then what? You jump to a terminal to run it. Then jump to a Git app to check

what changed. Then back to anti-gravity to fix something. Then back to the terminal. then back to gear every single time. That back and forth doesn't sound like a big deal until you're doing it 30 times a day. And when you're running a

business, every time you switch apps, you lose momentum. You lose focus. And the whole point of using AI to build faster starts to fall apart. Google just fixed that in one update. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Anti-gravity 2.10.0 ships with a built-in terminal and native Git.

That means your AI agent can now write the code. You can run it to test it, check exactly what changed, stage the files, write the commit message, and push it all without leaving anti-gravity once. One workspace, one agent, one workflow. Here's how it actually works in practice. And I'm going to use a real example the whole way through.

Everything I show you today is built around the AI profit boardroom, our community of business owners using AI automation to grow faster because that's the most useful way to show you this with something real. Say you want to build a member acquisition dashboard for the AI profit boardroom. Something that tracks where your new members are coming from, which content is driving the most signups, and when to follow up with people who showed interest but haven't joined yet. You open anti-gravity. You type build a member acquisition dashboard for the AI profit boardroom.

track lead name, source, content piece they came from, interest level, and follow-up date. The agent gets to work. It creates the files, writes the logic, sets up the data structure, handles the styling. You watch it happen in real time. Before this update, you'd then open a separate terminal to run it.

You'd open a git client to see what changed. It's a whole process. Now, hit control plus backtick on Windows or command plus backtick on Mac. The terminal opens right inside anti-gravity. You type npm rundev. The

dashboard loads. You type npm test. Everything passes. Then you click over to the review panel. Built-in git. You

see every file the agent touched. You see exactly what changed line by line. You stage the ones you want. The agent drafts the commit message. You push done. Idea to deployed without leaving

the app once. And here's what I want you to understand about why this is a bigger deal than it might look. When AI can own the full loop, write the code, run it, show you what changed, prepare the commit, your role shifts completely. You stop being someone jumping between five tools. you become the person reviewing what the AI built and deciding whether to ship it. That's a completely

different job and it's a much better one. Look, if you want to learn how to use tools like anti-gravity to build real business workflows like the one I just showed you, the AI profit boardroom is where that's happening. We've got step-by-step tutorials walking you through how to use AI agents to build internal tools, automate your outreach, and save hours every single week. There are four live coaching calls every week where members bring their actual setups. We look at them together and we help you figure out exactly how to make anti-gravity work for your specific business. We've got a 30-day roadmap

built around using AI automation to get more customers, a prompt library full of anti-gravity specific prompts and over 3,700 business owners in there right now building this kind of stuff. A lot of them are working on the exact same workflows I'm showing you today. If you want in, link is in the description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. Now, let me walk you through the other things that landed in this update because there's more worth knowing.

Audio attachments. Anti-gravity now supports audio files up to 20 megabytes. MP3, WAV, M4A, AAC, O GG, FLAC, Opus. What does this look like in practice? You record a quick voice note explaining what you want built for the AI profit boardroom. something like, "I want a

page that explains the four coaching calls, the daily tutorials, and the 30-day road map in a way that makes it really easy for someone to understand the value fast. You attach it. The agent listens and builds it. No typing along brief, just talk." Interactive image commenting. You can now drop a

screenshot into anti-gravity, select a specific region, and leave a comment right on that part of the image. So, if you're looking at the AI profit boardroom landing page and the section explaining the community benefits isn't landing right, you select that part and write, "Rewrite this to speak directly to business owners who want to save time and get more customers with AI." The agent sees exactly what you mean. No guessing. Better MCP and tool previews.

When the agent uses external tools or connects to other services, you now get a much cleaner view of what it's actually doing. Structured headers, expandable arguments, formatted results. You can follow along with the agents decisions in a way that was much harder before. Git performance is faster, too, especially on larger projects. More responsive, less background CPU usage.

If you're building anything complex, you'll notice it. Now, let me run through a full workflow so this all clicks together. The AI Profit Boardroom member on boarding tracker. This is something our members actually build. an internal tool that shows where each new member is in the onboarding process, what steps they've completed, what's still outstanding, and when to check in with them. You open anti-gravity. You

prompt build an onboarding tracker for AI profit boardroom members. Include their name, join date, onboarding steps completed, current status, and next follow-up date. Make it easy to filter by status. The agent builds it. Multiple files, front-end components, data logic, styling, the works. You open the

terminal, run mpm rundev. The tracker loads. You add a few test members. The status filter isn't sorting correctly. You go back to anti-gravity and type.

The status filter isn't ordering correctly. Members marked as behind should show at the top. Find the issue and fix it. The agent finds it. One line in one file. It fixes it. You open the

review panel. You see exactly what changed. You stage it. You commit with the agents generated message. You push.

That whole thing happened inside one app. No switching. No losing your place, no friction. Here's the open loop I want you to think about as we keep going. Anti-gravity isn't just getting better at writing code. It's getting better at

owning the entire build cycle. And each update closes the gap between AI helps you code and AI handles the whole process. That gap is shrinking fast. If you use AI to build internal tools, automations, landing pages, or anything else for your business, this update changes your day-to-day workflow in a real way. Before you go, two things.

First, if you want to go hands-on with anti-gravity and actually build workflows like the ones I showed you today, tools that help you track members, convert more leads, and automate the parts of your business that are eating your time, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. We've got a full 30-day road map built specifically around using AI agents like Anti-Gravity to build business tools from the ground up, even if you've never written a line of code in your life. Four live coaching calls every week where we go deep on setups like this. You bring your workflow, we look at it together, and you leave with a clear next step. Daily tutorials, a prompt library packed with anti-gravity specific prompts for business owners, a member map so you can connect with people near you who are building the same kind of stuff, and over 3,700 members already in there.

Many of them working on the exact workflows I showed you today. Link in the description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com. And second, if you want the full process, SOPs, and over 100 AI use cases like the ones from this video, join the AI success lab. It's free. You'll get

all the notes from this video in there, plus access to a community of 75,000 people using AI to grow their businesses right now. Links in the comments and the description. That's it for this one. If it was useful, hit subscribe. More every week. Let me start with something

Google's own team did. They opened anti-gravity 2.0, zero typed one prompt and asked their agents to build an operating system from scratch, not a to-do app. A real operating system with a kernel, memory management, a file system, video drivers, keyboard drivers. It worked. They played Doom on it. Here

are the numbers from Google's own blog post. It took 93 sub agents, 15,314 model calls, over 339 million input tokens going in, all from a single prompt running on Gemini 3.5 Flash. And Google noted that their older model, Gemini 3.1 Pro, could not do this at all. One prompt, 93 agents, a working

operating system. Now, here's the part that matters for you, because you're probably not building an operating system this week. Google said something in that same post that most people skipped right over. They said they didn't use a secret internal version of the product. They used the same building blocks that are sitting inside anti-gravity 2.0 right now. Sub agents,

scheduled tasks, hooks, projects, the exact same pieces you have on your machine today. That's the whole idea behind an agent OS. You stop treating anti-gravity like a chatbox and you start treating it like an operating system for your work. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Most

people who opened anti-gravity 2.0 hated it at first. I've seen the comments. One of our members, Alan, posted about it in the community and warned everyone that it's a major change from the old version. Google pulled the Visual Studio Code style editor and the terminal out of the main app. Another member, Gaz,

just said flat out he didn't like 2.0. Jason came over from Visual Studio Code and said he still needs an editor while he adjusts. They're right about what changed. Anti-gravity 2.0 launched on

May 19th, 2026 at Google I/O. It's a standalone desktop app for Mac, Windows, and Linux. There's no code editor inside it. You open it, and you get a chat window with an agent. So, people open it, see an empty box, and think, "This is worse." It's not worse. It's empty.

Big difference. and an empty app that can run 93 agents at once is the most useful thing on your computer once you fill it in. That's what I want to walk you through. The seven pieces that turn this empty chat box into an agent OS that actually knows your business. And the last one is the piece Google used to stop their agents from faking their work, which I think is the smartest trick in the whole thing. Let's start

with the first piece because it's the one nobody sets up and it changes everything. Projects. In the old version, your agent was locked to one code folder. Google removed that. In 2.0, your conversations are grouped into

projects. And a project can point at multiple folders. It gets its own settings, its own permissions. So, you can build a project called content that sees your notes folder, your brand folder, and your website folder all at once. That one change is why non-coders can use this. Now, your project can just

be a folder of word docs and spreadsheets. Piece two, memory. This is the one I get asked about the most. Dan posted in our community and said something sharp. He said, "If the system doesn't understand your business, the problem isn't the tool. It's that nobody

taught the system how the business actually works." He's completely right. Anti-gravity reads rules files from your project. It's been reading agents.m MD files since March. So, you write a plain

text file that explains who you are, what you sell, who your customers are, how you talk, what you never say. Then, every agent in that project starts with that in its head. Most people are prompting a stranger every single morning. You're prompting someone who read your whole file first. I keep mine in Obsidian because the files stay on my machine and I own them. Julian asked me

last week whether he should use Notebook LM instead. Notebook LM is great for turning notes into podcasts and videos for memory that plugs into agents plain local files win every time. Quick example, my memory file tells the agent that the boardroom runs four coaching calls a week. So when I ask for a landing page, it never invents features we don't have. Piece three, skills.

Google added agent skills back in January, and they're now a core part of how this works. A skill is a folder with instructions in it. You write down your process once, and the agent can call it whenever it's needed. Google even shipped a built-in one in June called the anti-gravity guide. So, if you ask the agent how anti-gravity works, it reads its own manual instead of guessing. Think about what that means.

Every process you've ever explained to a person twice, three times, 10 times becomes a file you write once. Example, I've got a skill that writes SEO blog posts about AI automation for the boardroom in our exact format with our exact structure every time. Now, let me pause here for one second because this is the part where people usually message me. If you want the actual agent OS I've built on top of all of this, you can grab it inside the I profit boardroom. It's a zip file. You download it, drop

it in, and it installs. memory system skills, the SEO setup, the goals board, the journal, the camb board, the notebook, the studio. All of it pre-built for anti-gravity so you don't spend 3 weeks figuring out folder structures. Plus, four coaching calls a week where we walk through anti-gravity agent setups live, daily tutorials showing you how to automate real jobs in your business with it and a 30-day road map so you know exactly what to build in what order. Link in the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com.

Grab the zip, install it, and you'll be running agents tonight. Okay, piece four. And this is where it stops being a chat app. Scheduled tasks. Anti-gravity 2.0 added crrons. You type / schedule

and you tell an agent to run on a timer once tomorrow at 9 or every morning or every Monday. Google's line about it was simple that you no longer need to manually invoke every agent. Read that as your agents work when you're not there. That is the actual difference between using AI and having AI work for you. Most people sit down, open a chat, type something, wait, copy the answer, close the laptop. Nothing runs while

they sleep. With scheduled tasks, you set it up once and it just happens. So, where do you actually start? Day one, build your memory file. Who you are, what you sell, who you serve, how you talk, half a page beats nothing. Day

two, build one project and point it at the folders that matter. Day three, write one skill for the job you do most often. Day four, schedule it. That's your agent OS. 4 days, 1 hour a day. And

Connor asked a great question this week. He's new to all of this and wanted to know what to avoid early on. Simple. Don't try to build the whole thing at once. One automation a week. The people

who get stuck are always the people trying to do 10 things on day one. Look at where this is going. In November 2025, this was a code editor with AI bolted on. By May 2026, it's a standalone app that runs agent teams. In July, it's shipping updates every couple of weeks and testing brand new models in public. Google's already said, "What's

next, too?" Remote control cloud agents. You don't have to keep your laptop awake for more integrations. The gap is opening up. On one side, people typing questions into a chat box one at a time.

On the other, people with a system that runs while they're at dinner. If you want to be on the right side of that, come get the agent OS inside the AI profit boardroom. It's the full zip file ready to install into anti-gravity with the memory system, the skills, the SEO setup, the goals board, and the camb board already built. You'll also get four coaching calls every week where we go deep on anti-gravity agent setups. And you can ask about your own build live, daily step-by-step tutorials on automating real jobs like content, follow-ups, and lead capture with these agents. A 30-day road map so you know

exactly what to build first. a prompt library made for agent workflows and 2,800 business owners doing this with you right now. There's a member map, too, so you can find people near you and actually meet them. Link in the comments and description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com.

And if you just want the notes from this OnePlus over 100 AI use cases, join the AI success lab. It's free. All the video notes are in there, plus 75,000 members sharing what's working. Links in the comments and description. Google's agents built an operating system from one prompt. The same pieces are on your

desk tonight. Go set them up. Thanks for watching. See you on the next one. What if one command could hire an entire team for you? Not one AI helper, a whole

team, a planner, builders, even a quality checker, all working at the same time in the background. Google just made this real and almost nobody is talking about it. Miss one and you'll be working 10 times slower than everyone else. Hey, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help people learn AI tools and actually use them in their work. In this video, I'm going to show you the brand new agent teams update inside Google's anti-gravity, how I run it inside agent OS, and a real build I spun up with one single command. And stick around because

near the end, I'll share the one tip that stops your agent team from breaking halfway through a task. Let's get into it. So, here's the big news. Anti-gravity just dropped a new update called agent teams. With one command, it spins up a dynamic team of specialized sub aents. They coordinate in the

background to plan, build, and verify complex tasks. And the best part, they work in parallel. That means multiple agents building different parts of your project at the exact same time instead of one agent doing everything step by step. But let's back up for a second. What actually is anti-gravity?

Anti-gravity is Google's AI coding tool. It's their agent first platform for building software. Instead of just suggesting code while you type, it gives AI agents real autonomy to go off and complete whole tasks for you. And now there's an anti-gravity CLI2, which is a command line version. That's the piece I've plugged directly into agent OS, which I'll show you in a minute. So

anti-gravity is the engine. Agent Teams is the new superpower sitting on top of it. Okay, so what is agent teams exactly? Until now, when you used anti-gravity, you basically had one worker, one brilliant worker, sure, but still just one. Now, when you type the command forward/teamwork preview, anti-gravity stops being a single worker and becomes a hiring manager. It reads

your task. It figures out which specialist the job needs. It writes out what each one owns and it maps out how they hand work to each other. Then it spins that team up for real and they all get to work at once. I call this the cue of one problem. Imagine running a

business with a single employee, brilliant person, but still just one. They plan the project, then they build the first part, then the second part, then they check it. one thing at a time in a line. Double the tasks and you double the weight. And who splits the work into pieces? Who writes each job

description? Who remembers to check the result before it ships? You do. Every project every single time. That's what working with one AI agent feels like.

The model is smart, but the project management never stops being your job. Agent Teams breaks that cycle. One command hires a team, briefs the team, and runs the team. So, how does it actually work? It's a three-step flow.

Step one, one command. You type forward/teamwork hyphen preview and describe what you want built. Step two, one approval. The coordinator reads your task and drafts what I call a team sheet. It's a full plan saved as a markdown file. It shows which

specialists it wants to hire, what each agent is responsible for, and how the handoffs work. You read it and you just say go. You can even preapprove it if you trust the setup. Step three, parallel work. The team spins up. A

planner designs the approach. Builders work on different pieces at the same time. and a verifier checks everything before it comes back to you. That verifier piece is huge, by the way. With a solo agent, quality control only happens if you remember to ask for it.

With agent teams, checking the work is literally someone's whole job. Here's a real example of how I use this. I ran teamwork preview for an SEO blog build, the kind of content we use to bring more of the right people into the AI profit boardroom. I typed one command and the coordinator came back with a full team sheet. It hired an SEO architect to plan the structure, a NexJS developer to build the page, an SEO ops agent to handle the on-page work, and a lighthouse QA agent to check quality at the end. I approved the plan, and the

whole thing started building at once. That's content designed to pull people into the AI profit boardroom planned and built by a full agent team from a single command. Now, here's the part I really want to emphasize. I'm not running this in a plain terminal. I'm running anti-gravity inside agent OS. We plug

the anti-gravity CLI straight into Agent OS. So, I get the same engine but inside a proper workspace. And honestly, this changes everything about how it feels to use. Inside Agent OS, I have an anti-gravity tab ready to go. I type my teamwork preview command right there in the chat. The team sheet gets created as

a markdown file inside my workspace. Then I can run the whole sprint live in the dashboard and actually watch it happen. I can see the coordinator, the planner, the builders, and the verifier. And I can switch between the sub agents to see what each one is doing. Why does this matter? because everything gets

saved in one place, the plan, the files, the whole build. It all lives inside my workspace. So, I can close it, come back tomorrow, and pick up exactly where I left off. And because it runs in the background, I can have a full agent team building something while I'm doing other work in another tab. Compare that to a raw terminal where things scroll past and disappear. I know a lot of people

haven't loved the new CLI experience on its own. That's exactly why we built it into Agent OS. We wanted to customize the look, the feel, and the whole workflow around it. Same power, way better experience. Quick note here because people ask me about this all the time. Inside the AI profit boardroom,

you can get the full agent OS zip file ready to install with anti-gravity already plugged in. So, you're not setting any of this up from scratch. And we built out a complete 30-day road map here as use cases, so you know exactly what to build in week 1, week 2, and beyond. Plus, there are full anti-gravity master classes inside the classroom, and I answer questions inside the community every single day with a video. If you're watching this and thinking, I want to run agent teams like this, that's literally what the AI profit boardroom is set up to help you do around this exact tool. Right, let me

show you another build I ran so you can see the setup steps from scratch. First, make sure you have the anti-gravity CLI installed or grab agent OS with it already plugged in. Then, run the update command in your terminal, which is agy update. So, you're on the latest version with agent teams available. Then, inside anti-gravity, you just run forward/teamwork preview and describe the task. That's genuinely it. There's

no complicated setup, no writing separate RO prompts for each agent, no wiring things together by hand. The coordinator handles all of that for you. For this test, I typed teamwork preview and asked it to draft a team for a new blog about a Hermes agent and AI automation. This is content we create to teach what we build inside the AI profit boardroom. Straight away, it started assembling the team. It came back with a

Hermes tech specialist, a content lead, an SEO ops agent, and a sandbox agent for quality control. Then it mapped out the full project plan and I could open the dashboard and watch the team work through the tasks together. The files all get saved locally in the workspace. So everything from that build now lives inside agent OS where I can reuse it. Now who can actually use this? Here's

the thing. You do not need to be technical. I know multi- aent systems sound like something only developers touch. But the whole point of this update is that the hard part is automated. You type one command. You

read a plan in plain English. You say go. That's the entire skill requirement. If you can describe what you want built, you can run an agent team. It's great for building apps, websites, games, tools, content systems, whatever you're working on. And yes, it's still a

preview feature, so it's early and Google is still improving it. Some people say that means you should wait. I'd say the opposite. The people who start building with this now are going to be way ahead. The people who wait are going to be catching up. Before we wrap,

here are my top tips. Tip one, always read the team sheet before you approve it. It takes 30 seconds, and it's your one chance to steer the whole build. If the coordinator hired the wrong specialist, fix it there, not after the build. Tip two, and this is the one I promised you at the start, agent teams runs on your local machine, so keep your computer awake while the team is working. If your machine goes to sleep

mid task, so does your team. Tip three, if a team ever stops partway through, don't panic and don't start over. Just tell it to continue and it picks up right where it left off. Tip four, start with a small, clear task for your first run. Once you see how the coordinator thinks, you'll write much better task descriptions for the big builds. And tip

five, save your team sheets. They're markdown files so you can reuse a good team structure again and again for similar projects. If you want the full process, SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI success lab. Links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And you can get the full agent OS

zip file ready to install. And we built out a complete 30-day road map here as use cases. And if you're about to try agent teams yourself, here's what's going to happen. Your first team sheet will look amazing. Then you'll hit a weird moment. Maybe the coordinator

picks specialists you didn't expect. Maybe a build stalls and you're not sure whether to restart or continue. Maybe you want to run this inside agent OS, but you're stuck on setup. That's exactly where the AI profit boardroom helps you move faster. You can get the full Agent OS zip file ready to install with anti-gravity built in. And we built

out a complete 30-day road map here as use cases. Plus, you get the anti-gravity master classes, the prompts, and four weekly coaching calls where you can share your screen and get unstuck in real time. There's even a map to meet people near you who are building with AI agents, too. Over 4,000 members are already inside. Come join us at aiprofit boardroom.com. What if the best

agent setup right now is one you already ignored? Google just upgraded it again. A brand new model, less waste, more done, and most people still have the old version installed. Why is nobody talking about this? Let me show you. I'm the

digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help you learn AI tools and actually use them in your real work. Today I'm breaking down anti-gravity 2.0, the new Gemini 3.6 flash model, and how I ran the whole thing through agent OS. And stick with me because later in this video, I'll show you the exact prompt I gave it where one instruction turned into five agents splitting a single job between them. You want to steal that

structure. So, let's start at the beginning. What is anti-gravity? It's Google's agent platform. It started in November 2025 as an IDE, a code editor with agents built in. Then in May 2026

at Google IO, Google launched Anti-gravity 2.0. And that's a completely different thing. It's a standalone desktop app for Mac, Windows, and Linux. There is no code editor inside it. You talk to agents, watch

what they produce, and give feedback on the work. And Google was clear about why. They expected coding to expand into knowledge work. And once that happens, wrapping everything inside a code editor is daunting for anyone who doesn't write code. So they stripped the editor out and rebuilt the whole thing agent first from the ground up. The agents got

stronger, too. The main agent can now create its own sub agents for smaller jobs running in parallel without clogging up its own context window. Tasks can run in the background instead of blocking everything. And you can put agents on a schedule so they run without you opening the app. Then on July 21st, 2026, Google put Gemini 3.6 Flash inside

it. Google calls 3.6 Flash their workhorse model. Better coding, better knowledge work, better multimodal, which just means images and documents alongside text. On the artificial analysis index, it uses 17% fewer output tokens than 3.5 flash. Tokens are the

chunks of text a model reads and writes, so that's less waste. It also takes fewer reasoning steps and fewer tool calls to finish multi-step jobs. Now, here's the piece most people skip. The model is only half of it. The other half is memory. Inside agent OS, every prompt

gets saved into Obsidian memory. Obsidian sits underneath as a shared memory layer across all the agents. Hermes, Codeex, Anti-gravity, OpenClaw, Claude, all of them reach into the same place. Normally, every tool starts from zero. You explain your brand voice once, then explain it again next week to something else. So shared memory kills

that. You write your voice down once and every agent in the stack works from the same page. That's the difference between using AI tools and owning a system. And that's exactly what we built the AI profit boardroom around. Agent OS lives inside the boardroom. So you're not

stitching this together on your own. You get the anti-gravity walkthroughs so you can watch the setup instead of guessing at it. You get live coaching calls where you bring your own prompt, your own project, your own broken workflow, and we work through it together. There's a 30-day road map so you know what to build first instead of collecting tools you never open. And you get the prompt library, including the multi- aent prompt structures I use inside Agent OS.

If you're watching this thinking you'd like someone to walk you through your first anti-gravity run, that's the room. Okay, back to the tool. A few more things worth knowing about 2.0. Agents used to be tied to one repository. Now

they're grouped into projects and a project can cover several folders with its own settings and permissions. There are JS N hooks which let you intercept and control what the agent does and the microphone does live transcription as you speak now instead of sending your audio file off to the model. Google also publish real numbers on 3.6 flash. On coding, it gives higher precision with fewer unwanted code edits and fewer execution loops. On the Deepsw SWE

benchmark, it scored 49% up from 37. On computer use, tested with OS World Verified, 83% up from 78.4. Why does that matter? Because Agents Loop, they try, check, fix, try again.

Cut the loops and everything gets faster. Google showed a demo I liked. Using the anti-gravity SDK, they simulated multiple users creating content at the same time inside an offline first markdown editor running on 3.6 Flash. That's several agents working on the same thing and staying in sync.

So, how do you install this thing? Go to anti-gravity.google/d download. Pick your operating system. Mac has Apple Silicon and Intel builds, and you need at least Mac OS12 Mterrey.

Windows has x64 and ARM64 and you need Windows 10 64bit. Linux has both builds too. If you already have the old anti-gravity IDE, here's where people trip up. When it next updates, it becomes anti-gravity 2.0 automatically and it will ask if you want to keep the IDE as well. If you write code, keep it.

The two apps sit in your dock with different icons. Right? The thing I promised you, I ran anti-gravity inside agent OS and gave it one prompt. Build a complete welcome email series for new AI profit boardroom members. Five emails, friendly tone, introduce the community slowly, explain how to access tutorials, mention the coaching calls, and end every single email with a question. Then

I told it to split the work between a planner, a writer, a reviewer, a critic, and an auditor. That last line is the whole trick. You're not asking for emails. You're asking for a team. So, watch what that does. The planner takes

those requirements and decides the shape first. Which email introduces what and how the community gets revealed across the sequence instead of dumped in email one. The writer only writes once that map exists. The reviewer checks the draft back against the original brief. So, the tutorials line and the coaching calls line actually made it in. The

critic pushes on the writing itself, tone, and flow. The auditor catches what everyone else missed. Like an email quietly ending without his question. You end up with a sequence that builds instead of five emails that each try to say everything. And every prompt from that run lands in Obsidian. So the next

time I build a series, the agents already know the voice. Now, pro tips for beginners. Tip one, learn the slash commands first. /rilme makes the agent ask you questions before it builds. Slashgo makes it run until the task is finished. SLC schedule sets up a

repeating run. and slash browser tells it to actually use the browser because agents were bad at deciding that alone. Tip two, start with slashgrill, not slashgo. Most bad output is really a bad brief. Tip three, name the roles in your prompt like I just did. Anti-gravity

spins up sub aents on its own, so give it the shape you want. Vague prompts get one generic agent. Tip four, feed your memory layer on purpose. That obsidian layer is only as good as what you put in it. Drop your brand voice, your offers, and your formats in once, and every agent stops guessing. Tip five, turn on

scheduled tasks for anything repetitive. Weekly reports, Monday content prep, anything on autopilot should be running on a timer. Tip six, don't leave the model on default. Pick 3.6 Flash for your agent work. One last thing, 3.6.

Flash isn't only in anti-gravity. It's also in Google AI Studio, Android Studio, and the Gemini app. So, this skill travels with you. And Google already said, "What's next?" Gemini 3.5

Pro is testing with partners, and they've started their biggest pre-training run so far for Gemini 4. If you want the full process, SOPS, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI success lab. Links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And here's my honest warning before you go. Try this.

Your first run probably won't go how you expect. You'll write a prompt that's too vague and watch one agent try to do all five jobs. You'll point a project at the wrong folders and wonder why the agent can't see your files. You'll build a scheduled task and realize later it's been running on the wrong instructions. It's not a you problem at all. It's a

setup problem. That's what we work through inside the AI profit boardroom with agent OS already built in and ready to go. Live coaching calls where you screen, share your actual setup, step-by-step tutorials for the slash commands, sub aents, and scheduled tasks. A road map that tells you what to automate first so you're not staring at a blank prompt box. And ready to run multi-agent prompts you can paste in today and edit for your own work. Come

join us at apiprofitboardroom.com. Google put out a free tool called anti-gravity. It's a coding environment, but that's underelling it. It runs AI agents that do work on their own. You

give it a job. It plans. It opens a browser. It clicks. It writes, it comes back and shows you what it did. And on

top of that, I built something called agent OS. It's a dashboard that runs on my laptop. I call it mission control. It sits above everything and tells my agents what to do, keeps track of what's running, and shows me the results in one place. Put those two together, and your laptop turns into a small team that works while you're doing something else.

Let me show you what that actually looks like. Google shipped anti-gravity in November 2025. It's built on top of VS Code. So, if you've ever seen a code editor, it looks familiar, but the part that matters is the second view. They call it the manager. It's a screen where you see

all your agents at once. Not one chat window. A whole board of them. Each agent gets its own workspace. You can run several at the same time. One

writes, one researches, one tests. They don't step on each other. Hey, if we have not met already, I am the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of Goldie Agency. While he is out there helping clients grow, I am here keeping you up to date on everything AI. Julian reads every comment, so drop one below and he will see it. Here's the thing that got

me. Anti-gravity gives the agents real tools, not just text. It gets an editor, a terminal, and a browser. So, the agent can actually go to a website, click things, fill in a form, take a screenshot, and report back. I asked it to check the AI profit boardroom signup page on a phone screen and tell me what looked broken. It opened a browser,

shrank the window, walked through the page, and sent me screenshots with notes. That's the difference. Most AI tools tell you what to do. This one goes and does it. Now, the browser part is real, and Google is careful about it.

Anti-gravity uses a Chrome extension to control your browser. Google's own docs say the agent can only act on tabs you've allowed. You approve it. It doesn't just grab your whole browser. Another thing they built in, artifacts.

Instead of the agent dumping a wall of text at you, it produces things you can actually check. a task list, a plan, a screen recording of what it did. Google calls these artifacts and honestly, it's the smartest part of the whole product. Because the old problem with agents was trust. The agent says, "Done." You have

no idea what happened. Now you get a recording. You watch it click through your page. You see the result with your own eyes. You can also leave comments right on the plan like you're marking up a Google doc. Agent writes a five-step

plan. You read step three and go, "No, not like that." You highlight it, type a comment, and the agent adjusts. You don't restart the whole thing. And when the agent learns something, it saves it.

Anti-gravity has a knowledge base. If you correct it once, it remembers. Next time, it doesn't make the same mistake. Quick pause here because this is the part people ask me about most. If you want this exact agent OS setup, it's inside the AI profit boardroom, not a tutorial telling you to go build it. The

actual zip file. You download it, install it, and it runs on your laptop. We walk you through connecting it to anti-gravity, setting up your first agents, and getting the whole thing live. Plus four coaching calls a week where you can bring your own setup and we'll fix it live. Daily tutorials showing new anti-gravity agent builds and 3,900 business owners in there running this stuff right now. Link in

the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. Okay, back to it. Okay, so that's anti-gravity. Free to use with generous limits on Gemini 3 Pro. Google says

there are rate limits that reset every 5 hours, so you're not going to run it flat out all day, but for real work, it's plenty. Now, here's where my Agent OS comes in, and this is the part I actually want you to see. Anti-gravity is great at running agents, but it's still a tool you open. You go to it, you start a task, you watch it. Agent OS flips that. It's a dashboard that sits

on my laptop, and runs above everything. Mission control. I open one screen and I see every agent I've got, what each one is working on, what finished overnight, and what's waiting on me. Look at this. This is the actual dashboard. Every

agent has a card. Green means running. You can see the last output from each one without opening anything. Click a card, you get the full history. I've got agents in here doing real jobs. One

watches AI news and writes me a summary every morning. One takes a topic and drafts a script outline for the boardroom content. One checks our landing pages and flags anything broken. Here's a prompt I actually run. Look at the AI Profit Boardroom homepage. Find

every spot where a new visitor would get confused about what they're joining. Give me five specific fixes. It comes back with a list and screenshots. Another one, write me 10 short posts explaining what AI automation actually does for a small business. In plain words, no jargon that runs while I'm on a call. The reason this works is it

removes the starting problem. You don't sit down and think, "What should I ask AI today?" The jobs are already set up. They run. You review. Let me show you

what these two do together because the combination is where it gets good. Anti-gravity handles the doing. It has the browser, the terminal, the editor. Agent OS handles the deciding, and the tracking. It's the layer that says, "Run this one now, that one at 6:00 a.m., and

show me all of it in one place." So, a real morning for me looks like this. I open agent OS overnight. The news agent has already pulled everything from the last 24 hours and written it up. The content agent has three outlines waiting. The site checker flagged one

page where a button doesn't work on mobile. I didn't do anything. I just read. Then, I pick what matters and push it to anti-gravity to actually execute. The button fix gets handed to an agent with browser access. It goes to the

page, finds the problem, fixes it, records itself doing it, and sends me the video. 20 minutes, no hands. Now, let's talk about what makes the agents good, because this matters more than the tools. Google published something they call the anti-gravity agent manual. It's basically instructions for how to talk to these things. And the main lesson in

it is simple. Be specific about the outcome, not the steps. Bad prompt, improve my landing page. The agent doesn't know what improve means. It'll change fonts. Good prompt. on the AI

profit boardroom landing page. A visitor who's never heard of AI automation should understand in 10 seconds what they get and why it matters. Rewrite the top section for that person. Show me before and after screenshots. Same tool, completely different result. The other

thing Google pushes in that manual is planning first. Ask for the plan before the work. Agent gives you five steps. You read them. You fix step two. Then

you say go. That one habit saves you hours because agents don't fail at doing things. They fail at doing the wrong thing very fast. Now, I want to be straight with you about the limits because there's a lot of noise about this. When anti-gravity launched, people hit problems. Rate limits kicked in

faster than expected. Some users got errors when they ran too many agents at once. Google acknowledged it and has been shipping fixes since. There were also security researchers who found issues. One reported that the agent could be tricked by instructions hidden inside a web page it visited. It's a

real category of problem with any agent that browses. Google's response was permission gates. The agent only touches tabs you approve. So, my rule, give agents work where a mistake is cheap. Research, drafts, checking pages, writing first versions. Don't hand it

your payment settings. That's not me being scared of the tech. That's just how you'd on board a new person, too. Let's talk about what you'd actually use this for because I think a lot of people watch this stuff and think it's only for coders. It isn't. Here's a non-code

example. Ask it to go through your last 30 customer emails and pull out the five questions people keep asking. Then write plain English answers for each one. That's a support page written for you. Another one. Go to these five competitor

sites and tell me what they promise on their homepage. Agent opens each one, reads, screenshots, summarizes, 20 minutes of clicking gone. None of that is coding. It's just work. And that's the shift I want you to see. The old

version of AI was you typing into a box and getting words back. You still had to go do the thing. This version goes and does the thing, then shows you the recording. Here's the part I keep coming back to. The tools are free.

Anti-gravity costs nothing to start. Gemini 3 Pro Access is included. The barrier isn't the software anymore. The barrier is knowing what to point it at. Most people open a tool like this, type something vague, get a mediocre result, and close it. Then they say AI doesn't

work. What actually happened is they didn't have a system. That's the whole reason I built agent OS. It's the system. It holds the jobs, runs them on schedule, and puts the output in front of me. And if you want the whole thing

done for you, that's what we built inside the IP profit boardroom. You get the complete agent OS as a zip file. Download it, install it, done. It's the same dashboard I just showed you running on your machine. We've got a full walkthrough on connecting it to anti-gravity, a 30-day road map for getting your first agents live and doing real work, four coaching calls every week where you can share your screen and we'll debug your setup with you. Daily

tutorials on new agent builds and a member map so you can find other people near you running the same system 3900 business owners in there right now. Someone's always online. Link in the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you want the full process, the SOPs and 100 plus AI use cases like this one. Join the AI success lab. It's free.

Links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 86,000 members who are crushing it with AI. Today, I'm breaking down what these two tools do together, why the timing matters right now, and one warning you need to hear before you try any of this yourself. Let's start simple. Anti-gravity is Google's new home for AI agents. Think of it like a control room.

You give it a job and it sends out little helpers to do parts of that job. One helper writes something, one helper checks it, one helper tests it. You watch it all happen. Almost like watching a small team work in real time. Omniroot is different. It's the traffic

cop. When anti-gravity needs an AI model to think through a task, Omniroot decides which model gets the job. If one model is busy, tired, or hits its limit, Omniroot quietly swaps in another one. You never even notice the switch happened. Put those two together and you get something wild. Anti-gravity plans

the work. Omnirroot keeps the engine running no matter what. If one AI provider slows down or stops responding, the work doesn't stop. It just moves to the next available option. A year ago, most people were stuck using just one AI tool. If that tool slowed down, you

waited. If it hit a limit, you were done for the day. Now, you can have a system that just keeps going, switching between tools in the background like nothing happened. Here's why that matters for anyone running a business, not just people who code. If you're using AI to write posts, organize leads, build pages, or answer messages, the last thing you want is a tool that stops working in the middle of your task. This

setup is built so that almost never happens. Let's talk about the newest Omniroot update because it's a big one. The latest version is March 8th, 49, released on July 30th. It connects to more than 290 different AI providers. Over 90 of those have free options, and it can tap into more than 500 different AI models total. Picture it like a phone

book, but instead of numbers, it's full of AI brains you can call on for different jobs. Need something written fast? Call one, need something double checked, call another. Omniroot keeps that whole phone book organized and ready. One of the smartest parts of this update is something called autorooting.

It looks at which AI model is healthy, how busy it is, how much it costs, and how well it's performed before. Then it picks the best one for that exact moment. You don't have to think about any of that. It just happens. There's also something called fusion routting.

This is where Omnirroot sends your question to a few different AI models at the same time, then uses another AI to combine the best parts of each answer. It's like asking three smart friends the same question, then having a fourth friend pick out the best pieces from each answer. And there's pipeline routting where one model finishes a step, then hands it off to the next model, like a relay race. One model researches, the next one builds, the next one checks the work, each one does the part it's best at. Omniroot also got smarter about saving space. It has 12

different tools now for shrinking down big chunks of text. So AI models can work faster and handle more at once. The savings can be small or big depending on the task. Somewhere between 15% and 95% less text needed. It depends on what you're feeding it. Now let's pause here

because this is exactly the kind of thing our community lives inside every single day. If you run a business and you're tired of your AI tools slowing down, hitting limits, or breaking your workflow halfway through a task, this is what we teach step by step inside the AI profit boardroom. We show you how to set up tools like omniroot and anti-gravity so your automations keep running smoothly even when one tool gets stuck. You'll see real setups other members are using to save time on customer replies, lead follow-ups, and content creation without babysitting the tools every day. It's not about learning to code. It's

about learning to connect the right pieces. so your business runs a little more on its own. Dot link is in the comments and description if you want in. All right, let's get back into it because anti-gravity just leveled up too. The newest version is 2.4.3

released July 28th. The biggest change is that you can now hand anti-gravity actual files to work with. You can give it a spreadsheet, a plain text plan, or a settings file, and it will read all three and use them together to complete a task. Picture this. You have a list of customer leads in a spreadsheet, a short plan written in plain text about what kind of follow-up message you want, and a settings file with your branding details. Anti-gravity can look at all

three, understand what you're trying to do, and help build that follow-up flow using the real information you gave it instead of guessing. Anti-gravity also got better at staying connected to outside tools without freezing up. And it added little preview windows so you can check things before they're finished. Small stuff, but it adds up to something that feels a lot more stable to actually use. There's also a command line version, anti-gravity CLI, now on version 1.1.9.

This is a more advanced way to use anti-gravity through typed commands instead of clicking around. It remembers your permission choices between sessions now, so you're not confirming the same thing over and over. And here's a genuinely exciting piece. Google added a new model called Gemini 3.6 Flash inside Anti-gravity on July 21st. Google says

it uses up to 17% fewer output tokens compared to the older Flash model. In plain English, tokens are just chunks of text the AI reads and writes. Fewer tokens for the same job means the model gets things done in a leaner, more efficient way. Google also says it needs fewer steps and makes fewer accidental changes while working. That's a real improvement, not just a number for show.

So, here's the picture forming. Anti-gravity plans the work and manages the helpers. Omniroot keeps the AI models flowing so nothing gets stuck. And the newest models like Gemini 3.6 Flash are getting leaner and more reliable at the same time. Three

improvements stacking on top of each other at the same moment. Let's talk about what this actually looks like in practice because I want this to make sense even if you've never touched a line of code in your life. Say you want to build a new page to explain your product or service. Instead of hiring someone or spending hours designing it yourself, you could ask anti-gravity something like this. build a new page for the AI profit boardroom that clearly explains what members get, shows the value of learning AI automation, and makes it easy for someone to want to join. Anti-gravity breaks that into

steps, works through it, and shows you a plan before it starts changing anything. While that's happening, Omniroot is quietly making sure whichever AI model is doing the writing and designing keeps working. Even if one provider behind the scenes gets overloaded, you just see the finished page. You never see the swap happening underneath. That's the real value here. Not fancy tech talk, just

fewer stalls, fewer stuck moments, and more finished work. Now, here's something important, and I promised you a warning. So, let's talk about it honestly. Omniroot advertises that it can connect to anti-gravity. But Google's terms are clear about this. You

are not supposed to use third party tools to access anti-gravity through your anti-gravity login. Google's own guidance says if you want to use their models through outside tools, you should use a proper API key through Google AI Studio or Vert.Ex AI instead. So, here's the simple version. Don't plug your anti-gravity account login into Omniroot to try to get around limits. That's

against the rules and it could get your account suspended. Instead, use Omniroot with your own separate API keys from providers that actually allow this kind of connection. Use anti-gravity the normal way through its own app with its own account. This isn't about being scared of the tech. It's about using it the right way so you don't lose access to tools you rely on. Now, let's talk

about who this setup is actually good for. If you're already juggling a few different AI tools and getting frustrated by limits, this is worth exploring. If you're building repeatable workflows for your business, this can save you a lot of stalled out moments. If you like having a backup plan built right into your system instead of scrambling when one tool goes down, this is for you. If you're brand new to AI and only use one simple chat tool right now, you don't need any of this yet. Get

comfortable with the basics first. This becomes useful once you're actually running multiple tools and feeling the pain of them breaking down on you. Here's where this is heading. AI tools are only going to keep multiplying. More providers, more models, more options every single month. The people who win

aren't the ones using the fanciest single tool. They're the ones who build a system where the tools support each other. So, one hiccup doesn't stop their whole day. If you're someone who builds things, start small. Pick one task you do every week and see if a setup like this could keep it running smoother. If

you're someone who runs a team, think about where your people get stuck waiting on a single tool and picture what it would look like if that tool had a backup built in automatically. If you're leading a business, this is less about the tech itself and more about removing friction so your team spends less time waiting and more time doing. I get why this can feel like a lot. New tools, new names, new updates every week. It's a lot to keep up with on your own. And honestly, most people don't

have time to test every new release themselves. Here's the honest truth before I go. Tools like this aren't magic. They still need a real setup, a little patience, and someone to walk you through the first version so you don't waste time guessing. But once it's built, it just runs. And that's the

whole point. Less time stuck, more time building the things that actually move your business forward. That's exactly why we built the AI profit boardroom the way we did. Every week, we run coaching calls where we walk through tools like anti-gravity and Omniroot together so you're not figuring it out alone at midnight. We publish daily tutorials that break down exactly how to set these tools up for real business tasks like following up with leads or building pages that bring in new customers.

Members inside are already testing these exact tools on their own businesses and you can ask them directly what's working. There's a prompt library built for real situations, not generic examples. And there's a member map, so if someone near you is also using these tools, you can meet up and learn from each other in person. Link is in the comments and description if you want in. And if you just want to keep learning without joining anything yet, come check out the AI Success Lab. It's a free

community. Inside, you'll get the full notes from videos like this one, plus over 100 real AI use cases you can try yourself. You'll be alongside 75,000 other members who are already using AI to grow their businesses and get more done every day. Links are in the comments and description for that, too. What if one command could hire an entire team for you? Not one AI helper, a whole

team, a planner, builders, even a quality checker, all working at the same time in the background. Google just made this real and almost nobody is talking about it. Miss this one and you'll be working 10 times slower than everyone else. Hey, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help people learn AI tools and actually use them in their work. In this video, I'm going to show you the brand new agent teams update inside Google's anti-gravity, how I run it inside agent OS, and a real build I spun up with one single command. and

stick around because near the end I'll share the one tip that stops your agent team from breaking halfway through a task. Let's get into it. So, here's the big news. Anti-gravity just dropped a new update called agent teams. With one command, it spins up a dynamic team of specialized sub aents. They coordinate

in the background to plan, build, and verify complex tasks. And the best part, they work in parallel. That means multiple agents building different parts of your project at the exact same time instead of one agent doing everything step by step. But let's back up for a second. What actually is anti-gravity?

Anti-gravity is Google's AI coding tool. It's their agent first platform for building software. Instead of just suggesting code while you type, it gives AI agents real autonomy to go off and complete whole tasks for you. And now there's an anti-gravity CLI2, which is a command line version. That's the piece I've plugged directly into agent OS, which I'll show you in a minute. So

anti-gravity is the engine. Agent Teams is the new superpower sitting on top of it. Okay. So what is Agent Teams exactly? Until now, when you used anti-gravity, you basically had one worker, one brilliant worker, sure, but still just one. Now, when you type the

command forward/teamwork preview, anti-gravity stops being a single worker and becomes a hiring manager. It reads your task. It figures out which specialist the job needs. It writes out what each one owns, and it maps out how they hand work to each other. Then, it spins that team up for real, and they all get to work at once. I call this the

cue of one problem. Imagine running a business with a single employee. Brilliant person, but seal just one. They plan the project, then they build the first part, then the second part, then they check it one thing at a time in a line. Double the tasks and you double the weight. And who splits the

work into pieces? Who writes each job description? Who remembers to check the result before it ships? You do. Every project, every single time. That's what

working with one AI agent feels like. The model is smart, but the project management never stops being your job. Agent teams breaks that cycle. One command hires a team, briefs the team, and runs the team. So, how does it actually work? It's a three-step flow.

Step one, one command. You type forward/teamwork hyphen preview and describe what you want built. Step two, one approval. The coordinator reads your task and drafts what I call a team sheet. It's a full plan saved as a markdown file. It shows which

specialists it wants to hire, what each agent is responsible for, and how the handoffs work. You read it, and you just say go. You can even preapprove it if you trust the setup. Step three, parallel work. The team spins up. A

planner designs the approach. Builders work on different pieces at the same time. And a verifier checks everything before it comes back to you. That verifier piece is huge. By the way, with a solo agent, quality control only happens if you remember to ask for it.

With agent teams, checking the work is literally someone's whole job. Here's a real example of how I use this. I ran teamwork preview for an SEO blog build, the kind of content we use to bring more of the right people into the AI profit boardroom. I typed one command and the coordinator came back with a full team sheet. It hired an SEO architect to plan the structure, a NexJS developer to build the page, an SEO ops agent to handle the on-page work, and a Lighthouse QA agent to check quality at the end. I approved the plan and the

whole thing started building at once. That's content designed to pull people into the AI profit boardroom planned and built by a full agent team from a single command. Now, here's the part I really want to emphasize. I'm not running this in a plain terminal. I'm running anti-gravity inside agent OS. We plug

the anti-gravity CLI straight into Agent OS. So, I get the same engine but inside a proper workspace. And honestly, this changes everything about how it feels to use. Inside Agent OS, I have an anti-gravity tab ready to go. I type my teamwork preview command right there in the chat. The team sheet gets created as

a markdown file inside my workspace. Then I can run the whole sprint live in the dashboard and actually watch it happen. I can see the coordinator, the planner, the builders, and the verifier. And I can switch between the sub aents to see what each one is doing. Why does this matter? Because everything gets

saved in one place. The plan, the files, the whole build. It all lives inside my workspace. So I can close it, come back tomorrow, and pick up exactly where I left off. And because it runs in the background, I can have a full agent team building something while I'm doing other work in another tab. Compare that to a

raw terminal where things scroll past and disappear. I know a lot of people haven't loved the new CLI experience on its own. That's exactly why we built it into Agent OS. We wanted to customize the look, the feel, and the whole workflow around it. Same power, way better experience. Quick note here

because people ask me about this all the time. Inside the AI profit boardroom, you can get the full agent OS zip file ready to install with anti-gravity already plugged in. So, you're not setting any of this up from scratch. And we built out a complete 30-day road map here as use cases, so you know exactly what to build in week 1, week 2, and beyond. Plus, there are full anti-gravity master classes inside the classroom, and I answer questions inside the community every single day with a video. If you're watching this and

thinking, I want to run agent teams like this, that's literally what the AI profit boardroom is set up to help you do around this exact tool. Right, let me show you another build I ran so you can see the setup steps from scratch. First, make sure you have the anti-gravity CLI installed or grab agent OS with it already plugged in. Then, run the update command in your terminal, which is agy update, so you're on the latest version with agent teams available. Then inside anti-gravity, you just run forward/teamwork preview and describe the task. That's

generally it. There's no complicated setup, no writing separate role prompts for each agent, no wiring things together by hand. The coordinator handles all of that for you. For this test, I typed teamwork preview and asked it to draft a team for a new blog about our Hermes agent and AI automation. This is content we create to teach what we build inside the AI profit boardroom.

Straight away, it started assembling the team. It came back with a Hermes tech specialist, a content lead, an SEO ops agent, and a sandbox agent for quality control. Then it mapped out the full project plan, and I could open the dashboard and watch the team work through the tasks together. The files all get saved locally in the workspace. So everything from that build now lives inside agent OS where I can reuse it.

Now, who can actually use this? Here's the thing. You do not need to be technical. I know multi- aent systems sound like something only developers touch, but the whole point of this update is that the hard part is automated. You type one command, you read a plan in plain English, you say go. That's the entire skill requirement.

If you can describe what you want built, you can run an agent team. It's great for building apps, websites, games, tools, content systems, whatever you're working on. And yes, it's still a preview feature, so it's early and Google is still improving it. Some people say that means you should wait. I'd say the opposite. The people who

start building with this now are going to be way ahead. the people who wait are going to be catching up. Before we wrap, here are my top tips. Tip one, always read the team sheet before you approve it. It takes 30 seconds and it's your one chance to steer the whole build. If

the coordinator hired the wrong specialist, fix it there, not after the build. Tip two, and this is the one I promised you at the start, agent teams runs on your local machine, so keep your computer awake while the team is working. If your machine goes to sleep mid task, so does your team. Tip three, if a team ever stops partway through, don't panic and don't start over. Just tell it to continue and it picks up right where it left off. Tip four, start

with a small, clear task for your first run. Once you see how the coordinator thinks, you'll write much better task descriptions for the big builds. And tip five, save your team sheets. They're markdown files so you can reuse a good team structure again and again for similar projects. If you want the full process, SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI success lab.

Links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And you can get the full agent OS zip file ready to install. And we built out a complete 30-day road map here as use cases. And if you're about to try agent teams yourself, here's what's going to happen. Your first team sheet

will look amazing. Then you'll hit a weird moment. Maybe the coordinator picks specialists you didn't expect. Maybe a build stalls and you're not sure whether to restart or continue. Maybe you want to run this inside agent OS, but you're stuck on setup. That's

exactly where the AI profit boardroom helps you move faster. You can get the full Agent OS zip file ready to install with anti-gravity builtin. And we built out a complete 30-day roadmap here as use cases. Plus, you get the anti-gravity master classes, the prompts, and four weekly coaching calls where you can share your screen and get unstuck in real time. There's even a map to meet people near you who are building with AI agents, too. Over 4,000 members

are already inside. Come join us at apiprofitboardroom.com. Google just made anti-gravity faster. And the wild part isn't the speed. It's

that the AI agent inside now needs fewer steps to finish the same job. Fewer tool calls. Fewer output words wasted. Up to 17% less waste on every task according to Google's own numbers. This is anti-gravity. It's Google's tool where

AI agents build whole projects for you. Websites, automations, research, code. You give it a job and it works through it step by step using other tools along the way. Kind of like a worker who can open apps and click buttons for you. The engine inside just got swapped. It's now

running on a new model called Gemini 3.6 Flash. Google built this one to think in fewer steps. Picture two workers doing the same job. One checks the manual five times before every move. The other

learned the job so well they check it twice. Same result. Way less wasted motion. That's what's happening here, just with an AI instead of a person. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO Agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. A year ago, tools like this needed way more back and forth to finish a task. You'd wait longer. It would double check itself more. Now, it gets

to the finish line faster, using less effort per step. That's a real jump, not a small tweak. Here's the part that matters for your business. Google said, "This update cuts down on wasted steps and wasted tool calls." In plain words, the AI agent wastes less time thinking and more time doing. For anyone using

this to automate parts of their business, that means tasks finish quicker with less babysitting. And this isn't a small test running in one corner of the internet. Gemini 3.6 Flash is already live inside Anti-gravity as the new default engine behind the agent. It's also live inside the regular Gemini app, inside Android Studio for developers, and inside Google's enterprise tools for bigger companies.

That's a wide roll out, not a quiet experiment. On real coding tests, it's already showing up stronger, too. On one test called Terminal Bench, which checks how well an AI can handle real command line tasks, the newer flashlight model jumped from 31% to 54%. On a long memory test called GDM- MRCR, it climbed from 60% to over 72%. On a real world task test called GDP val, the score nearly doubled compared to the older version.

And on one coding benchmark called deepswe, Google says some tasks used up to 65% fewer output tokens than before, which just means the AI got the same job done using a lot less back and forth. There's more happening under the hood, too. Google says this model keeps the same 1 millionword memory window as the last one, so it can still hold huge documents and long conversations without forgetting the start. It also runs on the same thinking setting as before, so nobody has to relearn anything to use it. And on a hard reasoning test called HLE, it scored noticeably higher than the older Flash model, which just means it's better at working through tricky multi-step questions, not just fast, simple ones. I want to stop here for a

second because this exact update is something we're already working with inside the AI profit boardroom and I want to show you exactly how. The moment Gemini 3.6 flash landed inside anti-gravity, our team went in and rebuilt our own setup around it, testing it on real jobs like landing pages, onboarding flows, and content so members don't have to figure any of that out alone. Inside the AI profit boardroom, we walk you through the exact steps to connect anti-gravity to your own business. not a generic demo, your actual pages, your actual follow-ups. We

run four coaching calls every week, and a big part of the group is already deep into anti-gravity for real client work. You'll also get a prompt library built specifically around this update, and a member map to find other people near you doing the same thing. Link is in the description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com. Now, let's get into how you'd actually use this thing. I'm not going to give

you generic examples. I'm going to show you exactly how we're using it to grow a real community, the AI profit boardroom. So you can copy the same moves for your own business. First one is building leads inside the AI profit boardroom. We use Gemini 3.6 Flash to write the words

first. The prompt sounds like this. Design a new landing page for the AI profit boardroom that converts visitors into leads. show the real value of AI automation and explain the benefits of our community so people want to join and get more customers and traffic. Then we hand that off to anti-gravity to build the actual page, connect it to a signup form and test that everything works. The

result is a lead page built in live without us touching a single line of code ourselves. Second one is turning one idea into content everywhere. We asked Gemini 3.6 6 flash to take one lesson from inside the IP profit boardroom and turn it into a script, a short post, and an email all at once. Then, anti-gravity organizes those files and lines up the posting schedule across each platform. The prompt is simple.

Take this lesson about automating client follow-ups. Write a video script, a short post, and an email version. Then, set up a folder and a posting order for all three. The result is one idea turned into a full week of content done in one sitting. Third one is onboarding new members. When someone joins the AI

profit boardroom, Gemini 3.6 Flash writes their welcome message, their first set of steps, and answers to common questions. Anti-gravity then sets up their access, adds them to the right group, and schedules a check-in message for a few days later. The prompt reads, "Write a welcome message and a first week action plan for a new member joining an AI automation community. Then set up their access and schedule a follow-up message. The result is a new

member who feels guided from day one without anyone on our team lifting a finger. Fourth one is our coaching call prep. Before each call inside the AI profit boardroom, Gemini 3.6 Flash pulls together the biggest questions members asked that week. Anti-gravity then builds a simple one-page summary and drops it into the call folder automatically. The prompt is gather the

top questions members asked this week about automating their business. Summarize them into three main themes. then save that summary where our coaches can find it before the call. The result is coaches walking into every call already knowing exactly what members need help with. Now, step back from just the tool for a second. This update isn't

only good news for people who code. Most of the people using this inside the IP profit boardroom aren't developers. They're coaches, agency owners, shop owners, people running online communities. And that's the real shift here. Here's the human part underneath all of this. Tools moving this fast can

feel like a lot. Some days it's exciting, other days it feels like you're always one update behind. Both of those feelings are normal. The people doing well with this stuff aren't the ones who know everything first. They're the ones who keep showing up, trying the new thing, and helping the next person figure it out, too. That's exactly what

we built the AI profit boardroom for. Every time an update like Gemini 3.6 Flash inside anti-gravity drops, we're already inside the community building the exact playbook for it. So, you're not stuck guessing how it applies to your own business. It's not just theory either. We show you the real pages, the

real onboarding flows, and the real prompts we used ourselves. The same ones I just walked you through. Four coaching calls run every single week with people already deep in these tools answering real questions about real setups, not generic advice. There's a growing group inside using anti-gravity right now to build lead pages, content, and on boarding. The exact same workflows from this video. You'll also get the prompts

library built around this update, plus a member map so you can find and connect with other people near you doing the same thing. Link is in the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you just want the free version of all this, the step-by-step notes, the prompts, and more real examples like the ones I just showed you, join the AI success lab. It's free. You'll get the

notes from this exact video, plus access to a community of people who are already deep into this stuff and sharing what's working. Links are in the comments and description. There's a Google tool called anti-gravity 2.0. It's one of the most powerful AI tools they've ever made. Most people have heard of it by

now, but almost nobody is using it the right way. And that's the real story here. On its own, it's good. Inside my agent OS, it becomes something way bigger. Today, I'll show you exactly why and how I use it. First, let me tell you

what anti-gravity even is in plain words. Most AI is a chat box. You type, it types back. That's it. Anti-gravity is different. It's a launchpad. You

don't just chat with it. You send it off to do jobs for you. Real jobs, whole websites. And it can run a bunch of little helper aes all at once, all working on your goal at the same time. That sounds amazing, right? And it is.

But when I first tried it on its own, I hit a wall. Three walls, actually. And I bet you'd hit the same ones. Wall one. It has no memory. Every time you open

it, it forgets you. It doesn't know who you are. It doesn't know your business. So, you waste the first part of every chat just explaining yourself again every single time. Wall two, it's messy.

You build something great, the next week you can't even find it. Stuff gets lost. Wall three, and this is the big one, nothing builds up. Every chat starts from zero. So the AI is exactly as smart on day 100 as it was on day one. It

never learns your world. It's like building a race car engine and dropping it into an old beatup car. The engine is great, but the car around it holds it back. So that's the whole secret of why anti-gravity is worth it inside my Agent OS. I built the car around the engine, and the car is a memory. Let me explain.

Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Here's what makes it click. I connect Anti-gravity to a memory vault.

It's a simple free note app called Obsidian. Think of it like one big notebook that every AI can read. Inside that notebook is my whole business. Who I am, what I sell, my customers, how I talk, everything. And here's the wild part. I don't fill that notebook by

hand. I have a little device on my desk that listens to my day and writes it all down for me. Mine has saved over 1,500 memories already without me lifting a finger. It just remembers everything for me. Now watch what that does when anti-gravity is plugged into that memory. Everything changes. I type build

me a landing page. But now it's not guessing. It has 1,500 memories about me to pull from. So the page it builds actually sounds like me. It actually fits my business. Same tool, totally

different result. All because it finally knows me. Let me make that even more real. Say I want the AI to write a welcome email for new AI profit boardroom members. Without memory, I'd get some flat generic email. With

memory, it already knows what the community is, who joins, and how I talk. So, the email sounds like me and fits the people getting it. That's the whole difference. Memory turns a stranger into someone who knows your business cold. Let me give you one real example. This

weekend, I typed one line. Build a landing page for the AI profit boardroom that shows how it saves people time and gets them more customers. That's it. And because the AI already knew all about the community from my memory vault, it built the whole page in one pass. Design words, everything. I didn't touch a line

of code. And I'm not a coder. I want you to sit with that for a second. One sentence in, a finished web page out. That knows my business. That's what

memory does. Now, before I show you the rest, let me quickly help you with something. If you're watching this thinking, "This looks amazing, but how do I set the memory part up?" That's exactly what we do inside the AI profit boardroom. You get the full agent OS zip file ready to install, not a guide about it. The real system with anti-gravity

already wired in. You get the memory vault set up step by step. So, all your a is finally know your business. You get four coaching calls every week where I walk you through the whole thing live and daily tutorials as new tools drop. There are 3,600 founders in there right now running this exact setup. Come join us. The link is

in the description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com. Okay, let me keep showing you what this thing does. So, we've got anti-gravity, the engine, and we've got the memory. So, it knows you. Now, let me show you

the dashboard that ties it all together. That's the agent OS itself. Think of it like the home screen on your phone, but instead of apps, you've got a Claude, Gemini, Hermes, Anti-gravity, all of them side by side on one screen. And they all share that same memory. So they all know your business. Before this, my

day was a mess. A tab for anti-gravity, a tab for Claude, a tab for chat GPT, a window for my files. I was reexplaining myself 15 times a day. Now, one screen, one brain, everything in one place. I stopped juggling tabs and started running a team. And anti-gravity brings

some real firepower to that team. Let me show you the parts that matter most. The first thing I use a lot is helper teams. You don't just get one AI doing one job. You can send out a whole team of little A is that work together on one problem at the same time. So a big job that used

to take forever gets split up and done fast. Say I want a full set of posts for the AI profit boardroom. One helper writes them, one makes the images, one checks them all at once. The second thing I love is scheduled jobs. This means your AI can wake up on its own, do a task, and report back even while you sleep. So say, I want to keep an eye on

what's trending for the AI profit boardroom every morning. I said it once, then every day it just does it. I wake up and the work is waiting. The third thing is voice. You don't even have to type anymore. You just talk. Half my

sessions now start by me just speaking out loud what I want. It's that easy. Now, let me show you a few more rooms on this one screen because there's a lot here. There's a studio for making pictures, video, and sound. You type what you want and it makes it. So, if I

need a fresh image for an AI profit boardroom post, I just ask and it's done. No jumping to some other app. No downloading and re-uploading. There's a board where you drop in a job and a team of AS picks it up and builds it. You just watch it move from to-do to done.

It's like having a whole team you never have to manage. And there's the memory room itself. This is the heart of it all. Every note about your business lives here. You can search over a thousand memories in one spot. And

here's the magic part I really want you to get. Every time your AIS finish a job, that work gets saved back into the memory, too. So, the notebook gets bigger and smarter every single day. That last part is the whole game. Let me say it simply. Most people start over

with every chat. So their AI never gets smarter. Day one, day 100, same thing. Mine is the opposite. Every job it does makes it smarter. More work means more

memory. More memory means smarter A is. Smarter A is mean better work. And better work means even more memory. Round and round. It's a wheel that spins

faster the longer you use it. You never start from zero again. So think about what this really means for you. You don't build a business with one great prompt. You build it with a system that gets a little smarter every single day.

That's the difference. A tool you pick up and put down does nothing over time. A system that remembers everything grows with you. Let me paint the two paths so it's clear. Path one, you keep going the slow way. You open a fresh chat. You

explain yourself again. You get a flat generic answer. You lose the file next week. And every new AI tool that comes out is just one more thing to figure out from scratch. That's the treadmill. And

it never stops. Path two, you set up this system once. Every AI knows your business. Every job gets saved and makes the next one better. And every new tool that comes out just slots in and makes the whole thing stronger. 6 months from

now, you're miles ahead of the person still starting from zero. Same tools, totally different result. The only difference is the system around them. And here's why I think you need to move on this now. The tools are moving so fast. A new better AI comes out almost

every week. If you don't have a system, every new tool is just one more thing to learn from scratch. But if you have this setup, every new tool just slots in and makes your whole team stronger. That's the difference between falling behind and pulling way ahead. Let me answer the question I get most. People say, "I'm

not technical. This sounds too hard." Let me stop you there. If you can copy and paste a file path, you can run this. That's the whole skill. We have members

in the boardroom who never touched anything like this before. They followed the steps and now they've got the full system running. It's not about being smart with computers. It's about following the steps. People also ask, "Do I really have time to set up a whole new system?" Here's my honest answer.

You don't have time not to. The day you set it up is the day it starts saving you hours. Every day you wait is a day it could have been working for you. And one more. People think all AI tools are the same. That there's no point setting

it up this special way. But that's the whole lesson here. The setup around the AI matters more than the AI itself. Remember the race car engine in the old beatup car? same engine as a race car, but it loses every time because the car around it is weak. Two people can use

the exact same AI. One uses it as a chat box. One uses it inside a real system. Their results aren't even close. I want to be honest with you. Could you build

all of this yourself? Yes. Every piece for free even if you had the weekends and knew where to look. I did it the hard way first. It took me a long time and a lot of failed tries to get it right. But you don't have to do it the

hard way. That's the whole point of what I built. So, here's the last thing. If you want this exact setup ready to go, come get it inside the AI profit boardroom. You don't get a course about it. You get the actual agent OS, the

full zip file with anti-gravity already wired in, ready to install today. You get the memory vault setup so all your A is finally know your business. You get every prompt and you get four coaching calls a week where we build it together, live step by step, so you never get stuck. There's a member map so you can find people near you and someone is always online to help. Go grab the agent OS. The link is in the comments in the

description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you want more free stuff like this, come join the AI success lab. It's our free AI community. You'll get all the notes from this video plus 100 plus real AI use cases just like the one I showed you today. And you'll be around

75,000 people all learning this together. That link is in the comments and description, too. That's anti-gravity plus agent OS, one engine, one memory, every AI working as one team that gets smarter every day. Go build yours. I'll see you in the next one.

There's a brand new update from anti-gravity. It's called agent teams in anti-gravity. This is a new powerful system to build a dynamic team of specialized sub aents. They can coordinate in the background to plan, build, and verify complex systems in the background and work in parallel, which is really really powerful. So to do this, we've actually plugged in the anti-gravity CLI into our agent OS as you can see right here. And just to test

it out, I actually read teamwork hyphen preview for an SEO blog as a test over here. And you can see that actually came out with the answer very quickly. So it creates a markdown file with a full plan for your agents. And then you can actually run it live as you can see right here and spin up the Aentic sprint directly in the dashboard, which is pretty powerful. So you can just open up and start running it straight away. And

then the cool thing about this is the whole plan gets saved inside your workspace. So we can come back to it later. So, this is something I call the one command company. So, Google's anti-gravity can now spin up a whole team of AI specialists from one command. They plan, they build, they check in parallel and hand you the finished thing. I actually tested it the day and

two of the builds are playable right inside the guide that I'm going to show you. Now, you might wonder, okay, why is this useful? So, I would talk about the Q of one problem, which is, you know, imagine running a company with single employee, you know, brilliant, but it's still just one. They plan the project. They build the first part, then the second part, then they check it one thing at a time in a load. Now, if you

double the amount of tasks they have to do, you double the weight. And who splits the work into pieces? Who writes each job description? Who remembers to check the result before it ships? Well, you do on every project every single time. And that's what working with one

AI agent is like. The model is brilliant, but the project management never stop being your job. the one command company set up with anti-gravity breaks that cycle because one command basically hires a team breach the team and runs the team as well. So what does agent teams actually do? So anti-gravity is Google's AI coding agent. It's the

successor to that Gemini CLI and until now it was one worker. However, when you use type and you type forward/teamwork preview, it becomes a hiring manager. You get a coordinator the research task, then drafts a team sheet, which specialist to hire, what each one owns, and how they'll hand the work to each other. You say yes, it spins the team up for real. So, you literally just approve the plan, and then it will build the whole thing at once, which is pretty incredible. So, the way this works is

you have a coordinator that drafts a team and reads the work. The plan designs, builder A builds, builder B builds, and you get a verifier checker that works through it as well. So, here's an example. We actually created this plan for the team sheet as I showed you a second ago. So inside our agent OS we have anti-gravity over here and then inside the chat we said you know teamwork preview create that page right and so what it actually does is it creates an idea of team sheets here. So

we've got the SEO architect the nextJS developer SEO ops and the lighthouse X which is a QA developer as well. It actually plans out exactly how it's going to be built. And then the same run can actually be simulated live. And here's an example what it can look like in real time. So we have the multi- aent collaborate preview preview orchestrator. We can switch between sub

aents and the template presets. Then it has the full project objective features and then it goes off and starts spinning up the full workspace with your team of agents working together which is pretty awesome. Now some people say you need to be technical to run an AI team of agents. actually know because literally all you do is in one single command you type forward slash teamwork preview and you're good to go on. Now other people say well more agents must get more expensive but actually you can use the CLI for free or you can actually plug in your own custom APIs into there as well.

You could even for example run this with like a local model like Gemma 4 which comes from Google directly as well. And then other people say, "Well, it's a preview. I should wait. I don't want to start using this system straight away." But honestly, the people start building right now going to get ahead. The people

who wait are going to fall behind. And so, you can see some examples of what our team actually built here in terms of how they've worked together. So, we got the builder, the planner, the coordinator, and with the verifier, too. And then we can see the tasks that are being worked on and everything else. We have another one here, which is team splitter. And so you can actually select

project what you want to build, describe the project, and it assembles the team of agents as well. And you might also say, "This is great, but a solo agent could build this too. Why have multiple teams of agents?" But the thing is here that when you're building this out, if you have one single agent, it's slower. It's unchecked. There's no quality

control. Um, you also don't have specialist agents that are very focused on their role. So, for example, like if you have a quality control sub agent in the team preview, well, that's just going to focus on making sure the quality is messy it could be. If you don't have a quality control agent in place, it's going to be super messy. Now, you might wonder, okay, how do you run this out? You know, how do you set

up? So, make sure you have the agent anti-gravity CLI set up or you can get our agent OS with it already plugged in and then you run the update for agy update. So, that's antigraphy update inside your terminal. Then you can just inside your anti-gravity CLI you run the preview. So for example team for/teamwork preview to set up the task.

Here's an example. So we can go inside here teamwork preview and then we'll just say draft create a team for a new blog about Hermes agent and AI automation. And you actually just start coming up with the full plan right there. That's how we can set it up. So that's really powerful. You might also wonder, okay,

where do the files usually end up? So, they just get saved locally, which is really cool. And then you have, for example, the anti-gravity tab inside our agent OS ready to go with the same engine as the chat. And what I really like about this whole system, you know, this is, I think, much better than using the terminal is that you have the workspace files. So, everything is saved in one place and you can just come back to it later. Plus, this can just run in

the background whilst we're doing other stuff. So we can have teams um running and setting up stuff in the background. So how does it work? You got one command teamwork preview. Then you got one approval. So you read the team shape and

you can say say you just say go and or you can preapprove it as well. And then you get the parallel work done as we showed a second ago and it actually builds cool stuff which is fantastic. So really powerful update. I know a lot of people don't like anti-gravity since the new CLI came up. That's actually why we built it into the agent OS because we want to customize the look and the feel and the vibe of it as much as we want using this system instead, right? Which

I think is way better. And so if you look at the old way versus the new way before you were the or chart, right? So you have one worker that does everything step by step. There's a lot more time involved. So every step adds more time to the process cuz you didn't have parallel agents working together. And

then you would only have quality control if you remembered to ask the agents to do it. And also you would split the tasks and write roll prompts by hand. Now with this new update from anti-gravity with teams and anti-gravity agents, you've got a coordinator that drafts the right specialists per task. You have builders that work in parallel. And then you also have a verifier that checks everything before delivery. And

you have roles, briefs, and team handoffs also written with the whole system. So, it's just a new way to orchestrate your AI agents as a team so that you can move faster, so you can get more out of anti-gravity, so you can build agent teams without having to be technical as well. And this is great for building apps, websites, games, tools. You can see an example right here of how to run it. And we actually have the full project code here. We've got the

assembled agent team. So it comes back to us with like the Hermes tech specialist, the content lead, the SEO ops, the sandbox agent as well for quality controlling it. And we can just open the dashboard directly as well, which is pretty cool. So if you want to get our full agent operating system with anti-gravity, the workspace system with the mission control, we've got paperclip for team orchestration as well. We have Hermes agent Claude, we have codeex and GT5.6 built in there. This just a really

powerful system for orchestrating all of your agents instead of having to like click everywhere and manage all your different tabs and go into Claude and then Hermes agent and everything else. You can get our agent OS system that's available inside the profitable boardroom link in the comments description or go to the aprofit.com. Inside the community, you can ask questions, get help and support in real time. I personally answer each of the questions inside the community with a video every single day. Inside the

classroom, you can get access to all of our best trainings. If you actually type in anti-gravity, you can actually get all of our best ma master classes inside the classroom for anti-gravity as well. We have loads of cool trainings on this stuff if you like it. Inside the new daily update section, you can get our agent OS system and we're always dropping like new tutorials. So, this is like the new latest stuff that you can get the most out of. So, as soon as

something new and useful comes out, we share it and we teach you exactly how to use it and get the most out of it. If you want to jump on coaching calls, you can get weekly coach calls here. We have four of them. So you can share your screen, jump on a Zoom call, ask questions in real time, and then inside the map, you can actually meet people in your local area who are building out with AI agents like you. So feel free to get that link in the comments description or go to the airbomb.com.

Thanks for watching. What if your AI agent could finish your work while you slept? What if it ran five jobs at once instead of one? Most people are still typing one command at a time. They have no idea this just changed. And the old

way, Google is literally switching part of it off today. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help people actually learn and use AI tools in their real work, not just watch demos and forget them. And today is a big one. Google just dropped anti-gravity 2.0 and it adds five new superpowers to your AI agent. Stick with me to the end because

there's one setup move that ties all five together. Once you see it, you won't go back to the old way. Quick version first. Anti-gravity is Google's AI coding agent. Version one was basically a smart code editor with an agent bolted on the side. Version 2.0

flips that around. Now, the agent is the product. It's a standalone app you run on Mac, Windows, or Linux. Plus, there's a command line version, too. It runs on Google's latest Gemini models. And

here's the timely part. Today, June 18th, Google is switching off the old Gemini command line tool for free and paid users and moving everyone over to the new anti-gravity setup. So, if you've been putting this off, today is the day it actually starts to matter. The good news is you can start for free. There are usage limits once you really push it, but you don't have to pay anything to try all of this out first.

So, what are the five new superpowers? Number one, sub agents. Split one big job into small ones that run side by side. Number two, background tasks. Long jobs keep running in the background while you carry on working. Number

three, scheduled tasks. Set a job to fire on its own, like every morning at 6:00. Number four, Js N hooks. Run your own scripts at exact points while the agent works. And number five, voice.

Talk to your agent instead of typing every single command. Plus, there's that command line version you can plug into whatever dashboard you run everything from. Now, before this, working with an AI agent was slow. One job at a time. You give it a task, then sit there and watch the loading bar crawl. You

couldn't run things on a timer. You couldn't drop in your own scripts, and you typed every single command by hand. If you walked away, nothing happened until you came back. That's the old way, and it just does not scale. Here's where it gets fun. With sub agents, I hand the

main agent one instruction, and it spins up a little team of smaller agents to split the work. Let me show you what I mean. I used this to fire off five sub agents at once. Each one writing a different blog post built to pull the right people into the AI profit boardroom. One agent took a keyword, the next took another, and they all wrote at the same time. While they worked, the

main agent stayed free. A few minutes later, I had five posts drafted and formatted. Every one of them designed to bring more of the right audience into the AI profit boardroom. That's five jobs done in the time the old way finishes one. Now, I want to give you the way I think about all this. I call

it the Gravity 5 framework. It's just five simple ways to actually use these features instead of letting them sit there doing nothing. The first one is the big one. So, let me start there. Multiply. That's sub agents. The whole

idea is to stop working one piece at a time. Instead of one agent grinding through a long list, you break the job into small focused chunks and let a bunch of sub aents each take a chunk. Here's a tip most people miss when they set up sub agents. Smaller jobs win. Don't hand one sub agent a giant vague task. Give each one a tight, specific

job with a clear finish line. A sub agent that knows exactly what done looks like, finishes fast and clean. A sub aent with a fuzzy task just wanders around. Second tip, keep their context light. Each sub aent works in its own little bubble and only carries what it needs for its piece. And that's actually

why a lot of people are surprised by the token cost. You'd think five agents would burn way more than one. But because each sub agent isn't dragging the whole project history around with it, the total can come out lower than one big agent trying to hold everything in its head at the same time. focused beats bloated. Third tip, pick a clear lead. One main agent should hand out the

work and gather the results back. If everything is a sub agent, then nobody's in charge. Think of the main agent as the manager and the sub aents as the team doing the leg work. And please don't try to learn all five features at once. That's the fastest way to get overwhelmed and quit. Pick one, get

comfortable, add the next one next week. Sub aents on their own will change how you work. So start there if you're not sure. This is the real shift. Anti-gravity 2.0 0 stops being just a

fast coding tool and starts being a system that runs your day for you. But a pile of features isn't a system on its own. You need a way to wire them together so they work as one machine. And that's the move I teased at the start. That's exactly what I've built inside the AI profit boardroom. It's

called Agent OS. My agent operating system and anti-gravity is plugged right into it as the engine. Inside the AI profit boardroom, you get the full agent OS as a ready to install zip file. You download it, drop it in, and the whole setup is wired for you. so you're not guessing at how the pieces connect. On

top of that, I've built a complete 30-day road map that walks you through it one step at a time, so you're not staring at five features wondering where to even begin. You also get the sub agent templates I use, the scheduled task setups, and walkthroughs for plugging anti-gravity into your dashboard. And we run weekly coaching calls where you can share your screen and ask me about your exact setup. So, if you're watching this and thinking, I want the whole thing wired up, not just the loose parts, that's what the IP profit boardroom is built for. Links in the description. Okay, back to the

features because there are four more pillars and they're just as useful. Background tasks. This is the one that quietly saves the most time. When you kick off a long job, it doesn't lock up your screen. It moves to the background and the main agent stays free for the next thing. So, you stop staring at a

spinning loader. You fire off the slow job and immediately start something new. You can even have a few of these running at the same time or chipping away in the background while your main agent stays open and ready for whatever you throw at it next. That alone changes the whole pace of how you work. Scheduled tasks.

This is like a built-in alarm clock for your agent. You set a job to run on a timer all on its own with nobody pressing go. Want something to run every morning before you're even awake? You set the schedule once and it just happens on its own every single day quietly in the background. J S O N hooks. This sounds technical, but the

idea is simple. A hook lets you drop in your own small script that runs at an exact moment while the agent is working. So instead of being stuck with only what the agent does out the box, you can slot in your own rule or your own check at the right point in the process. It's how you get the agent to behave exactly the way you want it to. and voice. You press

the button and you talk to your agent. It listens, writes down what you said, and gets to work. No typing out long commands. For quick instructions, just saying it out loud is so much faster. And it keeps you moving when your hands are busy with something else. Here's how

I put scheduling to work. I set up a scheduled task to draft a fresh piece of content every single morning aimed at bringing new people into the AI profit boardroom. I wrote the instructions once, now it runs on its own before I even start my day. And I wake up to a new draft sitting there ready to go. That's the kind of steady, hands-off rhythm that keeps the right audience flowing toward the AI profit boardroom without me touching it every day. So,

let's put the old way next to the new way. Same agent, same goal, two completely different ways of working. The old way, one job at a time. You sit and watch it finish. No timers, no custom scripts. You type every command.

And half the time, you never even check the output. It's slow. It's manual. And it's hard to grow. The new way. Five sub

agents running side by side. Long jobs humming away in the background. Tasks firing on a schedule while you sleep. your voice handling the commands and with the command line plugged into one dashboard. Everything you make lives in one place you can come back to. You stop

losing track of your work. Nothing gets buried in random folders. It's organized and it actually scales. So, who is this really for? If you've ever felt like you're babysitting your AI agent, this is for you. If you keep doing the same

task by hand over and over, scheduling is for you. If you've got more work than hours in the day, sub agents are for you. And here are my honest tips. One, don't try to master all five today. Pick one. Two, start with sub aents because

parallel work gives you the biggest jump straight away. Three, give every sub aent a small, clear job, not a giant blurry one. Four, once you're comfortable, add scheduling because that's the one that works while you're away. Build it up slowly. The earlier you start, the easier all of this gets.

Now, if you want the full process, the SOPs and 100 plus AI use cases just like this one, join the AI success lab. Links are in the comments and the description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 75,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And once you start playing with anti-gravity 2.0, you're going to hit the same wall everyone hits. You'll get

the five features working one by one, but wiring them into one system that runs on its own is where most people get stuck. That's the exact gap the AI profit boardroom fills. You get my agent OS as a ready to install zip with anti-gravity built-in, the 30-day road map to get it running step by step, the sub agent and scheduling templates and weekly coaching calls where you can ask me about your own setup and get unstuck fast. So, if you're ready to go from watching this to actually running it, come join us. Head to apiprofitboardroom.com.

Hermes on one side, anti-gravity on the other. And both of them sitting inside one screen called the agent OS. So, they share the same memory and you can actually see what they're doing. Let me start with the piece almost nobody has spotted. Hermes agent ships with a skill called anti-gravity- CLI. It lives in the optional skills

folder switched off by default. You turn it on and Hermes can drive anti-gravity's command line tool directly. The command is agy. Hermes runs it through its own terminal then reads anti-gravity's log files to check the job actually happened. So Hermes becomes the brain. Anti-gravity becomes

the hands. And the agent OS is the screen where you watch both of them work. That's the setup. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads

every comment, so make sure you comment below. Now, let me show you why each piece matters. Because both tools moved in the last week, Hermes shipped version 0.19.0 on July 20th. News research called it

the quicks release. The headline is speed. Before this, you'd send your first message and it would sit there saying initializing agent for about 4 and a half seconds. Now it's under 1 second, roughly an 80% cut. And the scale of that one release is a bit mad.

Around 2,245 commits, over a,000 pull requests merged. About 3,300 issues closed, more than 450 people worked on it. That's a single release window. Reasoning also streams live now by default. So instead of staring at a spinner while it thinks, you watch it think. Now anti-gravity,

Google shipped anti-gravity 2.0 at their May developer event. That's when it stopped being a code editor and became a standalone agent app. They launched the anti-gravity CLY, the AGY command I just mentioned, plus scheduled tasks, sub aents, hooks, and projects. Then on July 21st, Gemini 3.6 Six Flash went live

inside anti-gravity. Google says it uses up to 17% fewer output tokens than the model before it and gets through complex jobs in fewer steps and fewer tool calls. Its computer use score went from 78.4% up to 83% and its knowledge cutoff jumped from January 2025 all the way to March 2026. Hold that computer use number. I'll come back to it because it

changes what you can safely hand off. Now, here's the honest problem with both of these tools. They're brilliant on their own, and they're a mess together. Hermes lives in a terminal. Anti-gravity lives in its own app. Your files are

somewhere else. Your notes are somewhere else again. Neither tool knows what the other one did 5 minutes ago. So, you end up rebuilding the same thing three times because you can't remember where you put it. That's the exact problem the agent OS solves. One screen, every agent in

one sidebar, one shared memory that all of them read from. Quick pause because this is what people ask me for most. If you want the agent OS, it's inside the AI profit boardroom. It's a full zip file ready to install. You download it, drop it in, and Hermes and anti-gravity are already wired together with the memory layer built and the anti-gravity- CLI skill already configured. No

fighting with config files. You'll also get the step-by-step videos and four coaching calls every week where you can bring your own setup and I'll wire it in with you live. 3,800 members in there, a lot of them running this exact stack to save hours a week. Link in the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com.

Right, let me show you what's actually on that screen. First, every agent in one sidebar, Hermes, Anti-gravity, Claude, Codeex, all in one place, not four windows. You click the one you want and the conversation history is still sitting there from last time. Second, the memory layer. This is the important one. I use Obsidian for this and I'll

explain why in a second. Third, a workspace tab. Whatever any agent builds, a page, a document, an image, it renders right there. You don't go hunting through folders for it. Fourth, named agents with actual jobs. One

member calls his scout, Oracle, and Zeus. Sounds silly. It's not. When each agent has a name and a job, you stop asking the wrong one for the wrong thing. Now, let me go back to the memory because that's the difference between a tool you open and a system that runs.

Hermes has a command called /learn. Point it at anything, a folder, a web page, or just the thing you walked it through 5 minutes ago, and it turns that into a reusable skill written properly, saved. Next time, it's already there. So, say you spend 20 minutes teaching it exactly how you write the welcome message for new AI profit boardroom members. Tone, length, what to link, then type /arn. Done. Never teach it

again. There's also slashjourney. that gives you a timeline of everything Hermes has picked up about you. Every memory, every skill, and you can edit any of it or delete it. The desktop app shows it as a memory graph you can play through. That matters more than it

sounds. With most AI tools, the memory is a black box. You've no idea what it thinks it knows. Here, you can look at it and prune the wrong stuff. Now, why Obsidian for the memory layer instead of something like Notebook LM? Three

reasons. Your files stay on your machine. It's open source, so they belong to you, and it's easy to plug into your agents. Notebook LM is great for making media, but it's much harder to connect to an agent. If I had to pick one, Obsidian every time. And inside the

agent OS, that Obsidian layer feeds every agent. So, anti-gravity knows your business. Hermes knows your business. Same context every session without you pasting it in again. That leads straight to the question I get more than any other. My agent gets worse on long jobs.

What do I do? Three fixes. First compact type/compact and it shrinks the conversation down while keeping what matters. Hermes now protects your actual intent when it does this instead of flattening everything. Second, chunk it. Don't hand one agent a

giant task. Split it into sections and pass the result of one into the next. Third, and this is the one people skip, give it more context up front. Most of the time, the output is weak because the agent doesn't understand your business. Nobody told it. That's the whole reason

the memory layer exists. Now, delegation. This is where it stops feeling like a chat window. Hermes has a delegate command that fans out multiple sub agents at once in the background. Your chat doesn't freeze. They all work

at the same time. And when they're all finished, everything comes back as one clean summary. And in the Quicksilver release, they added live transcripts. The moment your sub agents launch, you get a readable log for each one. You can watch any of them working in real time.

Every step, every result. So you could send five sub agents out to research five competitor communities and report back on what they offer members while you carry on with something else. They also fixed something that used to quietly lose people work. If the connection died between the agent finishing and actually delivering the answer, that answer just vanished. Now there's a delivery ledger. The finished

response gets saved and redelivered when things come back up. Nothing gets lost. Now the scheduling, this is where the system runs without you. Anti-gravity 2.0 Zero has scheduled tasks built in.

Agents get triggered on a schedule you set with the job you set. Hermes has its own scheduling, too, plus automation blueprints. You pick an automation by name, and it just asks you what it needs. No code, no weird symbols. You answer questions. So, you could set one

to run every Monday morning and pull the week's most useful AI updates into a post for the AI Profit Boardroom community feed. And because it's all inside the agent OS, you can see every scheduled job on one screen instead of trying to remember which tool you set it in. Now, the honest part, the number one mistake I see is people trying to automate everything in week one. They set up eight things, six break, they feel overwhelmed, and they quit. Do one automation per week. One, get it working

properly, then the next one. The second mistake is blaming the tool. Nine times out of 10, the agent isn't underperforming. it just has no idea how your business works. Fix the context and the same model gets noticeably better.

The third mistake is skipping the memory setup because it feels like admin. It's the highest leverage 20 minutes you'll spend. Everything after it gets easier. And one more thing, if you're currently on Open Claw and thinking about moving over, Hermes has a migration skill built for exactly that. It imports your memories, your command permissions, your custom skills, and then tells you plainly what it couldn't bring across and why. It won't be perfect, but it's

far smoother than starting from scratch. So, here's where this lands. Hermes remembers you and coordinates. Anti-gravity builds. The anti-gravity- CLI skill connects them. And the agent

OS is the screen that holds all of it together. One sidebar, one shared memory, one place where you can see what every agent has done. Once that's running, going back to a blank chat box every morning feels genuinely painful. If you want the agent OS, come and get it inside the AI profit boardroom. Full zip file ready to install. Hermes and

anti-gravity already wired together. The Obsidian memory layer already built. The anti-gravity- CLY skill already switched on and configured. You drop it in and it works. You'll also get the step-by-step videos for everything I just walked through. A 30-day road map for turning

it into real lead follow-up and client work. Four coaching calls every week where you bring your own setup and we fix it live. a prompt library built around these workflows and a member map so you can find people near you running the same stack. 3,800 members and there's always someone online. Link in the comments and description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com.

And if you want the full process, the notes from this video and over 100 AI use cases like this one. Join the AI success lab completely free links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes in there, plus a community of 85,000 people crushing it with AI. Thanks so much for watching. I'll see you on the next one. Google

just shipped something at IO 2026 that most people completely missed. It's called anti-gravity CLI. And it's not just a new tool. It's a new way to run an entire operation with AI. It's what happened. Google killed Gemini CLI.

Completely retired it. And in its place, they shipped anti-gravity CLY, a terminalbased system built entirely around one idea, running multiple AI agents at the same time on different tasks in parallel. As of June 18th, 2026, Gemini CLine stops working for all individual users. Google is forcing the migration. That's how serious they are about this. So, what does anti-gravity

CLI actually do? Here's the simplest way to put it. Old AI tools work like this. You type a prompt, you wait, you get a result, one thing at a time. Basically, having a conversation. Hey, if we

haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Anti-gravity CLI works completely differently. You describe a goal. The system breaks it into pieces,

launches separate agents for each piece, and all of them run at the same time. You get everything back faster, better, and without babysitting every step. The orchestrator agent receives your highle goal and figures out how to break it into subtasks. Then spawns individual sub aents, each one focused on a single task with its own context and runs them in parallel. In Cuba, that's a real shift. And most people using AI right

now have no idea it's even possible. Let me show you exactly what this looks like in practice. And I'm going to use the AI profit boardroom as the example throughout this whole video so you can see what real business workflows look like when you run them through this system. Let's get into the actual workflows. This one is for growing and managing the AI profit boardroom itself.

Here's the situation. You need new content, new member outreach, onboarding docs updated, and community responses handled. That's normally four separate jobs. The anti-gravity CLI. You run them all at once. What this workflow does

researches the latest AI automation trends, writes content around them, and generates onboarding materials all in one go. Here's the prompt. You are managing growth for the AI profit boardroom community. Run four parallel tasks. Agent one, research the top three AI automation trends this week and summarize the pain points business owners have around them. Agent two,

write a Twitter thread and a short LinkedIn post that positions the AI profit boardroom as the solution to those pain points. Agent three, generate five community engagement questions for the week's coaching call. Agent four, write a short welcome message for new members joining this week that references the current trends. result. In about 90 seconds, you get a week's worth of community content, all tied to the same theme, all done at the same time. The thing most people miss. It's

not that each individual task is hard. It's that doing four of them sequentially every single week eats hours. Hing them in parallel collapses that into minutes. And that's just the first workflow. The next one is actually where most business owners I talked to are losing the most time. And it's not

where you'd expect. Before we get into the workflows, if you want to know how to apply anti-gravity CLI inside your business, specifically how to set up multi- aent workflows that save you hours every week, the AI profit boardroom has a full 30-day roadmap walking you through exactly this. We've already got members running parallel AI workflows for their content, their outreach, and their client work. four coaching calls every week where we go deep on tools exactly like anti-gravity CLI and a community of 2,800 business owners who are figuring this stuff out together in the comments and description or go to apiprofit boardroom.com. This

one automates the entire onboarding experience for someone who just joined the AI profit boardroom. Right now when someone joins there's usually a gap. They land in the community. They're not sure where to start, what to do first, who to talk to. That gap is where people drop off. Anti-gravity CLI fixes this by

building a personalized onboarding pipeline automatically. What this workflow does takes a new member's profile or interest area and generates a full customized first week plan for them inside the community. Here's the prompt. A new member just joined the AI profit boardroom. Their main goal is using AI automation to get more leads for their service business. Run three tasks in

parallel. Agent one, create a personalized 7-day firstweek road mapap inside the community, including which tutorials to watch first, which coaching calls to attend, and which community threads to read. Agent two, write a direct message they can copy and send to three members in the community who are also in service businesses. Agent three, generate five prompts they can use this week inside the community's prompt library that are specific to lead generation. Result, a fully personalized onboarding pack ready in under 2 minutes for every single new member. Gravity

features dynamic sub aents for parallelized workflows and scheduled tasks for background automation. That second part matters here. You could schedule this workflow to trigger automatically every time a new member joins. No manual work. The system runs it in the background. Google, that's the

difference between using AI and building AI systems. This one builds the content machine that keeps the AI profit boardroom visible and growing every week. Most people do content like this, come up with an idea, write a script, post it, repeat one at a time, every time from scratch. This workflow changes that completely. What this workflow does turns one core topic into a full week of content across every platform all at once. Here's the prompt. The AI Profit

Boardroom is launching a new module on AI automation for service businesses. Create a full content week in parallel. Agent one, write a YouTube script outline covering what the module covers and why it matters for business owners who want more clients. Agent two, write five short form video hooks and captions for Instagram and Tik Tok. Agent three, write a 500word email to the existing member list about the new module focused on what they'll be able to do after completing it. Agent four, write 10

community post ideas for the week that tease the module content and drive engagement. Result, one brief. Four content streams done in parallel. Your entire week is planned before you've had your second coffee. This is what a real content team does, except here it's one person running a terminal command. The

reason this works is because anti-gravity CLI shares the same agent harness as anti-gravity 2.0, meaning all future improvements to the core agents are automatically applied across both surfaces. Every time Google improves the system, your workflows get better automatically. Mark Tech post. Now, here's what I want you to understand about why this matters. Google built

anti-gravity CLI because the multi- aent reality of 2026 required a single platform designed for it, not a tool bolted onto an older system. The decision to sunset Gemini CLI wasn't casual. Signals that the way we use AI is changing at the infrastructure level. Google developers, most people are still doing AI one prompt at a time. That's like having a team of people and only letting one of them work while the rest sit and wait. The people who figure out

parallel workflows first, who understand how to describe a goal, break it into agents, and let the system run. Those are the people who are going to be doing in an hour what takes everyone else a week. What you need is the right workflows, the right prompts, and the right community around you so you're not figuring it out alone. Look, Anti-Gravity CLI just landed. We're already building the playbooks for it inside the IP profit boardroom. put

together step-by-step tutorials showing you how to set up your first multi- aent workflow, how to structure your prompts so the agents actually do what you want, and a full 30-day road map for getting your business running on parallel AI workflows. Tuesday and Thursday coaching call this month is going deep on anti-gravity setup and workflow design so you can come with your actual setup and get it fixed live. 2,800 members, a lot of them already built in with this system. prompt library built for anti-gravity workflows and a member map so you can find other people near you who are building the same kind of workflows for their business in the comments and description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com and if you want the full process the SOPs and 100 plus AI use cases like the ones in this video join the AI success lab it's free links in the comments and description you'll get all the video notes from there plus access to our community of 67,000 members using AI to grow their businesses the future isn't one prompt at a time. The future is AI

workflows running entire operations in parallel. And that future is already here. Google quietly building the biggest agent platform on the planet. Why did they just split one app into five? What happens when Gemini's Flash model beats their own pro model? Stick

with me. This one's bigger than it looks. Hey, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie. I help people learn AI tools and actually use them, not just talk about them. Today, we're breaking down the new Google anti-gravity update.

what changed, what it means for how you build, and one thing most people are getting wrong about it. Let's get into it. So, here's the short version. Google Anti-gravity used to be one thing, a single app, an AI powered code editor where you type what you want and agents build it. That was the whole product.

Not anymore. Anti-gravity got rebuilt from the ground up and announced at Google IO in May. It's not one app now. It's five separate pieces working off the same brain. There's a standalone desktop app that does nothing but manage and orchestrate agents. There's the

original IDE still around, still the one Google recommends if you want to actually sit and edit code yourself. There's a CLI built-in Go that lets you run agents straight from your terminal. There's an SDK for developers who want to build on top of the whole system. And there's a managed agents API, so you can spin up an agent with a single API call and let it run in its own isolated environment. Five products, one shared agent engine underneath. That's the

shift. And the desktop app is the part that's actually new. It doesn't have a code editor in it at all on purpose. It exists purely to launch agents, watch what they're doing, run several of them at once, and schedule work in the background. If you want to touch the actual code yourself, you drop into the IDE. If you want to sit back and direct

traffic, you stay in the desktop app. That's the intended split. Now, here's where it gets interesting for how agents actually work. Now, Google added something called sub aents. Before this update, the main agent in anti-gravity could spin up one kind of helper, a browser agent, and that was basically it. Now, the main agent can spawn

multiple sub aents on the fly. Some are built-in specialists. Some are exact clones of the main agent working on their own slice of the problem. Some get defined right there in the moment based on whatever the task needs. Each sub agent inherits the same permissions as the main agent, but nothing extra. And

because each one can work in its own isolated space, bigger tasks get split up and finished faster without the main agents memory getting cluttered from juggling five things at once. to run a workflow inside the AI profit boardroom where I split one big content task into pieces and let sub aents handle each piece at the same time instead of one after another. That kind of parallel work is exactly what I show AI profit boardroom members how to set up for themselves. That's the first big shift. Let's talk about what else shipped because there's more here than most people realize. Git work trees are now

built in natively. When you start a new conversation in the desktop app, you can just pick new work tree and anti-gravity sets one up in the background before the conversation even starts. your main working folder stays clean and if the main agent decides to delegate to a few sub aents that need their own isolated space, it creates those work trees automatically and cleans them up when it's done. You don't have to manage any of that by hand. Then there's scheduled tasks. This one's simple but genuinely

useful. You can now tell an agent to run on a chron schedule instead of waiting for you to type a prompt. You just write it in plain English. Something like running a check once an hour or a one-time task a few minutes from now. The agent fires off on its own on the schedule you set without you sitting there prompting it every time. The

sidebar got a real rework, too. You can group your conversations by project, by status, or by how recent they are. You can rename projects. You can toggle work tree names on or off. Small thing, but if you're running a handful of agents across different projects at once, it actually matters. And then there's

voice. Anti-gravity 2.0 added live transcription across every tier, powered by Google's newer audio models. You click the mic icon next to any text box, and just talk. The model doesn't just transcribe your rambling, it cleans it up into a clear prompt before it goes to the agent. Most people type around 50

words a minute and talk around 150. So, if you're someone who thinks better out loud than you type, this closes that gap. The browser sub agent got smarter, too. Before this, the main agent sometimes launched the browser when it didn't need to, which got in the way when a human was actively working alongside it. Google tightened up when the browser sub agent actually gets triggered, so it's less likely to jump in uninvited. All of this runs on a new

default model, Gemini 3.5 Flash. And here's the detail that actually surprised me. Flash models are usually the cheaper, faster, weaker option compared to Pro. This is the first time a Flash model has actually outperformed Google's previous Protier model on coding and agentic benchmarks. It's also

fast. Google says it runs several times faster than other Frontier models on the same kind of tasks. That speed is a big part of why the multi-agent sub aent heavy workflows in this update actually feel usable instead of slow and clunky. Now, before you assume this makes every other tool obsolete, worth being straight with you. Independent testing after launch showed Flash winning the specific benchmarks Google chose to highlight. But ranking lower on broader

third party intelligence rankings and behind some competing models on tougher realworld coding benchmarks. So, it's fast and it's genuinely capable. Frontier leading across the board, not quite yet. That nuance matters if you're deciding what to actually build with day-to-day. One more thing worth flagging if you've been using the older Gemini CLI. Google is retiring it for

regular users. If your scripts or your daily workflow lean on the old CLI that access ends, an anti-gravity CLI is the replacement. There's even a built-in migration command that pulls your old config across automatically, so switching over isn't a total rebuild. Since that big May update, Google's kept shipping smaller updates on top of it, too. The most recent one added a built-in guide skill, so the agent can answer questions about how anti-gravity itself works without you leaving the app. It added the ability to actually

play audio files right inside the sidebar and the artifact viewer. File search got faster with better substring matching. And there's a new setting that lets you control how wide the conversation panel is, which sounds minor until you're staring at it for hours a day. Here's how I actually used pieces of this recently. I ran a schedule task inside the AI profit boardroom setup that checks a specific workflow on a set schedule so I'm not the one remembering to trigger it every single day. That's the kind of small

automation I build out and show step by step for people inside the AI profit boardroom because it's the difference between managing every task by hand and letting the system run itself in the background. This is exactly the kind of tool I break down inside the AI profit boardroom. We've got walkthroughs on setting up agent workflows like this one, live coaching calls where members bring their own setup and get help live, and a road map that walks you through building this stuff step by step instead of guessing. You can get the full zip file inside the agent OS ready to install. and we built out a complete 30-day road map here as a use cases guide so you're not guessing what to build first. If you're watching this and

thinking about actually setting up sub agents or scheduled tasks for your own workflow, that's exactly what we cover. Now, is this update worth switching your whole workflow over for? Depends on where you're starting from. If you're brand new to agent-based building and you don't already have a setup you're attached to, this is a genuinely solid place to start. And the public preview costs you nothing but time to try. If

you're already deep into another agent tool and it's working for you, this update doesn't hand you a reason to tear that down. What it does do is prove something bigger. Google isn't treating agents as a side feature bolted onto a code editor anymore. They're building an entire stack around it. The desktop app, the CLI, the SDK, the enterprise access through Google Cloud, all of it sharing one agent engine. That's a different bet

than just shipping a smarter chatbot. And that's really the story here. It's not one flashy feature. It's Google repositioning anti-gravity as infrastructure, not just an app you open when you want to write code. Sub agents that split up work. Work trees that

clean up after themselves. Schedule tasks that run without you. Voice input that turns rambling into clean prompts. A model that's faster without giving up much on capability. Put together. That's

a meaningfully different tool than what launched a few months ago. If you want the full process, SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI success lab. links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 75,000 members who are crushing it with AI. You can also get the full zip file inside the agent OS ready to install. And we built out a

complete 30-day road map here as a use cases guide to go with it. If you're going to actually go try this update yourself, you're going to run into real questions fast. Which piece do you even start with, the desktop app or the CLI? How do you set up your first sub agent without it going sideways? How do you build a schedule task that actually does what you want instead of running wild in the background? That's exactly where the

AI profit boardroom helps you move faster. We've got tutorials built specifically around tools like anti-gravity, live coaching calls where you can ask questions about your exact setup and prompts and road maps so you're not starting from a blank screen. You can get the full zip file inside the agent OS ready to install. And we built out a complete 30-day road map here as a use cases guide so you can follow it step by step instead of figuring it out alone. Head to apiprofitboardroom.com

and I want to show it to you the way I actually use it right inside my own agent OS on my laptop. So here's what just dropped from Google Anti-Gravity. They call it agent teams. You type one command/teamwork preview and it spins up a whole team of AI helpers. Not one AI, a team. And they split up the work and

do it all at the same time. Let me say that again in plain words. One command. A full team of AI workers all going at once. And I'm not looking at it in some coding app. I've got the anti-gravity

update running inside my agent OS. That's the little dashboard I keep on my laptop. One screen. I talk to all my AI helpers there. I can even talk to them out loud. So when I fire off this new

team command, I watch the whole thing happen right on my own screen. Mine, not on some website, not in the cloud, on my machine. Now, stick with me because the way this team works is the cool part. When you start a team, you don't get one AI trying to do everything. You get different helpers with different jobs.

Think of it like a real team at a company. One person plans, one person does the work, one person checks the work, and one person double checks to make sure nobody cheated or cut corners. Google actually gave them names. There's a planner. There's a worker. That's

that's the one that does the building. There's a reviewer that looks over the work. There's a critic that tries to break it and find holes. And there's an auditor. This one is wild. It whole job

is to catch the other A is when they fake it. Wait, A is fake. It? Yeah. Let me tell you what happened. When Google

first tested this, the team finished a huge job way too fast. Suspiciously fast. So, they looked closer. Turns out the AI helpers were peeking at old work from past runs and pretending they did it fresh. So Google built the auditor to stop that. It checks if the work is

real. If the AI is faking, the auditor calls it out. Think about how smart that is. One AI whose only job is to catch the other A is lying. That's the kind of thing that makes this feel different.

Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. And here's why that matters more than it sounds. For a long time, the biggest worry people had about AI wasn't that it couldn't do the work. It's that

you couldn't trust it. It would say it did something and you'd have to go check every single line yourself. That checking took so long that a lot of people just gave up and did the job themselves. So, building an AI that watches the other AIs, that's the piece that was missing. That's what turns a pile of AI helpers into something you can actually walk away from. So, why

should you care? Because these helpers don't just take turns, they work at the same time. While one plans, another builds. While one builds, another checks. It's a real team moving together all on my laptop screen in the agent OS.

Okay, quick pause here because if you're watching this and thinking, "This sounds amazing, but I have no idea how I'd actually use it." That's exactly why the AI profit boardroom exists. Here's the thing. We took this whole agent OS, the same dashboard I'm showing you right now, and we packed it into a zip file. You download it, you unzip it, it runs on your laptop. Inside the boardroom,

you get that full agent OS zip ready to install, plus step-by-step tutorials that walk you through setting up agent teams like this one and pointing them at real jobs in your business. We do four live coaching calls every week where you can ask questions about your own setup and watch us build with it. 2,800 business owners are in there right now. A lot of them running these exact agent tools dayto-day. Links in the comments and description or just go to apiprofitboardroom.com.

Grab the agent OS zip and follow along. Now, back to it. Let me show you what a team like this can actually do for a normal business. Not coding stuff, real work. Want to grow the AI profit boardroom? I type one goal into my agent

OS. Plan a full welcome email series for new boardroom members. The team splits up. The planner maps out the emails. The worker writes them. The reviewer checks

the tone and fixes weak lines. The critic reads it like a picky customer and points out what's confusing. And I just watch it happen. One goal in, a finished set of emails out. See how that works? I didn't do five jobs. I gave one

goal. The team did the five jobs. Here's another one. Let's say I want more people to find the boardroom. I tell the team, "Come up with 30 short video ideas about AI tools for small business owners." Boom. Planner sorts the topics.

Worker writes the hooks. Reviewer cleans them up. I get a full list while I go make coffee. That's the whole point of a team. You stop doing one small thing at a time. You hand over a big goal and let

the worker split it up. Let me give you one more example because I want this to really sink in. Say you've got a big pile of customer questions sitting in your inbox. same questions over and over. Normally, that's an hour of your day gone. With a team, you say one

thing. Read these questions, group the ones that are the same, and write me a clear answer for each group. The planner sorts them. The worker writes the answers. The reviewer makes sure the tone stays friendly, and you come back to a finished set of replies you can just copy out. That's a whole morning

handed off in one sentence, and this used to be locked away. When agent teams first came out, only the top tier plan could touch it, the expensive one. Most people were shut out. But that changed. it rolled out wider so more paid plans can use it now. So, this isn't some

far-off thing for big tech companies. Regular folks can run it. Now, let me be real with you for a second because I don't want to oversell it. These teams use a lot of power. When you've got five AI helpers all going at once, that eats up your usage fast. So, this isn't for

tiny little tasks. You don't call a whole team to write one sentence. You call the team for big jobs. The kind of job that would take you a whole afternoon. That's where a team shines.

And that's actually good news for you because the big, slow, boring jobs in your business, those are exactly the ones you want to hand off. The stuff that eats your whole day. Let the team take it. Let me put it another way so it's crystal clear. Think about the difference between asking one person to paint a whole house versus sending in a crew. One person, you're waiting all

week. A crew shows up, one tapes the edges, one rolls the walls, one does the trim, and it's done by dinner. That's the exact jump we're talking about here. Same job, way less waiting. And you didn't lift a brush. Here's what I keep

thinking about. A year ago, AI could barely finish one small task on its own. It needed you holding its hand the whole way. Now, you give it a go, walk away, and come back to finish work that another AI already checked. That's a huge jump, and it happened fast. So,

what does that mean for you sitting there watching this? It means the way work gets done is shifting. Right now, you might do everything yourself. You plan the post, you write it, you check it, you fix it. Four jobs, one you. With

a tool like this, you become the boss. You give the goal. The team does the four jobs. You just point. And the people who learn how to point, how to give good goals to these teams, they're going to get way more done than everybody else. Not because they work

harder, because they've got a team. And I want to be honest about what giving a good goal even means because that's the real skill here. It's not magic words. It's just being clear. Instead of saying, "Help me with emails," you say, "Write me five welcome emails for new members." Keep them short, friendly, and

end each one with a question. The clearer you are, the better the team does. That's it. That's the whole skill. And the good news is you already know how to do it. You do it every time you

explain a job to another person. Let me show you one more thing on my screen here because I love how this looks in the agent OS. When the team runs, I can see each helper. I can see the planner working. I can see the worker building.

I can see the checker waiting its turn. It's like watching a little office run itself. And it's all on my laptop. Nothing leaves my machine. No accounts, nothing to log into. Just me and my team

of AIS. That's why I run the anti-gravity update inside my agent OS instead of some app. I like keeping it all on one screen. I like talking to it out loud. I like that my chats save right to my notes. It just feels like

mine. Now, here's a question you might have. Do I need to be a coder to use this? No. That's the best part. You're

not writing code. You're giving instructions in plain English. Plan this. Write that. Check this. If you can

text a friend, you can run a team. The AI handles the hard part. And that flips the whole thing. For years, this kind of power was only for tech people. Now, it's for anybody who can type a clear goal. A shop owner, a coach, a person

running a small online store, anybody. So, think about your own week. What's the big job you keep putting off? The one that takes hours. Maybe it's writing out your whole sales process. Maybe it's

planning a month of posts. Maybe it's sorting through a pile of customer questions. That's a team job. That's exactly what you hand to agent teams. And you don't have to figure it out alone. This is the stuff we build

together inside the AI profit boardroom every single day. You get the agent OS zip file ready to install. So, you're running the same setup I just showed you. You get daily tutorials that show you how to point these AI teams at real business jobs, getting more leads, saving hours every week, handling the boring work for you, four coaching calls a week where we go deep on setups just like this one, and you can ask about your own. A prompt library so you always know exactly what to type. And a member

map so you can find and team up with other people near you who are building the same way. There's always someone online to help. Grab it all in the comments and description or head to apiprofitboardroom.com. And one more thing before you go. If you

want the full notes from this video, plus over 100 more real AI use cases like this one, come join the AI success lab. It's our free community. You'll get all the video notes, all the step-by-step stuff, and access to 85,000 members who are all learning this together. It's free. Links are in the comments and description. Go grab your

spot. That's the new Google anti-gravity update. one command, a whole team of AI workers, planning, building, checking all at once, right on my own laptop in the agent OS. This is the direction everything is heading. The people who learn to run a team now are going to be miles ahead. So don't just watch it. Go

run one. There's a Google tool called anti-gravity 2.0. It's one of the most powerful AI tools they've ever made. Most people have heard of it by now, but almost nobody is using it the right way.

And that's the real story here. On its own, it's good. inside my agent OS, it becomes something way bigger. Today, I'll show you exactly why and how I use it. First, let me tell you what anti-gravity even is in plain words.

Most AI is a chat box. You type, it types back. That's it. Anti-gravity is different. It's a launchpad. You don't

just chat with it. You send it off to do jobs for you. Real jobs, whole websites, and it can run a bunch of little helper A's all at once, all working on your goal at the same time. That sounds amazing, right? And it is. But when I

first tried it on its own, I hit a wall. Three walls actually. And I bet you'd hit the same ones. Wall one, it has no memory. Every time you open it, it forgets you. It doesn't know who you

are. It doesn't know your business. So, you waste the first part of every chat just explaining yourself again every single time. Wall two, it's messy. You build something great. The next week,

you can't even find it. Stuff gets lost. Wall three, and this is the big one, nothing builds up. Every chat starts from zero. So, the AI is exactly as smart on day 100 as it was on day one.

It never learns your world. It's like building a race car engine and dropping it into an old beatup car. The engine is great, but the car around it holds it back. So, that's the whole secret of why anti-gravity is worth it inside my agent OS. I built the car around the engine, and the car is a memory. Let me explain.

Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Here's what makes it click. I connect anti-gravity to a memory vault.

It's a simple free note app called Obsidian. Think of it like one big notebook that every AI can read. Inside that notebook is my whole business. Who I am, what I sell, my customers, how I talk, everything. And here's the wild part. I don't fill that notebook by

hand. I have a little device on my desk that listens to my day and writes it all down for me. Mine has saved over 1,500 memories already without me lifting a finger. It just remembers everything for me. Now, watch what that does. When

anti-gravity is plugged into that memory, everything changes. I type, "Build me a landing page." But now it's not guessing. It has 1,500 memories about me to pull from. So the page it builds actually sounds like me. It

actually fits my business. Same tool, totally different result. All because it finally knows me. Let me make that even more real. Say I want the AI to write a welcome email for new AI profit boardroom members. Without memory, I'd

get some flat generic email. With memory, it already knows what the community is, who joins, and how I talk. So, the email sounds like me and fits the people getting it. That's the whole difference. Memory turns a stranger into someone who knows your business cold.

Let me give you one real example. This weekend, I typed one line, build a landing page for the AI profit boardroom that shows how it saves people time and gets them more customers. That's it. And because the AI already knew all about the community from my memory vault, it built the whole page in one pass. Design, words, everything. I didn't

touch a line of code. And I'm not a coder. I want you to sit with that for a second. One sentence in a finished web page out that knows my business. That's what memory does. Now, before I show you

the rest, let me quickly help you with something. If you're watching this thinking, "This looks amazing, but how do I set the memory part up?" That's exactly what we do inside the AI profit boardroom. You get the full agent OS zip file ready to install, not a guide about it. The real system with anti-gravity already wired in. You get the memory

vault set up step by step. So all your a is finally know your business. You get four coaching calls every week where I walk you through the whole thing live and daily tutorials as new tools drop. There are 3,600 founders in there right now running this exact setup. Come join us. The link is

in the description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. Okay, let me keep showing you what this thing does. So, we've got anti-gravity, the engine, and we've got the memory, so it knows you. Now, let me show you the dashboard that ties it all together.

That's the agent OS itself. Think of it like the home screen on your phone, but instead of apps, you've got a Claude, Gemini, Hermes, Anti-gravity, all of them side by side on one screen, and they all share that same memory. So, they all know your business. Before this, my day was a mess. A tab for anti-gravity, a tab for Claude, a tab for chat GPT, a window for my files. I

was reexplaining myself 15 times a day. Now, one screen, one brain, everything in one place. I stopped juggling tabs and started running a team. And anti-gravity brings some real firepower to that team. Let me show you the parts that matter most. The first thing I use

a lot is helper teams. You don't just get one AI doing one job. You can send out a whole team of little A's that work together on one problem at the same time. So, a big job that used to take forever gets split up and done fast. Say I want a full set of posts for the AI profit boardroom. One helper writes

them, one makes the images, one checks them all at once. The second thing I love is scheduled jobs. This means your AI can wake up on its own, do a task, and report back, even while you sleep. So, say, I want to keep an eye on what's trending for the AI profit boardroom every morning. I set it once, then every day it just does it. I wake up and the

work is waiting. The third thing is voice. You don't even have to type anymore. You just talk. Half my sessions now start by me just speaking out loud what I want. It's that easy. Now, let me

show you a few more rooms on this one screen because there's a lot here. There's a studio for making pictures, video, and sound. You type what you want and it makes it. So, if I need a fresh image for an AI profit boardroom post, I just ask and it's done. No jumping to some other app. No downloading and

re-uploading. There's a board where you drop in a job and a team of Aers picks it up and builds it. You just watch it move from to-do to done. It's like having a whole team you never have to manage. And there's the memory room itself. This is the heart of it all.

Every note about your business lives here. You can search over a thousand memories in one spot. And here's the magic part I really want you to get. Every time your AIS finish a job, that work gets saved back into the memory, too. So, the notebook gets bigger and smarter every single day. That last part

is the whole game. Let me say it simply. Most people start over with every chat. So, their AI never gets smarter. Day one, day 100. Same thing. Mine is the

opposite. Every job it does makes it smarter. More work means more memory. More memory means smarter A is. Smarter A is mean better work. And better work

means even more memory. Round and round. It's a wheel that spins faster the longer you use it. You never start from zero again. So think about what this really means for you. You don't build a

business with one great prompt. You build it with a system that gets a little smarter every single day. That's the difference. A tool you pick up and put down does nothing over time. A system that remembers everything grows with you. Let me paint the two paths so

it's clear. Path one, you keep going the slow way. You open a fresh chat. You explain yourself again. You get a flat generic answer. You lose the file next

week. And every new AI tool that comes out is just one more thing to figure out from scratch. That's the treadmill. And it never stops. Path two, you set up this system once. Every AI knows your

business. Every job gets saved and makes the next one better. And every new tool that comes out just slots in and makes the whole thing stronger. Six months from now, you're miles ahead of the person still starting from zero. Same tools, totally different result. The

only difference is the system around them. And here's why I think you need to move on this now. The tools are moving so fast. A new better AI comes out almost every week. If you don't have a system, every new tool is just one more thing to learn from scratch. But if you

have this setup, every new tool just slots in and makes your whole team stronger. That's the difference between falling behind and pulling way ahead. Let me answer the question I get most. People say, "I'm not technical. This sounds too hard." Let me stop you there.

If you can copy and paste a file path, you can run this. That's the whole skill. We have members in the boardroom who never touched anything like this before. They followed the steps and now they've got the full system running. It's not about being smart with computers. It's about following the

steps. People also ask, "Do I really have time to set up a whole new system?" Here's my honest answer. You don't have time not to. The day you set it up is the day it starts saving you hours.

Every day you wait is the day it could have been working for you. And one more. People think all AI tools are the same. That there's no point setting it up this special way. But that's the whole lesson here. The setup around the AI matters

more than the AI itself. Remember the race car engine in the old beatup car? same engine as a race car, but it loses every time because the car around it is weak. Two people can use the exact same AI. One uses it as a chat box. One uses

it inside a real system. Their results aren't even close. I want to be honest with you. Could you build all of this yourself? Yes, every piece for free.

Even if you had the weekends and knew where to look, I did it the hard way first. It took me a long time and a lot of failed tries to get it right. But you don't have to do it the hard way. That's the whole point of what I built. So, here's the last thing. If you want this

exact setup ready to go, come get it inside the AI profit boardroom. You don't get a course about it. You get the actual agent OS, the full zip file with anti-gravity already wired in, ready to install today. You get the memory vault setup so all your A is finally know your business. You get every prompt and you get four coaching calls a week where we build it together, live step by step, so you never get stuck. There's a member

map so you can find people near you and someone is always online to help. Go grab the agent OS. The link is in the comments in the description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com. And if you want more free stuff like this, come join the AI success lab. It's

our free AI community. You'll get all the notes from this video plus 100 plus real AI use cases just like the one I showed you today. And you'll be around 75,000 people all learning this together. That link is in the comments and description, too. That's anti-gravity plus agent OS, one engine, one memory, every AI working as one team that gets smarter every day. Go build

yours. I'll see you in the next one. Did Google just make anti-gravity worse? That's what everyone said after the update. Slower, messier, harder to find your own stuff. But here's what nobody's

showing you. The problem was never anti-gravity. It's what you plug it into. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and I help people actually learn and use AI tools in their work, not just watch demos and forget them a day later. And today I'm going to show you exactly how I run Google anti-gravity inside my agent OS and why that one move makes it feel 10 times more powerful. Stick

around because near the end I'll show you the one layer almost everyone skips and it's the layer that quietly changes everything. So let's back up for a second. Google Anti-gravity is Google's agent first coding platform. And when they shipped anti-gravity 2.0, they changed the whole idea of what it is. It

stopped being a code editor you type into and it became a command center for agents. You describe what you want and a team of agents goes off and builds it. You can run a whole bunch of them at once, all working on different pieces at the same time. Under the hood, it runs on Gemini 3.5 Flash by default. That's

Google's fast agent model, and they actually built it alongside anti-gravity. So, the two are tuned to work together. It's quick, it's strong at coding, and it's made for using tools and jumping between tasks without falling apart. They also ship the anti-gravity CLY. That's the command line version rebuilt from scratch to be faster and it fully replaces the old Gemini CLI. So the same way people talk

to clawed code from their terminal, you can now talk to anti-gravity the same way. And that CLI is the exact piece I plug straight into my agent OS. Here's the thing though, a lot of people opened anti-gravity 2.0 after the update and honestly hated it. The editor they were used to basically disappeared overnight.

The new app is slower to load. It's harder to find what you built. And out of the box, it's just a bit messy to move around in. I've had it open on a fast machine and still sat there waiting for it to load. So, people blame the tool, but the tool isn't the problem.

Gemini 3.5 Flash is genuinely good. The agents are good. The problem is you're handed a powerful engine with no dashboard wrapped around it. No memory, no proper place to find things. You

build something brilliant on a Monday and by Thursday you can't even find it again. Every session starts cold like the whole thing is meeting you for the very first time. And that's the exact reason I put the whole thing inside my agent OS and it's why I built out a full walkthrough for it inside the IP profit boardroom. Inside the IR profit boardroom, I've got the complete agent OS as a zip file you can just download and install with anti-gravity already wired in for you. There's a 30-day road map that takes you from zero to running your own agent command center one step at a time. There are the walkthroughs

for plugging in the anti-gravity CLI, connecting your memory layer, and setting up the dashboard so it looks the way you want. and we run coaching calls every single week where you can bring your own setup and get it sorted out live. So, if you're watching this thinking, I want this exact system, the AI profit boardroom is where the whole thing lives, ready to go. Okay, so let me actually show you how this works and why it ends up feeling 10 times better than raw anti-gravity. The mistake most people make is they treat anti-gravity like a hammer. Pick it up, use it, put

it down, nothing carries over to the next time. What I do instead is run it as just one layer inside a bigger system. I call it the Goldie gravity grid, but the plain version is this. You've got the engine, which is anti-gravity, and Gemini 3.5 flash. Then

you wrap it in four more layers, and each layer pulls the others higher. And don't underestimate what that engine can actually do. These agents don't just write some code, and hope for the best. Anti-gravity can open a real Chrome window, click through your app, fill in forms, take screenshots of what it sees, and loop back to fix whatever broke. That's real testing, not guesswork. It

also runs on compute-based limits now instead of a simple message cap. So, you're not sitting there counting how many times you're allowed to hit send. Google even showed it running dozens of sub agents at once on a single job. So the raw power is genuinely there. The setup is just what lets you actually use it. The first layer is memory and this

is the big one. Out of the box, anti-gravity forgets you between sessions. So inside my agent OS, I connect it to a memory vault built on Obsidian. Obsidian is just plain text notes on your own machine. Nothing fancy at all, but it holds everything the system knows what I'm working on, who's on the team, what we've already built.

And anti-gravity reads from that before it starts a task. So it never has to start from nothing again. The second layer is the dashboard. Instead of anti-gravity in one window, clawed in another tab, a terminal over here, and your notes over there. Everything sits in one command center. Anti-gravity,

Hermes, Gemini, Codeex, all in the same place. I can see what each agent is working on, preview what they built, and open it in a new tab in a single click. Think of it like the home screen on your phone, but instead of apps, you've got agents. The third layer is the CLI I mentioned earlier. That's the piece that lets me customize the whole look and flow of my agent OS instead of being stuck with the default design that so many people didn't like. And the fourth

layer, the one I told you to wait for, is the loop. This is the part almost nobody builds. Every time an agent produces something, that output feeds back into the memory vault. More outputs means more context. More context means smarter agents. Smarter agents means

better outputs the next time around. So, the system actually gets better the longer you run it. Day 100 looks nothing like day one. Let me give you a real example of how I use this. I use my agent OS with anti-gravity to build out a full content series designed to bring more people into the AI profit boardroom. I fed it a list of topics AI

profit boardroom members were already asking about, pulled straight from the memory vault, and let the agents draft the scripts, the hooks, and the captions in one run because the memory layer already knew the voice and the audience. I didn't have to explain any of it from scratch. That kind of content is exactly what pulls the right people into the AI profit boardroom. Here's another one. I ran a set of agents inside my agent OS to map out the whole day one experience.

New AI profit boardroom members go through anti-gravity planned the welcome messages, the first steps and the resource walkthrough all from a single prompt. And because it saved everything back into the vault, the next time I improved it, it built on what was already there instead of starting over. So, new AI Profit Boardroom members land inside and instantly know exactly what to do next. And here's one I'd run next. I'd point the same setup at a full lead generation flow for the AI Profit Boardroom. I'd have it plan the content,

the hooks, and the follow-up steps in one workflow with the memory layer, keeping the whole thing consistent. That means more of the right people finding their way into the AI profit boardroom without me having to rebuild the plan every single time. So, if you want to set this up yourself, here's what actually matters and where people go wrong. First, don't just open anti-gravity and start typing. That's the number one mistake. Set up your

memory vault first, even a simple Obsidian folder so the system has something real to read before it starts. Second, run anti-gravity alongside an editor, not instead of one. Google actually built 2.0 to sit next to a code editor, not to replace it. So, keep both open and let each one do its job. Third,

start every task on Gemini 3.5 Flash. It's fast and it handles most things easily. Only jump up to a bigger model when a task genuinely needs it. Don't reach for the heavy stuff by default.

Fourth, save everything back into the vault. That's the loop. If the output doesn't feed back in, you don't get the flywheel and you're right back to starting cold every single time. And fifth, keep it simple. One dashboard, one memory layer, one place for everything. The simplest system is the

one you'll actually keep using a month from now. So, here's the honest truth. Anti-gravity 2.0 is the most powerful agent platform Google has ever shipped. But on its own, it's just the engine. No

memory, no dashboard, no loop. When you wrap it in an agent OS, that's the moment it actually becomes 10 times better. And if you only take one thing from this whole video, make it the loop. That's the layer that separates a tool you use once and forget from a system that keeps getting sharper while you sleep. If you want the full process, the SOPs, and over 100 AI use cases just like this one, come join the AI Success Lab. The links are in the comments and

the description. You'll get all the notes from this video, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are all learning to use this stuff and crushing it with AI. And if you're ready to actually build this, here's where to go. The moment you start setting up anti-gravity inside an agent OS, you're going to hit a few little snacks. Where does the memory vault connect? How do

you wire the CLI in properly? Which model do you use for which job? That's exactly what we solve inside the AI profit boardroom. You get the full agent OS as a zip file ready to install with anti-gravity already plugged in. the 30-day road map to walk you through it, the tutorials, the prompts, and weekly coaching calls where I help you get unstuck fast. It's over 4,000 members

building this together right now. Come and join us at aiprofitboardroom.com. Google just dropped the biggest anti-gravity updates ever. Multiple AI agents working at the same time on different machines while you sleep. And

you can control all of it from your phone. This changes everything for how you build and grow online. I'm going to show you exactly what's new and how to use it. Let's go. Now, let me tell you why these anti-gravity updates matter so much for SEO and growing your business online. Because this isn't just about

writing code faster. This is about running entire systems with AI. And I'm going to show you how the AI profit boardroom is already using this to build faster, rank higher, and grow bigger. Let's start with the biggest one. Google just added Gemini 3.7 Flash to

anti-gravity. And this model is a beast. Google calls it their most intelligent workhorse model yet. But here's the part that actually matters. It doesn't just write code. It thinks, it plans. It

breaks down big problems into steps and executes them one by one. That's the difference. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. On the Deep

SWE benchmark, Gemini 3.7 Flash scored 65.3%. The previous model scored 49%. That's a massive jump. On Frontier Code, it went

from 34.4% to 43.6%. And on Webde Arena, it scored 1588 ELO. These aren't just numbers. What this means is the AI is

getting dramatically better at building real things fast. Now, here's where it gets interesting for the AI profit boardroom. Let me show you exactly what Gemini 3.7 Flash can do with a real workflow. What it's for, building a fully optimized SEO landing page for the AI profit boardroom that attracts the right audience, explains the value of AI automation, and turns visitors into members. The prompt, build a new landing

page for the AI profit boardroom. Clearly explain what AI automation is and why it matters for business owners. Include a strong SEO optimized headline, a benefit section, a social proof section, and a clear call to action. Structure all headings for search engines. The result: Anti-gravity plans the page, writes the copy, builds the structure, optimizes the headings, and fixes any errors automatically. One

prompt, a complete conversion ready, SEO optimized page. That is the power of Gemini 3.7 Flash. It doesn't just write words. It builds things that work from start to finish. Now, here is another

workflow that shows how powerful this model really is when you give it a bigger challenge. What it's for, creating a full blog content plan for the AI profit boardroom that targets real keywords people are searching for and builds long-term organic traffic. The prompt, research the top 10 keywords that business owners and entrepreneurs search for around AI automation and business growth. For each keyword, write a fully optimized blog post with proper headings, meta description, internal linking suggestions, and a call to action pointing to the AI profit boardroom community. The result, 10 complete SEO ready blog posts built around real search demand. Each one

structured to rank on Google and drive qualified traffic directly to the AI profit boardroom. That is two workflows, both built on one model, both producing real SEO output. And we are just getting started. Now, before I go deeper, I want to make sure you're not just building great things with AI, but actually getting found on Google, too. Because here's the truth. You can have the best

landing page in the world, and if nobody finds it on search, it doesn't matter. That's where SEO comes in. And that's where my team at Goldie Agency can help. We work with business owners every single day to help them rank higher on Google, drive more organic traffic, and turn that traffic into real growth. If you're serious about getting more people to find you online, book a free SEO strategy session using the link in the description. We'll sit down, look at

your site, look at your niche, and show you exactly what we would do to get you ranking. No fluff, just a real strategy built for your business. The link is right below. Go book your spot, and then come back because there's a lot more to cover. Okay, update number two, custom agents. This is the one that changes

everything for the AI profit boardroom strategy. Google introduced custom agents in anti-gravity. Instead of one AI doing everything, you can build a team of specialized agents. Each one has its own instructions, tools, and permissions. Each one has a specific job. Think about it like hiring. You

don't hire one person to do marketing, sales, development, analytics, and customer service all at once. You hire specialists. Custom agents let you do that with AI. Here's how the AI profit boardroom builds its agent team inside Anti-Gravity. Agent one is the research agent. Its job is to find out everything

about who we're trying to reach, what problems they have, what words they search on Google, what content is already ranking, what gaps exist. This agent feeds everything else. Agent two is the SEO content agent. It takes the research and builds content that ranks. Blog posts, landing pages, service pages, all structured for search engines, all written to convert readers into members of the AI profit boardroom.

Agent three is the landing page agent. It builds the actual pages, headlines, copy, layout, calls to action. It builds it all and makes sure the SEO structure is clean. Agent 4 is the QA agent. It checks everything. Broken links, slow

load times, missing meta tags, broken forms. It finds the issues before Google does. Agent 5 is the analytics agent. It looks at what's working, what pages are ranking, what's converting, where people are dropping off. It gives you the data you need to make better decisions. And

then there's a coordinator agent sitting above all of them. You give it one goal and it delegates to the right agents. Here's the full custom agents workflow for the AI profit boardroom. What it's for, running a complete SEO growth system for the AI profit boardroom using five specialized agents working together toward one goal. The prompt, build a complete SEO content system for the AI profit boardroom. Research the top

keywords our audience searches for around AI automation and business growth. Create fully optimized content for the top five opportunities. Build landing pages for each keyword. Test all pages for technical SEO issues. Analyze results and report back with the next priorities. The result. Five agents work

in parallel. Research done. Content written. Pages built. Technical issues flagged and fixed. A full SEO system

running on one instruction with no manual work in between. That is one instruction. Five agents, real output. That's custom agents. Let me cover three things real quick. First, if you're

completely new to SEO and want to build a solid foundation alongside all these AI tools, we have a free SEO course in the description with over 260 lessons. It covers everything. How content strategy works, how to approach link building, what a good keyword looks like, how to structure a page so Google actually understands it. How to build authority over time. This course has helped thousands of people go from zero to actually understanding SEO and using it to grow their presence online. It's

completely free. Over 260 lessons, nothing held back. The link is right below this video. Go grab it and work through it alongside everything you're building with anti-gravity because the combination of AI automation and solid SEO fundamentals is where the real results come from. Second, if you want to go further and be part of a community that's using AI automation every single day to build systems, grow online, and stay ahead of what's coming, the AI profit boardroom is where that's happening. This is where we share real

workflows, real strategies, and real examples of AI being used to grow businesses the right way, not theory, not hype, practical stuff that actually works. The link is in the description. Come check it out and see if it's the right fit for where you want to go. Third, if you're ready to get serious about your SEO and you want a real strategy built around your business, book a free SEO strategy session with my team at Goldie Agency. We work with business owners who are already putting in the work but need help cutting through the noise and actually ranking on Google. We'll look at your site, your

niche, your competition, and show you exactly what we would do to move the needle. No pitch, no pressure, just a real conversation about what's possible for your business. The link to book is in the description right now. Spots are limited, so go grab one before they're gone. Drop a comment below and let me know which anti-gravity update blew your mind the most. Julian reads every single

comment. I'll see you in the next one. Imagine having Hermes Agent and Anti-gravity working together in one place, building, automating, and creating for you 24/7. I just ran a full masterass breaking down exactly that. And in this video, I'm going to show you the exact setup, how to combine Hermes and Antiggravity so your agents know who you are, understand you, and get smarter every single day. I'm also answering the

biggest questions people have right now about context limits, model choices, migrating from other tools, and what actually works in the real world. If you've ever felt stuck or overwhelmed or like you're not getting the results you should be getting with AI, this is a video that fixes that. Let's get into it. What I'm going to do is just answer some questions inside our community and let's see what we got. Uh, so this is interesting. So, for example, Allan has

just posted inside their profit board him about anti-gravity and he says be careful of anti-gravity too cuz it's a major change from the old version and Google removed the built-in Visual Studio Code style editor and terminal. So, it's now a standalone agent only app designed purely for chatting with agents managing projects. So, you can actually use this guide to go back step by step. That's why I've set up the agent operating system really because if you look at this, it's more agentic, right? anti-gravity just it's like a standard chat as you can see but if you want to turn it into something fully aentic and work with all your AI agents then you can use the OS instead what else we got here says can anyone suggest like an AI agent chat workflow with MA10 I think we actually got training on this over here so we actually have an example tutorial on how to do that right here to build your first sort of chat agent essentially let's see what questions we got here so says antiggravity 2 with contact 7 considered more powerful honestly I think the best thing you can do is just give it more context about you, who you are, etc. And then it'll be

way more agentic, right? That's what we've done with the memory system here and all the skills that we have on the left hand side. For example, like the SEO tool, the goal section, the journal, the camb board, the notebook, the studio. I think that makes it way more powerful instead. Anessa says, "Ola, nice to see you. Thanks for joining."

Jason says, "Thanks for the updates. Happy to help." Anti-gravity is needed now for Let's see. Yeah. So basically anti-gravity IDE removed from anti-gravity. That's what's happened

here. So if you go into anti-gravity doesn't have an IDE, right? For anyone watching, ID is just like a kind of way of seeing code and everything else. And you can see it's much more like the codeex setup of chat GPT super app rather than the original version of anti-gravity which was more like visual studio code if you've come across that before. So that says she just got open claw with hostinger which content to use to start automating the content they have right it really depends what type of content you're trying to automate but for example if you're trying to automate SEO content then I would use our WordPress with openclaw training so basically what you can do with openclaw is you can use it so you can use it to for example have your WordPress login details and then deploy content to your website right so you can give be a keyword. If you want open core to create

video content for you instead, then what I'd recommend is that you set up hyperframes with it or reotion. Now, with hyperframes, the training that we have is with Hermes, but you can do exactly the same process with open claw. It's literally the same process. So, Neil was saying he doesn't have many resources. What should he be using if you don't have much? So, like a MacBook,

this is a good setup actually. So a MacBook alpha and Hermes is really good. So if you're using Hermes, you can use it for free with a MacBook plus with our alpha the API and they are completely free which is pretty cool. Let's see what other questions we've got inside the comments here. So Jason says I came from Visual Studio Code over to anti-gravity. So I'm going to need to

need ID for now until I get adjust adjusted. Yeah, I think for a lot of people used to the old setup it's going to be a bit of a transition on the UI. Gaz says, "I didn't like anti-gravity 2.0." I think a lot of people don't like it actually from what I'm seeing in inside the comments and inside the latest questions. I think they don't

like the setup, but again, that's why we've built the agent operating system, right? Cuz you can make it much more aentic and customize it exactly how you want. Jason says, "Is NA10 relevant anymore?" That is a really good question. For me personally, I don't personally use NA10 anymore. And the

reason for that is because with N8N it's a bit more technical and harder and more timeconuming to set up than if you just go straight to Hermes agent. So for example if I'm using N8 it's going to take me ages to set up an automation. Whereas if I want to set up an automation with Hermes I just type exactly what I want. For example let's say I'm trying to do computer use. That literally took me about 3 hours last year to set up with NA10. When I set up

with Hermes it took me about 20 minutes, right? And now I can use computer use anytime I want inside the Asian operating system. So that's the way that I look at it. Let's see what other questions we got here. By the way, if you ever want me to answer your questions and video tutorial like today, then you can just join the profit boardroom and just post inside the community and then we can help you. I do

this every day for members. So this is really questions. So Connor says, for example, excited to learn. I'm new to AI. Got a basic setup. Would love to

hear some tips from you all on what to do and what to avoid early on in the AI automation journey. In terms of what to do, I would just focus on one automation per week and just simplify as much as you can. The number one mistake that I see most beginners make with AI automation is that they struggle because they try to do too much and feel overwhelmed. If you can simplify as much as you can and just stay focused on one thing at a time, you'll get much better results. It will be much less stressful and also you'll enjoy the journey more.

So that's my biggest tip to you. Great question and we actually have a full section on how to do that right here. Jason says, "Thank you, Abito." Beyonce says, "How are you handling context window limits in long automations? Running into a problem." So when he has

to process a long document, the context fills up and the quality degrades. So it depends what model you're using. So for example, if you're using CL desktop for this, then it tends to handle context pretty well, especially longer documents. I give it quite long documents to deal with when it comes to SEO content. The other thing that I would say here is that if you can use compacting that helps a lot as well. So

for example, if I want to compact anything in Cyclude, I can just type forward/compact and then it will reduce the context window of the whole conversation, which allows me to do more in the future. And finally, you can always split it up into separate sections. So you could have one section that deals with part of the document, then that passed on to the next part of the automation, and so that sort of chunks it down as well. This is a really good question, right? So, for example, Dan says, "Fair play to Julian here. His

content has pushed me more to think less about AI tools and more about building actual systems, which is what we're doing with the agent operating system." So, I'm glad that's helped. But he says, "If the system doesn't understand these things, then the problem is not Hermes itself. It's actually teaching the system how the business works." Right?

So this is actually why we set up the infinite context engine so that I can train AI agents and plug it into any AI agent all of my memory and systems and everything about me. So it has a lot more context. That way you get better outputs when you're actually speaking to the AI. So for example, so for example, if you're using Obsidian, Obsidian has a map and a full knowledge base about you the more you use it. See the training above. And so what that allows you to do

is then plug that into an AI agent that you use in the future so you can get the best out of them. So for example, you can see here like it understands everything about me. All the tools I use, what I'm using, how I work, who I work with, everyone in my life and it's just even like the groups and the people that are part of my life are just organized inside this, right? And so that makes everything 10 times easier. So what I'd recommend doing is setting up uh context engine inside Obsidian and then you can use that to train your AI agents and all the problems above so that it understands you and your context better. So let's see what we got a

question from Philip who says what are the best open source models on Alama. All right and what are the best ones running with Hermes? So he has a DGX spark which is like the perfect setup for this sort of thing but this is interesting as well. So when he runs multiple agents concurrently on Quen 3.6 his agents respond slower. So, I don't

tend to find like amazing outputs from local models, but you're on a better setup than I am. So, you're always going to get better results. I would look at quantized models. So, there's a few available on LM Studio as well that you could set up. And these are like smaller versions of the more powerful models.

There's actually one on LM Studio that's designed specifically for Hermes, which might be worth a try. Try and find that one now. Let's see here. So, if we go into LM Studio, I think if you type in Hermes, yeah, you'll see a bunch of different models designed for Hermes, as you can see right here. And so, some of those are worth checking out, right? You

can see all these different models. Some are actually from Noose Research directly, but some are actually from the community which are worth checking out, too. So, that's the way that I would look at it. There's loads of different models here. And also, you can see from LM Studio which ones are the best to set up because they actually tell you based on your setup which ones are too large.

One model that's really lightweight and easy to use with Claude or Hermes or whatever you want to use is actually using Gemma 4. It's pretty lightweight. It's not super intelligent, but if you just want an AI to do sort of heavy tasks, but ones that don't require too much thinking, that's a good option, too. Oh, wow. Look at this. So, Tom

actually built the agent operating system that we set up as well, which is pretty amazing. So, that is awesome. Congrats to you, Tom. This an interesting question. So Julian was asking what's the primary difference between notebookm and obsidian and should you use one or the other both with claude and Hermes right the way that I would look at this is that you want to use obsidian for your memory not really use notebookm notebook is great for like generating media or generating videos or podcasts or infographics but it's not great for really storing personal context for you and also it's not open source whereas Obsidian with Obsidian all of your files are stored locally. They all belong to you. It's

open source and also it's easy to connect to your AI agents whereas notebook is harder to connect to your AI agents. So if I had to pick one, I'd go with Obsidian.

This is asking, you know, how to migrate from Open Claw to Hermes, right? He said, I'm in the middle of building something. Open Claw doesn't seem to be very efficient. I was considering migrating over to Hermes. So what you can actually do is a migration option over here. So you can run once you've

installed it. It's not going to be 100% smooth, but it is a way that Hermes have designed making switching over from openclaw to Hermes much easier than it should be. So that's a good option. And then also just try them and see which one you prefer. Personally for me, everything has been smoother since I switched over to Hermes. All right, so I

think we've covered every single question which is awesome. If you want your question answered and you want the agent operating system and everything else I've talked about in the guides today, you can get that inside the profit boardroom. Let's see what questions we got. How to use claude code inside anti-gravity. So the way that I do it is this is the simplest way that I know is like just have it inside your operating system like this. You have

anti-gravity CLI, you have Gemini, you have claw CLI plugged in, right? What you can actually do is if you go over to anti-gravity, let's just double check here if they have a I don't know if they have a terminal option anymore. I think you'd have to roll back to the previous version because they don't seem to have a terminal. I don't know if you can or you might have to set up Claude MCP to integrate them. That's why we have the agent operating system. So, you can just

customize the format a lot more, which you can see right here. Is this AI? No, mate. No, it is not AI. This is me live.

Danny, good to see you here, sir. Danny is an absolute legend. Danny Barera, what are you using in your agency right now? So, we actually have all of our processes set up inside the playbook here that I personally use. The ones I use day-to-day are number one, I use the agent operating system, and that just helps me deploy SEO content and build out websites, right? Super useful,

really powerful. You can see all of our websites are set up over here. And we have an agent operating system, which allows us to deploy and create content for SEO and then we can build out websites very quickly and start ranking them on Google. That that works really well. The next one that I use is Twitter, right? So, actually, if you

have a look at Twitter, for example, let's have a look here. This is my account. And you can see here that we're getting this amount of reach per day, and it's working really well using this process. So, we use a lot of that stuff inside my business, too. Next up, we have AI avatar videos, of course. So, we

have a full process for this, as you can see, a full setup and step-by-step guide and tutorial, but basically, we use AI avatar videos as great for marketing. And we also have AI avatar influencers too which we've got with this full process. We've broken it down right there for you. So yeah, all that those are like the biggest ones that we use. There's a lot more to it. I could go on

all day, but those are like my my top examples of how we use this. Should I switch from chat cheap plus to Gemini? I would just test it out. See what you think first. Test it out. See if you

like it. If you do, great. If you don't, no problem. You don't have to switch. And just see what you feel. Which one do

I personally use? I I tend to use Cha GPT a lot more than I use Gemini, honestly. But I use them all, right? I'll use Hermes for some things. I'll use Claude for some things. I'll use

anti-gravity for other stuff. So, thanks so much for watching. If you want to get more training like this, you can get it all inside the AR profit boardroom. If you want me to answer your video tutorials like we did today, you can just post inside the community here and I answer questions for you like you've seen inside this video. And what I do is I basically give you the tutorial with the video and then I also break down the four steps into a nice quick paragraph that you can read and implement if you want to save time. Also, we do four

weekly coaching calls. We have the classroom. We have the agent operating system which you can see over here. And basically, we have everything you need to really win with AI and learn and grow as much as you can. You might be saying, "That's great for you, Julian. What

about everyone else? Is is anyone else getting results with this?" And that is a great question if you're asking that. So we actually have over 159 pages of testimonials as you can see right here. So lots of people winning, learning, growing. People have never used AI

before are just getting awesome results which is amazing. And if you want to join the community, if you want to connect with me personally, if you want to get all of this stuff and just be a part of a a positive, happy community who are all learning and growing and helping each other, then feel free to join us, right? Link in the comments description or go to the aircraft.com. Thanks for watching. I will see you on

the next one. Cheers. Bye-bye. There's a bunch of new updates from Google this week that help you automate and build whatever you want as a full stack app or website in a couple of clicks using the new updates from Google. So, I'm going to show you exactly how they work, what's new, how it works together, and how you can stack these together to build whatever you want. So, essentially

what you can see here is this is Google Stitch right now. Google Stitch is the front end UI AI agent that you can use for free. It's available at stitchwithgoogle.com. And inside here, you can basically go inside and start plugging in whatever you want and start building out whatever you want too.

Right now, for example, if we take a look at this project, what we actually said was create a new jobs board and Stitch went off and started designing it for us. You can see an example of that right here. Right now, what you can actually do from here is there's a brand new update from AI Studio that basically builds the back end and the front end of your project. That could be an app, could be a game, could be a tool, could be a website, could be a landing page, could be even a portal or something like that. Here's an example of that in practice, right? So recently, you can

see here we actually built out a brand new app where we said, "Build me a tool where users can log in, track the habits, and see a leaderboard." And then basically what the AI went off and did is build this out directly, right? And actually created the front end and the back end of this particular project. Now, if you want to do the same, you can just go into AI Studio and you take the images you've developed inside Stitch and plug them into AI Studio, right? So, it's a direct export from the designs you create inside Stitch that you can then plug into AI Studio later. So, let

me show you how this all works um from scratch. So, let's say for example, if we're creating a new project inside Google Stitch, we can go inside this section and then you decide, okay, do you want an app or do you want a website? So let's say for example we want to build a jobs board or an AI automation jobs website right what we can do here is we can select which API we want and again this is free to use this going to design the front end for our website. So we've got it right here and I'm going to say with login for people to sign in upload jobs and also apply for jobs. So it's basically like the front end and the back end. The

front end is the design. The back end is the actual functionality of like logging in saving data and everything else. So that would be a website not an app right? And so I'm developing that right now and you can see that it's beginning to code that out. Now in the meantime, if you want to see an example of what the finished product looks like, here's an example. So this is actually uh the

app habit hero that I built literally in a couple of clicks. And basically I can add new habits here. It saves the data. It has a leaderboard and this is designed as an app, right? And so if we log out here, you can actually sign back in with Google. And this is using the

new integration of anti-gravity and its coding agent which can create apps and all the functionality of apps and websites inside AI studio for free. And then it also uses something called Firebase, right? So Firebase is Google backed basically it's a way of storing data inside a project. So for example, if someone wanted to create an app where people have leaderboards or share information or share data between them and it's all synced together and also people can log in and save their data from previous login sessions. Then this is how they would do it. So for example,

we can login with Google here. And again, I didn't do any of this. I'm not a coder. I don't understand HTML. Can't create full stack apps, that's for sure.

And also this doesn't cost anything to use, right? It it's free to use and create the actual app itself. If you start like hosting it and then you start sharing it across the world at that point um you would pay for the hosting but at the same time you would do that for any website but the main thing is you can use this coding agent to build out the full functionality and then later you can um start sharing it with the world and that's how you can use this right so here's an example this is talent AI this is the project that we actually plugged in from uh Stitch right so these PNG files and HTML files that we've got over here these were pulled in from Google stitch which we created the front end for and now it's created the back end too Right? So people can sign in, they can post a job, they can browse jobs, um, and all that sort of thing. Now, you can see here that not all of it works perfectly. I just want to be 100%

honest with that. Right? And so if we want to add more functionality to this, we can say, okay, add a login so people can store their data, EG jobs or applications, etc. Plus design the rest of the website pages. Right? If we plug

that in, what this is going to do is start using the coding agent of Gemini and anti-gravity, combine the images from Stitch, which we got over here, and then we can start using this, right? So, what you can also do is you can copy this image like so. Go back out to AR Studio and then upload that image as something that you want to use. So, for example, if we go out to Stitch here and we like, okay, I really love the design here. or we can export it directly to our studio like that as a format and we just select all the pages and the branding and everything else you want to use. Or the other option is we can click

on instant prototype. So this allows you to create like an iterative flow where you can actually prototype the front end of the project you've created. But if you want to create the back end well then you would export it to AI studio or you can just download it as a sip and export it directly inside there. Right? The main thing is it's very very easy to create apps now. very powerful update

from Google. And also, there's so much more to this, right? This is just like a tiny little fragment of what you can do with this and what's possible. So, for example, here you can actually share your screen and start live mode. And what this allows you to do is basically speak directly to the AI, share your screen, and then you can go back and forth in a conversation with the AI, too, at the same time. So, there's just

so much more you can do with this now. And it's such a powerful update. Stitch, I don't think, was used that much compared to I think it's going to, you know, I think it's going to explode now. I think loads of people will be using it and and creating loads of cool apps and that sort of thing. So you can see that's adding the login over here. If

you want to see some other examples of what people have built here's one actually straight from Google, right? And this is called Geo Seeker. And what this allows you to do is basically um you play hideand-seek with the rest of the world, right? So you can click on join as seeker, start the game um and then you have to find where this Gemini is and it will give you little hints, right? Which is pretty crazy. and it has

these different rounds. So, you can actually play this as a game and it syncs with real time uh Google maps and then you just place where you think this person is, right? So, if it says I'm hanging out with some high altitude llamas in a city the clouds forgot to hide, probably going to be around Peru, right? Something like that. Let's confirm it. So, it says about 300. Yeah,

it's not not not far off. I'm around there, right? It's probably around maybe that way, something like that. But you get the point, right? And then you can zoom in on the map and then play this game in real time, right? And and you

can see for example here it's got this uh 3D view where we can actually zoom in and out of the map as well. There's just so much more you can do with this, right? I mean any app that you've ever wanted to build, you can now do that with anti-gravity. You can do that with AI Studio. There's really no limits.

I've seen no limitations and it's it's just really cool. So the way that I would approach this in terms of a framework, I would design the front end of your app or website idea directly inside Stitch. And all you do is you just go to this section right here. You select whether you want an app or a web. You would put your brand colors in. Type

in the idea that you want and then it would go from there. Right? Once you've done that, once you've got the full prototype, so if we go back to my chat and we go to projects. So once you've got a full prototype like this one, then you would take that export, go to AI Studio, and inside AI Studio, you can start building with this, right? And if you want to see your previous projects, there's two sections, AI studio essentially now, right? So you've got

the playground and the playground is like just where you go back and forth in a chat with AI Studio. That's not the part that you want. What you want is the build section here. So you go to build and then you can see all the projects you've previously built on the left hand side over here. So for example like we built out a um you know a thumbnail generator. We created um a sales coach

over here as well, the jobs board and also a habit tracker as well. Right, this one right here. And so these are all our previous projects that we've built. And then you can also go to apps here and see what you've created in terms of apps. And you can also see what other people have created. Right? So if

you go inside this section, you can see for example like people creating like uh video generators here. We've got that Google Maps game that we just talked about. We have the visual computer, right? There's just so much more you can do with this and so many cool things you can do. So the potential is limitless.

The only limitation is your imagination. I think the more you use this, the better you get. The better you get, the more results you get. Now, if you want to learn how to use both of these updates, we actually got a full section on Google AI Studio and the new anti-gravity update with video tutorial right here inside the AI profit boarding. Right? So, you can see we've

got a full framework plus a 30-day plan with a road map and also 100 prompts you can test with this stuff as well. And then if you want to learn how to use Google Stitch, we've also got another video tutorial on that. We have again 30-day road map, a full framework on how to use it, example prompts you can use as well for all sorts of different tools you can build and then you can just customize them to your business. Now, the way that I would get the most out of this is I would probably just look through, okay, what am I doing repetitively each day? I would track my time, what I spend the most time on, and then from there create automations around that. Right? So, for example,

let's say you you go to the gym a lot, right? Well, create you could easily create your own customized app for tracking your weights or tracking what you eat, tracking your progress in the gym, and you could easily do that with a combination of Sitch to create an awesome front end and then AI Studio with anti-gravity to create a back end. And you can do all of that for free. So, pretty crazy stuff, super powerful. If you want to learn how to actually implement all this stuff, you want to learn um how to automate your business, how to save time, how to scale, we've got all the video notes from today and full step-by-step road maps in the AI profitable boardroom. This is my AI

automation community that helps you learn how to save time, grow, and scale with AI automation right here. I mean, you can see some of the wins. This is amazing. You can see some of the stuff that people are posting and what we're getting and and that sort of thing. There's 2,600 people inside there, which means you can get help pretty much 24/7 because there's always people online to answer your questions and support you.

Inside the calendar, you get weekly AI automation calls, so you can jump on video coaching calls and get help and support in real time. Inside the map, you can connect with people in your local area, right? Right? So you can actually zoom in, meet people in your local area, connect with them, DM them, etc. And then inside the classroom, you can pretty much learn all of my best training courses. Right? Now, at the

same time, you might be wondering, okay, what are people's results with this? Right? You can see we actually have over 138 pages of testimonials from people winning, learning, and growing with AI automation. So, some awesome reviews there and just lots of cool people getting lots of cool wins, which is what we like to see. Now, inside the classroom, you'll see that we have a full AI automation master class that takes you from beginner to expert with AI automation. And you'll learn how to

build your first AI agent in under 5 minutes. You also get my best playbooks on how to automate X and Twitter, how I automate newsletters, shorts, Instagram, AI avatar videos, etc. And then additionally, inside the classroom, you'll get my SOP updates. So, these are new daily guides like you see with anti-gravity right here, and also with Mini Max yesterday, for example. and we just update this with new daily video tutorials, step-by-step guides, and we show you exactly how to use all the new cool stuff. If you struggle with

information overload and shiny object syndrome, just read this weekly update each week, which basically if you know if you've only got like 10 minutes to stay up to date with everything, just read that and uh it will show you what's good and what's not. Then also inside the agency course, you can learn how to get more clients. You can watch the coaching course if you don't make them live. You can learn how to rank number one inside Google and AI search engines here. And you can also learn how to grow a YouTube channel based on what's working for me as well inside the classroom. So that's all inside the air

a profit boardroom link in the comments description or go to the aeropboarding.com. I want to show you how to wire it into your own agent command center. So instead of one agent doing one thing at a time, you've got a whole team of AI agents building out apps, websites, and tools all for you at once 24/7. And here's the thing most people don't realize yet. This is

actually better than the original anti-gravity app. It's faster. is more powerful and it's free and you can customize it exactly how you want. I'll show you today so that by the end of this video, you're going to have your own AI built team running 24/7 knocking out three or four jobs from one single prompt whilst you focus on everything else. And there's one thing that you have to set up to unlock the full power of this. And I'll show you exactly what

that is later on. Stick with me and let's get into it. Today I'm going to walk you through anti-gravity CLI, which is a brand new CLI that's just dropped from anti-gravity. And I would say this actually better than the original app version of anti-gravity from Google. And it's a really powerful way to just create teams of AI agents and code out whatever you want. And something to note

here is it is free. It's available to everyone. Right? So this is free to use right now. And here's an example. So you

can see for example, we've built out all these sorts of projects here using this powerful process. And it's super easy and simple to set up. So I've actually plugged it into my agent operating system. You can use it however you want. And then you can see here, for example, we've got anti-gravity over here. And we

can chat with it directly. And then once we actually build stuff with it, we can view it over here, right? And we can actually just view stuff that we built inside a new tab as well. The thing that I like about it is it creates really clean, nice designs. As you can see, we can plug in an example title here. Let's

test this project out. And then you can see here it creates like these really useful sort of ideas around content and social media posts and that sort of thing. Right? Here's another example of what we built. So we actually built out a game over here. So you can build apps,

games, tools, websites, landing pages, whatever you want using anti-gravity CLI. And you can see an example of what we built over here. Again, like you can build some really cool fun stuff. The other thing that I've noticed about anti-gravity is that it's very fast, right? It like it creates whatever you want very quickly indeed. So, it's

pretty powerful stuff and you can see how easy it is to use and preview this stuff, right? Here's another example. So, if we open this up, this was another app that we built. So, I've shown you a game, I've shown you a website, shown you an app example of what we've built here. Here's another example of what we built. Pretty cool. And then, for

example, if we go down here, you can see that we've also built out even like websites and that sort of thing. So, you can build out like a full blog essentially, as you can see right here, using this process. Really cool. And then you've got it all stored inside the workspace right here. So let's run through exactly what it means, what it is, etc. So Google just announced it,

right? And it's basically a lightweight to use anti-gravity. Now, this is pretty good because if you open up anti-gravity normally as an app, it is a little bit slow to open up, right? I tend not to open up anymore cuz it's just so slow and I'm running a Mac Studio, so I can't even imagine what it's like on a normal sort of laptop, right? And so the thing to note here is that this Google's anti-gravity CLI is free, right? It's

replacing Gemini's CLI and you can wire it into your agent operating system. And the cool thing about this is it's basically the same agent harness as anti-gravity 2.0. You got sub agents, you got slash commands, you it's actually built in Go as well. And if you plug it into an agent operating system, you can just create some awesome stuff as I've shown you a second ago. And that

really unlocks the power of it as well. So you've got anti-gravity over here and then you've got all these different pillars you can create it around. And again, CLI is free, right? Pretty nice. So if you're wondering, okay, what is anti-gravity CLI? It's basically a

lightweight version of antigraph, right? And the the thing to note about all of this is like before, I don't know about you, but coding was a bit of a nightmare, right? I never knew which tool to use. I couldn't preview anything. I definitely couldn't view it all like this. I'd lose track of

everything as well, which was annoying. And then also you keep losing what you've created, right? Files would just vanish because you don't even check anything. Also, every new chat would start from zero because there's no memory system without this. And then when anti-gravity CLI dropped, they actually just wired it into agent operating system. And now if you're

creating something like this dashboard, as you can see, you can open everything inside one dashboard. And the anti-gravity CLI is just one tap away sat next to all the other agents that you have. So you can have these next to Claude and Open Claw and Hermes and Gemini, anti-gravity and everything else. And then every output previews as well. So you can see the previews over here which is pretty cool as well.

Additionally on top of that you can create like multiple sub aents and just walk away. They can go off and do work and it's free to use the CLI as well right and so I know quite a lot of people have built out agent uh operating systems by this point. A lot of people so you can see for example we got Dr. John Mesa here who created his own agent operating system just using our blueprint. So you can build this yourself as well. The main thing that I

would say is you've seen how powerful this is. I'm going to show you how to wire anti-gravity into your own agent operating system. But I would just promise yourself you're actually going to implement this. You're actually going to build it, right? Because the people sitting still are getting past, right?

The people implementing this today are the ones who will look back in 6 months and say, "Wow, that was awesome." So you want to be one of those people, right? So commit to this transition. Commit to taking action today. And I'll walk you through the Goldie Gravity Terminal setup. All right. So this basically five

floors inside anti-gravity and each floor is a way to build anti-gravity and use the full power of it. Right. So how are we doing this? Step number one is you have the CLI yourself. Right? So you

can get anti-gravity CLI. It's actually open source. You can actually see over here for example. So you can get this is open source etc. It's on GitHub. And

then you can have anti-gravity next to all your AI agents which means you don't need to switch between tabs. So you don't need to move around a lot. You can just get it implemented. You can start working in seconds, not minutes. Right?

And then when you're doing this, so for example, you can see all this chat here. What I do is I just give it a command, give it a prompt as you can see here. So this is the prompt that I ask it to build. And then I let the sub agents do the heavy work, right? And this is what I call layer 2, which is lift. So you

ask one thing, three agents take off in parallel whilst you keep typing in the main prompt they're already building, right? And you can just get three jobs done from one ask without waiting on any of them. And then the third layer is really the orbit section, right? So every output stays in view. So for example, if you look at this that we've built, right? I can just preview

everything that I built inside the workspace section. So this is basically you can set up whatever anti-gravity builds, you can make sure that it shows up inside your workspace tab, right? And then you can click any file to land. And if you're wondering, okay, like how do you get antigraphy to build this for you? You can just go into anti-gravity, give it the CLI, tell it exactly what you want. So, for example, build me a

workspace preview and then it can go off and do that for you, right? And that way, the cool thing about this is you stop losing the things AI made you and they never leave orbit, right? And that's why it's called layer three or orbit. Then layer four is the memory, right? And this means basically like the sessions, they never fall down because you got this memory system holding it all up, right? and your AI agents,

anti-gravity and anything else can use your memory system locally, right? I actually use something called Obsidian. As you can see, we've put that into our agent operating system as well. And the cool thing about this is it all links your antigraphy agents, right? And so every project is local and even if you for example, if you have a buggy session or something like that, the cool thing about this is it's all stored locally and your agents take notes automatically with the memory system and so it's wired into anti-gravity, right? And so the

cool thing about this is your agents have context. You don't need to reexlain yourself every single time. And then the final layer is number five, which is loop. Whilst you're doing stuff in the background, anti-gravity and your agent operating system is getting better and better, right? So anti-gravity's sub agents can run on their own schedule, not yours, right? Which means that you

don't need to be there for them to build stuff, right? If I give anti-gravity uh prompt over here and then I just walk away, it's going to get stuff done, right? And that's a loop. So, it's really cool. It's a really powerful way to to build this stuff. If you have any

questions as you go along, feel free to ask. Eubin says, "Let's go, Julian." Thank you very much, sir. Thanks for joining. And yeah, it just to be clear here, it is free to use, right? There

are token limits, but you can use the free plan as well, which is pretty cool. And also, it's open source, right? And the great thing about this is you don't need to subscribe to other coding agents. You can plug this into your systems and it's really easy to use, right? And so let's talk about the old way versus the new way. The old way was

like before you would use Gemini CLI alone inside your terminal. You'd have one Gemini CLI tab. You might have another agent in the background, but you just having one conversation at a time. And also most people weren't using sub agents before. So every task was blocked in the terminal until that got done.

Additionally, people would also have other subscriptions. So for example, like claude code and that sort of thing. and every output will be like just put somewhere in some random folder you never check again. Additionally, the sessions can vanish when you close the terminal. Whereas, for example, if you have a look at the agent operating system that we built in, and this is why I recommend building it is that you can see your whole history here. So, you can

scroll through the chat and see your whole history. And then it's also free as well. And you get a daily amount of tokens you can use. Every output lands in your project folder. So, your workspace tab over here. So we can see

our project folders and then we can preview the actual tool that we've built which is pretty cool. Sessions persist as well because it's got the memory system across all of your AI agents. So we got the memory over here and then this is free to use right and so the result is you have one amazing dashboard with every output and preview ready to go which is really cool. And also you can get three jobs done from one ask right. So you can give anti-gravity one prompt and then it spawns a team of sub agents and your sub agents just start working without you. All right. And you

stop waiting in line for your agents to get stuff done. Here's what the dashboard looks like. It's pretty awesome. So, let's see what questions we got here. Philly says, you know, how long did it take to set up an agent operating system? So, if you have a

look, for example, this is pretty cool. If you have a look, uh John, who built his own operating system here, as soon as we gave him the blueprint, he built it within 24 hours, right? And it shouldn't take you long. For me personally, I think to build out the first version, bear in mind, like I've tweaked and improved it over hundreds of hours now, but the first version only took 1 hour, right? It shouldn't take you longer than an hour to build the first version of this out. So, some

people are going to say, I'll have to learn another command syntax, for example, when you're using a CLI. But actually, you don't need to learn anything, right? Because you can just speak to your AI agent in plain English over here, and you don't need to you can just give it the prompt and it handles all the terminal commands for you. So that's one of the best things about this is like you don't need to be technical for it. Other people services for developers that don't know how to use the terminal, but honestly if you build out like a agent operating system like this, you don't even need to use the terminal, right? We're not using the

terminal to build this. We've plugged it into an agent operating system where we've got a beautiful user interface across all of our AI agents and we don't need to code. We don't need to use terminal. We don't need to switch between tabs or anything like that. Other people say free models, they always run out of tokens when they're midflow, right? What you can actually do

is you can always switch to another provider. So you could use for example like our alpha which is a free API if you run out of tokens on anti-gravity plan right. So that way you got free models as a backup and you got fallback. So for example like you could switch to free claude code if you run out of tokens on anti-gravity or something like that. And the cool thing about this is if you build out a system, right? So if

we've got this agent operating system, the great thing about this is whatever Google brings out next, you get it basically same day and also you can plug it into your system again, right? So you stop falling behind every time Google creates an update. So for example, every improvement Google creates lands in the CLI, right? And so you don't need to update it manually or anything like that. it just automatically goes to the CLI you've plugged in, which is really cool. And also, Antiggravity shares the

same agent harness as Antigraphy 2.0, which means that all future improvements to their agents automatically updated inside the CLI, which is really cool. And if you want to see some examples of what we've built, right, so you can see for example here, we chatted to it inside the chat here, ask it to build out a website, etc. And then, for example, you can even build out like your own studio and that sort of thing. So this just gives you some inspiration for your own agent operating system. You

can see for example here we actually built out a full blog for our website as well and that was just built in 4 minutes of anti-gravity. So there's so much cool stuff you can do with this. The other thing to note here is like Gemini CLI is going away on June the 18th. So you if you're using any sort of CLI whether that's Gemini or anti-gravity, you want to make sure you switch to antigravity now. And right now anti-gravity CLI is available to everyone. But on June the 18th they're

going to stop using the Gemini CLI. Right. So just bear that in mind. So that's basically how to use it. How to set up. Again, I've shown you it's free.

I've shown you what to do if you run out of tokens as well, which is pretty cool. What else we got here? So does it not use an API key of Google Studio? No, you can just log in with your Google account. Eubin says, "How do you begin to set this up from zero? Is a new

command center to orchestrate a thing?" Yeah, that's it. It's to organize everything really. It's to create like a beautiful UI where you keep everything in one place and you don't need to switch between tabs and terminals and you know, it's always ready to go, right? Whereas, for example, if I want to start up Hermes normally, I'm going to have to go over into my terminal, the same with antigraph, you have to remember all the commands for it. You

don't want that, right? Instead, like you've got everything ready to go, all saved in one place with all of your outputs ready to go like this. So, that's what you want, right? And then for setting up the operating system, you would just go into anti gravity and say, "Hey, build this for me. Here's my idea.

Go off and build it." Right? And then you keep iterating and improving from there. If you want my system, it's inside the profitable boardroom ready to go with the zip files and the 30-day plan and the prompts for setting up. But if you wanted to build your own, you just go into ant gravity and ask it. B

says, "What do you use to create the guides inside your presentations like you can see over here." So we actually use the agent operating system for that. For example, if I go into Claude, it can build out the guides and everything for me, right, based on what I tell it. So that's the way that I do it. Again, if you're inside the profit boarding, you can direct message me and I'll actually give you the the skill that I've used to create that, right? So you can get the

skill MD file for that. So, let's talk about some things because I've shown you how to set up. I've shown you it's free. I've shown you how powerful it is. I've shown you some of the awesome outputs you can get from this and how much better it actually is, plus all the benefits of using this. There's nothing

holding you back, right? But some people going to say free always means worse. And I would say sometimes it does, but sometimes it doesn't, right? So, the right belief here is this is Google's flagship coding agent. This is the most powerful one. And the reason they've got

a free tier is because Google needs developer adoption to compete with Anthropolic and OpenAI. So you're not getting a worse version, you're getting their best version of their best coding agent. Other people say I should wait until this is 100% ready. But the thing is these tools evolve every single day, right? And they'll keep evolving for the next 3 years. So every month you wait,

the gap between you and the people we started now will widen, right? And the 6 months from now, you'll be like, "Ah, should have started in May." Right? The people who figure out how to use multi- aent terminals like this now are way ahead when everything settles, right? Every CLI you learn, every workflow you build, every problem you solve, it all helps you. It all improves your skill

set. Other people say, "I'm not technical enough to set up uh terminal CLI cuz you can actually get anti-gravity set up for you inside the app, right, if you want to or you can get Claude set up for you as well. And there's a lot of members inside the app for boarding. I've gone from never opened up terminal before to I've built a full agent operating system as I showed you before. Right? So it it's a

CLI is a really easy path right now. It's not the hardest at all. And you can see I've seen so many people achieve awesome results who have never used AI before, right? So if they can do it, you can do it, right? There's nothing stopping you here. So that's basically

it in terms of what you've just learned here today. So you've learned how to use anti-gravity CLI for free. you. I've shown you how to use sub agents. I've shown you how to keep everything in one place and why you want to set up an agent operating system. And I've also

shown you what this means for you and how it can help you and nothing else. Right? And Fluffy says, "So my agent operating system is not on GitHub. No, it's inside the AR profitab community. You can get that link in the comments description or go to the arrumm.com. But

again, like I've shown you and talked about like you can ask anti-gravity to build it for you. If you don't want to use my system, you can ask anti-gravity directly. And so if you do want my setup with the anti-gravity CLI and the agent operating system stack, you can get that inside the AR buffer boardroom. We have it running alongside Claude, Codex, Hermes, OpenClaw and Freclaw code, right? And inside the AR board, you get the full setup, the install, the calls, and the community, right? So you get the

full agent operating install with the zip file and everything else. You get a walkthrough tutorial on how to set up a 30-day road map, weekly live coaching calls, 3,000 members in there. You can connect with and it's all inside here as you can see, right? So, if you go to the classroom, then you go to new daily updates. You can see that we tell you when it was last updated, so you get the latest updates, you know, you have the latest version. You have the video

tutorial over here, and then you have the zip file as well, right? So, if you want to get all this stuff, it's all available for you along with all of my best trainings. Plus, inside the community, if you ask questions, we actually answer your questions with video tutorials daily so that we can help you as much as we can. We have weekly coaching calls where you can jump on live coaching calls, ask questions, meet the community, etc. Inside the map section here, you can actually connect with people in your local city who are using AI agents like you, which is pretty awesome. And you can connect with

me personally inside there, too. What if you've been using anti-gravity completely wrong this whole time? What if there are settings, skills, and commands most people don't even know exist? What if the free version is actually good enough? And what if the whole problem with anti-gravity 2.0 has

a dead simple fix? Stay right here, cuz this one is going to change how you use this tool. Hey, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie. People learn and actually use AI tools in their work, not just talk about them. And today, we're going deep on Google's anti-gravity, specifically the setup that unlocks it, the skills that fix its biggest weaknesses, and the commands that make it actually run like an autonomous coding machine. By the end of this

video, you're going to have a fully optimized anti-gravity setup, and I'm going to show you exactly how I'd use it to build things for the AI profit boardroom. So, let's get into it. First, let's talk about what anti-gravity actually is right now because it just went through a massive upgrade at Google IO 2026. Google launched anti-gravity 2.0 on May 19th, 2026. The original

anti-gravity came out in November 2025 alongside Gemini 3 as an agent first IDE, basically a fork of VS Code where AI agents do the heavy lifting. Now, with version 2.0, Oh, Google turned it into a full developer platform, talking a new standalone desktop app, a CLI tool, an SDK for building custom agents, and managed agents baked right into the Gemini API. The whole thing runs on Gemini 3.5 Flash as the default model, which Google says outperforms Gemini 3.1

Pro across almost every benchmark while running four times faster than other Frontier models. That speed matters a lot when you're running multi-agent workflows. Here's where most people get confused right away. Anti-gravity 2.0 0 and anti-gravity IDE are not the same thing. Anti-gravity 2.0 is the new

standalone desktop app. Anti-gravity IDE is the VS codebased editor that came before it. And for most people watching this, the IDE version is actually the better choice. Why? Because it supports VS Code extensions. That means you can

install language servers, extra tooling, and community-built add-ons that make the whole experience way more powerful. If you're a developer who already lives inside VS Code, you're going to feel at home immediately. Now, let's talk about the free tier because this is where a lot of people get burned. Google's free tier on anti-gravity is genuinely usable, but you need to know what you're working with. Right now, it gives you access to all the supported models, including Gemini 3.5 Flash with rate

limits that refresh roughly every 5 hours. The AI Pro plan gives you meaningfully higher limits, and that's the sweet spot for most people. For the vast majority of developers, the Pro plan is more than enough. Track your usage for a week or two and only upgrade if you're actually hitting walls. One thing to be aware of, Google cut the free tiers daily agent requests significantly back in early 2026, dropping them from 250 down to 20 per day. So, if you're planning to do

serious work, the pro plan is worth it. But if you just want to test things out and explore, the free tier still works, especially for lighter tasks. Now, let me tell you what's inside the AI Profit Boardroom that's directly relevant to everything you just watched. Inside the AI profit boardroom, we have live coaching calls where members bring their actual setups, their anti-gravity configurations, their skill stacks, their agent prompts, and we work through them together. We have walkthroughs specifically built around tools like this one, showing exactly how to go from a fresh install to a fully working Agentic setup. There are road maps and

SOPs built for the tools that are actually moving the needle right now, and anti-gravity is right at the top of that list after the 2.0 launch. If you're trying to set this up properly and not waste hours troubleshooting it alone, the AI profit boardroom is where you get that done faster. I'll put the link in the description. Now, here's where the real setup starts. The first

thing you want to do is install the Carpathy skill. This is a community skill you add to your anti-gravity setup through the skills folder, either at the global level in your home directory under the Gemini folder or inside your workspace in the agent folder. The carpathy skill improves the agent structure and makes it more efficient. Think of skills as specialized instruction sets you're handing to the agent before it starts working. The agent reads the skill, understands how to approach the task, and executes more cleanly. Without skills like this,

Gemini 3.5 Flash can sometimes wander. It overplans, it hedges, it asks clarifying questions when it should just be building. The Carpathy skill tightens that up. This could be used to build out a structured content creation workflow for the AI profit boardroom. You could

feed the agent the topics AI profit boardroom members are actively asking about and let it generate scripts, outlines, and hooks in one clean, autonomous run. That's the kind of output speed that makes the AI profit boardrooms content pipeline actually sustainable at scale. The second skill you want is the front-end design skill and alongside it, the awesome design markdown file. Here's the problem. Gemini 3.5 Flash is incredibly fast and

capable, but its UI generation out of the box can look rough. It doesn't always produce clean, polished front-end code without guidance. The front-end design skill gives the agent a design system to work from. tells the agent what CSS variables to use, what layout patterns to follow, what good design actually looks like. The awesome design markdown file adds even more context on top. Together, these two fixes turn

Gemini's front-end output from mediocre to genuinely good. Next, let's talk about the king mode prompt. This is a system level prompt you add to your anti-gravity configuration that changes how the agent behaves. Default Gemini behavior can involve a lot of unnecessary planning. The agent will sometimes spend time laying out a big plan before doing anything. King mode

makes the agent more structured, more direct, and prevents it from spinning out into endless planning mode. Tells the agent, "Stop thinking out loud and start building." For anyone who's used anti-gravity and found the agent getting stuck or talking in circles, this is the fix. Now, let's talk about the /goal command because this one changes everything about how you actually work inside anti-gravity. When you type / goal followed by your task description, you're telling the agent to run until the task is done, not until it hits a checkpoint, not until it needs your approval on the next step, until the whole thing is complete. The agent will

autonomously plan, code, test, debug, and iterate, and it won't stop until it finishes. That's agentic coding in the truest sense. You're not an autocomplete user anymore. You're a project lead delegating to an AI that handles execution. Imagine running/Gal to create the entire onboarding flow new AI profit boardroom members go through on day one.

You can map out the welcome messages, the first call prep, and the resource walkthroughs, all from one prompt. New AI profit boardroom members would land inside and instantly know what to do next. That's the level of automation we're talking about here. Let's keep going because there's one more piece you need to set up. Browser tools. Inside

anti-gravity settings, there's an option to enable browser tools. This gives the agent the ability to interact with a web browser as part of its workflow. So, the agent can open pages, check the UI renders correctly, verify that a form submits the right way, screenshot the result, and come back with a report all on its own. For anyone building web apps, this is massive. You're not manually refreshing the browser anymore.

The agent does it. You just review what it found. Once browser tools is turned on, go into the settings and configure it properly. Make sure it's pointing to the right browser profile and that it has permission to interact with your app. It's a few minutes of setup, but it unlocks a completely new capability inside the tool. The last setting worth

mentioning is auto proceed. When you're running long tasks, you don't want the agent stopping every few minutes to ask if it should continue. Auto proceed keeps the agent moving without those interruptions. Combined with the /go command, you get a setup where you describe what you want, kick it off, and come back to a finished result. That's the whole point of agentic development, getting time back. You could use this

full setup to map out a lead generation system that pulls the right people into the AI profit boardroom. The agent could plan the content series, draft the hooks, outline the follow-up sequences, and generate the next step prompts all in one autonomous run. That means more of the right people finding their way into the AI profit boardroom built faster than any manual process. If you want the full process, SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI success lab. links in the comments and description. You'll get all

the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 58,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And if you're going to try this anti-gravity setup yourself, which you should, here's what you're going to run into. You're going to hit quotota limits faster than you expect. You're going to have questions about which skills to install first and in what order. You're going to want to know how to combine the king mode prompt with the carpathy skill without them conflicting. And you're going to want

real examples of the /go command being used on complex tasks. All of that is inside the I profit boardroom. We have the walkthroughs, the coaching calls, the setup guides, and the prompt templates specifically built around anti-gravity and Gemini 3.5 Flash. You don't have to figure it out alone. Head

over to apiprofitboardroom.com and join us there. See you inside. I built a full SEO system with anti-gravity plus agent OS. Today, I'm going to show you something wild. Plugged Google

Anti-gravity 2.0 into a full agent OS and now it builds SEO content for me on autopilot. It writes the blog, builds the website, it does it all in one click. No more starting from zero. No more boring setup. And the best part,

anyone can do this, even if you've never touched AI before. Let me show you how it works. Let's talk about what just happened. Google dropped anti-gravity 2.0 this week. And it's a big deal. It's

Google's most advanced agent platform ever built. Here's the thing most people don't know. Most people are using it wrong. They open it up, they type a prompt, they get an okay answer, and they put it down like a hammer. You pick it up, you use it, you drop it. That's

the problem. And I'm going to show you the fix in just a second. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. But first, let me tell you what anti-gravity 2.0 actually

is. It's not a chat box. It's a launchpad for AI agents. Instead of typing into Gemini and waiting for one answer, you can send out a whole team of agents. They all work at the same time on different jobs, all for you. And it's

got Gemini 3.5 Flashbaked right in. That means faster outputs, better coding, better images. It was built for agents to actually use tools. Also has dynamic sub agents. Now that's a team of little

agents working on one problem together. Has scheduled tasks. It has projects. Even has live voice. You can just talk and it writes the prompt for you. Sounds

amazing, right? Here's where it goes wrong for most people. And this is the part nobody talks about. When you run anti-gravity on its own, it has three big problems. Problem one, no memory.

Time you open it, it forgets who you are. It doesn't know your business. It doesn't know your last chat. So, you waste half your time just explaining yourself again and again and again. Problem two, no organization. You build

something great on Monday. By Tuesday, you can't find it. The new version even took away the old editor view. It's just a messy chat box. Problem three, no improvement. Every session is the same

as your first session. Nothing stacks. Nothing grows. You're using a Formula 1 engine and dropping it into a normal car. So, how do we fix all three? Agent

OS comes in. And this is the part that makes everything click. Stick with me because I'm about to show you exactly how I built a full SEO system with this. What is the agent OS? Think of it like the home screen on your phone, but instead of apps, you've got agents. You

can see what they're working on. You can see what they built. You can launch a new job with one prompt, and you run it all from one place. No more jumping between 15 tabs. One tab for anti-gravity, one for claude, one for the docs, one for the terminal. That's a

nightmare. Instead, it's all in one dashboard, one command center. Everything tracked together. And here's how I plugged anti-gravity into it. Google has a thing called the anti-gravity CLI. That's just a way to

talk to anti-gravity through the command line like you would with clawed code. The agent OS wraps that CLI inside a nice clean dashboard. Now, it sits right next to my other agents. Gemini, Claude, engine, totally different vehicle. Now, let me show you the SEO part because this is what it's really all about.

Inside my agent OS, I have a full SEO module. This is how I make content for my websites and push it live as a real blog. One click. Here's a real example. Told it to build a blog post about the AI profit boardroom, about how AI automation helps you grow your business.

I literally just said, "Go off and do this." And it did. It wrote the post. It optimized it. Got it ready to go. I also

said, "Build me a landing page for the AI profit boardroom. One that shows the real value of AI automation. One that explains all the benefits of joining our community and boom, built the whole website. Made the images, put it all together, clean and ready. Three things built in one day. One tool. But here's

the secret that makes the SEO content actually good. Memory. And one quick thing before I keep going. If you're building all this SEO content, but nobody is finding it on Google, you've got a traffic problem. That's where real SEO comes in. If you want more leads and

more traffic, my team can help you rank higher on Google. Check the link in the comments and description to order AI SEO online. Let us handle your back links while you focus on growing your business. Okay, back to the memory part because this is the magic. I connected my agent OS to a full memory system.

It's built using a free app called Obsidian. Obsidian is just a note-taking app, but all your notes are stored on your own computer. They're private. They're yours forever. Inside it, I've got memories about who I am, what I work on every day, who's on my team, my goals, my brand voice, all of it. So,

when Anti-gravity writes an SEO blog post for the AI Profit Boardroom, it already knows the business. It knows what we're about, knows our voice. That means the content isn't generic. It's personal, sounds like us. The difference between a robot writing junk and an agent that actually gets it. And here's

another thing I do with the Memory Vault. I keep all my best keywords in there. the exact topics our AI profit boardroom audience is searching for. So when I tell an agent to write a new post, it already knows what to target. It pulls from the vault, picks the right keyword, and writes around it. No

guessing, no starting code. It just knows. I even keep our past winning blog posts in there, the ones that did well, so the agent can look at what worked before and copy that style for the next AI profit boardroom post. Every new piece gets a little better than the last. That's the whole point. Now,

here's the last piece, and honestly, it's the most important one, the loop. This is the part nobody builds. Most people start over with every single prompt. It's just as dumb on day 100 as it was on day one. Nothing improves. The

loop fixes that. Here's how it works. Every blog post you make, every website you build, every tool you create feeds back into the system. More outputs means more context in your memory vault. More context means smarter agents. Smarter

agents means better content next time. And better content means even more you can build. It's a flywheel. It spins faster the longer you run it. You never start from zero again. Let me show you

what that looks like in real life. Week ago, my agent OS could write a simple AI profit boardroom blog post. Today, I can tell it to write a whole content cluster, 10 posts, all about AI automation, all linked together, all built to rank. And it does it while I go do something else. That's the loop working. The system got smarter on its

own. And it's not just blogs. I've got a whole camb board inside the agent OS2. I can give a team of agents a list of jobs for the AI profit boardroom. One agent does keyword research, one writes the posts, one builds the landing page. They

all work at the same time. I just checked the board to see what's done. So, picture this. Two people, same exact AI model. One uses anti-gravity like a chat box. The other runs it inside this

full system with memory in the loop. Their results aren't even close. Same engine, different vehicle. Now, some of you are thinking, "That's great for you, Julian, but I'm not technical enough for this." Here's the truth. If you can copy

and paste a file path, you can run this. That's it. The barrier isn't technology. It's just following the steps. And some of you are thinking, I don't have time to set up a whole system. I'd say you

don't have time not to. If you set it up today, the time you save starts today, and it just keeps stacking from there. Look, anti-gravity 2.0 on its own is a powerful engine. But on its own, it's got no memory, no order, and it doesn't improve. When you wrap it in this

system, the memory vault, the agent OS, and the loop, that's when it gets 10 times more powerful. If you only take one thing from this video, take the loop. That's the thing that turns a simple tool into a content machine that grows every single day. So, that's how I built a full SEO system with anti-gravity and agent OS. And one more thing, if all this AI content is great, but you're still not showing up on Google, that's a traffic problem, and SEO is the fix. If you want more leads

and more traffic, my team can rank you higher on Google. Check the link in the comments and description to order AI SEO online. Let us handle your back links while you grow your business. Oh, and Julian reads every single comment, so drop me a comment below. Tell me the first thing you'd build with this system. Thanks for watching. I'll see

you on the next one. What if the most powerful AI setup of 2026 was already sitting right in front of you, and it's free, but you're using maybe 10% of it. Two tools just got huge upgrades nobody is talking about. And when you snap them together, everything changes. Let me show you. The digital avatar of Julian

Goldie. My whole job is helping you actually learn and use AI tools in your real work, not just watch a demo and forget it by lunch. Today, I'm breaking down two big free updates. Google Anti-gravity 2.0 zero and the new notebook LM upgrade. On their own,

they're strong. Together, they turn into one system that runs your content for you. And here's the part most people miss. The second half of this video is where it gets wild, so stick with me because the way these two connect is the whole point. Let's start with Google Anti-gravity. If you missed it,

anti-gravity is Google's AI coding tool. The first version launched back in November 2025, and it was basically an AI powered code editor. You typed it helped you build. Simple. But anti-gravity 2.0 0 dropped at Google IO

on May 19th, 2026. And it's a completely different animal. They pulled the agent out of the editor and turned the whole thing into a standalone desktop app. Think of it less like a place to write code and more like a command center where you direct agents to go do the work for you. You give it an outcome. It

plans the job, then it builds. Now, here's what you actually came for. The five new features: sub agents, scheduling, JSo, hooks, control, and a brand new CLI. Let me walk you through each one and what it actually means for you. First, sub agents. This is the big

one. In the old way, you had one agent trying to do everything. Research, planning, building, checking, fixing, all in one long, messy conversation. And when the job got big, that one agent got overloaded and slow. With dynamic sub agents, the main agent can now split a big job into smaller focused jobs and spin up helper agents to run them at the same time. One handles the plan, one

builds the files, one checks the logic, all in parallel. It's basically a little team instead of one tired worker. Here's why that matters for something real. Imagine running this to build out a full content series designed to pull more people into the AI profit boardroom. I could have one sub agent draft the scripts, another write the hooks and captions and another organize it all into a posting calendar all running at once. That kind of parallel build is

exactly how I get a week of AI profit boardroom content done in one sitting instead of one piece at a time and it stays fast cuz each sub agent has its own focus. The main agents context doesn't get clogged up. Big projects, that's the difference between a job that drags for hours and one that's done before your coffeey's cold. Next feature, background task management. This sounds boring, but it's quietly one of the best parts. Anti-gravity 2.0.

Long tasks run in the background instead of freezing the whole app. So, the main agent keeps moving while the slow job finishes behind the scenes. You're not watching a loading bar. You're stacking work. Now, feature three and four go together. Scheduling and JS hooks.

Scheduling lets you set tasks to run on their own on a timer, like an alarm clock for your agent. There's a simple slash command you type / schedule, and you tell it when to run. The agent stops being something you have to poke every single time and starts being a process that just runs. So, picture this. I could set a scheduled task that pulls the newest AI questions people are asking online every Monday morning and turns them into fresh talking points for the AI profit boardroom. The agent wakes

up, does the job, hands you the list every single week without me remembering to ask. That's how I keep the AI profit boardroom content pipeline full without it ever becoming another thing on your to-do list. And the JS N hooks part. Hooks let you step in and control the agent at exact moments before it runs a tool after it edits a file when a session starts. You write them in a simple JS format and they let you put guard rails on what the agent does so it builds your way instead of guessing. The

fifth feature is voice control. You can now talk to anti-gravity out loud. Some jobs are just easier to explain by speaking than by typing a perfect prompt. You describe the goal, the agent listens, and it starts planning. That's huge for beginners because it drops the pressure of writing the perfect instruction before anything happens. And

tucked inside all of this is the new CLI. That's the command line tool. Google rebuilt it from scratch in a language called Go, so it's faster and it officially replaces the old Gemini CLI. Heads up if you use the old one. Consumer access to the Gemini CLI is ending on June 18th, 2026 for free AI Pro and AI Ultra users. So, if that's

part of your setup, you'll want to move over. The good news is the new anti-gravity CLI keeps the important stuff. Skills, hooks, sub aents, and extensions, which are now called plugins. Now, let me flip over to the second tool because this is where I told you it gets wild. Notebook LM. If you

don't know it, Notebook LM is a free tool from Google. You make a notebook, you drop in sources, a YouTube video, a PDF, a website, your own notes, and Notebook LM reads all of it. Then it turns that knowledge into 12 different types of content. Audio overviews that sound like a real podcast. Animated video explainers, slide decks, mind maps for graphics, flashcards, witses, briefing docks, more. One source, 12

outputs, all free. Here's the catch, and it's the same catch with anti-gravity. On its own, Notebook LM is just a really good hammer. Powerful, but it forgets you. Every session starts from zero.

Doesn't know your business. You end up with a pile of notebooks and a dozen open tabs. So, you've got the most powerful free tool on the internet, and you're using a sliver of it. Pause. Because this is the exact thing I want to make sure you take action on.

Everything I'm walking you through right now, the anti-gravity sub agent setups, the scheduling workflows, the notebook LM build, we go through all of it step by step inside the AI profit boardroom. There are live coaching calls every week where you can bring your own setup and ask me your questions directly. There are walkthroughs that show you the exact prompts. And there's a 30-day road map built around getting this full stack running even if you've never touched a command line in your life. If you're watching this and thinking, I want to actually build this, not just learn about it, the AI profit boardroom is where that happens with help instead of alone. Okay, back to Notebook LM because

the fix for that it forgets you problem is what makes this special. The fix isn't a better tool. It's a system around it. Julian calls it the infinite knowledge engine and it's three layers. Layer one is the knowledge vault. That's

notebook LM holding all your sources. Layer two is the agent operating core where the work actually happens. An AI agent like Claude connects to your notebooks through a bridge called MCP so it can see everything inside them, trigger notebook LM to generate content and pull the finished assets back to your computer. This is also where Obsidian lives, a free notes app that acts as long-term memory so the system never starts cold again. Layer three is the infinite loop. Every output feeds

back in and the whole thing gets smarter over time. Let me make that real. I could feed one strong source into Notebook LM, say a recorded training, and run this system to spin it into a video, an infographic, an audio overview, and a stack of social posts, all aimed at attracting the right people to the AI profit boardroom. One source becomes a week of content that all points back to the AI profit boardroom. There's one more piece worth showing inside that operating core, video bridge. This is where Hyperframes comes

in. Hyperframes is an open- source video tool that runs locally and builds animated videos. The magic is that your agent can trigger it for you. You point it at a file, give it simple instructions, and the agent runs Hyperframes and saves the finished video straight into your local assets. Tap switching, no manual export. Think about

what that unlocks. I could use this hyperframes bridge to create short video walkthroughs and tutorials built specifically for AI profit boardroom members. The agent drafts it, hyperframes animates it, and it lands ready to drop inside the AI profit boardroom for new members on day one. That kind of done for you video makes the member experience inside the AI profit boardroom feel way more polished without you sitting in an editor for hours. Who actually needs all this?

Honestly, anyone who makes content, teaches, or runs anything where ideas need to turn into output. You don't need to be a coder. Notebook LM runs in your browser. Anti-gravity 2.0 has buttons you click and a voice you talk to. If

you can use a search box, you can start. And the two tools even connect because anti-gravity works with agent OS which keeps your standards and context locked in so the agent builds your way every time. Let me leave you with a few quick tips before you go. First, don't try to build everything on day one. Start with one workflow that solves one real problem. If content is your bottleneck,

start there. Second, with anti-gravity, test the small stuff first. Run a tiny scheduled task, set one simple hook, and watch what it does before you trust it with anything big. Third, set up your memory early. Spend 20 minutes on Obsidian on day one. That's the part

that makes everything compound later. And fourth, treat these as a system, not separate toys. Single tool saves you minutes. A connected system saves you weeks. If you want the full process, SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI success lab. Links

in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 75,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And if you're about to actually go build this, here's my honest advice. You're going to hit the messy parts. The MCP bridge that connects your agent to notebook LM wiring obsidian in its memory. Getting hyperframes to talk to

your agent. That's exactly where most people stall out and quit inside the AI profit boardroom. That's the stuff we solve together. You get the walkthroughs for this exact notebook LM and anti-gravity setup, the prompts ready to copy, weekly coaching calls where I'll help you fix your build live, and a road map that takes you from zero to a running system. Don't grind through it alone for 30 hours when you can get it done in an afternoon with help. Come

join us at aiprofitboardroom.com. I'll see you in the next one. They built an AI inside AI Studio that creates entire apps for you from scratch. One sentence is all it takes. No coding, no

hiring anyone, no headaches. And I promise you, by the end of this video, you're going to want to try this yourself. So, here's what happened. Google went and quietly added something called anti-gravity into AI Studio. And this isn't some small little tweak. This

isn't a new color theme or a shiny button. This is a whole new way to build apps like completely new. You open your browser, you type what you want in normal everyday words. And anti-gravity goes to work. It builds your app piece by piece right in front of your eyes.

The stuff people see on screen, the stuff running behind the scenes, the login system, the database, the animations, all of it done. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Now, I know what you're thinking.

There's a bunch of AI coding tools already, right? Cursor, replol. But here's the thing. Most of them just help you code faster. They're like spellch check for developers. They

suggest the next line. They autocomplete stuff. That's nice. But that's not what anti-gravity does. Anti-gravity doesn't assist you. It replaces the whole

process. It thinks about your app. It plans the layout. It writes every line of code. It tests everything. It finds

problems. It fixes those problems. And then it hands you a working app. You can actually click around and use. That's a completely different thing. Let me put

it this way. Those other tools are like giving someone a faster hammer. Anti-gravity is like hiring an entire construction crew that builds your house while you sit on the couch. Big difference, right? Okay. Okay, so let me

get into the features because this is where your jaw is going to drop. Feature number one. It builds the whole app, not half an app, not just the homepage, the full thing. Front end, back end, database, services, everything talking to each other, everything working together, all from one single place. You used to need five different tools stitched together with duct tape. Now

it's all baked into Google AI Studio. Feature number two. Multiple people can use your app at the same time, real time, like a team working in the same dock at the same time, but inside your app. That kind of stuff used to take a whole squad of engineers weeks to figure out. Anti-gravity sets it up for you automatically in minutes. Not weeks,

minutes. Feature number three, your app connects to real tools, Slack, Twilio, Firebase, or systems. So, your app isn't just a pretty face sitting there doing nothing. It actually works in the real world. It sends messages. It saves data.

It logs people in safely and all your keys and sensitive stuff are locked down tight. Security isn't something you add later. It's built in from the jump. Feature number four, your app actually looks good. Like really good.

Anti-gravity pulls in professional icons and smooth animations automatically. So what you end up with doesn't look like some kid's homework project. It looks like something a legit company would put out. Clean, polished. The kind of design that makes people trust what they're looking at right away. That matters more

than most people think. Feature number five, and honestly this is the one that impressed me the most. Every time the AI makes a change to your app, it shows you exactly what it did. Screenshots, test results, documentation, a full breakdown, so you're never sitting there wondering what just happened or what broke. You can see everything. You can

track everything. That kind of transparency is rare and it's a gamecher for anyone building something serious. Now, real quick, if you want to learn how to use AI tools like Google AI Studio and Anti-Gravity to actually grow your business and automate the boring stuff, check out my AI profit boardroom. It's the best place to learn step by step how to use tools like anti-gravity to build real things for your business and save hundreds of hours with AI automation. Link is in the description and the comments. Go grab it. All right,

so now let me walk you through what it actually looks like when you use this thing because talking about it is one thing. Seeing the process is another. Step one, you go to Google AI Studio in your browser. Step two, you type a prompt something like, "Hey, built me a project management app with user accounts and a modern, clean look." Step three, you watch. The anti-gravity

agents start working. They map out what your app needs. They decide what pages to create. They figure out how the database should be set up. They write the front-end code so everything looks sharp. They write the backend code so

everything runs smooth. They they wire it all together. They run tests and if something goes wrong, they don't just throw an error message at you and walk away. They fix it themselves and keep going. Then they hand you a live preview. You can click through it, test

the login, check if data saves properly, see if the animations feel right. And here's the best part. If you don't like something, you just tell it what to change. Make the header bigger. Switch the color to dark mode. hook it up to my

Slack, add email notifications, and it just does it. Plain English, no code, no confusion. Oh, and one more thing I almost forgot to mention. You're not stuck with just one AI model. Anti-gravity lets you use different models for different parts of your app.

So maybe Gemini handles the heavy backend logic, and Claude handles the design and UI stuff. Each model does what it's best at. It's like having a team of specialists working on your project instead of one person trying to do everything. That's called multimodel support and it's a huge deal. Now, let me tell you why this matters so much.

Think about the old way of building an app. You get an idea, you write it down, you try to explain it to a developer, you go back and forth for weeks trying to get them to understand what's in your head. They build a first version. It's wrong. You give notes. They rebuild.

It's still not right. You find bugs. You report them. You wait for fixes. 3 months later, you maybe have something that sort of works. Maybe. Now, think

about the new way. You open Google AI Studio. You type what you want. Like you're sending a text message. Anti-gravity builds it in front of you.

You test it on the spot. You don't like something. You type a change. It updates right away. You could go from idea to working app in under an hour. Something

that used to take months. Gone. Just like that. I've been building businesses online for years. I built a sevenf figureure agency from scratch with a team of 50 people. I've tested every

tool you can think of. And I'm telling you straight up, this is one of the biggest shifts I've seen because it's not a gimmick. It's not a demo that looks cool but falls apart when you actually try to use it. This is a real tool that builds real apps that real people can use. Think about what this opens up. You've got an idea for an app,

but you can't code. Doesn't matter anymore. You want to automate something in your business, but you don't know where to start. This is your starting point. You've been stuck waiting on developers who take forever. That wait

is over. The wall between having an idea and having a working app just disappeared. And the people who figure this out early are going to be way ahead of everyone else. So here's what I want you to do. Go open Google AI Studio right now. Try anti-gravity. Type in a

prompt and see what happens. Push it. Test it. See how far you can take it. Because the more you play with this, the faster you'll see what's possible. And

what's possible right now is honestly unreal. Now, if you want to learn exactly how to use Google AI Studio and Anti-Gravity to scale your business and automate your workflows so you're not guessing and wasting time, join my AI profit boardroom. It's the best place to scale your business, get more customers, and save hundreds of hours with AI automation using tools like Google AI Studio and Anti-Gravity. You'll get step-by-step guidance on exactly how to put these tools to work for your business starting today. link is in the description and the comments. And if you

want the full process, SOPs, and over a 100 AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab links in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 38,000 members who are crushing it with AI. It's completely free, and it's the fastest way to stay on top of every AI update that matters. Drop a comment below and tell me what app you would build first with Google AI Studio and anti-gravity. Julian reads every single one. Hit subscribe if

you're new and I'll see you in the next video. Pine Cone is now a supported MCP server inside Google Anti-gravity. That means your Vector database talks directly to Gemini's AI brain. No code, no glue, just pure automated power. And by the end of this video, you'll know exactly how to use it. So, first, what

even is Google Anti-gravity? If you haven't heard of it, think of it as Google's agentic AI workspace. It's where Gemini stops being just a chatbot and starts becoming an actual agent. Something that can take actions, connect to tools, search the web, run tasks, and now plug directly into your data. And that last part is what today's update is all about. The Pine Cone is now a

supported MCP server inside Google Anti-gravity. Let me explain why that's a big deal. Pine Cone is a vector database. That sounds technical, but here's the simple version. Imagine you have thousands of pieces of content, blog posts, customer data, product descriptions, FAQs, AI automation, case studies, all of it. Hey, if we haven't

met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Normally, if you want an AI to search through all of that and find the most relevant answer, it's a pain. You need engineers.

You need custom code. You need to stitch everything together yourself. Pine cone solves that. It stores your content in a way that AI can search through it fast, find what's most relevant, and pull it back in seconds, not keyword search, meaning based search. So, if someone asks a question, Pine Cone finds the answer that actually makes sense, not just the one that has the same words.

Now, here's where anti-gravity comes in. Before this update, if you wanted Gemini to use your Pine Cone database, you had to build a custom integration, write the code, set up the connection, hope nothing breaks. Most people just didn't bother. Now, Pine Cone is a native MCP server inside Google Anti-gravity. That means Gemini can talk to your Pine Cone database directly from the agent panel.

No custom code, no middleware. You just connect it and go. And here's what you can actually do with it. You can create indexes, you can upsert data, you can search, and you can rerank results, all from inside the agent panel, all driven by Gemini, all without writing a single line of back-end code. Let me make this real for you. So, let's say you're

running a business like the AI profit boardroom. You've got hundreds of AI automation case studies, SOPs, community posts, tutorials, prompts, workflows, all this valuable content sitting there. And every day, new members are joining and asking the same questions. How do I automate my content? How do I set up lead genen with AI? What tools should I

use for this? Now, if you want to dive even deeper into AI automation, I've got something special for you. I run a community called the AI Profit Boardroom. The best place to scale your business, get more customers, and save hundreds with AI automation. Learn how to save time, and automate your business with AI tools like Google Anti-gravity.

The link is in the comments and description. Right now, a human has to answer those questions. Or you rely on a basic search function that gives you half relevant results with anti-gravity and pine cone together. Here's what you do instead. You upload all your content into Pine Cone. Your case studies, your

soapies, your community answers, your tutorials. Then you connect Pine Cone to Anti-gravity as an MCP server. Then you build a Gemini agent that can search that database in real time. Now, when a member asks a question, the agent searches Pine Cone, finds the most relevant content, and gives a personalized, accurate answer instantly without a human involved. That's not a chatbot. That's an intelligent assistant

that actually knows your business. And here's the open loop I want you to sit with for a second. This is just one use case. By the end of this video, I'm going to show you a few more that are even more powerful for growing your business with AI. So, stay with me. Now,

let's talk about the MCP side of this because I think a lot of people are still fuzzy on what MCP actually means. MCP stands for model context protocol. It's basically a standard that lets AI agents connect to external tools and data sources in a structured reliable way. Think of it like a plug. Instead of every tool needing a custom integration, MCP creates a universal socket. You plug

your tool in and the agent can use it. Google Anti-gravity is building out its list of supported MCP servers and Pine Cone being on that list is a big signal. It means Google sees vector databases as a core part of how AI agents will work going forward. Your data isn't separate from your AI. Your data is the AI's memory. And that shift is massive

because right now most people are using AI like this. They open chat GPT. They paste in some context. They ask a question. They get an answer. then they

close the tab and do it again tomorrow. That's not a Gentic AI. That's just a smarter search engine. A Gentic AI is different. It has memory. It has access

to your data. It can take actions over time. It can learn what your business needs and get better at serving it. Connecting Pine Cone to Anti-Gravity is a step toward that. And it's now easier than it's ever been. Okay, so let me

walk you through how you'd actually set this up at a high level because I want you to leave this video knowing exactly what to do. Step one, you need a Pine Cone account. Go to pine cone.io, sign up, and create an index. An index is basically a container for your data. You

set the dimensions based on the embedding model you're using. If you're using Gemini's embedding model, you'd set this to match that output size. Step two, you upsert your data. Upsert just means insert or update. You take your content, whether that's documents, case studies, FAQs, product info, whatever, and you push it into Pine Cone in vector form. Most embedding tools will handle

the conversion for you. Step three, you go into Google Anti-gravity and connect Pine Cone as an MCP server since it's now natively supported. This is a straightforward connection. You authenticate, point it at your index, and you're live. Step four, you build your agent. You tell Gemini what its job

is, what data it has access to, and how it should respond. Then you test it. Here's a prompt example you could use inside anti-gravity to get started. You are an AI assistant for the AI profit boardroom. You have access to a Pine Cone database containing hundreds of AI automation case studies, community SOPs, and member tutorials. When a member asks

a question, search the Pine Cone database first. Find the most relevant content and deliver a clear, actionable answer. Always site which resource you pulled from so the member can go deeper. That's it. That's your starting point.

And from there, you refine it based on what the agent gets right and wrong. Now, let me give you another use case because this is where it gets really interesting. Let's say you're creating content at scale. You're producing YouTube videos, blog posts, LinkedIn content, email newsletters, all of it. And you want your AI to stay consistent with your brand voice, your past content, and your audience's interests.

You take all your past content, load it into Pine Cone, connect it to anti-gravity. Now, when you prompt Gemini to write a new piece of content, it can search your archive first. It knows what you've already covered. It knows your style. It knows what resonated with your audience and it produces something that actually sounds like you. Not not like a generic AI for

someone running a business like the AI profit boardroom. That's a game changer. Every piece of content stays on brand. Every answer stays consistent and you're not starting from zero every single time. Here's another one. Lead

qualification. Imagine you've got a form on your website. Someone fills it in. They want to know if AI automation is right for their business. Instead of a human reviewing every submission, your anti-gravity agent takes their answers, searches your Pine Cone database for the most relevant case studies and use cases and sends back a personalized response.

Here's how businesses like yours have used AI automation. Here's what results they got. Here's why joining the AI profit boardroom could help you do the same. That's personalized outreach at scale without a sales team, without manual work. Now, if you want to dive even deeper into AI automation, I've got something special for you. I run a

community called the AI Profit Boardroom. The best place to scale your business, get more customers, and save hundreds with AI automation. Learn how to save time and automate your business with AI tools like Google Anti-gravity. And if you want the full process, SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI success lab. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 45,000 members who are crushing it with AI. The link is in

the comments and description. and how to build animated websites with it. So, we're talking about, for example, animated backgrounds, um, really cool looking websites, all sorts of cool stuff. Most websites, particularly designed with AI, look kind of flat or boring or generic, and nobody stops for waring. So, today we're using anti-gravity plus the new update, Gemini 3.1 Pro, in a way that most people have

completely missed. And we're testing out life together. Um, we are going to be showing you how to build these websites, what sort of cool stuff you can do with this, and also how to use the animations. If you don't already have anti-gravity, you can actually download it for free, as you can see right here. So, you can download it um right here.

And then once you start using it, you can start building out websites. You can see, for example, on here, we've actually built out uh this website right here. And one thing that we're using is these robot SVG components to build out these websites, right? So, let me show you an example what this looks like in reality. So, if we pull this up, you can see, for example, we have these animated backgrounds like this, right?

And it just looks a lot more interesting than the previous sort of methods. You got like scrolling banners, you got nice emojis, etc. Um, actual graphics and that sort of thing, which is pretty cool. And then you can see like it just looks a lot more interesting. Now, how are we doing this? And what sort of

prompts are we using to get this sort of output um from anti-gravity? Well, that's what I'm going to share with you today. The reason this website looks pretty cool and how it works, right, is basically you're building like a team of designers inside anti-gravity using the prompt that I'll show you in a second, right? And you might be wondering, okay, what is this even built with? Well, you don't need to code or really understand this stuff. But if you do want to, then you

got to think of a website like um like building a house, right? You need like different tools for different jobs, right? So, what we're using here is four different elements. Number one is React. So that's the frame of the house and it keeps every piece of the website organized and separate so nothing breaks each other. Number two is Tailwind CSS.

So this is like kind of the paint and the furniture in the house. Handles all the colors, the sizes, the spacing um and everything else automatically. Typescript is the safety inspector. So it checks the code for mistakes so the website doesn't break. And then we also have framer motion as well. This is a

tool that just makes everything look a bit more animated and a bit more interesting. Right? So, we're going to run through exactly how it works and how you can use this. So, this is the prompt that we actually use for building this website as you can see. So, we said create a dark themed full length landing page for the boardroom. Um, here's the

background. Here's the information, the elements you want to use for the SVG elements aka the floating like animated robots. As you can see right here, we've got a full section inside the prompt for doing this. Right? So, it's using SVG files to build this out. It's got the

full like details on the colors and everything like this. You can fully customize this to whatever you want as well. And then inside here as well, we design each section, right? So, we've broken down, for example, here's the hero section, here's the marquee banner, um, here's the social proof section that we want to add, here's a features grid, etc. Right? So, we've broken it down

step by step. Now, you could easily take this information and then just customize it to you and your business inside something like Claude, right? So, whatever um, you're trying to build this for, you can do it directly inside Claude. Let me show you an example. So you can take the same prompt which we've got inside the AI profit boarding and you can say okay customize this to my brand colors and I'll put my brand colors here. Give me a

custom prompt for my SEO agency Goldie agency instead. And then of course like you want some CTA buttons, right? So all CTA buttons should lead to this page, right? So all the call to actions on the page should lead to this section, right? And then we'll put the prompt underneath which is quite a long one but now Claude for example can customize that full prompt and design it for my SEO agency instead of building it for the a profit boarding community. So that's beginning to build

out and in the meantime what we can actually do is go back to anti-gravity and you can see this is running locally. So the website is hosted locally and it's broken down like all the elements that we've actually asked for it to do. Right? You can see that broken down right here and we were using Gemini 3.1 Pro Low to do that. Now, if you using

high, um, you probably get even better results to be honest. And if we go back here, we can see the results here. Also got another prompt which is pretty similar. You see that here, too. Let me show you an example what that looks like in reality. So, if we go back to

antigraphy here, open up a new window. So, you can build multiple websites at the same time. Open up a new folder. We'll put ARP2. Open that folder up.

And then we can start building the new website. Inside the new folder, I'm going to switch to Gemini 3.1 Pro High. We've already got the prompt and the plan in place. So, we don't need to move into planning mode. We're just going to

use fast mode as you can see. And then we're going to wait from there. Joseph says, "Is there a way to get the prompts?" Yeah, if you want the prompts from today, you can get that inside the AR profession, right? So, if you go to the classroom here, inside the community, then you go to the SOP updates here, we actually have the full prompt inside this section. Plus, we've added a 2-hour

course on how to use um anti-gravity as well. So, if you want the prompt, just scroll down this page and then you can get it from there. So, if we go back inside here, you can see this is beginning to build out the website itself. And then what it will do is actually get its own agent to create and build that for us and start hosting it locally for us as well, which is pretty cool. Couple of tips for you here inside the settings. Two things that I find

always helps me build quicker. So, I always click on always proceed here and always proceed here. If you just want to build something fast and you don't want to like confirm every single uh terminal command inside anti-gravity manually, then you can use these features here and it just helps you move a lot faster when it comes to building something up. Another animal says, "If this is locally hosted, can it still be published live online?" Yeah, of course. So, the way

that you would do that, right, this is the way that I've done it in the past is you want to set up an MCP like, for example, Netify. So if we go to Netify here, you can add an MCP like Netlifier and then you add your personal access token and that can deploy your websites directly from anti-gravity to the internet on subdomains or custom domains that you've got inside Netlify and all you do is you just put inside the chat once this is set up the website URL that you want to deploy to. So, it's a really useful MCP server that you can set up. And it's MCP is just like a tool that you can connect uh anti-gravity to so that it can do cool stuff, right? So that it can, for example, publish websites and that sort of thing. Another

animal says, "This is amazing." Thank you very much. Yeah, I really like it. I think as well like it's just a better way to build stuff out, you know? In the age of like everyone being able to build the websites that they want in like one or two prompts, I think if you can create animations and they look really cool, then you're just going to get better outputs, aren't you? You're going

to stand out a lot more. So, this is beginning to create this right here. We're actually we're doing this. It looks like it's just instead of giving me the prompt, it just went off and built the page inside uh Claude. So, you can do the same thing inside Claude if you want to as well. And then you

publish that and share that as well with the world. So, I didn't ask Claude to do that. I asked it to just customize the prompt, but it actually went off and built the website for me, which is pretty nice. So, if we have a look at here, you can see that we've got the animations on the page. Honestly, I much prefer anti-gravity, but you can see that it's got some cool animations in the background using the SVG uh files right here. And we can see the animated

robots, and that was created in one single prompt. So, that's another awesome way you can use it. Faso says, "What about cursor versus anti-gravity?" Honestly, I don't really use cursor anymore. Number one, I just found like my audience was not that interested in it. And number two, when anti-gravity

came out, there wasn't much of a differentiator. I'll be honest with you. Like cursor was cool, but then and it was one of the first movers, but then you got stuff like claw code, you got stuff like anti-gravity. And I think it was really hard for cursor to keep up. I don't know many people personally that are still using cursor, right? When

there's all these cool options out here. So this looks really cool as well. You can, you know, you got the animated um banner here. You got the background with the stars, which is nice. Um, it used my brand colors in the actual output. It

looks better than your sort of generic websites as well as you can see. And then also you've got like the animated robots as well. And this is linking to our page which is this one right here. Right. So that's that's pretty cool.

Easy to set up, isn't it? If you go back to anti-gravity, it's beginning to build out the page here. But you could use that prompt on, you know, anti-gravity or claude. I honestly prefer to build websites inside anti-gravity simply because you get all the project files on the left hand side which is easier to manage and also because you code out locally it's easy to come back to this project later and just check it out. The final thing I would say is like it's pretty easy to deploy stuff with for example anti-gravity because we're using netlify which means that we can take that basic project and then publish it to the web later once we're fully happy with it. So that's basically how to

build these animated websites. They look pretty cool. If you want to get the prompts from today, you can get that inside the AI profit boardroom. This is my AI automation community that helps you save time and scale your business using AI automation. Inside the community, we have 2,500 members, which means there's always people online to connect with um get help, get support whenever you want to as well, which is pretty awesome. And then also inside the

accountability section here, we have a daily accountability group. So if you find the stuff overwhelming or you just want to get stuff done without being sort of distracted, this is one of the best ways to do it cuz you just post your goals, you hold yourself accountable and then everyone knows what you're working on as well, right? Also, the other thing that I would say here is like it's not just me winning with this stuff. So inside the air profit boardroom, we actually have over 129 pages of of testimonials um from people getting results with the AI profit boardroom and our school community. So you can get that all inside here as well which is pretty cool. It's good to see the impact. And

then also inside the calendar you can jump on four weekly coaching calls. You can get help and support whenever you want. And also inside the classroom here you can get for example a full master class on how to go from beginner to expert with AI automation. How to build your first AI agent in under 5 minutes. Top of that you can get all my best playbooks. for example, for AI avatar

videos, Twitter, newsletter, shorts, Instagram, etc. And then if you want the daily updates, you can check that out in this section here. Right? So you can see how we have daily updates and daily new guides and video tutorials based on the latest stuff that's come out. Right? So

for example, the open claw update came out 4 hours ago. We already got video tutorial and a full step-by-step guide on how to use it, which is awesome. And the same for the prompts from today. If you want to get those, that's inside this section. Just scroll down and you can get the prompts right there. Also,

you can learn how to get more clients with the agency course. You can learn how to rank number one with AI SEO over here. And also, if you want to learn how to grow a YouTube channel with AI based on what's working for me, that's all inside there as well. I appreciate you watching. Thanks so much, and I'll see you on the next one. Cheers. Bye-bye.

Pair it with anti-gravity, and you've basically got an AI dev team working for you. We're talking agents that plan, code, test, and ship while you just describe what you want. No more waiting on developers. No more back and forth. I'm going to show you how to build a full landing page and a working app today. Both built for the AI profit

boardroom. Real prompts, real output, zero fluff. And I'll show you exactly why this combo is the most powerful thing in AI right now. Stick around because the demo halfway through is going to blow your mind. This is not hype. This is just what's possible in

2026. Let's go. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Today,

we're talking about Claude Sonet 4.6 and anti-gravity IDE. And I want to be straight with you from the jump. This pairing is something else, not just another AI tool, not just another update. This is a full shift in how you can build things faster, smarter, with less effort than ever before. And to

make this as useful as possible, every single example and demo in this video is built around the AI profit boardroom. So you can see exactly how this works in a real business context. What is Claude Sonnet 4.6? Anthropic released Claude Sonnet 4.6 on February 17th, 2026. And

here's what you need to understand. Sonnet used to be the middle tier model. Solid but not flashy. But 4.6 flips that on its head completely. It now rivals

top tier models in coding and reasoning. It's faster. is cheaper to run and it has a 200,000 token context window with a 1 million token beta on the way. What that means in plain English, it can hold your entire codebase in its head at once. Your whole business dock, your whole strategy, all of it without losing track. It also has adaptive thinking,

which means for hard tasks, it slows down, reasons more carefully, and gives you a better answer, like a smart person who actually takes time to think before they talk. And on coding tasks specifically, it's way more reliable now. Fewer mistakes, better logic, more consistent. It runs inside GitHub, Copilot, Amazon Bedrock, Versal, and Netlifi. Basically, wherever you work, you can plug this in. What is

anti-gravity? Anti-gravity is an AI powered IDE, Think Vest Code, but with real AI agents living inside it. Not just autocomplete, not just chat, actual agents that take action. You describe what you want. The agents plan the project, write the code, open a browser, test it, and show you the output, all without you typing a single line of code. It has an agent manager that runs

multiple agents at the same time. One planning, one coding, one testing, all in parallel. It also creates artifacts, screenshots, browser recordings, logs, so you always know what was built and how it went. And yes, it now supports Claude Sonic 4.6. So you get the best

model running inside the bestic IDE. That combo is why we're here today. Before we get into the demos, quick one. If you're serious about using AI to grow your business, automate your workflows, and build faster than your competition, the AI profit boardroom is where you need to be. It's where entrepreneurs learn to use tools exactly like this one to build real systems, real processes, and real leverage. No fluff, just the

good stuff. Link is in the description. Go check it out, then come back for the demos because this next part is where it gets really fun. Here's the first build. A landing page for the AI profit boardroom.

The prompt I used was simple. Build a modern, highconverting SAS landing page for the AI profit boardroom. Include a bold hero section that explains, "We help entrepreneurs automate their business with AI." Add a feature section with the top three benefits of joining. Finish with a strong call to action to get people to sign up. make it clean, professional,

and built to convert. And that's all I typed. And here's what happened next. The agent kicked off and started planning the page structure, hero section, features, social proof, placement, CTA. Then it started writing the actual code. HTML, CSS, layout,

styling. Then without me touching anything, it opened a browser and tested the page, clicked through it, checked the layout, made sure everything rendered correctly. The result was a full landing page ready to use explaining exactly what the AI profit boardroom is, why it's valuable, and why someone should join in about 3 minutes. That's it. What used to take a designer and a developer and a week of emails now takes a single prompt and 3 minutes.

That's the shift. Let's go even further. Now, I want to build an actual app prompt. Build a task management app for AI Profit Boardroom members. Users should be able to log in, create tasks, mark tasks as complete, and have everything save automatically. Use a

clean interface, include a backend and a database. The agents fired up immediately. One handled the front end of the UI, the layout, the user experience. One built the back end, the server logic, the API routes. One set up the database structure where the tasks get stored and how they persist. The

terminal was running, code was being written live. Then it tested the whole thing. It clicked through the login screen, added a task, marked it done, and verified it saved correctly. Automated start to finish, and the output was a working app, a real one, login, tasks, persistence, everything for the AI profit boardroom. Imagine giving every member their own task manager inside the community. Track

their AI projects, their automations, their progress. Something you could actually build and ship yourself without needing a dev team. That's what this makes possible. Why this matters? Here's the real talk. Most people are

still doing this the old way. Hiring developers, waiting weeks, spending a lot going back and forth over details. And that world is shrinking fast. Sonnet 4.6 and anti-gravity together mean you can now build things that used to require a full team. landing pages,

dashboards, apps, automation tools, lead magnets, member portals for the AI profit boardroom specifically. Every new thing you want to build, you can now just build. New onboarding flow, build it. Custom resource hub for members, build it. A tool that helps your audience do something faster, build it.

This is what changes when you stop waiting on other people and start using AI as your actual builder. And here's the thing people miss. It's not just about speed. It's about iteration. Before, if you wanted to change something on a landing page, you'd email a developer, wait two days, get back a revision that was slightly wrong, and start the whole loop again. Now, you

just reprompt. You say, "Change the hero headline, make the CTA red, add a testimonial section, and it's done in 60 seconds." That feedback loop being this tight changes everything about how you can test, improve, and grow. Let's bring it home. Claude Sonic 4.6 ICS is faster,

smarter, more reliable, and now rivals the top models. With a massive context window and adaptive thinking built-in, anti-gravity gives you AI agents that plan, code, test, and deliver inside your IDE automatically. Together, they are the closest thing to having a full dev team in your laptop. We built a real landing page for the AI profit boardroom using one prompt. We built a full stack task management app with login and persistence both in minutes. This is not

the future. This is now two things before you go. First, if you want to keep up with tools like this and learn how to build real AI systems for your business, join the AI profit boardroom. It's where serious people go to learn AI automation that actually works. Templates, workflows, community, the real playbooks, not theory, actual stuff you can use. Link is in the description.

Second, the AI success lab. This is our free community. Over 40,000 members all using AI to build, grow, and automate. You'll get the full notes from this video, SOP's 100 plus AI use cases, and access to people who are actually doing this every day. Links are in the comments and description. Join both. Use

the tools and drop a comment below. What's the first thing you'd build with Claude Sona 4.6 and anti-gravity? I read every single one. Let's go. You don't

need a developer. You don't need an agency. You don't need to know how to code because Google just dropped an AI that builds full SAS apps for you in 20 minutes, completely free. I'm talking a real app, real login system, real database, real users, done in the time it takes to watch a Netflix episode. And I'm going to show you exactly how to do it right now. We're even going to build

a real member dashboard for the AI profit boardroom live in this video so you can see every single step. But first, you need to understand why this changes everything. because the numbers behind this are genuinely insane. Okay, Google just dropped something that genuinely broke my brain. It's called Gemini 3.1 Pro. And when you pair it

with a tool called Anti-gravity, you can build a full working SAS app in 20 minutes, completely free. No team, no agency, no coding experience, just you, a prompt, and an AI that does all the heavy lifting. And by the end of this video, I'm going to show you exactly how it works using a real example built for the AI profit boardroom. So stay with me because this one changes everything. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Let's start with what anti-gravity actually is because most people have never heard of it. Think of it like VS Code. That's a code editor developers use. But with AI agents

living inside it, these agents don't just write code. They plan the app, build it, test it in a real browser, fix the bugs, and deploy it. You type a prompt. They do the work. That's the whole thing. And now it runs on Gemini

3.1 Pro, which was released on February 19th, 2026. And it's a completely different level. Here's why Gemini 3.1 Pro is such a big deal. on something

called the ARKGI2 benchmark, which basically tests how well AI can reason and solve hard problems. The previous version of Gemini scored 31%. Gemini 3.1 Pro scores 77.1%. That's more than

double. It also tops the GPQA Diamond benchmark, which is a test for expert level science reasoning. And it supports over 1 million tokens of context, meaning it can hold an entire complex app in its head while it builds it. Yeah. It doesn't forget. It doesn't lose

track. It just builds. Now, here's where it gets exciting for us. I want to show you how we'd use this to build something real for the AI profit boardroom because the best way to learn a tool is to actually use it on something that matters. So, let's say we want to build a member dashboard, a clean, simple SAS app where AI profit boardroom members can log in, track their AI automation projects, access resources, and see their progress. That's a real use case.

That's something that would genuinely help our community grow and deliver more value to members. And with anti-gravity and Gemini 3.1 Pro, we can build that in about 20 minutes. Before I show you the build, quick word. If you want to go deeper on AI tools like this, not just watch videos, but actually implement them in your business. The AI Profit

Boardroom is where that happens. It's a community of people using AI automation to grow their businesses faster and smarter. We share tools, workflows, prompts, and real strategies. If anti-gravity and Gemini 3.1 Pro sound like something you want in your toolkit, come join us. Link is in the

description. Okay, let's get into the build. Here's how this works step by step. First, you go to Anti-Gravity A Pro and create a free account using your Google login. That's it. No credit card,

no paid plan. All right, just your Google account. Once you're in, you open Anti-Gravity. It looks like a normal code editor. and you create a new project folder. Then you open the

terminal inside anti-gravity and run a command called mpx create next app. That sets up your app framework. Next gs is one of the most popular frameworks for building web apps and it's completely free. Then you run mpm install convex which sets up your database layer. Now you go to convex.dev and clerk.com both

free and create accounts. Convex handles your database. Clerk handles user login and authentication. You grab the environment variables from both dashboards. These are basically secret keys that connect your app to those services and you paste them into your project. Anti-gravity will tell you

exactly where to put them. Here's where the magic happens. You open the anti-gravity chat and you type your first prompt. And this is where most people make a mistake. They write vague prompts and get vague results. You want

to be specific. Here's the kind of prompt we'd use for the AI Profit Boardroom dashboard. Build a member dashboard for the AI Profit Boardroom. Users should be able to sign up and login using Clark authentication. After login, they should see a personal dashboard that shows their saved AI automation projects, a resource library with links to AI tools and SOPs, and a progress tracker for their AI learning journey. Use Convex for the database.

Make the UI clean, modern, and mobile friendly using shady CNN components. You paste that in, hit enter, and then you just watch. Gemini 3.1 Pro reads the whole prompt, makes a plan, writes the code, installs the components, connects to the database, and builds the dashboard. The agent even opens Chrome automatically, and tests the app to check it works. If something breaks, it

fixes it. You don't have to do anything. Once the base app is built, you can go to Google AI Studio, also free, and generate a full UI design. You describe what you want the interface to look like. It generates it, and you download it as a zip file. Then you drag that zip

straight into anti-gravity. The agent unpacks it, merges it with your existing code, installs any missing components, and integrates your Clark login into the new design. The whole thing snaps together like Lego. After that, you run a quick check. You test that the roots work, meaning the different pages of the app load correctly. You test that the

database saves and retrieves data properly. You create a test account, log in, add a project, refresh the page, and make sure it's still there. Anti-gravity's agent handles most of this automatically, but it's good to double check. Then you deploy. You connect Digital Ocean for hosting. They

have a cheap starter plan. Free. Add a custom domain through Cloudflare and drop in a prompt to add Post Hog analytics so you can track how members use the dashboard. It's one more prompt, one more build. Done. You now have a

live working SAS app with real user authentication, a real database, real analytics, and a real custom domain built in 20 minutes for free. That's not a demo. That's a real product. Let me give you the numbers so you understand why this is such a shift. Before tools like this, Reasoning AI scores sat at around 31% on advanced benchmarks. Now,

Gemini 3.1 Pro is at 77%. Build time for a full stack app used to be days or weeks with a dev team. Now it's 20 to 30 minutes with a prompt. The AI tests in a real browser automatically, no manual QA needed, and the whole stack is free to start. The reason this works so well for

UI heavy SAS, like a member dashboard, is that Gemini 3.1 Pro is especially strong at visual understanding and putting systems together. It doesn't just write code, it understands what the app should look like and how all the pieces connect. That's what makes it different from earlier models. All right, before we wrap up, if you want the full SOPs, prompts, and workflows for tools like anti-gravity, come join the AI success lab. It's our free AI

community with over 40,000 members, all using AI to work smarter. You'll get the full notes from this video, 100 plus AI use cases, and access to people who are actually implementing this stuff. Link is in the comments and description. And if you want to go even deeper, inside the AI profit boardroom, we take tools exactly like this and build real automation systems around them. We show you how to use AI to grow your business, serve your customers better, and save hours every week, not theory. Real

systems, real results. Come join us. Link in the description. Drop a comment below and tell me what SAS app you'd build first with anti-gravity. I read every single one. And if this video

helped you, hit subscribe the because next we're covering Claude 4 paired with anti-gravity.