---
video_title: "New Gemini Update Is Absolutely WILD!"
video_id: VGyQlqPR1Ko
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VGyQlqPR1Ko
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google Gemini 3.8 Flash: Why This AI "Works Harder"
  
  Google’s Gemini 3.8 Flash update introduces a revolutionary effort setting that allows the model to perform extra reasoning steps for complex tasks. Discover how to leverage this 'long-horizon' capability to automate multi-step workflows and complex data cleaning directly within Google Sheets.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Why Gemini 3.8 "Works Harder"
  01:25 - The Rapid Pace of Gemini Releases
  04:02 - The Effort Dial: Removing Lazy Mode
  05:40 - Long-Horizon Reasoning Explained
  07:35 - Demos: 3D Games and DOS Maps
  09:45 - Gemini 3.8 Inside Google Sheets
  11:20 - Knowledge Cutoffs and Downsides
  13:05 - How to Update Your AI Habits
---
New Gemini update is absolutely wild. Google's new Gemini 3.8 flash AI works harder. That's Google's own wording. It's in the blog post they published on September 2nd written by Tulsi Doshi, their senior director of product management and Ruka Adapa who leads Gemini security at DeepMind. I want you

to sit with that phrase for a second because most model launches don't say that. Most launches say faster, smarter, bigger. Google said this one works harder and they meant it in a very specific way that changes how you should use it. Here's what they actually wrote. On hard tasks, Gemini 3.8 Flash shows

more diligence. It runs extra reasoning steps. It calls tools over and over instead of once. And it will burn through more thinking to get to a better answer, especially when you turn the effort up. So the model doesn't just answer you faster, it goes back and checks. It tries a second approach. It

looks at its own work before handing it to you. Think of two workers. One hands you the first draft and walks off. The other one does the job, reads it back, spots a mistake, fixes it, then hands it over. Same speed on the clock. Very

different results on your desk. Gemini 3.8 Flash is the second worker. And this is the Flash model, the fast one. The one they build for everyday use, not the giant slow one they save for special jobs. That's the part that matters most,

and I'll come back to it. But first, the pace, because the pace here is honestly a bit mad. Gemini 3.7 Flash came out 3 weeks before this. 3 weeks. And in

Google's own blog post, they say 3.8 marks their third flash release in only six weeks. Three models, six weeks, same family, each one better than the last. If you built a workflow around 3.6 Flash in July, it's already two versions behind. If you built one around 3.7 in

August, it's one version behind, and it's September. I'm not saying that to scare you. I'm saying it because the shape of this matters. Google isn't doing one big launch a year anymore. They're shipping a better everyday model roughly every 3 weeks. And most people

watching this haven't updated how they work in three months. Quick pause here because that pace is exactly the problem we built the AI profit boardroom to solve. Inside, we've got a 30-day road map built around Gemini agents. How to hand off a long job so it actually finishes. How to run Gemini 3.8 flash on

your customer list and how to build agents that sort your leads and follow up while you're asleep. Four coaching calls every week where you bring your real Gemini setup and we fix it live. Daily step-by-step tutorials as these models ship. So when 3.9 lands in three weeks, you get it same day instead of finding out three months later. A prompt

library built around Gemini workflows for leads and content and a member map so you can find people near you doing the same thing. Link in the comments and description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com. And if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content

means nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below.

Okay, now let me show you the one setting inside 3.8 Flash that tells you exactly what Google was thinking. Every Gemini 3 model has an effort dial. You pick how hard it thinks. On 3.7 Flash,

the options were minimal, low, medium, and high. Minimal meant barely think at all. Just answer. On 3.8 Flash, minimal is gone. Deleted. If you try to set it,

the system throws an error back at you. The only choices now are low, medium, and high. Medium is the default. Google removed the lazy setting. That's a design decision, and it tells you where they think this model belongs. They

don't want you using 3.8 flash for oneline answers. They built it to sit down and work through something. and they were honest about the trade. Right there in the docs, Google says, "If raw speed is your main worry, use a lower effort level or just stay on 3.7 flash,

which they're keeping fully supported." I respect that. They shipped a model that thinks more and they told you plainly when not to use it. So, does the extra effort actually show up in results? Let's go through the numbers and I'll translate every one of them into plain English. First one, HL

Eified. That's a test of expert level reasoning across science, maths, humanities, and professional subjects. Hard questions, multi-step questions, the kind where you have to hold three things in your head at once. Gemini 3.8 Flash scored 54.9%.

Here's why I care about that and why you should too, even if you never write a line of code in your life. Long Horizon is the whole game for AI agents. A model that answers one question well is useful. A model that can run a 15-step job without falling apart is a different thing entirely. That's the difference between asking for help and handing something off. Every job you'd actually

want to hand off is long horizon. Sorting through a week of member questions, rewriting 12 pages of your site, pulling your community signups into one clean sheet, and spotting the pattern. None of those are oneshot tasks. They're all keep going until it's done. And that's exactly the thing that got better. Let me give you one example

of what that looks like in practice for a community like ours. You could point it at a spreadsheet of AI profit boardroom signups and say, "Clean this up. find the people who joined but never posted and write me a short check-in message for each one. That's a long job with lots of steps. That's a job that just got more reliable. Now, Google

didn't just publish numbers. They publish things they built with it. And these are worth walking through because they show you what Long Horizon actually looks like on screen. First one, Google says Gemini 3.8 Flash built a working doze version of Google Maps from a single prompt inside Google Anti-gravity. Not a picture of one, a

playable one with real locations, real directions, and street view. One prompt, a whole working map app in that old blocky computer style. Second one, a 3D game. You play a wizard walking through a castle. It's got puzzles. It's got

story built into the environment. The textures were made with Nano Banana, Google's image model generated as part of the build. Google says 3.8 Flash made it with a simple prompt using a looping instruction inside anti-gravity. That word looping is doing heavy lifting. A

looping instruction means the model goes around again and again, builds a bit, checks, it builds more. That's the works harder thing, showing up in the wild. Third one, a topographic map of famous places on Earth. You can slice through it in real time, see 2D cross-sections, and read scientific explanations of what you're looking at. Built with real data from the US Geological Survey. Fourth

one, something called hardware anatomy built inside Google AI Studio. It takes a device and makes a 3D exploded view of it. Every layer pulled apart so you can inspect it. There's a slider. You drag it and the device comes apart in front of you. Now, I know what some of you are

thinking. Games, maps. Cool. But what's that got to do with me? Fair. So, let me

tell you what these demos actually prove because it's not Google can make games. Every one of those is a long job with many moving parts done from one instruction without a human stepping in to fix things halfway through. That's the skill. The wizard game is just the rapper. If a model can hold a whole 3D game together across dozens of steps, it can hold your onboarding email sequence together. It can hold a 50-page site

rewrite together. Same muscle. So, what do you actually do with all this? If you're already using the Gemini app on Pro or Ultra, open it and check which model you're on. Take the longest, most annoying job you do every week and hand the whole thing over in one go. Don't

break it into little pieces for it. Give it the full job. That's what changed. If you live in spreadsheets, this is your week. Pick your messiest sheet, the one you've been avoiding, and ask Gemini inside Sheets to clean it and pull out what matters. If you're building

anything with the API, go look at the effort levels. Low, medium, high. Medium is the default. Try high on the job you thought was too hard for a fast model. That's the whole point of this release.

And if you run a team, the thing to fix isn't your tools, it's your habits. Your people are still asking AI one question at a time, like it's a search box. The models moved past that months ago. Most people haven't. That gap is the whole opportunity right now. Everyone's got

access. Almost nobody knows how to hand over a job properly. Look, 3.8 Flash is the first release where the small fast model beats the big ones at long jobs. And that changes what you can hand off today. Inside the AI profit boardroom,

we've already got the Gemini 3.8 8 flash playbook running, the exact prompts for using it in Google Sheets on your customer list, the effort settings that stop long jobs from stalling halfway, and a 30-day road map for building agents that chase your leads and handle follow-ups without you. Four live coaching calls every week where you bring your actual setup and we sort it on the call. 2,800 owners testing this stuff right now. A prompt library built for Gemini lead genen and content workflows. And a member map so you can

find people near you doing the same thing. link in the comments and description or apiprofitboardroom.com. And if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content

means nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic.