---
video_title: "DeepSeek V4 Pro Just Shocked the AI World"
video_id: SAg6wMigEpg
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SAg6wMigEpg
video_date: 20260813
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & DeepSeek System 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  DeepSeek V4 Pro Full Release: Claude-Level Agent Performance at 57x Lower Cost (Plus 3 Big Catches)
  
  The script explains the full release of DeepSeek V4 Pro (0813) on August 12 via the DeepSeek API and OpenRouter, claiming near-Claude Fable 5 performance on agent benchmarks at far lower cost—about 23x cheaper on input tokens, 57x on output, and roughly 276x cheaper cache-hit reads, which matters because agents repeatedly reread context. It cites DeepSeek’s own results on Terminal Bench, Automation Bench, and Humanity’s Last Exam with tools, while noting Claude still leads on software engineering and full-stack tests and that independent verification is pending. It highlights major gains from the April preview to 0813 and describes the model’s mixture-of-experts design, 1M-token context, and high output limit. It also flags three catches: no vision, a planned API price increase, and privacy terms allowing training on API inputs. The video recommends a two-model workflow (plan with an expensive model, execute with DeepSeek) and promotes the AI Profit Boardroom/Agent OS for setup and coaching.
  
  00:00 DeepSeek V4 Pro Arrives
  00:46 Quiet Launch Timeline
  01:29 Benchmarks Versus Fable
  03:15 Agent Economics Explained
  04:25 Real World Agent Adoption
  05:09 Boardroom Plug and Play
  06:02 What Changed Since Preview
  06:44 Training And Architecture
  08:14 Three Catches To Know
  09:17 Who Should Use It
  09:31 Two Model Workflow Pattern
  10:51 Bigger Trend And Takeaway
  12:17 Join And Final Wrap
---
Deepseek V4 Pro just shocked the AI world. The full version just dropped. It goes toe-to-toe with Claude Fable 5, the most powerful AI on the planet, while costing 57 times less to run. That changes everything for you. So, in this video, I'm going to show you how to give your AI agents a frontier-level brain so they can work for you all day, every day, without you thinking about the meter. And there's one thing you

absolutely have to do before you switch. And if you miss it, you'll wish you had stuck around. So, by the end of this video, you'll know everything that you need to know about Deepseek V4 Pro and the latest version. So, the full version went live this week, and Deepseek's own numbers put it right next to Claude Fable 5, the most expensive model on the market, on some of the hardest agent tests we have. And it costs about 57 times less to run. Now, let me be clear

about what happened, because most people got this story halfway. So, Deepseek has had V4 Pro in preview since April. You could use it, but it wasn't finished. And then, on July the 31st, they released the full version, their V4 Flash. And in their notes, they said the big one was coming soon. On August 12th,

it landed, the full release of Deepseek V4 Pro, version 0813. It's live on Deepseek API and on Openrouter right now. Now, what's crazy about this is there was no blog post, there was no launch video, there was not even a tweet about it from them. They just quietly updated the pricing page and let the model speak for itself. And that tells you something about how they operate in general. They ship when it's ready and

let the numbers do the talking. So, let me run you through the numbers. And I'll tell you up front, these come from Deepseek's own testing. So, hold them loosely until independent testers confirm them. But if they hold up, this is one of the biggest price-to-performance releases of 2026.

So, on Terminal Bench 2.1, which tests how well a model can work inside a computer, on computer terminal, and get real-time tasks done, Deepseek V4 Pro scored 87.9. Claude Fable 5 scored 88. That's a group That's a gap of 1/10 of one point against the most capable model Anthropic cells. On Automation Bench, which tests

how well a model handles automation work, DeepSeek scored 31.8. Fable 5 scored 29.1. So, DeepSeek actually came out ahead on that one. Now, on Humanities

Last Exam with tools, DeepSeek hit 60. Fable 5 hit 63. Close, but Claude wins. And I want to be honest with you because that keeps this useful. Fable still wins clearly in some places.

On Deep WAE, for example, Deep SWE, a tough software engineering test, Fable leads by about seven points. Fable on the full stack benchmark leads by about six. So, this is Fable-adjacent on this set of tests. It trades wins. Claude is still the stronger model overall. But, here's the part that

changes the maths for everyone watching this. DeepSeek V4 Pro costs roughly 23 times less than Fable 5 on input tokens and about 57 times less on output tokens. It's the same neighborhood of performance on agent work, but a tiny fraction of the cost. Now, you might hear that and think, "Okay, cheaper tokens, so what?" Stay with me because the real story here isn't the sticky price. It's what happens when you run

agents, and this is the part that almost nobody's talking about. So, when an agent works on a task, it doesn't read your instructions once. It reads them over and over every single step. So, think of an agent like a worker who checks the full job folder before every action. Open the folder, read everything, do one thing, and the next thing, and then open the folder again, read everything again, do the next thing.

That folder gets read hundreds of times. That's called caching. When the model re-reads something it's already seen, that's a cache hit. And DeepSeek's cash hit pricing is where this gets silly. So, cash reads on DeepSeek V4 Pro cost around 276 times less than cash reads on Fable 5. And on OpenRouter, this model

is showing a cash hit rate of about 92%, which means for agent work where the same context gets read again and again, over 90% of what you'd pay is nearly free. So, the real cost gap for agent workflows isn't 23 times. In practice, for running agents, it can be bigger than the headline number suggest. So, if you're a business owner, you can now leave an agent running on a task all day, check at every step, retry when it fails, and the cost is small enough that you stop thinking about it. Like having an agent sort and draft replies to your whole inbox overnight without watching the meter. And people are already doing this

at scale. So, if you look at what's happening and what's happening on OpenRouter right now, the number one app sending traffic to DeepSeek V4 Pro on OpenRouter's home is agent, the open source agent from Nous Research. Over 2 billion tokens. Hermes runs persistently, keeps memory across sessions and builds skills from experience. And its users have quietly made this new DeepSeek model its number one brain. Coding tools like Pyon Cloud

Code Harnesses are right behind it. So, the agents you've heard me talk run in the background and do real work, and they're already running on this model today. Now, if you're watching this thinking, "This sounds powerful, but wouldn't even know where to start with any of it." That's exactly what the AI Profit Warm is for. This week inside the AI Profit Warm, we're covering how to plug DeepSeek V4 Pro into your agents through OpenRouter so your automations run on frontier-level intelligence at a fraction of the usual cost. That

includes the Agent OS, our operating system where you can plug in all of your agents, your Cloud, your Hermes, your Open Cloud, and swap the model underneath without rebuilding anything. And this matters this week because swapping to DeepSeek V4 Pro is exactly the kind of upgrade the system was built for. You get the Agent OS file, a 30-day roadmap for setting up, video tutorials, and daily updates as we improve it. Plus, four weekly coaching calls where you can ask about your own Deep Seek and agent setup live. I've helped over 3,700 people since I joined there, and plenty of them had never touched AI before they joined. Link in the comments

description, or go to the air.perform.com to get access. Now, let me show you what's actually new here because the preview became official under sales it badly. This isn't the same model with a new label. Compare the

preview version from April to the 0813 build, and the jumps are enormous. On Deep Act, the preview scored 12.8. The new build scored 62.7. That is a jump of

50 points on the same test, or nearly 50 points. On Terminal Bench, it went from 72.1 to 87.9. On the Automation Benchmark, from 12.8 to 31.8. NL2 Repo

went from 38 .5 to 61.5. These aren't small tune-ups. Something changed in how this model was trained after the preview. What happened? Well, Deep Seek

grows separate expert versions of the model for different domains. Then, it merges them back into one model for a process called distillation. Think of it like training separate specialists, a researcher, a builder, a planner, and then combining everything they learned into one brain. The preview clearly hadn't finished that process. The 0813 build has. Some people looked at the

Deep SWE Bench and said they have a fixed something fundamental, or that the starting number was chosen carefully. Fair question. That's why independent testing matters, and it's coming. But, the direction is consistent across every single benchmark they published. This model got dramatically better at agent work specifically. That was the focus,

and the model itself is a monster on paper. It's a mixture of expert system with 1.6 trillion total parameters, but only 49 billion active at any moment. Picture a company with 1.6 trillion employees, where only the 49 billion relevant ones show up for each task.

That's how it stays cheap to run. It handles a 1 million token context window, which is roughly 10 novels of text at once, and it can produce up to 384,000 tokens of output in one go. DeepSeek says the architecture needs about a quarter of the computer token that their last generation needed at that context length. That efficiency is the whole reason the price can be what it is. This isn't a company selling cost to buy market share. The model is

engineered to be cheap. Now, before you get too excited, there are three catches. And I'd rather you hear them from me now than find out later. So, number one, no vision. So, this model it can't see images. If your workflow

depends on screenshots or reading documents as pictures, this isn't your model. And DeepSeek has reportedly said vision doesn't advance the research goals they care about. So, don't hold your breath waiting for it. Second, and this is a big one, DeepSeek has posted a notice saying they plan a significant price increase across the whole API in the near future. No date, no amount, just a warning. So, the current pricing

is real, but it's not guaranteed forever. Even so, they'd have to raise prices many times over before this stops being the value play. They know that it's likely why they can afford to raise them. And one more thing worth noting, DeepSeek's privacy terms let them train on what you send through their official API. Other providers will host this model soon without that condition, and open router says more are coming online. But today,

day one, that is the trade-off. So, who is this actually for? Let me make this concrete. If you're running agents that do repetitive, high-volume work like Hermes, research, drafting, sorting, monitoring, checking, this is how the obvious engine for it. This is the new obvious engine. The pattern the

smartest operators use is simple. A top model like Claude Opus can make the plan, and a cheap fast model can implement it. You can plan with the expensive brain, execute with the cheap one, have the expensive one review at the end. For a business owner, that looks like having Claude design your lead workflow follow-ups, then letting DeepSeek run it on every single lead every single day forever. That's two model pattern is where you can get really good results. Now, bear in mind,

you can use something like Hermes mixture of agents with Opus and Fable 5, and then also run DeepSeek V4 Pro alongside it. And then you get a fusion of both. Because the expensive model runs once, the cheap model runs 10,000 times, and when the model is doing 10,000 runs, costs 57 times less, the economics of automation change for real. Now, people say AI is too expensive to actually use in a small business, that running agents all day is a big company thing. That was arguably true a year ago, but it's not true anymore cuz the frontier adjacent tier of intelligence now costs less per million output tokens than most people would guess by a factor of about 50. The cost of use is gone.

What's left is the knowledge gap, knowing which model to use where, how to set up the agent, how to point it at work that actually gets you customers, and the knowledge gap is fixable fast. If people who had never opened an AI tool in their life have done it, you can do it, too. And we've helped plenty of people like that inside the AI Profit Boardroom. And if you look at what's happened this week, like DeepSeek V4 Pro went live, Grok 4.6 dropped, Cohere released the weights for their 3.8 max model.

This isn't going to settle down. There's no calm point where you catch up comfortably. The people winning right now aren't the ones who know everything. They're the ones who picked one workflow, built it, and let each new model release make that workflow better for free. Because here's the thing about owning an agent setup. When a model like

this drops, you swap the brain, and your whole system levels up overnight. That's the position you want to be in. Every release becomes your upgrade instead of your anxiety. And that's really the story of DeepSeek as a company. They said their goal is AGI, and their strategy is to keep shipping and keep publishing. They released Flash first,

made it the default agents, and now the flagship follows. Chinese labs are shipping frontier class models nearly every single month now. Kimmy K3, MiniMax, Quinn, GLM, DeepSeek just planted their flag at the front of that pack. Whatever you think about where these models come from, the competition is doing one thing without question. It's driving the cost of intelligence towards zero, and every business watching this benefits from that whether you use DeepSeek or not because it forces everyone's prices down. The gap

between the best model and the cheapest good model just got very thin on agent work. Claude Fable is still the smartest, but smart enough just became nearly free. And for most business automation, smart enough running all day beats brilliant running rarely. The tool stopped being the bottleneck a while ago. The bottleneck is knowing what to build with them. And if you want to

shortcut that, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. This month, we're going deep on exactly this. You got coaching calls where we can walk you through plugging DeepSeek Fever Pro into agent workflows for lead generation and client work. And where you can bring your own setup and get it fixed live. Daily step-by-step tutorials including the plan with Claude, execute with DeepSeek pattern I covered today, built out click-by-click. A 30-day

roadmap so you're not guessing what to do first. And the four agent OS where you Claude, you Hermes, you Open Claude, and free Claude code agents running one dashboard with shared memory so swapping to a new model like this takes minutes. Plus, you get a prompt library covering agentic setups like this in a member map so you can find people near you already running DeepSeek powered agents in their businesses. We support around the clock because there's always someone online ready to help you 24/7. We've got over 3,700 business owners inside there, and many started from zero. Link in the

comments and description or go to the AI Profit Boardroom.com to get access. The models keep getting cheaper. The window to learn them whilst your competitors sleep on it doesn't stay open forever. See you in the next one.