---
video_title: "Google Just Released an AI That Predicts the Future"
video_id: ZNw0A5Er5jg
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZNw0A5Er5jg
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google just dropped TimesFM-3 — an AI that forecasts what's coming next using data you already have. Here's how it actually works, how it beats the old model, and the licensing catch nobody's talking about.
  
  00:00 Intro – Google's "future-predicting" AI, explained
  00:30 What It Really Does – forecasting trends, not events
  01:03 TimesFM-3 Basics – trained on 1T+ data points
  01:27 Big Upgrade – multivariate forecasting explained
  02:07 Future Facts – using known info to boost accuracy
  02:41 Real Example – 20% demand jump from planned promos
  04:00 Zero-Shot Forecasting – no training required
  04:32 Faster Predictions – one-shot vs step-by-step
  04:45 Confidence Ranges – low/mid/high estimates, not one number
  05:09 Benchmark Results – how it ranks vs other models
  05:35 Key Limitation – can't predict random shocks
  05:58 The Catch – non-commercial license only
  06:36 What's Next – where this tech is headed
  06:55 Final Thought – how this changes decision-making
---
Google just released an AI that predicts the future. Google says it built an AI that can see the future. That sounds fake, right? Well, it's real, just not the way you think. It's not magic, it's not a crystal ball, but what it actually does might be smarter than that. And

most people have no idea it even exists. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and I help you learn AI tools and actually use them in your work. In this video, I'll show you exactly what Google just dropped, how it really works, and the one big catch almost nobody is warning you about. Stick around for that catch, because it changes everything. First, let's clear something up. When

you hear an AI that predicts the future, your brain probably jumps to some robot that knows who wins the game on Saturday. That is not what this is. It doesn't guess random events, it looks at data that changes over time and forecasts what that data is likely to do next. Think product demand, energy use, web traffic, how many people walk into a store, anything that moves up and down over time. This thing tries to see where it's headed. It's called TimeSleuth 3,

and Google Research put it out on August 31st, 2026. It's what people call a foundation model just for forecasting. You already know big AI models for words. You type one thing and they can write, summarize, or translate because they learn patterns from a mountain of text. TimeSleuth 3 does the same thing, but for time. It learned from patterns

in data that move over time. Google trained it on more than 1 trillion data points using both real and practice data, and it has 330 million settings tuned inside it. So, right out of the box, it already understands how trends tend to behave. Here's why this new version is a real jump. The older versions could only look at one line at a time, one trend all alone, like your past numbers and nothing else. But

that's not how the real world works. Things almost never change for just one reason. So, here's the example Google uses, and it's perfect. Say you run an ice cream shop. If you only look at how much you moved in the past, you're missing so much. What about the weather?

Hot day, more ice cream. What about a holiday weekend? A promotion you're running? Foot traffic outside your shop? How cones and toppings are moving. All

of that pushes your numbers around. The old AI ignored most of it. Times FM 3 looks at all of it together. That's called multivariate forecasting, which just means looking at many things at once instead of one. And here's the part that makes the predict the future headline actually make sense. Times FM 3

can use things we already know about the future. Google calls them past future covariates. Forget the term. Here's the idea. There are future facts you already have. You know next month's holidays.

You know the promotions you've already booked. You can pull the weather forecast for next week. The AI doesn't magically see the future. It uses the future facts humans already know and folds them into the prediction. Back to the ice cream shop. Say you plan a

promotion on certain days next month. A basic model just draws your normal pattern forward and has no clue a promotion is coming. Times FM 3 takes those planned days, learns from your history how much a promotion usually lifts demand, and bumps its forecast up on exactly those days. In Google's own example, it expects about a 20% jump in demand on each promotion day. That's the difference between a flat guess and a forecast that reacts to your real plans.

Now real quick, if you're watching this and wondering how AI could help your own brand, I've got something free for you. It's a free AI brand visibility session. Here's what happens on it. You get a custom plan showing how your brand shows up across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. Because people aren't just Googling anymore. They're

asking AI tools straight up, and most brands have no idea if they even show up in those answers. On the session, a real strategist looks at where you show up, where you don't, and how you compare to the people you're up against. You get a full gap analysis and straight answers to your questions. It's 100% free, no obligation. And if you want to go deeper than one session, that's what the I Profit Boardroom is for. It's our

community where we break down tools exactly like this one. When something like Times FM 3 drops, we don't just talk about it. We show you how to test it, what to actually do with it, and where it fits into the way you work. You get walkthroughs, live coaching calls where you can ask about your own setup, ready-to-use prompts, and step-by-step roadmaps. So, instead of watching a cool video and forgetting it by tomorrow, you actually build the skill. Okay, let's

keep going because there's more that makes this tool special. One big one is called zero-shot. Sounds technical, it's simple. It means the AI can forecast on brand new data it has never seen without you training it first. Normally, forecasting is a whole project. You

build a special model for your problem, train it, test it. That takes time and skill most people don't have. Zero-shot skips a lot of that. You point Times FM 3 at your data and it just goes. That opens good forecasting up to regular people, not just data scientists. Then

there's speed. The older tools built predictions one small step at a time. Predict a bit, use that to predict the next bit, and so on. That's slow and every small mistake gets carried forward and grows. Times FM 3 lays out the whole forecast in one shot. One pass done.

Less waiting and errors don't pile up the same way. Here's another thing I really like because it keeps you honest. Times FM 3 doesn't just spit out one number and act certain. Real life isn't certain. So, it gives you a range. A low

guess, a middle guess, a high guess, and the odds around them. You're not blindly trusting one magic number. You see what's likely and how much it could swing. For planning ahead, that's way more useful than one confident guess that might be totally off. Does it actually perform? Google tested it on

three big public forecasting scoreboards called Gift Evil, FE Bench, and Time. On all three, Times FM 3 came out on top compared to other pre-trained foundation models like it. That's a strong result, but I'll be real with you. Winning on a benchmark isn't the same as being perfect on your specific data. Benchmarks are clean tests. Your data is

messy. So, take the win seriously, but test it on your own stuff first. And that leads to the honest limitation. This AI cannot literally predict the future. Nothing can. It leans hard on

the quality of your data. Garbage in, garbage out. And it can't see surprises coming. A sudden event, a viral moment, a random shock. None of that is in the history it learned from. So, it gives

you likely patterns and probabilities, not guarantees. Treat it as a smart heads-up, not a promise. Now, here's the catch I teased at the start, the part most videos are skipping. Yes, Times FM 3 is out. You can grab it right now. The

code is on GitHub. The model is on Hugging Face, and you can install it in one line with pip. But, look closely at the license. The model you download is released for non-commercial, non-production use only. In plain words, Google is letting you study it, test it, and learn from it, but you're not clear to run it inside a live business system yet. The version cleared for everyday

work is actually the older one, Times FM 2.5, which Google offers through its BigQuery tool. Google also said a BigQuery version of Times FM 3 is coming in the next few weeks. So, this is a great moment to learn it and play with it. Just don't build your whole operation on it today, thinking it's fully cleared. That gap between you can

try it and you can run it for real trips up a lot of people. Now, it won't trip up you. So, think about where this is going. Shops planning how much to stock, energy teams planning for demand, factories planning what to make, scientists watching patterns shift, all of them moving from asking what happened to asking what's about to happen. That's a real change in how decisions get made.

So, let me leave you with a question. If an AI could tell you what your customers, your audience, or your whole industry is likely to do next, how much would that change the way you make your calls? Drop your honest answer in the comments. I read them. Okay, before you go, two quick things. First, first, book

that free AI brand visibility session. You just learned how AI is starting to predict what happens next. The smartest next step is finding out what AI already thinks about you today. On the session, you get a custom visibility plan, a breakdown of how you compare to your competitors, and clear recommendations you can act on. A real strategist walks you through all of it. It's completely

free, no strings. Go grab your spot while it's on your mind. And second, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You're about to go try tools like this yourself, and when you do, you're going to hit walls. Installing things, weird error messages, not knowing if you're doing it right. That's

exactly what the community is for. You get tutorials, live coaching calls, step-by-step road maps, and ready-made prompts built around the newest tools, so you get through the hard parts way faster with people who've already figured them out. We're over 4,000 members strong now, all learning this together. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.