---
video_title: "This China's New AI Model Is ABSURD!"
video_id: K3YGMAOFIRU
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K3YGMAOFIRU
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Ox Alpha Revealed: China’s Secret AI Beating Claude Opus
  
  Discover the mystery behind Ox Alpha, the unbranded AI model that dominated coding benchmarks before being revealed as GLM 5.3 Flash. We break down its revolutionary hybrid architecture, 1-million-token context window, and why this open-weight model is a game changer for agentic workflows.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Mystery of Ox Alpha
  01:27 - 320B Parameters & MoE Explained
  02:06 - Multimodal Power & Training Stats
  02:43 - Agentic Workflows & Tool Use
  04:51 - Hybrid Architecture & Memory
  05:57 - 1 Million Token Context Window
  06:26 - Performance Tests & Benchmarks
---
This China's new AI model is absurd, and I mean absurd in the most literal way because for about a week the best coding model that most people could get their hands on had no name, no company, and no explanation. It just showed up. It was called Ox Alpha. That's it. No press release, no launch video, no blog post, just a model sitting on open router and open code, free to use, near unlimited, and quietly beating things it had no business beating. And people used it a

lot. It became the most popular model of that week. Developers on Reddit were going back and forth trying to figure out who made it. Was it OpenAI testing something? Was it Google? Was it Meta?

Nobody knew. Patrick Collison, the CEO of Stripe, looked at it and said it was very impressive. That's a guy who runs one of the biggest payment companies on the planet, and he's out here reacting to a model with a fake name. Then on August 26, 2026, Bloomberg and Business Insider confirmed it. Ox Alpha was ZAI, a Chinese lab, and the model was GLM 5.3

Flash. So think about what actually happened there. A company let its model go out into the world with no branding at all. No logo, no hype, just the thing itself, and it won on merit before anyone knew who to give credit to. I've been watching AI launches for a long time now. I've never seen one do that.

Now here's the part that matters for you, and I want to be really clear about this before we go any deeper. This isn't a model that only big labs can touch. The weights are open. You can download it. You can run it on your own machine in your own office with no internet connection, and I'm going to show you exactly what that takes in a minute. But

first the numbers because the numbers are what make this absurd. GLM 5.3 Flash has 320 billion parameters. That's the total size of the brain, but only 18 billion of those are switched on for any single answer. Let me explain that in plain English because this is the whole trick. Imagine a giant office building,

320 floors. Every floor has a specialist on it. One floor knows accounting, one floor knows writing, one floor knows images, one floor knows code. An old-style model makes you walk through every single floor to answer one question. Slow, expensive, wasteful. GLM

5.3 Flash sends your question to the 18 floors that actually know the answer. Everyone else stays home, same building, way less work. That's why a 320 billion parameter model can run fast and cheap. You're not paying to wake up the whole building. I call this structure a

mixture of experts. And this specific one is the first natively multimodal model in the whole GLM 5 family. That means text, images, and video all go in through the same door. You don't bolt on a separate vision tool. It just sees. It

was trained on 30 trillion tokens of mixed text and images, 30 trillion. And here's a detail almost nobody picked up on. All that Ox Alpha traffic, the whole week of it, was served on Chinese AI chips, not Nvidia, their own silicon. ZISO numbers say it beats GLM 5.2 across benchmarks and real work at about 1/10 the cost. And on coding and agentic

tasks, it gets close to Claude Opus 4.8, close to Opus, from an open model you can download. I want to pause on the word agentic for a second because I use it constantly and I don't want to assume. An AI agent is just AI that does a job in multiple steps without you baby sitting it. You give it a goal, it figures out step one, does it, checks the result, then does step two. Like

handing a task to an assistant instead of asking a question and getting a sentence back. That's the category GLM 5.3 flash is built for. Long jobs, multiple steps, tool use. It handles function calling, which means it can go use other software on your behalf. It

does structured output, so it can hand you clean data instead of a paragraph you have to clean up yourself. Here's a practical one. You could point it at the last 30 days of questions people asked inside the AI Profit Boardroom, have it group them into the 10 most common problems, and hand you back a clean list of what to make tutorials about next. That's one prompt. That used to be a person's afternoon. Now, quick thing

before I get into the piece of this that I think is genuinely the smartest engineering in the whole release. If you're watching this and thinking, "Okay, GLM 5.3 flash sounds powerful, but I don't know where to plug it into my actual business." That's the exact gap we close inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We've got a 30-day roadmap built around running open models like GLM 5.3 Flash for real work. Setting it

up, pointing it at your customer questions, having it handle your follow-ups and your content while you sleep. Four coaching calls every week where you can ask about your specific setup and get an answer live. Business owners in there and a lot of them are already running open models for lead gen and client work. So, you're not figuring it out alone. Daily tutorials step-by-step as this stuff ships. A

prompt library built for agent workflows and a member map so you can find people near you doing the same thing. Link in the comments and description or go to profit room.com. And if you're creating all this content with AI but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in.

Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Okay, back to the engineering because this next part is why the model is cheap and cheap is what changes who gets to use it. Every AI

model has a memory problem. The longer the conversation gets, the more it has to hold in its head at once and the cost of holding it doesn't go up in a straight line. It explodes. Old models use something called full attention. Every word looks at every other word. 10

words is easy. 10,000 words means every word is checking against 9,999 others. The math gets brutal fast. So, labs have tried two fixes. Sparse attention where each word only looks at the words that matter and linear attention where the cost grows in a straight line instead of exploding. Both

have a catch. Sparse can miss things. Linear can get fuzzy on long documents. GLM 5.3 Flash uses both at the same time. Z.ai calls it a hybrid

architecture and it's the first time it's shown up in the GLM series and the first time in an open frontier model at all. The result is roughly three times less attention compute and the memory it holds during a long job, that's the KV cache, is over four times smaller than the bigger GLM 5.3 at long context. Four times smaller memory, same understanding. In practice, that means it can hold about a million tokens at once. Some providers list it even

higher. A million tokens is roughly 750,000 words. You could hand it every email you've ever sent, every sales page you've ever written, and every transcript from every call you've ever run, and it would read all of it in one go and still have room. You could draw every welcome email the AI Profit Boardroom has ever sent into it and ask which openings kept people reading longest. They also added something called manifold constrained hyperconnections. Don't worry about the

name. It's a training trick that makes the model learn more from the same amount of compute. More brain per hour of training. Now, let me get honest with you for a second because I don't want to sell you something that isn't real. There's an independent group called Artificial Analysis that tests these models without asking permission from anyone. They gave GLM 5.3 flash a 57 on

their intelligence index. The median for models of the same size and type is 29. 57 against a median of 29. That's not a small gap, but they also flagged two things. It's slow, about 45 tokens per second, where the median for open models of its size is closer to 69. And it's

wordy. So, it burned 150 million tokens getting through their test suite where the typical model uses around 110 million. So, it thinks hard and it talks a lot. If you want instant snappy replies, this isn't the one. If you want a model that grinds through a long job properly, it is. The one place it's

genuinely quick is the wait before it starts. Time to first token is about 1.55 seconds against a median of 2.35. So, it starts fast and then takes its time. And there's a lever for that. The

model has three thinking modes, low, high, and max. It defaults to max, which is why it's slow in tests. It's using full effort on everything. Drop it to low for simple stuff and it moves. That's a real knob you control. Most

people never touch it and then complain the model is slow. So, if you want the shortcut on this, how to set GLM 5.3, flash up which build to pick for your machine, and how to point it at the parts of your business that eat your week, that's what we do inside the iProfit Boardroom. We're building the step-by-step on running open models like this one for your own work, agent workflows that handle customer questions overnight, follow-up sequences that run themselves, content pulled straight from what your audience is actually asking. Four coaching calls a week where you bring your setup and we work through it live. Business owners many already deep

in open models, so when you get stuck at 11:00 p.m. somebody's awake. Daily tutorials as new builds land, a prompt library made for long agent jobs, and a member map so you can meet people near you doing the same thing. Link in the comments and description or aiprofitboardroom.com.

And if you're creating all this content with AI but nobody's finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in

the comments and description below.