---
video_title: "NEW Google Updates are WILD!! 🤯"
video_id: ZqjQuHWEmbY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZqjQuHWEmbY
video_date: 2026-07-27T17:00:37+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Google  Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session → https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Get 200+ Free AI SEO Prompts → https://go.juliangoldie.com/chat-gpt-prompts
  
  Get out SEO link building book here 👉 https://go.juliangoldie.com/opt-in?utm=julian
  
  NEW Google Gemini Updates: 3 Models & Autonomous AI Agents
  
  Google just released three new Gemini models and a groundbreaking autonomous agent called Spark that works even after you close your laptop. Learn how to leverage these highly efficient AI tools and the new Notebook collections to automate your business workflows.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Google's Wild New Updates
  00:16 - The 3 New Gemini Models
  02:09 - Gemini 3.5 Flashlight Explained
  04:14 - Better Notebook Organization
  04:55 - Google Vids & Gemini Omni
  05:29 - Gemini Spark: Your AI Agent
  06:01 - The Agentic Business Shift
---
new Google updates are wild. That's what we're covering today. And I mean that in the most literal way possible because Google didn't just release one thing this week. They released three new AI models, a new way to organize your research, a smarter video tool, and an AI agent that keeps working after you close your laptop. Let's start with the biggest one. Google just released three new Gemini models in one week, not one three. They're called Gemini 3.6 Flash, Gemini 3.5 Flash Lite, and Gemini 3.5 Flash Cyber. Here's why that matters, even if you've never touched an AI model in your life. Google isn't trying to build the smartest AI anymore. They're trying to build the AI that gets stuff done the fastest using the fewest steps for the lowest cost to run. That's the whole story behind this release. Let's break down what each one actually does in plain terms. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO, agency Goldie, agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Gemini 3.6 Flash is the new everyday model. Think of it as the one Google wants everybody to use by default. It's built for coding, for writing, for reading long documents, for looking at images. And the interesting part isn't that it got smarter, it's that it got more efficient. It uses fewer words to get to the same answer. That means faster replies and way less waste. I keep coming back to this idea because it's the whole shift happening in AI right now. A year ago, every new model release was a brag about raw intelligence. Now the brag is about how little it takes to get the job done. That's a completely different kind of race. Here's a simple way to picture it. Imagine you ask two people the same question. One gives you a five minute answer full of detours. The other gives you the same answer in 90 seconds. And it's just as good. Gemini 3.6 Flash is built to be that second person. Now here's a use case that actually matters. Try this prompt. Write a welcome email for a new AI profit boardroom member that explains our weekly coaching calls, daily tutorials and prompt library in three short lines. That's the kind of one line prompt that turns into a finished draft in seconds. The second release Gemini 3.5 Flash might actually be more important than the first one. This is Google's fastest and cheapest model to run. It's not built to be the smartest. It's built for the stuff you do a thousand times a day, sorting incoming messages, reading through documents, answering simple questions, high volume, repetitive work. Think about it like this. You don't need a surgeon to hand you a glass of water. You need someone fast, reliable and available all day long. That's Flashlight. Here's a practical one. Set up a flow where every new AI profit boardroom sign up triggers a prompt like this. Read this new member's goal, then write a short personal welcome message, pointing them to the right coaching call for their industry. That's the exact kind of onboarding automation members build inside the community. The third model Flash Cyber is different from the other two. This one is built to find and fix security holes in software. It's not available to the public right now. Only trusted partners and government groups can use it today. So we won't spend much time here because it won't touch your daily life directly. But it tells you something. Google is racing to build specialized AI for serious problems, not just chatty assistance. Let's pause here for a second because I want to make sure this lands with the people who need it most. If you're trying to save time and actually automate parts of your business, the same way we just walk through with Gemini Spark, Flashlight and Notebook collections, this is exactly what we cover inside the AI profit boardroom. And it's why so many members are already using these exact tools to grow their own audience and get more customers. We've built a full roadmap for setting up an agent like Spark to handle lead follow up, member onboarding and content research. So you're not starting from scratch trying to figure out the setup yourself. There are four live coaching calls every week where you can bring your exact use case and get direct help daily tutorials that break down new releases like this one the moment they drop. A prompt library built around real workflows like the ones we just covered and a community of people already running these automations for their own businesses links in the comments and description if you want the full walkthrough. Now let's talk about something Google users have been asking for for a long time better organization inside Gemini's notebook tool. Google just added something called collections before this if you use notebook a lot your research turned into a pile dozens of notebooks with no real order collections fixes that picture it like a music playlist one notebook can live inside more than one collection no rigid folders just flexible groups that make sense to you. Here's a practical way to use it build a collection just for AI profit boardroom content ideas dropping every testimonial every case study and every coaching call recap then ask Gemini to pull it all into one clean summary you can turn into next week's posts next update Google Vids just got a serious upgrade with something called Gemini Omni here's what it does you drop in a rough sketch a product photo or a logo then you type a simple sentence something like turn this into a short product video and Google builds themed video clips for you automatically here's how you'd actually use this one design a short promo video for the AI profit boardroom that shows real members getting help on a coaching call highlights the daily tutorials and ends with a simple line about joining the community to save time with AI drop in your logo and a few screenshots and let Omni build the first draft before you touch an editor now here's the one I actually think is the biggest long term story out of everything Google shipped this year it's called Gemini Spark Spark isn't a chat window it's an agent that keeps working after you walk away Sundar Pichai described it as your personal AI agent one that takes action on your behalf under your direction it runs on its own without needing your laptop open want you to notice the shift in language here because it matters you don't tell Spark do this one thing you tell it watch this or keep checking or 10 or handle this every week without me asking again that's the agentic shift everyone in AI keeps talking about let's zoom out for a second because I don't want you to just remember five separate updates I want you to see the pattern underneath all of them if you're a business owner here's what actually matters for you you don't need the most powerful model available you need the right tool for the right job fast and cheap for repetitive tasks sharper reasoning for the complex stuff an agent running in the background for the things you keep forgetting to follow up on here's the honest part I want to leave you with tools like this move fast and that can feel like a lot new models new agents new features almost every single week you don't need to master all of it overnight you just need one small habit pick one update one tool one workflow and actually use it this week instead of just watching another video about it that's genuinely the difference between falling behind and staying ahead right now not knowing everything just applying one thing consistently if you want help doing exactly that this is what we do every single week inside the AI profit boardroom and everything we just walked through today the prompts for onboarding new members the notebook collection for content the promo video idea the spark workflow for comments those are the exact kinds of builds we help you set up step by step we take releases like this one the same day they happen and turn them into real workflows you can use to bring in more leads save hours on repetitive tasks and grow your own community or business the way we're growing hours four coaching calls a week where you can ask about your exact setup daily tutorials the moment new tools like spark or flashlight roll out and a full community of people building with these exact tools right now sharing what's actually working for them links in the comments and description and if you want the full breakdown from today plus the notes the prompts and over a hundred other AI use cases just like this one come join the AI success lab it's free you'll get the full write up from this video and access to a community of over people who are already deep into using AI like this every single day links are in the comments and description for that one too that's everything from Google this week new models smarter organization faster video and an agent that never really clocks out see you in the next one