---
video_title: "NEW Mercury 2.5 Just Got BETTER! 🤯"
video_id: PlghTtMhCic
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PlghTtMhCic
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Mercury 2.5: The World's Fastest AI Model? (1,000+ Tokens/Sec)
  
  Discover how Mercury 2.5 by Inception is revolutionizing AI speed with over 1,000 tokens per second. Learn about its unique parallel processing architecture and how tunable reasoning can automate your business workflows faster than ever before.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Insane AI Speed
  01:25 - How Mercury 2.5 Works
  02:00 - Evolution of Mercury Models
  04:12 - Real-World AI Examples
  05:08 - Tunable Reasoning Feature
  06:01 - Parallel Tool Calls
  07:54 - Conclusion: AI Agents
---
New Mercury 2.5 just got better. A new AI model just showed up and it's fast. Not pretty fast, not kind of fast. Try over 1,000 words a second. We're talking

about Mercury 2.5 made by a company called Inception and the number they're showing off is 1,107 tokens per second. Let me back up for a second because that number means nothing without context. A token is basically a small piece of a word. So 1,107 tokens a second means this thing can write almost a full page of text in about the time it takes you to blink twice. Here's why that matters way more

than it sounds like it should. Most AI tools today don't just answer one question and stop. They run in loops. They check something, then check something else, then make a decision, then check again. If each one of those steps takes a few seconds, that adds up fast. 10 steps at 3 seconds each is 30

seconds of waiting. Now imagine each step only takes a fraction of a second instead. That whole workflow that used to take half a minute could finish before you even finish reading the sentence. That's the real story here. Not AI got faster, it's AI agents can now do way more work way quicker without you sitting there waiting on them. Hey,

if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. While he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. So how did they actually make it this fast? Most AI models write like you'd write a text message. One

word, then the next word, then the next word in order one at a time. That's called auto-regressive generation and it's how almost every AI model works, including the big popular ones. Mercury does something different. Instead of writing word by word in a straight line, it writes rough drafts of the whole answer, then cleans it up in parallel all at once. Think of it like a group of students all editing different paragraphs of the same essay at the same time instead of one student writing it word by word alone. That's why it can

move so much faster. It's not doing one thing at a time. It's doing lots of little things at the same time. This isn't Inception's first try at this either. They released the very first version of Mercury a while back, and it was already fast for its time. Then they

upgraded it, made it smarter at things like writing code and math. Then came Mercury 2, which added reasoning, meaning it could actually think through harder problems instead of just spitting out fast answers. Mercury 2.5 is the next step up from that. Same speed idea pushed even further with better reasoning and tool use built in. Now,

here's a quick reality check because I don't want to oversell this. Tokens per second is not the same as how fast will I get my full answer. Your AI agent still has to look things up, call other tools, talk to a database, maybe check a website. All of that takes time, too. So, this speed boost mostly helps with the writing and thinking part, not every single part of the process. That's still

a big deal. It just isn't magic. I want to pause here for a second because I think this is actually one of the biggest shifts happening in business right now, and I don't want you to miss it. If you want help getting found on Google and AI search tools like this, we run free SEO strategy sessions where our team sits down with you and looks at your actual website, your competitors, and where you're losing traffic right now. Then we build you a custom one-to-one plan to help you rank higher, show up in AI search results, and bring in more visitors who actually turn into customers. No generic checklist, no

copy-paste advice. It's built around your business, your industry, and your goals. The session is completely free, and there's no pressure to sign up for anything after. If that sounds useful, the link is in the comments and description, or you can head straight to goldie.agency to grab your spot. And if

you want to see more workflows like the lead follow-up system I just walked you through, that's exactly what we build inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Every week we take new tools like Mercury 2.5 and turn them into real automations for things like lead recovery, content creation, and customer follow-up, the same kind of examples I showed you today. You get four coaching calls a week, daily step-by-step tutorials, a full prompt library, and a community of business owners building these exact systems alongside you. So, you're never stuck figuring it out on your own. If

you're ready to actually put AI automation to work in your business, the link is in the comments and description. Before I go further, let me actually show you how this could work in real life because that's way more useful than just talking about speed. Say you wanted to grow the AI Profit Boardroom. You could ask Mercury 2.5 something like, "Write a landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom that clearly explains what AI automation can do for a small business, highlights our weekly coaching calls, step-by-step tutorials, and community, and ends with a strong call to action to join." Because it thinks and writes so

fast, you could get several different versions back almost instantly, compare them, and pick the one that reads the best. Or think about lead follow-up. You could set up a prompt like, "Look at this AI Profit Boardroom lead who went quiet for 7 days, figure out why they likely stopped responding, and write a short personal message that brings them back into the conversation." Since the model can pull that together so fast, that kind of check could run automatically on every quiet lead, not just the ones someone remembers to follow up on. Okay, back to Mercury 2.5. Let's talk

about the part that actually matters for real use, not just the speed flex. The first big feature is called tunable reasoning. Basically, you get to choose how hard the AI thinks. If the task is simple like sorting something into a quick category, you don't need it to think deeply. Fast and light is fine.

But if the task is complicated like figuring out the best way to respond to a tricky situation, you can tell it to slow down and think harder. It's like choosing between a quick glance and a careful read depending on what the moment actually needs. Here's how that could play out for something like the AI Profit Boardroom. A simple task might be, "Sort this new sign-up as high, medium, or low interest based on what what filled in." That's quick, no need for deep thinking. A harder task would

be look at this member's business type, their biggest bottleneck, and their past questions on our coaching calls, then suggest the best next automation for them to build. That one needs the model to actually think it through, not just react fast. The second feature is parallel tool calls. This one's big for anyone using AI agents. Normally, an agent does one thing, waits, does the next thing, waits again, looks something up, wait, check another thing, wait.

With parallel tool calls, it can do several of those steps at the same time instead of one after another. So, instead of a slow line of tasks, you get a bunch of tasks happening together, then coming back with one combined answer. Picture a new lead joining the AI Profit Boardroom. Instead of checking their sign-up form, then their email history, then their website one after another, the system could check all three at once, then combine everything into one clear summary the team can act on right away. Before you go, two quick things. If you want help getting found

on Google and AI search tools like this, we run free SEO strategy sessions where our team sits down with you and looks at your actual website, your competitors, and where you're losing traffic right now. Then we build you a custom one-to-one plan to help you rank higher, show up in AI search results, and bring in more visitors who actually turn into customers. No generic checklist, no copy-paste advice. It's built around your business, your industry, and your goals. The session is completely free, and there's no pressure to sign up for anything after. If that sounds useful,

the link is in the comments and description, or you can head straight to goldie.agency to grab your spot. And if you want to see more workflows like the lead follow-up system I just walked you through, that's exactly what we build inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Every week, we take new tools like Mercury 2.5 and turn them into real automations for things like lead recovery, content creation, and customer follow-up, the same kind of examples I showed you today. You get four coaching

calls a week, daily step-by-step tutorials, a full prompt library, and a community of business owners building these exact systems alongside you. So, you're never stuck figuring it out on your own. If you're ready to actually put AI automation to work in your business, the link is in the comments and description. That's Mercury 2.5.

Small model, big speed, and honestly, one of the clearest signs yet that the next wave of AI isn't about smarter chatbots. It's about AI that actually gets work done while you're doing something else.