---
video_title: "Google Gemini NEW Updates are ABSURD!"
video_id: 8dC6Fs3Yr28
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8dC6Fs3Yr28
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  The Most Absurd Updates Yet!
  
  Google just dropped a massive wave of Gemini updates, including the revolutionary 3.8 Flash model that can code, solve complex problems, and understand video autonomously. Learn how these AI breakthroughs can automate your business tasks and transform your content strategy.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Google's Biggest Week
  00:50 - Gemini 3.8 Flash Breakdown
  02:35 - Building 3D Games & Apps
  04:06 - Agentic Video Understanding
  05:36 - Omni 1.1: AI Video Editing
  06:08 - Gemini 3.5 Transcribe
  07:08 - Gemini Goes Mobile (Pixel 11)
  07:44 - The Future of Google Gemini
---
Google Gemini new updates are absurd. Today, I'm going to show you the craziest week Google has ever had. New AI that codes for you, new AI that watches hours of video in seconds, new AI that talks like a real person. This is not small stuff. This is big. This

changes how you run your business. And I'm going to show you exactly how step-by-step in plain simple words. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. And today's comment question is

easy. Which Gemini update from this video are you most excited to try? Drop it below. Julian wants to see it. So, Google just dropped a huge pile of Gemini news all in the same week, and the title of the newest one is Gemini 3.8 Flash. That's the model everyone is

talking about right now. It's built for coding, for solving hard problems, and for doing tasks on its own without you holding its hand the whole time. Here's the wild part. Google says this new model doesn't just answer fast, it works harder. It can think for longer on a hard problem. It can call tools on its

own. It can keep going until the job is actually done right. Think about that for your business. Instead of asking AI a question and getting a quick shallow answer, you get an AI that keeps digging until it solves the real problem. Let me give you an example that actually matters for growing a business. Say you

run a community like the AI Profit Boardroom. You could prompt a tool like this and say, "Build me a landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom that shows business owners how AI automation saves them time, brings in more leads, and helps them get more customers every single month." A model like Gemini 3.8 Flash can take that one prompt and actually build it out step-by-step, checking its own work as it goes. That is a huge shift from typing a question and hoping for the best. You could push

it even further. You could say, "Look at the AI Profit the landing page and tell me what's confusing, what's missing, and what would make a busy business owner actually stop scrolling and sign up. A model that keeps working on a problem instead of spitting out one quick answer can actually catch stuff a normal quick chatbot would miss. That's the real difference here. It's not just faster typing, it's more thinking before it hands you the answer. And this model

supports a huge amount of information at once, too. We're talking about feeding it entire documents, whole code bases, long chains of instructions, and it can still keep track of everything without losing the thread. For a business, that means you could hand it your whole content plan, your whole funnel, your whole automation setup, and ask it to find the weak points. That's not a small trick, that's a real business tool. Google showed some wild demos, too. They

had this AI build a full playable 3D game from one prompt. They had it build a working map application. They had it build a 3D anatomy tool for hardware, so you can actually see inside a device. All from simple prompts, no coding needed from the human. That's the story here. AI is moving from just answering

questions to actually building things for you. And here's an open loop for you. Later in this video, I'm going to show you the update I think is actually more important than the coding one. It's about video. Stick around because this one might save you the most time out of everything on this list. But first,

let's pause here. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. This is where we sit down and show you exactly how to use AI automation to save time, bring in more customers, and get your content moving without doing everything by hand. We break down real prompts, real workflows, and real ways to use tools like Gemini 3.8 flash to actually build things for your business, not just chat with a bot. If you're serious about

growing with AI, this is where you want to be, learning alongside other business owners doing the exact same thing. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. On that call, we'll look at where your content is right now, what's holding it back from ranking, and what steps you can take to start showing up on Google. It's completely free, there's no pressure, and it's a great next step whether you're just starting out or you've been doing this for years and want a fresh set of eyes on your strategy. Okay, now let's talk about that video update I promised you. This

one is called agentic video understanding, and honestly, it might be the sleeper hit of this whole announcement. Here's the old way AI watched video. It looked at every single frame over and over from start to finish. That's slow, that's wasteful, and it burns a ton of effort on parts you don't even care about. Here's the new way. Gemini can now jump around a

video like a smart human would. You ask it a question and it goes and finds the exact part of the video that matters. It can search through a 10-minute tutorial, a 90-minute lecture, or even a multi-hour recording and pull out just the moment you need. Google says this cuts the amount of data used by up to 88% and it's actually more accurate, too, by up to 7%. Let that sink in.

Faster, lighter, and better all at the same time. Now, think about how you could use this for a business like the AI Profit Boardroom. Say you record a training call for your community. Instead of watching the whole thing back, you could ask, "Find every moment where we talked about lead generation." Or, "What did we say between the 20-minute mark and the 25-minute mark?"

The AI goes and finds it. No more scrubbing through hours of video looking for one moment. Now, let's talk about where all of this came from. Gemini 3.7.

Flash came out just 3 weeks before 3.8. 3 weeks. Google is not slowing down. They are speeding up. 3.7 was already

built for coding and for AI agents that can work on their own, and Google didn't wait around. They pushed it even further with 3.8 almost right away. Next, Google also released something called Omni 1.1 Flash. This one is all about video

creation and editing. You can now extend a video clip so it flows longer and looks more natural. You can give it a starting frame and an ending frame, and it fills in the middle for you. And you can choose your resolution starting fast at a lower quality then upgrading once you like what you see all the way up to a sharp high quality finish. Think about what that means for content. You could

draft a video idea fast first. Once it looks right, you upgrade it to a clean sharp final version. That's a smart way to work. Try it then improve it instead of wasting time and effort on a perfect version right out of the gate. Next up, speech. Google released Gemini 3.5

transcribe. This isn't just turning your voice into text. It cleans it up. It understands context. It handles background noise. It handles people

trailing off mid-sentence and it still gets the meaning right. If you've ever recorded a call and got back a messy jumbled transcript, this is built to fix exactly that problem. Think about every sales call, every coaching call, every onboarding call your business runs. Normally, you get a rough transcript full of ums, cut off words, and messy formatting. A model built to clean all that up and keep the actual meaning could save your team hours every single week just on notes alone. Google also

brought Gemini onto phones with the new Pixel 11 lineup. It runs a smaller version of Gemini called Gemini Nano right on the device. That means AI running without needing the internet for basic tasks. This tells you something important. Google isn't just building AI for the browser. They're putting it in

your pocket. And here's the number that puts everything in perspective. Google said the Gemini app just passed 1 billion monthly users. 1 billion, that's not a typo. And on top of that, they said 150 million images are being generated every single day using Gemini.

This is not a small trend. This is one of the fastest growing tools in the history of the internet and it's still speeding up. So, here's what I want you to take away from all of this. Gemini isn't just a chatbot anymore. It's turning into a full system. It can

reason through hard problems. It can act on its own with tools. It can watch and understand video. It can create and edit video and it's running everywhere from your browser to your phone. That's the real story behind all these updates. So,

if you want to actually put tools like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Every week we show business owners just like you how to use the newest AI tools, including updates like the ones we covered today, to save time, automate the boring stuff, and bring in more customers without burning yourself out. You'll be learning alongside a whole community of people actually using this stuff in their own businesses, not just talking about it. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll walk through your current content, show you exactly what's holding you back from ranking higher, and give you clear next steps you can actually use. It's free,

it's simple, and it might be the one call that changes how your content performs on Google. Thanks for watching, and remember Julian reads every single comment, so tell him which update from this video you're trying first.