---
video_title: "NEW OpenClaw 2.0 Destroys Hermes Agent?"
video_id: _1GfLCXw-VQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_1GfLCXw-VQ
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  OpenClaw 2.0 vs Hermes: The Ultimate AI Agent Showdown
  
  Discover the massive new updates for OpenClaw 2.0 and Hermes Agent as they compete to become the top AI platform. We break down new features like Swarm mode, Fleet mode, and Bot mode to help you decide which tool is best for your business.
  
  00:00 - Intro: OpenClaw vs Hermes
  00:37 - OpenClaw 2.0: The Massive Update
  01:25 - New Session Persistence & Gateways
  02:19 - Swarm Mode vs. Fleet Mode Explained
  03:06 - Interactive Widgets & Teamwork
  04:56 - Hermes Agent: Bot Mode & Pantheon
  06:29 - Comparison: Which One is Better?
  07:10 - Known Bugs & Early Feedback
---
New OpenClaw 2.0 destroys Hermes Agent. Today, I'm going to show you the biggest AI agent update of the year. It just dropped. It's called OpenClaw 2.0. And

right when it landed, another AI tool called Hermes Agent dropped its own huge update, too. So, today you're going to find out who really wins. It's big. It's kind of wild. And I'm going to make it super easy to understand. Hey, if we

haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. So, let's talk about what just happened. On August 30th and 31st, 2026, a tool called OpenClaw dropped its biggest update ever. It's called

OpenClaw 2.0. This wasn't a small update. We're talking over 16,000 changes made by more than 900 people, with almost 570 of them being brand new helpers. That's about half of everything OpenClaw has ever built all in one release. But, here's the twist. On that

exact same day, a different AI agent tool called Hermes Agent also released a giant update. It's called version 0.21, and they nicknamed it the Pantheon release. Hermes added almost 6,000 changes from over 760 people. So, you had two massive AI tools drop huge updates on the same day. That's why I

want to break down both of them for you today. Let's start with OpenClaw 2.0. The biggest change is how it handles your conversations with the AI. Before, if you started a task on your laptop, that task stayed on your laptop. Now,

OpenClaw holds your whole session, like your chat and your files, in one place called a gateway. That means you could start a task on your laptop, then open it on your phone, then keep going on a totally different computer, and the AI remembers everything. Picture starting a project at your desk, then finishing it on the bus using your phone, and the AI just keeps working like nothing changed. Next, OpenClaw rebuilt its whole browser interface from the ground up. The old way felt like typing commands into a black screen, which is scary for a lot of people. The new control UI feels like

a real app. You get one place to see your chats, your tasks, your files, and even approvals before the AI does something big, and it's faster, too. The people who tested it say the app now starts in about half a second instead of almost 2 seconds. Now, here's the feature that really caught my eye. It's called swarm mode. Let's say you type in

one big task, like research the top AI tools and build me a report. Instead of one AI slowly doing everything step by step, OpenClaw can send that one task out to a bunch of smaller AI helpers at the same time. One helper researches, one helper checks facts, one helper writes it up, then they all come back together into one final answer. It's like hiring a mini team for 5 minutes, and then they're done. There's also something called fleet mode, and it's different from swarm.

Swarm is a temporary team that forms for one task and then disappears. Fleet is the opposite. It's separate AI agents that each get their own space, their own login info, and their own memory, and they stay running. Think of swarm like calling in extra help for one job. Think of fleet like having a few full-time workers each doing their own thing in their own room. OpenClaw also added

interactive widgets right inside the chat. So, instead of the AI just giving you a wall of text, it can build you a little tool, a chart, or a dashboard right there while you're talking to it. And get this, multiple people can now watch and use the same AI session together at the same time from different browsers. That's a big deal for teams. The good news is OpenClaw also made it way easier to get started. Before,

setting it up could feel like a whole computer science project. Now, it walks you through setup, lets you reuse your existing accounts and keys, and actually checks that everything is connected properly before you begin. That's huge for anyone who isn't a tech expert. Okay, now let's flip over to Hermes Agent because they didn't sit back and let OpenClaw have all the attention. Now, tools like OpenClaw and Hermes are amazing, but let's be honest, most business owners watching this don't have time to test every new AI release and figure out how to actually use it to grow their business. That's exactly why

we built the AI Profit Boardroom. Inside there, we take tools just like the ones I'm breaking down today, and we show you step-by-step how to actually put them to work. We walk you through real setups, real automations, and real ways to save time and bring in more customers. So, you're not stuck watching from the sidelines wondering what to do with all this new AI stuff. If you want to actually use this technology instead of just hearing about it, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. And

here's the thing, none of these AI agents matter if people can't actually find your business online in the first place. You could have the smartest AI team in the world working behind the scenes, but if your website isn't showing up on Google, none of that traffic and none of those leads are coming your way. So, if you want help making sure your content, your site, and your business actually get found on Google, go ahead and book a free SEO strategy session with my team. Just grab the link in the description, pick a time that works for you, and we'll sit down and walk through exactly what's holding your visibility back. All right, back to Hermes. Their biggest new feature is

called Bot Mode. Basically, Hermes lets you build a whole team of named AI agents. Each one can have its own identity, its own little face, its own job, and its own memory. And here's the cool part, these agents can actually talk to each other in group chats just like a real team would in a work chat app. So, while OpenClaw is building something that feels like an entire operating system for AI agents, Hermes is building something that feels more like a company full of little AI workers who each have a role and can talk to each other. Both of them added the

ability for agents to work together and hand off tasks. Hermes calls it agent-to-agent communication, and it lets one agent steer or guide another one while it's working live right in front of you. Think about it like this, with OpenClaw, you're building the building, you're setting up the gateway, the rooms, the hallways, the doors that let different apps and tools plug in. With Hermes, you're hiring the staff, You're picking the workers, giving them name tags, giving them jobs, and putting them in a group chat so they can actually talk to each other while they work. Both of those things matter if you're trying to run something bigger than just one person typing into a chat box. And here's something worth pointing

out. Neither one of these tools showed up out of nowhere. Open Claw already had a huge community behind it, and this update is basically a giant thank you to the hundreds of people who kept adding to it. Hermes comes from No Research, and this Pantheon release is their way of saying multi-agent work isn't some side feature anymore. It's the whole point of the tool now. Two different

teams, two different approaches, both racing toward the same idea. AI that works as a group instead of just one voice answering you. So, which one is actually better? Honestly, I don't think either one destroys the other. They're solving the same big problem in two different ways. Open Claw feels like

infrastructure. It's the gateway, the sessions, the swarm, the fleet, the browser, and all the channels like WhatsApp, Telegram, and Slack that it can plug into. Hermes feels more like a society. It's about named agents with personalities, memory, and teamwork. If you want something that acts like a full agent platform with remote sessions, browser control, and the ability to plug into a bunch of different apps and messaging tools, Open Claw is built for that. If you want something that feels

like you're building a little team of AI coworkers, each with their own name and job, who can talk to each other and get things done together, Hermes is built for that. One more honest thing before we wrap up. Both of these updates just came out literally within a day of each other. And with any brand new release this big, there are always a few bugs at the start. Both Open Claw and Hermes already have some early issues being reported by users. Things like setup

hiccups and some errors on certain computer systems. That's totally normal for a launch this size, but it's worth knowing before you dive in headfirst. So, if any of this got you thinking about how AI could actually help your business, don't just close this video and forget about it. Come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom where we take tools exactly like Open Claw and Hermes and show you step-by-step how to set them up and actually use them to save time and bring in more customers. It's the same community I use to test out these AI updates before I bring them to you, and you'll get to see exactly how everyday business owners are putting this stuff to work in the real world.

And on top of that, remember, all the AI automation in the world doesn't help you if nobody can find you on Google in the first place. So, if you want help making sure your content and your website are actually getting seen by the right people, book a free SEO strategy session with my team. Just click the link in the description, and we'll sit down and help you figure out exactly what's holding your rankings back right now. Drop a comment and let me know, are you team OpenClaw or team Hermes? Julian reads every single comment, so tell him what you think and which one you want us to test out live in a future video. Thanks

for watching, and I'll catch you in the next one.