---
video_title: "NEW Claude Agent OS Changes Everything"
video_id: GTyHjVuXN60
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GTyHjVuXN60
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian 
  
  This Claude AI Agent OS Runs My Whole Business (No Code)
  
  Discover how to build and deploy a complete AI Agent Operating System using Claude to automate content creation, emails, and lead generation. This no-code system includes a central dashboard, automated outreach tools, and a memory engine that learns from your projects in real-time.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Claude Agent OS
  00:44 - The Agent Dashboard & Oracle
  01:53 - Automated SEO & Publishing
  02:16 - Building Pages with Voice Commands
  04:21 - AI Outreach & Lead Generation
  05:42 - The AI Memory System
  06:06 - Automating Keyword Research
  06:41 - How to Get the Agent OS
---
New Claude Agent OS changes everything. Today, I'm going to show you something crazy. A brand new agent system built with Claude that runs your whole business for you. It writes your content, it sends your emails, it even talks back when you ask it something. No coding, no tech skills. I'm not a coder

and I built the whole thing myself. Stick with me because this might be the biggest AI update I've shown you all year. So, what is this thing? It's called an agent operating system. Think of it like one big control room. Inside

that control room, you have a bunch of AI agents. And these agents work together all day, every day building stuff, writing stuff, and fixing stuff without you lifting a finger. I built mine using Claude. I just talked to Claude like a normal conversation and it helps me build out each piece one at a time. And once it's built, it just sits there ready to use forever. Now, let's

get into the good stuff. The first thing you see when you open this system is a dashboard. It's like mission control and this is the exact footage of what I'm about to walk you through. From here, I can see every single AI agent I have all in one place. I can send a team of agents off to build something together.

I can watch them work. I can see everything they finished. There's even a group chat where all my different AI agents talk to each other. They bounce ideas back and forth. So, if I ask my agents to come up with fresh content ideas for the AI Profit Boardroom, they'll actually add those ideas straight to my pipeline. I just click

approve and the build starts. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian reads every single comment, so make sure you comment below. Inside the system, I have something called Oracle. Oracle watches

what's trending right now today on social media. Then it helps me write a post about it in seconds. Let's say something about AI automation is trending. Oracle can quote that post, add my own take, and publish it all in the time it took you to read the sentence. But it doesn't stop there.

With one click, that same idea turns into a full blog post. I could ask it to write a post about how the AI Profit Boardroom helps people automate their business and grow their customer base, and it builds the whole thing, then publishes it straight to my website. I don't touch my website. I don't log in. It just publishes itself. And because

it's based on what's trending right now, it gets picked up and indexed by Google almost straight away. Now, here's a feature that always blows people's minds. I can talk to this system out loud, like I'm talking to a person. I could say, "Design a new landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom that converts well, shows the real value of AI automation, and explains the benefits of our community for getting more customers, leads, and traffic." And it builds that landing page for me, right there. We've built almost 90

different things this way, just by talking. Websites, tools, all sorts of things. It even has a wake word, kind of like talking to a smart speaker. I can say the wake word, give it a task, and walk away while it works. Quick pause here, because I want to make sure you get this. This part of the video is me,

the AI avatar of Julian Goldie, giving you a straight-up recommendation. Everything I've shown you so far, the dashboard, the agents, the pipeline, the way they all talk to each other and build things on their own, that's a real system running right now, and you can get it for yourself today. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you get the full Agent OS handed to you as a ready-to-install zip file. Not a course, not a video explaining the theory, the actual system ready to drop onto your computer. You don't have to build any of this from scratch, and you don't have to figure out how all the pieces connect, because we've already done that part for you.

You just install it, plug in your own free or premium AI tools, and you're running the exact same setup I use every single day to build content, find leads, and automate the boring parts of my business. It gets updated regularly, too. So, as new pieces get added, like the ones I just showed you, you get them dropped straight into your own system, along with a tutorial walking you through exactly how to use them. If you want to save time and automate your business with tools like this Claude-powered Agent OS, this is exactly what we help you do inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Link is right below this video. If

creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team, and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the

comments and description below. All right, let's keep going because there's a lot more to show you. My community kept asking me the same question, "How do you actually find the right people using this thing?" So, we built in a full outreach tool. Say I want to find business owners who'd love the AI Profit Boardroom because they want to automate their marketing. I just described that

exact type of person, and it finds them for me. It checks and cleans that list, so I'm not chasing dead ends. It writes the outreach messages. It sends them. It even shows me what's been opened and replied to. This is a full outreach tool

built inside an agent system by someone who has never written a line of code. Now, one of the newest pieces is something we call the Boardroom. This part uses a different, incredibly smart model behind the scenes. You simply ask it a question, and it builds whatever you need right inside your workspace. I've used it to build training examples for the AI Profit Boardroom community, walking members through exactly how a business could use automation to save time and grow. That's genuinely where

this technology is right now. There's also a local engine, which means some of these agents can run right on your own computer, and there's a piece called Fusion, which is currently sitting at the very top of my own benchmark leaderboard. Fusion doesn't use just one AI model. It uses a team of them working together to build things that are honestly some of the best outputs I've ever seen come out of this whole system. One more thing I have to show you because it's wild. Everything I do

inside this system gets remembered automatically. I now have well over a thousand memories logged all about my own work, my own projects, my own goals. I never typed any of it in myself, my agents log it, organize it, and then use it later to give me better answers. So, when I ask, "What's the best thing to help the AI Profit Boardroom community with right now?" It actually knows because it's been paying attention the whole time. I also built in a way to

automate the boring stuff I used to spend hours on every single week. Keyword research used to take me close to an hour every time. Now it pulls straight from my own website data and hands me the answers in seconds so I can point that research straight at content that helps the AI Profit Boardroom grow. Video creation is the same. I have an agent that generates video content for me and my team, so nobody has to sit and edit for hours. And here's the best

part, you don't need to be technical to set this up. One of the members in my community, Rick, isn't technical at all and he had his own version of this running in about 30 minutes. Another member, Alateo, told us how much he's been able to build with it since setting his up. If they can do it, so can you. So, let's bring it all together.

Everything I've shown you so far, the dashboard, the agents, the pipeline, the way they all talk to each other and build things on their own. That's a real system running right now and you can get it for yourself today. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you get the full Agent OS handed to you as a ready-to-install zip file. Not a course, not a video explaining the theory, the actual system ready to drop onto your computer. You don't have to build any of this from scratch and you don't have to figure out how all the pieces connect because we've already done that part for you. You just

install it, plug in your own free or premium AI tools and you're running the exact same setup I use every single day to build content, find leads, and automate the boring parts of my business. It gets updated regularly, too. So, as new pieces get added like the ones I just showed you, you get them dropped straight into your own system along with a tutorial walking you through exactly how to use them. If you want to save time and automate your business with tools like this Claude-powered Agent OS, this is exactly what we help you do inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Link is right below this video. If you're

creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see, because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy

session with my team, and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Thanks for watching. I'll see you in the next one.