---
video_title: "New Google Stitch Update Is SCARY GOOD!"
video_id: r3ob_k7iboc
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r3ob_k7iboc
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google Stitch Update: Gemini 3.8 Flash Changes Everything
  
  Google's design tool, Stitch, just received a massive upgrade with the integration of Gemini 3.8 Flash. Learn how this new engine handles complex design edits on the first try and discover the hidden features that make it a powerhouse for non-designers.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Gemini 3.8 Flash Update
  00:54 - What is Google Stitch?
  01:40 - The "First Try" Edit Loop
  02:40 - Why the New Model is Smarter
  03:52 - Detailed UI & Richer Visuals
  05:15 - Pro Features: Vibe & Voice Canvas
  06:23 - Exporting to Figma & Clean Code
  07:55 - 4 Rules for Perfect AI Designs
---
New Google Stitch update is scary good, and here's the exact thing that changed. Google just made Gemini 3.8 flash the default model inside Stitch. Google's own launch post tells developers to go generate UIs in Stitch with it. So, if you open Stitch today, you're using a different engine than you were last week. Three things got better. Google

named all three. Attention to detail. Screens come out looking production ready faster with more detailed and realistic UI elements. Richer visuals. It writes smarter image prompts underneath the hood. So, the pictures

actually match your page content and your brand. And instruction following. It grasps complex nuanced design edits on the first try. That third one is the one that matters most, and I'll explain why in a second. First, quick context because a lot of you have never touched this tool. Stitch is Google's design

tool. It lives inside Google Labs. It's free, and all you need is a Google account. No card, no install. You type what you want. It gives you a real

screen. Then it gives you the code behind that screen. You can type a description and get UI options. You can upload a screenshot or a rough sketch and get a design from that. And you can spin up multiple versions fast to compare layouts. That's it. That's the

whole tool. So, why does one model swap matter? Because the pain in these tools was never the first screen. The first screen was always fine. The pain was edit number four. You get a design.

You'd say, "Make the top section shorter, move the sign up button above the fold, and swap the icons for something softer." And it would do one of those three things, maybe two. Then it would break the part you liked. So, you go again and again, and 40 minutes later you'd have something worse than what you started with. That loop is what Google says got fixed. Complex nuanced

edits, first try. Let me put that in plain terms. You can now stack three or four changes into one sentence and expect it to land. That's the difference between a tool you play with and a tool you actually use on a Tuesday afternoon. Here's a real example of how I'd use it.

Design a landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom that shows what AI automation actually does for a business with the four weekly coaching calls, the daily tutorials, and the member map all laid out so someone gets it in 10 seconds. That's one prompt. You get a page. Then the follow-up, make the headline bigger, move the member map section up, and make the whole thing feel calmer and less crowded. Before, that would take five rounds. Now it's meant to take one. And

here's the part that makes this believable instead of just marketing. Why did the model get better at this? Google explained the design choice behind Gemini 3.8 flash. The engine is built to work harder on complex requests. On hard tasks, it runs extra

internal reasoning steps and calls tools over and over to get to a more accurate answer. It takes smaller steps and it checks its own work as it goes. Think about what that does to a design edit. An older model reads your three-part instruction and takes one swing. This one breaks your request into pieces, handles each piece, then looks back at what it made and asks if it actually did what you said. That's why the first try

claim isn't a stretch. It's a slower, more careful worker. And for design edits, careful beats fast every single time. Want proof the underlying model is genuinely different? Google's Cloud Vulnerability Research Team used the security version of this model to find a critical foundational flaw. That's what

we do inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We've got a full 30-day roadmap built around tools like Stitch, how to set it up, the exact prompts to get clean screens on the first try, and how to plug the output into the rest of your funnel, so it's not just a pretty page sitting there. Four coaching calls every week where you can share your screen, show us your Stitch build, and we'll fix your prompt live. Daily step-by-step tutorials on automating the boring parts of your business with AI. A prompt library you can copy from and 2,800 business owners in there. A lot of them

already building landing pages, client mockups, and onboarding screens with Google's AI tools. Plus a member map so you can find people near you doing the same thing. Link in the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And one more thing while we're here. If

you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means is if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy

session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Okay, back to Stitch because there are features in this tool most people don't even know exist and the model upgrade makes all of them better. Start with Vibe design. Instead of listing exact components, you describe a business goal or a feeling, something like premium and minimalist, and Stitch generates several different design directions for you to pick from. That's a big deal for anyone

who can't draw. You don't need design words, you need to know what you want people to feel. Example, make it feel trustworthy and calm like a place where a busy business owner would feel safe joining. Then there's voice canvas. You talk to the canvas, the AI listens, asks you questions back, gives you design feedback, and updates the screen live while you speak. Talking is faster than

clicking, always has been. And now the model on the other end of that conversation is better at understanding what you meant, not just what you said. Then prototypes. Stitch can connect your screens into a clickable flow with transitions and it'll even generate the logical next screens in that flow for you, so you're not making one page, you're making a journey. Homepage, sign up page, welcome page, all linked, all clickable before anyone writes a single line of code. Example, build the full

join flow for the AI Profit Boardroom from the first page someone lands on to the welcome screen they see after they sign up. You click through it, you spot the confusing step, you fix it, then you build. Now the export side because this is where it stops being a toy. You can send your design straight into Figma and it keeps the layers and components so you can dig into the structure and edit properly instead of getting one flat image. You get auto layouts, name layers, and text you can actually edit.

It won't be pixel perfect, but a designer gets a real starting point instead of rebuilding from a screenshot. And the code, Stitch exports to HTML, CSS, Tailwind, Vue, Angular, Flutter, and Swift UI directly dot there quote S. Also one-click export into AI studio now, so you can move the whole thing over and keep building. And if you work inside a coding editor, Stitch plugs into it. You don't have to touch any of that, but it means the thing you made isn't stuck inside a browser tab. You

can hand it to a developer or hand it to another AI tool and keep going. Here's the honest bit because I'm not going to pretend this is magic. It's still a labs experiment. There are monthly caps on how many generations you get reported at around 350 in the standard mode and 200 in the higher fidelity mode. So you can't sit there generating a thousand screens a day and it won't replace a real designer on a real brand system.

Most teams use both use Stitch for exploring ideas fast then Figma for the precise production work and the design system. Also, don't take the exported code and ship it straight to a live site without someone looking at it. Starter code is starter code, but here's what I push back on. If you're sitting there thinking, "I'm not a designer, this isn't for me." That's exactly who this is for now. The skill this tool rewards

isn't design. It's describing what you want clearly. That's it. If you can explain your business to a friend in a coffee shop, you can prompt this thing. And most people are bad at that, not because they can't design, because they're vague. So let me give you the

four things that actually change your output. One, say who it's for. A landing page gets you nothing. A page for busy business owners who've never used AI and want someone to show them how gets you something specific. Two, say what you want them to do. One action, not four.

If the page has one job, the design gets one focus. Three, give it the content, not just the topic. Feed it the actual sections you want. The four weekly coaching calls, the daily tutorials, the member map, the community. When the model knows what's going on the page, it writes better image prompts for it and that's the whole point of the visuals upgrade. Four, stack your edits now.

This is the new one because the model handles complex edits better, stop making one change at a time. Give it three at once and let it work. Finally, if you want the whole thing done for you, the road map, the prompts, the live help. Come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. We've built out step-by-step tutorials on exactly this. How to use

Google Stitch to design your pages, how to write the prompts that get it right first try, now that Gemini 3.8 Flash is running underneath, and how to turn those pages into something that brings you leads instead of just sitting there. Four coaching calls every single week where you can bring your Stitch screens and we'll rebuild them with you live. A prompt library with the exact page and design prompts we use. 2,800 business owners inside. Plenty of them already

shipping pages, client mock-ups, and full sign-up flows with Google's AI tools. A 30-day road map, so you know what to do on day one, day two, day three. And a member map, so you can find people near you doing this work and get help anytime because someone's always online. Link in the comments and description, or head to aiprofitboardroom.com.

And look one more time because it's the thing most people get wrong. If you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody's finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my

team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below.