---
video_title: "Hermes GEO: 0 to 358 Clicks a Day!"
video_id: sI38zJNWjXM
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sI38zJNWjXM
video_date: 20260816
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS → https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  FREE SEO Course → https://go.juliangoldie.com/chat-gpt-prompts?utm=julian
  
  Free SEO Strategy session → https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian 
  
  AI SEO Strategy: Get Free Traffic with Hermes Agent
  
  Learn how to scale website traffic from zero to 350+ clicks per day using automated AI agents. This guide reveals the exact system for building authority and dominating both Google search and AI overviews.
  
  00:00 - Intro: AI SEO Success Stories
  01:17 - How AI Decides Authority
  02:07 - The Power of Niche Edits
  04:11 - Automated Outreach with Hermes
  07:55 - The Largest AI Search Study
  10:22 - Reddit and GEO Strategies
  11:29 - The Agentic Operating System
---
Hermes' agent took this website from zero to 358 clicks per day using AI SEO. This is all free traffic from Google and AI search engines with no ads. And in this video, I'm going to reveal exactly how it works. You can also see our AI search engine traffic right here as well. So, we are now getting more and more traffic from AI search engines and we're ranking pretty well using this system inside that, too. So, in this video, I'm going

to show you the exact engine behind it so you can get free customers finding your website every single day. same engine took multiple different websites from zero to, for example, zero to 150 clicks per day. This is another website that used exactly the same system. Here's another website, zero to 66 clicks a day using the same system. So, it is a system and an engine that we've rinsed and repeated over and over again uh to get the same results in the same trajectory. Now, there's one thing you

absolutely have to get right for this to work. And near the end, I'll also show you the ex- surprising discovery from the biggest AI search study ever done that changes how you should think about this. And once you see it, everything clicks. So, stick with me because by the end of this video, you'll know exactly how to get free SEO traffic from Google and recommended by AI using Hermes' agent. Let's get into it. So, the first

question you're going to have is how does the AI decide who to cite? That comes down to authority. And authority is built off your website, not on it. And here's a stat almost nobody talks about. Only 38% of AI overviews citations now come from Google's organic top 10. So, the AI isn't just copying

the rankings. It's actually forming its own opinion from what the whole web says about you. Now, this brings us to backlinks. A backlink is just a vote from another site where another website links to yours. And that vote tells Google your content is worth trusting.

So, more real votes, more authority, higher rankings. But almost everyone gets the type wrong. So, for example, a lot of people build backlinks from directories to their website. Or for example, they use social profiles and then nothing happens because those links are free and available to everyone, so they signal nothing. The links that grew these websites I've just shown you comes down to niche edits. If you've never

heard the term before, here it is in plain English. A niche edit where a real person goes into an existing article in their real blog, a page is already live, already indexed, already trusted, and adds your link inside the content where it fits naturally. Like they're citing you as a source. Let me show you an example. So, if we have a look at this website that grew from zero to 358 clicks per day, basically, the more backlinks we built to this website, so you can see backlinks and organic traffic on a chart right here, the more backlinks we built to this website, the more traffic it got. It also started

ranking inside Ahrefs using the system. Now, how do we use this? We basically started building backlinks to the site, but what types of backlinks did we build? We basically reached out to other websites and asked them to link to us. Here's an example of a site we got a backlink from. And so, when we're

reaching out to these sites like this one, and you can see our backlink from this website going to our site that's now ranking really well, when we're reaching out to these sites, we start getting backlinks that actually work. Now, this takes effort, right? So, website owner has to go into their website, edit the links inside the site, start building them. And there's three reasons this type wins. So, number one, the page already has trust. It's an aged

page with its own authority, and some of that authority flows straight to you. That's how a small site punches up. One of our sites is only around like domain rating 20. If you look at this site that's getting 358 clicks per day, it's only getting 20 on domain rating. That's 20 out of 100, so it's got 20% of its potential domain rating, which means it's still quite a small site, but it outranks sites that were at like domain rating 50 because the votes pointing at it are real editorial votes. Reason

number two that it works really well is because it's natural. All right, a real writer chose to reference you inside relevant content. That's exactly the pattern Google system rewards, and it's why these sites grow straight through the core updates that wiped out a lot of sites relying on cheap links. Also, number three, it's pretty hard to get a backlink because you have to reach out to sites, or it was hard until we got this system right here. So, what we have is Hermes Agent, and Hermes Agent can do outreach campaigns for us. So, I've

built it into our Agentic Operating System, and essentially what we can do here is we can type the type of websites that we want to reach out to. So, for example, I can type in here, "Find me relevant SEO agency sites that I could reach out to for a backlink." So, we type it in like so, and then you can see that we've got a list of agents and list of websites that we could reach out to for a backlink here. And we've got the notes, and basically Hermes Agent inside this beautiful UI uses Hunter API to find the backlinks that we can reach out to. So, it's really hard for your competitors to copy this system because they'd have to do the same outreach work, finding sites, hunting emails, writing messages that don't sound dodgy, following up, managing replies. It's a really draining job in

all of SEO, which is exactly why most people never do it. But, Hermes can do this work for you automatically, and so your lead widens every week whilst you're on your business. Now, we can, for example, set up email campaigns here. We can generate leads. We've got the dashboard. And if you want this

system, we've actually got it inside the AI Profit Bot, and so if you think, "Oh, it sounds powerful, but you can never wire up yourself," you don't have to. Inside the AI Profit Bot, you actually get the Agentic Operating System, which is the exact dashboard this whole GO engine runs from. So, Hermes Plus in right next to your Cloud and Open Cloud and their outreach tool you're about to see is already built in. So, the lead finder is wired in, the email campaign system is in there. You get the zip file effect, the road map for getting your own Hermes engine set up, and also daily updates as we improve it. There are

loads of SEOs and also people using Hermes Agent inside here, and we've got a full section on SEO, plus you can post questions inside the community if you get stuck. I create video tutorials for you daily personally, and also you can direct message me. Plus there's always someone online ready to help you whenever you need as well. Link in the comments and description, or go to the ARProfitBot.com to get access. Now, back

to the engine. >> [clears throat] >> So, there's two connections that power the outreach system inside the Agent OS. Number one, Hunter finds the leads and their email addresses, and Google Workspace can send the emails. So, once those are plugged into your Hermes agent, the whole workflow runs from one screen. So, you can tell Hermes like what kind of websites you want links from. For example, like blogs in your

niche. It finds them, then it enriches every lead automatically, so it can for example like pull their website information, it can read what they write about, add notes on each one. So, instead of a cold list of like random people, you get a research list where the agent already understands who each person is. And then Hermes is actually going to write the campaign. So, the great [snorts] thing about that is the every email is personalized to the specific lead, their first name, their website name, the exact reason you're reaching out to them, filled in automatically for every single lead.

Each message reads like a human has written it for that specific person because the agent effectively did. And then it's actually going to send it. So, what it can do from here, as you can see this is an example of how it writes the email. So, it literally writes the email automatically for you, and then fills in the details for each person, and makes it unique for that person, too, which is super personalized. But additionally, it can send them for you as well. So, this

is the part that normally eats your whole afternoon. Hermes can manage the inbox, the replies, the follow-ups, the back-and-forth, the conversation layer as well, where most link building ends, or people struggle with. So, if you're a website owner and you have someone else that replies to you with a question, you know, you're probably busy, 3 days pass, the link never happens, but Hermes just handles it. So, this exact system is what built the links behind the 358 clicks a day site and the 325 links that were built to their site as well. Now, you might think, "Okay, why does this work so well?" So, Ahrefs actually ran

the largest study of its kind. They analyzed 75,000 brands across ChatGPT, Google AI mode, and AI reviews to find which signal predicts whether AI recommends a brand. Branded web mentions, your brand name appearing across the web, linked or not, correlated at 0.664. Raw backlinks came in at just 0.218.

That's roughly a 3:1 gap in favor of mentions. In plain English, the AI cares less about the link itself and more about seeing your brand over and over again next to the right words across trusted websites. Why is that? Well, if you think about how these systems work, Google grounds the answer in its index and runs a language model over the top of the results. So, if the model keeps seeing your brand name appear, it's more likely to return it in the answer. So,

every mention is a training example. The words around your link are a lesson, and the gap between brands that do this and brands that don't is brutal. Brands in the top quarter for web mentions average 169 AI overviews. The next tier averages 14, so 10 times the AI visibility. And around 85% of all AI citations came from earned media, other people's websites talking about you, not your own site, other people's. And here's why this

exact reason niche edits are great for GEO and SEO and whatever you want to call it. Niche edit isn't just a backlink, it's written with your brand name by a real person inside relevant content on a trusted site next to the exact phrase you want to own. So, it's a link vote for Google rankings and the branded mention for AI visibility in one placement. The Ahrefs study also found branded anchor texts as one of the top correlated signals, and the anchor is something you shape in every single average placement. And we tested this directly. So, some of the backlinks

pointing at our community call us the best AI community, multiple trusted websites saying the same thing over and over again in their own words. Now, if you type that phrase into Google, like so, you can see the top choices include the AI powerful body, right? So, this system actually works because we are getting mentioned as the best AI community over and over again across multiple different websites. The AI basically learned it from the web and the outreach wrote the lesson. That's a shift from SEO thinking to GO thinking.

So, SEO asked like how do I rank this page for this keyword? GO asked what do I want AI to believe about my business? And then every niche edit actually teaches it. So, a local service business, for example, could have blogs in the region mentioning them as the trusted source and the AI starts saying it back to searches. One more layer as well because the same data points from my else unexpected. So, profound

analysis of AI platforms found that Reddit is the learning and leading source for both Google AI reviews and Perplexity. Semrush actually studied over 100 million AI citations and they found Reddit, LinkedIn, and Wikipedia take a hugely outsized share across ChatGPT, AI reviews, and Perplexity. And that's why our Reddit posts also rank for our target keywords, too. So, we have a subreddit that ranks for our target keywords so that we can rank multiple times for the same keyword and also generate more traffic. Now, you might think, okay, how quickly does this work? Usually about 3 to 6 months to see

a real movement, especially on a new website. So, our website originally, it was flat from like April till almost the end of the year last year. Google didn't trust the new site at first. SEOs call that the sandbox. It's exactly why most people quit. So, they publish 10 pages,

see nothing, walk away, but that's why they never win, right? Here's what changes with this engine. The waiting doesn't cost you anything because it's just running automatically in the background. So, you don't need to send emails, you don't need to manage them. You just set up Hermes agent automate them using the system that I've shown you today. Now, if you want to get the

full system ready to go with the full loop as you can see right here that finds the sites, researches them, writes the email, sends the replies, then you get the backlink. That helps you rank and also helps you get more mentions, which also helps you rank inside AI as well. So, you get free traffic from both AI and your website. You can get that inside the AI Profit Bot room. So, it comes with our full Agentic Operating System, which you can see right here, with all your agents plugged in. We've

got loads of great custom workflows for Hermes Agent as well. So, we've added the new Hermes Bot section here. We've got Hermes Apollo, Hermes Oracle, Hermes Muses. These are all just absolutely amazing for automating content and outreach and all [snorts] these other cool stuff. We also have a memory system plugged in so that you can link all of your agents to a system where I can pull in contacts and also update the contacts automatically. You can have all your

other agents like Claude and Ads Gravity working on side by side if you want to. And this is all available inside the AI Profit Bot room. Link in the comments description or go to the aiprofitbot.com. Inside the community, you can ask questions, get help and support. Inside the classroom, you get

access to all of our best trainings. And in the calendar, you can jump up weekly coaching calls get help and support in real time. If you want the exact system that I've shown you today, it's inside the Agent OS. So, you just grab the Agent OS right here. And then also inside the map, you can meet people in your local area who are building out with AI agents like you. So, feel free

to get this. Link in the comments description or go to the aiprofitbot.com. And then also, we have a free SEO strategy session. So, if you want to book that in, that's available at goldy.agency. You can get free SEO

strategy session. And we'll basically look at your site, give you a custom tailored game plan of how to rank, answer any questions you have. You'll learn the best link building strategies for your website plus how to outrank. And that's based on what's working for us. So, feel free to get this. Hope to

see you inside the AI Profit Bot room. Cheers to watching. Bye-bye.