---
video_title: "Claude + Obsidian 2.0 Just Changed AI Workflows"
video_id: Gom-GwlZIYk
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gom-GwlZIYk
video_date: 2026-08-17T20:30:24+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Claude + Obsidian Masterclass  👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about 
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  You're generating more AI knowledge than anyone in history — and keeping almost none of it. Claude Obsidian 2.0 is a free, open-source plugin that gives Claude a real memory, linking every answer back to its source in your notes so nothing gets buried or made up. Here's exactly how it works, plus the one setting most people skip.
  
  00:00 Intro – Why your AI answers disappear
  00:50 What It Is – Free Claude Obsidian plugin
  01:22 The Fix – Answers link back to real sources
  01:39 The Loop – Capture, ground, connect, use
  03:15 15 Skills – Vault health, linking, honest Q&A
  04:42 Real Use – Turning notes into content ideas
  05:54 Key Setting – PARA mode auto-organizes your vault
  06:30 Quick Tips – Inbox, trust "I don't know," safe adopt
---
Claude plus Obsidian 2.0 just changed AI workflows. Where does every good answer your AI gives you actually go? Be honest, you never see it again. It's buried in some chat you'll never scroll back to. You're making more knowledge

than anyone in history and you're keeping almost none of it. One free tool just fixed that and most people miss it. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help people actually learn and use AI tools in their real work, not just watch a demo and forget it by lunch. Today I'm showing you Claude Obsidian version 2. It's a free open-source plugin that finally gives Claude a real memory and it slots straight into my Agent OS as the memory layer every one of my agents reads from. Stick with me

because there's one setting almost everyone skips that completely changes how your whole vault organizes itself. I'll show you exactly what it is near the end. So let me explain what this thing actually does. Claude Obsidian is a plugin for Claude code built by a developer called Daniel Agreesy. It lives on GitHub, it's MIT licensed and it's completely free. The current

release is version 2.1 and it turns Claude into a librarian for your own knowledge. Here's the simple version. You've got a folder called the inbox. You drop a source in there, a document, some notes, an article you saved. Then

Claude reads it, links it to everything related and files it into one connected set of plain markdown pages that live right on your computer, not in a cloud database, not locked inside some app, not quietly uploaded to a model, just plain files you own that you can open with or without Claude sitting there. And this is the part that makes it completely different from a normal notes app. Every important claim keeps a pointer back to where it came from. So when you ask a question later, the answer doesn't just sound confident, it points back into your own notes and shows you the source. And when the vault genuinely doesn't know something, it tells you instead of making something up. That one habit, grounding every

answer in real evidence, is the whole reason this thing feels like something you can trust. The tool is built around a simple loop that keeps paying you back. You capture a source, you ground it so every claim keeps its source, you connect it so pages link together into a graph, and then you use it so you get answers you can actually check. Capture, ground, connect, use. Every time you run it, your vault gets a little more useful instead of a little more messy. That's

exactly why I plugged this straight into my Agent OS. My Agent OS is my whole command setup. Different models, one dashboard, and Obsidian sitting underneath as the shared memory. When Claude Obsidian files knowledge into that vault, every agent I run can read from the same brain. One place, one memory, every agent on the same page.

Now, why does this matter so much? Because here's the thing nobody tells you about using AI every single day. You're generating more knowledge than any human in history, but you're keeping almost none of it. That brilliant answer from last week gone. The research you did last month, sitting in a note with no source and no idea if it's even still true. And every morning your AI wakes up

knowing nothing about you, so you explain yourself all over again. That's the goldfish problem. And Claude Obsidian is the fix because it gives your AI a memory that actually compounds. And if you want this already built and ready to go, that's exactly what I've set up inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, I've got the full walkthroughs for setting up Claude Obsidian and wiring it into my Agent OS step-by-step, so you're not left guessing. You get the complete Agent OS

zip file ready to install with Obsidian already plugged in as the memory layer, plus a full 30-day roadmap that takes you from an empty vault to a real second brain your agents read from. And on the weekly coaching calls inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you can share your screen and ask me exactly how to set up your own vault for whatever you're building. So, if this is the kind of thing you've been trying to crack, the AI Profit Boardroom was built for exactly this. Okay, so let me show you what's actually inside the plugin because this is where it gets really good. Claude Obsidian ships with 15 skills, and they all share the same rules. Let me walk you through the ones

you'll actually reach for. The first one is the front door. You just start there and it checks your vault's health and points you to the right next step. Then there's the one that turns your inbox into linked pages. You drop your sources in, run it, and it reads everything, connects it, and files it, so you're not sitting there hand organizing folders.

There's the one that answers your questions, and this is the honest one. It only answers from what's actually in your vault, and it flags what it can't back up instead of bluffing. There's a map maker that builds visual boards on an Obsidian canvas, so a a topic or project becomes a picture you can see at a glance, and there's a historian that rolls weeks of activity into one clean summary. What came in, what changed, what got confirmed. Your knowledge base basically writes its own change log for you. There's also a clean-up skill that

catches dead links, orphan notes, and stale pages, so the vault doesn't quietly rot over time. And a research skill that can go out to the web, pull clean content in, and merge it, but only when you explicitly allow it. Nothing sneaks out without your say-so. There's even a thinking skill that walks the vault through a proper review, so it's not just dumping notes in a pile, it's actually making sense of them and spotting the connections. And here's what really ties it all together. Every

one of those 15 skills plays by the same set of rules. They all share the same evidence, the same filing logic, and the same safety checks. So, no matter which one you reach for, you're never getting a random guess. You're getting something grounded in what you've actually saved. Let me show you how I actually use this.

I used Claude Obsidian to build out a full content series designed to pull more of the right people into the AI Profit Boardroom. I dropped a stack of member questions and a pile of my old videos into the inbox, ran the ingest skill, and it linked them all into one connected set of pages. Then I just asked the vault, knowing all of this, what content angles should I make next? And every idea it handed me pointed straight back to a real source in my notes, no generic fluff. That's the kind of grounded content that pulls exactly the right audience toward the AI Profit Boardroom. Here's another one. I used it

to map out the entire onboarding flow new AI Profit Boardroom members go through on day one. I fed the vault my welcome docs and my process notes, then asked it to lay out the first day path, the welcome message, the first call, the resources to hand over, and it built me a clear map with every step tracing back to a note I'd actually written. So, new AI Profit Boardroom members land inside and instantly know what to do next, and nothing important slips through the cracks. And here's one I'd run any day of the week. I drop a batch of competitor content and the topics AI Profit Boardroom members keep asking about into the inbox, let it file everything, and then ask, knowing what's in here, what keywords should I build content around to bring the right people into the AI Profit Boardroom? Because

it's answering from my own notes and not from thin air, the ideas come back specific and personalized, not the same generic list everyone else is staring at. Now, the setting I promised you right at the start. This is the one most people skip, and it changes everything. Out of the box, the vault files new notes in a plain generic way, but there's a mode setting, and you can switch it to match the way you actually think. My favorite is PARA. That stands

for projects, areas, resources, and archives. It's just a simple way of sorting everything you keep. The second you set that mode, every new note roots itself the way your brain already works, instead of piling up in one messy heap. And it only touches new notes. It won't go rearranging everything you've already got. Most people never touch that

setting, and then wonder why their vault feels random. Set it once, and the whole thing starts organizing itself around you. A couple of quick tips before you dive in. First, actually use the inbox. Resist the urge to hand file things.

Drop your sources in, run the ingest, and let it do the linking for you. Second, lean into that honest answering. When it tells you it doesn't know, believe it. That's the feature, not a bug. And third, if you already have an Obsidian vault, there's a safe adopt option that brings it in without tearing up your existing notes. It just quietly

starts organizing them for you. And the best part? The plugin is free. Obsidian itself is free, so you can set this whole thing up today without any special tools. Your context shouldn't disappear on you every morning. It should

compound. It should get a little better every single day. So, if you want the full process, the SOPs, and 100-plus AI use cases just like this one, come join the AI Success Lab. The links are in the comments and the description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And

when you're ready to actually build this, when you sit down to set up your first vault, and you want someone in your corner while you do it, that's exactly what the AI Profit Boardroom is for. You'll get the Claude Obsidian walkthroughs, the full Agent OS zip file ready to install with Obsidian already wired in, the 30-day roadmap to take you from an empty vault to a real second brain, and live coaching calls where you can share your screen and get unstuck fast. It's over 4,000 members building this stuff together right now. Come join us at AI Profit Boardroom.com.