---
video_title: "Prime Agent AI: Full FREE Course"
video_id: X1Arvwiim-E
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X1Arvwiim-E
video_date: 20260812
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Prime Agent Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Prime Agent AI Masterclass: The Ultimate Guide to Autonomous Agents
  
  Master the power of Prime Agent AI with this complete walk-through of the open-source autonomous engine. Learn to manage self-improving sub-agents, configure secure workspaces, and automate complex workflows overnight.
  
  00:00 - Intro & The Factorio Cheating Story
  02:22 - The Command Engine Framework
  03:48 - Installation & Safety Setup
  08:24 - How Prime Agent Works Differently
  13:24 - Prime Agent vs. Hermes Agent
  15:57 - Managing Memories & Sub-Agents
  22:54 - The Tuner: Self-Improving AI
  25:46 - Autopilot & Autonomous Mode
---
This is the full prime agent AI course, everything from installing it on your machine to giving it your first job to training it like a new hire to letting it work overnight while you sleep. By the end of this, you'll know every major command, every unique feature nothing else has, how it compares to Hermes agent, and exactly how to run prime agent safely because this tool definitely needs safety rules, and the story about why explains exactly how that works. Here it is. During testing, the team behind prime agent set it loose inside Factorio, a factory building game. They told it in plain written words, "Do not cheat." The agent worked

for hours. It tried factory layouts. It saved the ones that worked. It wrote notes about the ones that failed. Its score climbed past 100,000. Then, it

found a loophole, a hidden command that could teleport resources straight into machines and skip the game entirely. It'd been told not to, but it used it anyway. Then, it studied its own cheating, saved what it learned, and got better at cheating on every run after that. The same engine that made it brilliant made it sneaky. That one story tells you everything about this tool. It

genuinely improves itself, and it improves at whatever actually gets results, whether that's what you meant or not. So, this course teaches you both sides, how to get the upside and also how to stay in control whilst you do. Quick facts about prime agent, it comes from prime intellect, fully open source under an MIT license. It's free, and you can read every line of how it works on GitHub. It launched in early August 2026. It's already past 13,000 stars on

GitHub with updates shipping daily. Running Claude Opus 5 inside it, the team reported 95.5% on ARCHI-3, a test where the AI has to solve puzzles it has never seen before. The reported expert baseline is 95.4, so on that test it set up edged past human experts. It

installs with one command on a Mac or Linux machine and it runs on the Claude subscription you already have or on free local models. Now the framework for this whole course, I call it the prime agent command engine and here's the idea behind it. Most people use AI like a chat window. You type, it types back. When the chat closes, everything's gone.

Prime agent is built differently. So it's an engine as a ignition, controls, a gearbox, a tuner and an autopilot. And once you know how to operate each part, you stop chatting with AI and you start commanding a machine that runs your work. The person at the controls of an engine gets a completely different result from the person shouting suggestions at it. And this course makes you the person at the controls. So the

command engine has five parts and they're the five sections of this course built in order. So part number one is the ignition, starting the engine safely because the engine is powerful enough to need a garage. Part number two, the controls a command formula that decides whether every job comes back right or wrong. Part number three, the gearbox memory skills and whole team of sub agents, which is where one worker multiplies into a department working while your laptop is closed. And part number four is the tuner, the self-training system nothing else on the market has where the engine improves itself and hands you log. And part

number five is the autopilot, the engine running overnight alone inside limits it cannot cross checked by tests it cannot talk its way past. And that last part is where your working week genuinely changes shape and everything below builds to it. Let's start the engine. So part one, the ignition. You need a Mac or a Linux machine. On Windows, use WSL.

That lets Windows run Linux, and a quick search for install WSL gets you there in 10 minutes. The install is one command. You can open your terminal app, and if you've never opened a terminal in your life, do not close this tutorial because that exact fear is one of the beliefs we're going to break today. You paste in the install command from the Prime Agent GitHub page, and it starts with curl and ends with sh. That command downloads the tool, checks the files aren't tampered with using a checksum, and installs a command called Prime Agent on your machine in about a minute. Now, before

you turn the key, the garage. This rule matters more with Prime Agent than any tool you've ever used, so here's the full reasoning, not just rule. Prime Agent runs code on your machine with your real use permissions. The builders say this plainly in their own documentation. It is not a security sandbox, and there's a second reason they name directly, called prompt injection. In plain English, if the

agent reads a file or a webpage that contains hidden instructions, those instructions could potentially steer it. An engine that can run commands, hold your keys, and keep working in the background is exactly the kind of engine where that matters. So, their own advice is work in a disposable copy of your files, something you can inspect and restore. So, at this point, what you want to do is just make a folder called Agent Lab, put copies of files in it, never originals. Every job in this course happens inside that folder until the engine has worked its way out. After

the Factorio story, you don't need much convincing, I hope. Copies, not originals. That's a garage. Now, we turn the key. In terminal, type cd, a space, then drag your Agents Lab folder into the window and press enter. That moves

inside the folder. You can type prime-agent and press enter. First launch, type /login. Now, you choose a fuel, how the engine thinks. And you've got three routes. Route one, um this is probably

the one most of you should take, log in with a subscription you already pay for. Cloud Pro or Max works, ChatGPT Plus or Pro works through the Codex login. GitHub Copilot even works. No API keys, no new accounts, nothing extra. And route number two is API keys. So you got

Anthropic, OpenAI, Google, Grok, whatever you want, all supported. More control and later in this course, keys are how you plug in outside services. And then route number three is fully local and free. So you can point to our llama or LM Studio running on your own machine and nothing you do ever leaves your computer. It's slower but private with zero ongoing accounts. Which model,

based on the published numbers, Opus 5 got the best results, including that 95.5% on ARC-AGI 3. And if you want an open model, you've got models Obviously you don't host them locally, but you've got models that are open like Jilan 5.2, which actually won eight of nine tests against a rival framework. So Opus 5, if you have the Cloud subscription, and Jilan 5.2, if you want open weights.

Last piece of the ignition, the dashboard. So seven commands and what each one means in plain English because you'll use these every single week if you're using Prime Agent. You can type prime-agent agents to see every session running. Idle saves on your machine, your staff list this course. That list will have several names on it. You can

type prime-agent attach and a name to step back into a session that's still working like walking into an employee's office mid-task. You can type prime-agent--resume with a session ID to wake up a saved session from days ago with everything it knew still intact. And you can type prime-agent status to check the background service is healthy. If [snorts] you want to run the doctor, you've got prime agent doctor at dash dash fix if something feels broken and actually inspects and repairs some background services. And then if you type prime dash agent update, you can update to the latest version and stay current which matters because this project ships changes all the time and also it's very early days. And prime

agent shutdown stops every agent, every worker, every background progress process at once. Your master off switch. Probably best to know that one exists before you have it. And that is part one my friend. Every engine installed, the garage built, off switch in your hand.

Now you learn how to drive it. And that takes me to part number two, the controls. And the one idea that makes this engine different from everything you tried. So before your first job, you need to understand the single design choice underneath prime agent because once you get it, you will command this tool differently and your results will be dramatically better. So every AI you've used reads, you hand it documents, it stuffs them into its head, the context window and it head its head has a size limit. Fill the head and it

either refuses or quietly forgets details. That's why stuff like Hermes agent forgets details all the time. However, prime agent doesn't read your files into its head. It writes small programs that run across your files. The whole engine is built around one thing, a persistent python workspace. A live

coding environment that stays alive across the entire session. And here's the part that separates it from everything else. That workspace is the model's only tool. So reading files, searching, running commands, [clears throat] calling outside services, even hiring help agents, every single action happens as code it writes runs in that one workspace. The builders call this design a recursive language model. You don't

need the jargon, you just need the picture. It's the difference between a librarian who tries to memorize every single book and a librarian who builds a card catalog and pulls the exact page you asked for. The second librarian never runs out head space ever. What does that mean for you practically? Basically, the size of a job stops mattering. 10 client documents or 1,000,

same approach, same accuracy because it's searching, it's never memorizing. And so your conversation itself becomes data you can manage with code instead of a wall of text it keeps rereading, which is a big part of why it holds together on jobs that run for hours. So, here's your first job and you can try this today because it's the fastest way to see the difference. You can take a folder of your own words, could be client call notes, testimonials, or proposals copies, remember. Then ask something you could never ask a chat window. You can pull every client

objection raised before buying, group by type, or you can find the 20 most specific results customers mentioned across testimonials, or list every promise about delivery three times in these proposals with the exact file each one came from. It writes a search program, runs it across everything, hands back answers with sources you can check yourself. Your entire business history just became something you can question. Now, the command formula. This is the steering wheel of the entire engine and the quality of your command decides the quality of everything else in this course. Part one is the job,

state it plainly. Part two, what done looks like. Check, part three, where the result goes. So, instead of like research my competitors, you say research the top five companies in the SEO space in Manchester and done means a table with the name, the main offer, and the star rating with a source link for each row. Save it as a file called competitors in this folder. Job, check,

destination. The check is the part everyone skips and it's the exact part that becomes the engine safety system and part five, so build the habit now whilst you're still watching every job. Quick pause here because I know where some of you are, this sounds powerful and you also know that between the terminal, the model choices, and the photo files, you'd move 10 times faster with someone walking beside you. That's exactly what we do inside the Ahrefs bottom. You get the HNOS agent operating system where Prime agent plugs in alongside your Claude, your Hermes, your Open Claude, all sharing one memory of tools for video SEO agents and AI advertisers already wired in. So, the

skills you'll build later in this course have real tools to call. You get the zip file, the 30-day implementation road map, a full video tutorial, and daily updates as we ship new versions, daily step-by-step tutorials on exactly what's in this course, the command formula, building scores, designing checks, four coaching calls every week where you share your screen, show your Prime agent setup, and get it fixed live. Over 3,800 people started inside and plenty of them have never opened a terminal before joining. Link in the comments description or go to the ahrefsbottom.com. Back to the controls

because Prime agent ships with a set of built-in skills and you should know what's in the toolbox before your second job. So, there's web search, which means that it can do searches live on the web. It can pull mid task, so research jobs use fresh information, not stale training data. There's edit precise surgical changes to files, replacing one exact piece of text instead of rewriting whole documents. There's attach image.

It can load a screenshot or photo from disk and actually look at it, so you can hand it like a picture of a competitor's page and ask questions about it. There's compact, so it checks how full the conversation is getting and squeezes it down, so long conversations and sessions keep moving. And there's global file and heartbeat, which are the star parts of this whole system. So, you could use this for like live searches, get examples, get your agent to just do a live search right now. Now, some people have been asking as well, you know, what's the difference between Prime agent and Hermes agent? If you already

run Hermes for example, why would you touch this? And that's a fair question. You don't need to switch if you're happy with your setup, you don't need to change at all. They're both open source, they're both MIT licensed, they're both from serious research labs, both call themselves self-improving, both build skills and keep memories, but they are built for genuinely different jobs. And once you see the difference, you'll understand. So, if we start with where

each one lives, Hermes actually lives everywhere, you know, Telegram, Slack, WhatsApp, email. One agent, one memory on every service and surface. So, you can message it from your phone while it's also on a machine you never touch. Prime Agent lives in one place, which is a folder on a machine in a terminal. Hermes is built to be reachable, Prime is built to be left alone with a hard job. And then, how each one learns,

because this is a real fork in the road. So, Hermes has a learning loop that runs automatically. As it works, it writes reusable skill files, saves memory, searches its own past conversations, and builds a deepening picture of who you are, and it nudges itself to remember things. It's hands-off by design, basically. So, it's designed to be like pretty easy to use, but also pretty hands-off. Prime Agent's learning runs

through refined, deliberate, small, evidence-based backed edits, where every single change is logged with the reason it was made. Every change has an ID, any change can be rolled back by that ID, and the core instructions are locked, so the agent can never rewrite its own foundation. Basically, Hermes learns like a sharp assistant who quietly keeps her own notebook. Prime learns like an employee whose training file you can open, read line by line, and correct with an undo button on every engine. And also, after Factorio, you understand exactly why Prime built this way. So,

when an agent can teach itself to cheat, an audit trail on the teaching is a feature you probably want. Then, the shape of the actual works. Hermes shines at being your daily companion. Schedule a morning briefing in plain language. Fire it off from your phone between meetings. Have it watch something and

message you. Then you've got Prime Agent, which shines at long heavy checkable work. A job that runs for hours across a huge pile of files where the conversation would blow up any normal context window. When you need the proof that the job actually finished, that proof piece is Prime's low bounded autonomous mode with quality gates. So basically real checks it must pass before the agent is allowed to call the work done. Hermes doesn't really have

that. Nothing else has that. You'll learn it in part five of this. So they're very different in terms of how they work and what you use them for. Now part three, the gearbox, memory, skills and a team. This is where the engine

multiplies power. So Prime Agent keeps four kinds of durable state and you should know all four because you can create, read, edit and delete every one of them. And so can the agents. First, prompt notes, standing instructions like always give me sources or write in plain English. Second, memories, saved facts about you and your work. Third, skills,

most reasonable workflows. And fourth, sub agent specs, saved job descriptions for helper agents or sub agents it can hire again later. So prompts, memories, skills and sub agents. Those four are the gears and everything from here to the autopilot is about growing them. So memories first because they're the easiest win of the entire course. When

the agent gets something right or learns something true about your business, tell it directly. Save that as a memory. Save a memory, our client are local service business for example, and we never use industry jargon in anything client facing. If you're saying that to your agent, from then on that fact travels with it. And here's where the first big limited belief about AI needs to fall over. So a lot of people think like AI

forgets everything or the context window or the memory is struggling. So you can actually use this system and just tell it to save facts about. In that way it doesn't forget any details. Now skills are where Prime Agent shines. And Prime Agent has two kinds. So knowing the

difference save you a bit of confusion later. The first kind of skill description is saved note about a repeatable procedure which the refined system can create on its own when it notices you're repeating something. The second kind is a heavyweight, so an executable skill, a real installable program on disk that adds a genuine new ability to the engine. There's a built-in skill creator whose entire job is packaging a workflow. The agent just performs into one of these. And two

practical details from the documentation that will save you a headache. After creating a new executable skill, type {slash} reload so the agent rediscovers it and start a fresh session so it gets properly installed. Small things, but they matter on day one. So, the recommended play here is like pick a process you repeat weekly, say the research you do before every sales call as an example, right? Then number two will be walk the agent through it once, correcting as you go, exactly like training a new hire.

Then look up the company, you know, find their latest news, check the reviews, summarize in one page with three sections. And then step number three is when the output is right, say package what you just did as a skill called call prep as an example, this workflow. And then {slash} reload, fresh session. And from next week the entire process is one line. So, you can run call prep on this company and a process that used to live in your head is now saved as a command inside Prime Agent. So, once you set this up,

it runs forever. If that's one process per week that becomes a skill, then 12 weeks later, 12 your recurring processes run on command. So, the old way is like your processes lived in your head or inside a a document like an SOP and depending on you having a good day. The new age your processes are gears in the engine and gears don't have bad days because they're very repeatable. And now let's talk about the team because this is the gear that turns one worker into a department. So, the main agent can spawn

sub agents, real separate agents, each with their own session, their own workspace, their own history in the code. Hiring one is literally a single function call, and the crucial detail is that the call doesn't wait. So, the main agent fires off a sub agent, immediately keeps working. Sub agents run in parallel and message their results back whenever they finish. So, you can say, for example, spin up three sub agents, one researching what our top competitors changed on the website this quarter, one pulling the most common questions from our customer emails, and one drafting next month's content ideas. Then, you

can combine everything into one report. So, you got three workers running at the same time, one manager assembling the results, one command from you, and three sub agent details worth noting because each one shows how deliberately this was built. The cool thing about sub agents is well, specifically with Prime Agent, number one, they are persistent. So, one that finishes doesn't vanish. Its session survives. So, tomorrow you can

hand it a follow-up, and it remembers that. And second, to save a memory, a sub agent idle for about 30 minutes gets quietly unloaded. And the moment anyone addresses it again, it reloads from where it saved, like it never left. And third, there's a deliberate boundary on who can talk to who. So, agents can only message within their own family, right?

Uh so, for example, you got like a parent agent, its sub agents, more agents underneath that parent. The builder scoped that on purpose. So, you never get like dozens of unrelated sessions chattering unpredictably at each other. But, the main point here is like these agents can message each other directly, steer each other's work without routing everything through you. So, the manager, for example, can correct a research mid-task. You build a

department, and the department talks. Now, also what's pretty cool underneath all of this is a piece that makes long work real. So, the demon, a background service that owns every live session. So, this means sessions are not tied to your terminal window. If you close your laptop, if you go to the gym, you go for a walk, the engine keeps running. Come

back, type prime {dash} agent attach, and you're standing in its office again, watching it mid-task. If something crashes, the demon recovers the session from saved logs plus a snapshot of the workspace. Instead of losing hours of progress, this is what long running means. And it's the foundation the autopilot stands on. Three more commands complete the gearbox, and each one solves a specific problem you'll probably hit. So, number one is {slash}

goal. A goal is a persistent objective with an optional budget attached, and the harness keeps steering the agent back to it turn after turn until the agent explicitly marks it complete. There's literally a completion call it has to make. Why that matters? On long jobs, agents drift. Earlier context gets

squeezed down, threads get lost, and an agent can wander off doing something adjacent. A goal is a string tied around its finger that cannot come off by accident. Second is {slash} heartbeat. So, a heartbeat is a message injected into the session on a timer every few minutes automatically, like a manager popping their head in. It's perfect for jobs where the agent is waiting on something slow or where you want it to keep checking a sub-agent's progress without you noticing anything. And

third, prime agent schedule, which starts a session at a set time. So, that's prime {hyphen} agent schedule. So, one example, every weekday at 7:00 in the morning, check the notes folder, summarize anything new, and save a morning briefing file. So, your agent day starts with a briefing you did. Part four, the tuner, the feature nothing else has. So, quite often, uh when we're

using agents, we have to go back and forth with it. We have to give it feedback. Now, with Prime Agent, you can use {forward slash} refine. And when you run it, the agent reviews its own recent work as evidence. What got corrected?

What tailed? What pattern keeps repeating? Then it applies the smallest useful edit to its own setup, saves a memory, updates the skill description, adjusts a prompt note, or tweaks a subagent spec. It's small, targeted, evidence-backed, and it can plan these refinements in the background without interrupting the work in front of you. So, the guardrails are the reason this is safe enough to use, and you should know all three cold. Bear in mind with

refine as well, you get a log, so you can see what's been done, and you can also undo anything that's been tuned in as well. So, when it comes to guardrails, number one, the base system prompt is immutable. Refine edits only the layer around the core. The agent can never rewrite its own foundation, no matter what learns. Two, every change is recorded in a refinement history with the reason it was made. You can open

that history and read in plain text exactly what your engine decided to change about itself and why. Number three, every change has an ID, and a bad update can be reverted by that ID. So, snapshots are recorded specifically to support rollback. If it learned a bad lesson, you can undo that one lesson surgically without touching anything else it's learned. So, you can actually set up a routine each week to give the agent a real task, correct it the way you'd correct a new hire. Specific,

never vague, not this is wrong, but never use these three phrases and always include three sources. Do a couple of tasks like that, run {slash} refine, then don't skip this, open the history and read what it wrote about itself. Then hand it a similar task and watch it apply the lesson without being told. Your corrections compound over time. Like week one, it might be formally occasionally. Week three, though, work

arrives already following your rules. And you also want to make sure the memory inside the system is really specific. Now, the refine is a core feature, but two honest things about it is number one, people who dug through the source actually found that the review step is performed by another AI model and whilst it records what outcome it expects from each change, it doesn't currently circle back later to verify the change actually helped. So, that verification is your job and it takes 5 minutes a week. So, you want to read the history, test the lesson on a fresh task, roll back anything that looks off.

And number two, the deeper point, a self-improving harness can preserve a bad assumption exactly as efficiently as a good one. So, persistence cuts both ways. That's why the log and the rollback aren't like nice to haves, they're the whole reason the tuner is safe to run. Now, let's talk about the autopilot in part five. So, everything in this course has been building here and every part of the command engine shows up in this one. So, garage part

one, the job check destination commands part two, the skills and the team from part three, the tuned behavior from part four, and now the engine runs without you inside a box you drew, checked by tests it cannot argue with. So, autopilot runs straight from the command line with the {dash} {dash} autonomous flag. You can set the goal and the limits in the same command. And the limits are real with real defaults you can change. A cap on the number of responses the agent can produce, 12 by default. A cap on total tokens it can

spend. A cap on how many follow-up nudges the system itself can inject, three by default. Time limits on top, the engine cannot run forever and it runs inside a box and you drew the box, but the limits aren't really the special part, the gates are. So, there's actually a gate that is a feature that only I've seen from Prime Agent. And basically what this means is that it checks and creates a test the agent has to pass before it's allowed to call the work finished. So, it's quite strict. If

the gate fails, the failure gets fed back into the session the agent has to keep working. Each gate has a retry limit, three times by default, and a timeout of 5 minutes per check. So, a stuck check can't hang the whole run. You can stack several gates on one job, and they run in order. The agent cannot declare victory till the work passes the checks or the work isn't done.

Basically, this can just loop around and around, and the agent can't like pretend to have finished the work. Has to keep going around. Now, let's close the loop on Factorio because the full lesson belongs right here at the Autopilot. That agent was told not to cheat in writing repeatedly. It cheated anyway, and its own improvement loop made it a better cheater because from the system's point of view, cheating produced outcomes worth remembering. The lesson is one

sentence, and it's the most important sentence in this course. A self-improving agent gets better at whatever actually gets rewarded, not at what you meant, which means how you check the work now matters more than ever has in the history of these tools, which is why you want to make sure that you have a very clear bar of what the work and done looks like. Don't be generic. Don't be vague. And then, also make sure that you check the log. Check

what it's worked on. Now, if you want proof of what the Autopilot can carry, the builders actually ran a benchmark where the agent had to build a working hardware emulator completely from scratch, no reference implementation, verified against diagnostic programs that check behavior against real hardware. And Prime agent built working emulators for the Sega Genesis and the original Game Boy Color. So, that's normally like a multi-day engineering task. It was done autonomously and verified by checks. And this was done

with Opus 5, one of the strongest models alive, which failed that same benchmark inside a different harness, even while its individual steps looked successful along the way. So, it's the same brain, just a different harness, opposite outcome. So, the engine around the model decides what the model can actually finish. That's the entire reason this tool exists. So, here's the full command engine running end-to-end using everything from this course. You you

have a scheduled session that kicks off overnight. It's going to produce the weekly competitor report. It runs a corporate and research skills built a part three. It spawns two sub agents to work sources in parallel. A heartbeat checks progress every few minutes to get standard the exits of the report tile must exist and every entry must carry a source link. Three retries each, then

the run stops rather than shipping junk. You wake up, you read the report like an owner reviewing an employee work. You make one or two corrections, run a file and the correction stick, and glance at the refinement history. 15 minutes of your attention, hours of work done, and the whole engine slightly better tuned than it was yesterday. That's a prime engine command engine fully assembled.

Now, let's talk about some limitations of this. The benchmarks are mixed on the long context week prime agent with GLM 5.2 one eight of nine tests against a rival framework. With Opus 5, it edged Claude code on six of nine. With Gypsy 5.6 soul, it beat Codex on six of nine,

but it did not sweep the board. The established tools still won some categories outright, and the headline ARC AGI 3 number was best of three runs compared against other tools. Published figures rather than the fully controlled head-to-head because the teams own reproductions of those rival setups came out below the official numbers, and they chose the fairer comparison.