---
video_title: "New Hermes Kanban Agent Is ABSURD!"
video_id: X3O-DVh7_UE
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X3O-DVh7_UE
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  This AI Agent Builds Entire Apps From 1 Sentence
  
  Discover the 'Self-Driving Board' that turns a single sentence into fully functioning apps and websites. This upgraded Hermes Kanban system uses a 5-floor framework and a human-in-the-loop approval gate to build projects autonomously while you sleep.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Absurd Hermes Agent
  00:55 - The Missing Piece: Human in the Loop
  01:34 - Why Old AI Agents Fail
  02:15 - How the Approval Gate Works
  04:03 - The 5-Floor Self-Driving Framework
  05:00 - The Gallery: Seeing Finished Results
  06:22 - Using Obsidian as an AI Second Brain
  07:04 - How to Get the Agent OS
---
New Hermes Kanban agent is absurd and I want to show you the exact system I built on top of it. Here's the short version of what happens. I type one sentence into a board. A team of agents reads that sentence. They figure out what I actually want. They write a plan.

They show me the plan and ask me to approve it. I click approve. Then a project manager agent and a group of sub-agents go and build the whole thing while I go do something else. And when I come back it's finished sitting in a gallery. I click it and preview it live.

Look at this. This is a blog site I asked for. I typed one line about wanting an SEO blog. I approved the plan, then I walked away. This is what came back. Here's a habit tracker I

built the same way. Here's a meditation app. Same thing. One sentence each. I want to be clear about what I'm doing here because it matters. I'm not writing

any of this. I'm not building it. I'm not touching a single line of anything. I type an idea. I read a plan. I click

approve. That's it. That's my whole job now. And there's one piece of this board that makes it about 10 times better than the old Hermes Kanban. It's a small thing. It fixed the biggest problem I

had. Hey, if we have not met already, I am the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of Goldie Agency. While he is out there helping clients grow, I am here keeping you up to date on everything AI. Julian reads every comment, so drop one below and he will see it. I'll show you that piece later in this video because until I added it, half the stuff coming out of this board was rough. Let me back

up and show you why this is different. If you've used the Hermes Kanban system before, you already know the basic idea. You give it a task. It triages that task. It builds a to-do list. Then it

goes off and works on it. So say I wanted keyword research done. I could hand that to a team of Hermes agents, walk away and come back to it later. That part already worked, but there were two problems with it. Big ones.

The first one is that getting things actually finished was hard. It would plan. It would work, but getting a real finished thing out the other end took a lot of babysitting. The second problem is bigger. There was no human in the loop. Think about what that means. You

hand it a task and then you just hope. How do you see the plan? You don't. How do you know it's working on the right thing? You don't. How do you know it

even understood what you meant? You don't know that either. So, you sit there watching a terminal hoping it read your mind correctly. That's a terrible way to work. So, here's what I built instead. Watch this bit closely. Same

Hermes agent underneath, same engine, but now the board asked me to approve things before it builds them. I drop an idea in. The agents shape it. They write out what they think I want, how they're going to approach it, and who's going to do what. Then it lands in an approval section and waits for me. Let me show

you a real one. This is the SEO blog request I made. It says, "Here's what the idea is. Here's how it's going to approach it. It's going to research target keywords, design the site, build it on a modern stack, add an internal linking plan, set up analytics." Then it

lists the first milestones. Then it lists who's building it, a research agent, a designer agent, a coder agent. Those are all agents, not me. I read that in about 15 seconds and click to approve and build now. And that's the whole gate. I read the plan. I say yes

or no. If it misunderstood me, I catch it right there before it spends an hour building the wrong thing. That one change fixes the trust problem completely. Quick pause here because I know some of you want this exact setup. Everything I'm showing you right now is my Agent OS, and you can get it inside the AI Profit Boardroom. The full Agent

OS zip file is sitting there ready for you to download and install. Not a description of it, the actual tool. There's a video tutorial walking you through the install, all the prompts, and a 30-day roadmap for using this self-driving board to get your own work done, building out landing pages, blog posts, lead capture stuff, whatever you need for your business. Plus four coaching calls every week where you can ask me directly about your Hermes setup. Link in the comments and description, or go to aiprofitboardroom.com.

And if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is

in the comments and description below. Okay, back to the board. I want to give you the framework I use because once you see the shape of it, you can't unsee it. I call it the self-driving board and I think of it like a building with five floors. Your idea steps into the elevator at the top and rides all the way down and you only step in once.

Floor one is capture. You type the idea, one sentence. That's the whole step. Floor two is classify. The agents read what you wrote and work out what it actually is. Is this a website, a tool,

a piece of research? They sort it themselves. Floor three is the gate. This is where it stops and asks you, approve or reject. Floor four is implementation. The project manager

agent takes over and hands work out to sub agents. They build it. You're not there. You're doing something else. Floor five is the gallery. The finished

thing lands somewhere you can click on it and see it. Capture, classify, gate, implement, gallery. The old way was different. You had a board full of cards. You dragged them around. You

wrote the tickets yourself. You did the work yourself. And if you didn't do the work, you felt guilty about the cards just sitting there. I had boards with a hundred ideas on them that never moved. You probably do, too. Now, let me show

you floor five because this is the part people underestimate. Here's the gallery. Every single thing this board has built is in here. I click preview and it opens live watch. Here's that habit tracker, full screen, working. I

can start using it right now if I want. Here's the meditation app. Same deal. I built it, forgot about it, and it's still here, ready. Three things happen because of this gallery and all three matter. One, I can go from idea to a

working thing in minutes. Two, everything I've built is organized in one place. Three, and this is the one I care most about, I don't lose things anymore. That third one is huge for me. I used to have ideas and they just evaporate. I think of something good,

not act on it, and it was gone. Now, the idea goes in the board and the board handles it. Now, most people are still going back and forth in a chat window or staring at a terminal, copying and pasting things. That's a rough way to live. And honestly, I think that's the real split happening right now. There

are people the agent controls, so they sit there feeding it prompts all day, watching text scroll, giving it all their attention. And there are people who control the agent. They set up a system, hand off the work, and go live their life. Totally different frames, same tools underneath. Most people are stuck on the wrong side of that, and it's usually because they can't find a use case they actually care about. They

read about agents not along, and then never do anything with it. Don't be that. You want to be able to have an idea at breakfast and have a working version of it by lunch without you doing the building. Now, here's the piece that makes this whole thing hold together over time. This one surprised me. The

board lives inside my Obsidian vault. Let me explain why that's a big deal, because it sounds boring and it really isn't. Obsidian is just a notes app, but because the board writes into it, I've basically got a second brain. Every idea, every plan, every finished project gets logged in one place. Look at this.

Here's the entry for that blog site, the original idea, the plan, where the files live, how it got built. Here's why I care. My agents can read that. So, say I go back to Hermes tomorrow and I say, "Hey, that blog site you made yesterday, the layout needs work." It doesn't ask me what blog, it doesn't ask me where.

It reads the log, sees the whole history of that project, and picks up exactly where it left off. I don't re-explain anything, ever. That's the difference between an agent that helps you once and an agent that actually works with you over months. So, last thing, if you want this exact system, you can have it. The complete Agent OS zip file is inside the AI Profit Boardroom, ready to download and install on your machine. The

self-driving Kanban board, the approval gate, the Obsidian memory setup, the self-checker, all of it. Plus the video tutorial that walks you through the install step by step, all the prompts, and a 30-day roadmap for using this board to build the pages, blogs, and lead capture tools your business actually needs. Four coaching calls a week where you can bring your Hermes setup, and I'll help you fix it live. And a member map so you can find people near you doing the same thing. There's always someone online. Link in the

comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody's finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly.

That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below.