---
video_title: "NEW ChatGPT Work + Codex Update Is INSANE!"
video_id: ds3qZgaV1RQ
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ds3qZgaV1RQ
video_date: 20260816
video_description: |
  Get the ChatGPT + Codex Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  ChatGPT just killed tool lock-in — you can now import your entire setup (skills, projects, plugins, chats) from Claude Code, Claude Cowork, or Cursor straight into ChatGPT Work & Codex in one click. Here's exactly how it works and the one step most people skip.
  
  00:00 Intro – The update that ends AI tool lock-in
  00:38 What Changed – Sync setups across ChatGPT, Codex & more
  01:12 How It Works – Import instructions, skills, plugins, projects
  01:37 Setup Guide – Enable import in 3 steps
  02:42 What Transfers – Configs, MCP servers, hooks, sub-agents
  03:39 CLI Import – Using /import in Codex terminal
  04:02 Real Example – My AI Profit Boardroom workflow
  05:01 Pro Tips – Test safely, check permissions, watch status card
  06:04 Big Picture – Why this breaks down AI's walled gardens
  07:20 Learn More – Join AI Success Lab & AI Profit Boardroom
---
New Chat GPT work plus Codex update is insane. Ever spend hours getting an AI tool set up just right? Then a new one drops and you're right back to square one. What if you never had to rebuild any of it again? OpenAI just quietly tore down the wall between the biggest AI tools and barely anyone noticed. I'm

the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help you actually learn and use AI tools in your real work, not just watch from the sidelines. Today, I'm breaking down a brand new Chat GPT work and Codex update that completely changes how you move between AI tools. Stick with me because there's one part near the end that most people are going to miss and it's the part that quietly saves you the most time. So, let me tell you what actually happened. On August 11th, OpenAI rolled out something simple but kind of huge. You can now keep your work

from other AI agents in sync with Chat GPT work and Codex. You can import your projects, your chats, your skills, and your plugins all in one move and it's live right now inside the Chat GPT desktop app. Let me put that in plain words. Say you've been using another AI tool for months. You've built up your instructions, you've set up your skills, you've got projects and old chats you really don't want to lose. Normally

switching to a new tool means building all of that again from scratch. It's slow, it's annoying, and it's the biggest reason most people never even try something new. They feel locked in. This update kills that feeling. The Chat GPT desktop app can now import your whole setup from Claude Code, Claude Co-work, or Cursor. It brings over your

instructions, your settings, your skills, your plugins, your projects, and your recent work. You choose exactly what comes across and here's the part that matters most. It does not touch or delete your old setup. Your other tool stays exactly the way it was so there's zero risk in trying it out. Getting started is easy, too. You open the

desktop app, go to settings, then import. If you don't see import there yet, you go to general and look for import other agent setup. You hit import, pick the tools you want to pull from, and choose what to bring over. That's it. A minute later, you open your imported project and keep working like nothing changed. Now, why does this

matter so much? Because your time is the one thing you can't get back. Every hour you spend rebuilding a setup is an hour you're not creating, not learning, not moving forward. This update hands those hours back to you, and it's the kind of quiet change people underrate right up until they try it once and never go back. And this is exactly the kind of thing we go deep on inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Inside the AI Profit

Boardroom, I walk you through this exact import and sync setup step-by-step, so you can move between Claude Code, Cursor, and ChatGPT without losing a thing. We run live coaching calls where you can bring your own setup and ask me what to import first and what to leave behind. There's a roadmap that takes you from messy and scattered to one clean workflow, and there are ready-to-use prompts built around this exact tool. If you're watching this and thinking, "I want to get this right the first time," the AI Profit Boardroom was built for exactly that. Okay, let me show you what's actually inside this update because it goes deeper than most people realize. When you import, ChatGPT

doesn't just grab a couple of things. It maps your old setup onto its own. Your instruction files become agents.md files. Your settings turn into Codex config. Your skills stay skills. Your

plugins stay plugins. Your project folders come across as projects using those same folders. Even your project memories from Claude Code carry over, and your chats from the last 30 days come with you, too. It goes further than that. Your MCP server setup comes across. Your hooks come across. Your

slash commands become skills. Even your sub-agents turn into Codex agents. So, this isn't a light copy of the surface stuff. It's your actual working brain moved over in one go. And the whole thing is smart about where it looks. It

checks your user-level setup, meaning the files sitting on your machine, and it checks your existing projects, the folders and repos you pointed at. Then it detects everything that can come over, shows you a clean list, and lets you take exactly what you want to bring. Nothing sneaks across that you didn't choose. And once it's done, if a plugin or a connection still needs a login, it flags that for you instead of leaving you guessing. There's a second door here, too, and this one's for the people who live in the terminal. Codex CL I can

import as well. You start a local Codex session, you type {slash}import, you pick Claude Code or Cursor, and you choose the setup, the project files, and the recent chats you want. One quick thing to note, though, in the CLI, it pulls up to 50 chats from the last 30 days, and you can't run import in the middle of a task or in a remote session. So, do it when you're starting fresh, not mid-job. Here's how I actually put this to work for the AI Profit Boardroom. I've got a

whole set of skills and instructions I use to write content that pulls the right people toward the AI Profit Boardroom. Hooks, scripts, the way I like things structured. In the past, every time I wanted to test a new AI tool, I'd have to rebuild all of that by hand before I could get a single useful thing out of it. Now, I import it in one move. The skills, the instructions, the projects, all of it lands in ChatGPT, and I keep writing AI Profit Boardroom content without breaking my rhythm.

That's the difference between losing a day and losing a minute. Here's the second way I lean on this. I built a skill that maps out how new AI Profit Boardroom members get welcomed on day one. The first message, the first steps, where to point them. That skill is gold, and I don't want to be stuck redoing it every time I switch tools.

So, I turn on automatic updates in settings import, and it stays in sync. Whichever tool I open, the AI Profit Boardroom onboarding flow is already sitting there, ready to go. And in that same spot, I can review my import history. So, I always know exactly what came across and when. Now, let me give you a few real tips, so you get this right, because there's a smart way and a sloppy way to do this. Tip one, because

importing never changes your old setup, treat your first import as a test. Bring a little over, poke at it, and get comfortable. There's no downside at all. Tip two, after you import, don't just trust everything blindly. Open up your imported skills and check their permissions. Look at what they're

allowed to do. If you had MCP servers with custom sign-ins, you may need to log back into those. OpenAI literally tells you to review this stuff before you rely on it, and that's smart advice worth following. Tip three, watch for the little status card in the bottom left corner after an import. If a plugin or a connection still needs setup, that card tells you. You hit finish, follow

the steps, and you're done. Don't ignore it, or you'll sit there wondering why something isn't working. And here's how I'd use that clean, synced setup for the AI Profit Boardroom going forward. I'd import the plugins and connectors that help pull the right people toward the AI Profit Boardroom, get them all living in one place, and then check every permission before I let anything run on its own. One tidy workflow doing the quiet work of bringing people into the AI Profit Boardroom instead of five half-built setups scattered across five different tools. So, step back and look

at the big picture for a second. For a long time, the AI world felt like a bunch of walled gardens. You pick a tool, you sank your time into it, and switching felt like throwing all that time away. This update chips away at those walls. Your work becomes yours again, something you carry with you instead of something trapped in one app.

And the tools start to feel less like rivals fighting over you and more like one big workspace you actually control. That's a real shift, and it's only going to keep going. Think about what that unlocks for how you learn. The old fear was always the same. You'd hear about a better tool, but the thought of rebuilding everything kept you stuck where you were. So, you never grew, you

just stayed put because moving felt too heavy. That fear is what this update takes away. Now, you can test a new tool on a Tuesday afternoon, and if you don't like it, no harm done. Your old setup never moved. That freedom to try things is how you actually get good at this stuff, not by picking one tool and clinging to it, but by staying curious and letting your work follow you wherever it goes. And here's the thing

most people get wrong, they wait. They tell themselves they'll sort out their setup later when things calm down, but things never calm down. The people who get ahead with AI are the ones who keep their workflow tidy and portable now, so they're ready to move the second something better shows up. So, the smart move today is simple. Get your setup clean, learn how to move it, and stop being scared to try new things because trying something new barely takes any time out of your day now. If you want

the full process, the step-by-step SOPs, and over 100 AI use cases just like this one, come join the AI Success Lab. The links are in the comments and the description. You'll get all the notes from this video in there, plus you'll be part of our community of 85,000 members who are all learning to get more done with AI. And if you're about to go try this import for yourself, here's my honest heads-up. It's simple to start, but the moment you're picking what to bring over, checking permissions, and reconnecting your plugins, that's where a little guidance saves you a ton of guessing. That's exactly what you get

inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You get the tutorials that walk you through this import click by click, live coaching calls where you can ask me about your own setup, a clear roadmap to follow, and prompts made for this exact tool. It's over 4,000 members all figuring this stuff out together instead of alone. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.