---
video_title: "New Gemini Notebook Update Is AMAZING!"
video_id: 9poI0jHZToI
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9poI0jHZToI
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google Gemini Notebook: Turn Any Document Into AI Shorts
  
  Google has officially rolled out its Short Video Overview feature to all Gemini Notebook web users, supporting over 70 languages. Discover how to instantly transform PDFs and notes into 60-second vertical videos using the right custom instructions to maximize quality.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Massive Gemini Update
  00:33 - How It Works: Docs to Video
  01:41 - 70+ Languages & New Accents
  02:26 - Choosing the Right Video Format
  04:07 - The Custom Instructions Secret
  05:21 - 4 Huge Limits You Need to Know
  06:22 - The End of Content Bottlenecks
---
New Gemini notebook update is amazing and I want to show you exactly what just landed because Google quietly finished rolling out something that changes how fast you can turn boring documents into short vertical videos. Here's what happened. Short video overviews in Gemini Notebook are now 100% rolled out to all users on the web. Not a test, not a wait list. Everyone on web mobile is coming soon and it now works in over 70 languages, plus three new English variants. That last part matters more

than people think, and I'll explain why in a second. But first, what actually is this thing? You upload your stuff, a PDF, a Google doc, your notes, a web page, then you click one button, and Gemini Notebook turns it into a 60-second vertical video. Vertical so it fits a phone screen. 60 seconds, so it fits the way people watch things now.

You don't write a script, you don't record your voice, you don't edit anything, you upload, you click, you get a video. Google's own team described the idea as doom scrolling, but educational. That was their words when they launched it back at the end of June. Now, let me show you the timeline because the speed here is the real story. End of June this year, short video overviews launched, English only and only for people on the ultra and pro plans. Then on September

1st, Google expanded it to over 70 languages plus those three new English accents, still ultra and pro at first. And now it's finished rolling out to every single user on web. So, we went from English only, small group to 70 plus languages, everyone on web in about 2 months. That's the part I want you to see with 2 months. A year ago, if you wanted a one minute explainer video with narration and visuals, you were hiring an editor or spending your whole afternoon in a video tool. Now, it's a

button. And there's a setting inside this that almost nobody is using properly. I'll get to it because it's the difference between a video that's useless and a video you'd actually post. Let's talk about the language thing because I think this is the biggest part of the update and it's getting almost no attention. Before this, short video overviews only worked in English. So, if

your customers speak Spanish or Japanese or Hindi or Portuguese, you had nothing. You'd make the video in English and then go find a translator or a separate tool. Now, you pick your language before you generate. The narration comes out in that language, over 70 of them. And they added three new English variants on top.

So, English isn't just one flat American voice anymore. You can match the way your audience actually talks. Here's a practical use. Take the AI Profit Boardroom welcome guide, drop it in, and generate a 60-cond short in Spanish explaining what members get in week one. One document, one click, a video for a whole different audience. Now, there's a

detail in the settings that trips people up. So, let me clear it up. Inside Gemini Notebook, when you go to the studio panel and pick video overview, you get a choice of format. There are three. Cinematic, that's the rich, immersive one with storytelling and heavier visuals. Explainer, that's the

structured one. Longer, it connects the dots across everything you uploaded. And short, that's the 60-second vertical one we're talking about today. Quick thing before I keep going. If you're watching this thinking, "Okay, this is cool, but how do I actually use Gemini notebook to bring in more leads and get more customers?" That's exactly what we do

inside the IP profit boardroom. We've got a full walkthrough on turning your existing documents, your old blog posts, your call notes into short video overviews. You can post every day without filming anything. Four coaching calls every week where you can bring your own notebook, share your screen, and we'll fix your setup live. Daily step-by-step tutorials, including the exact prompts that make these 60-cond videos actually watchable instead of generic. A 30-day road map so you know

what to build first. Link in the comments and description, or go to apiprofitboardroom.com. If you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody's finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means

nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below.

Here's the catch. Cinematic only works in English. So, all this new language support applies to the short format and the regular overviews, not the cinematic one. If you pick cinematic and wonder why your language options disappeared, that's why. Also worth knowing, cinematic and short are both 18 plus only. Google put that limit in place.

Now, the setting I mentioned earlier, the one most people skip. When you generate a video overview, there's a box for custom instructions. You can tell it what to focus on. You can tell it who the audience is. You can tell it what you want people to walk away knowing.

Most people ignore that box and click generate. Then they get a bland video and decide the tool isn't good. The tool is good. The instructions were empty. Google gave examples of this back when video overviews first launched. You can

say something like, "I know nothing about this topic. Help me understand it." Or you can go the other way and say, "I already know this area. My team works on this. Focus on that specific piece." So instead of clicking generate

on a blank prompt, you'd say something like, "Make a 60-second video for busy business owners who've never used AI automation explaining the three things they get in their first week inside the AI profit boardroom." That's it. That one line changes the whole output. Now, here's where it gets useful for you specifically. Think about what you already have sitting on your hard drive right now. Old documents, call notes, a

guide you wrote two years ago, a FAQ page, training material nobody reads. All of that is now video source material, not could be with a lot of work is today. Here's one example. Take your last four coaching call recordings, drop the transcripts in, and generate a 60-second short on the single best automation tip from the month. One video from work you already did. And you can

do that in 70 languages. Now, I want to be straight with you about the limits, though, because I'm not going to sit here and pretend this is perfect. First limit, you can't edit the output. You can't change the script. You can't pick a different narrator voice. You can't

move things around on the timeline. You either take what it made or you hit generate again and hope for something better. That's frustrating if you're picky. But it also forces you to fix the input instead of fiddling with the output, which is honestly faster. Second limit, it can be slow. Google's own help

page says generating a video overview can sometimes take more than 30 minutes. So, this isn't instant. You set it going and come back. Third limit, and this is the big one. The video is only as good as what you upload. If your source

document is messy, unclear, or says three different things, the video will be messy, too. Gemini reads what you give it. It doesn't fix your thinking for you. So, if you want good videos, clean up the source first. 10 minutes tidying a document saves you five bad generations. Fourth, mobile isn't fully

there yet for this roll out. Web is done. Mobile is coming, so do this on a computer for now. Okay. So, what do you actually do with this? Let me give you

the honest version of why this matters. And it's not about video. For years, the bottleneck on content wasn't ideas. It was production. You had the knowledge.

You just didn't have four hours to turn it into something people would watch. That bottleneck is gone or close to gone. And when a bottleneck disappears, the advantage moves somewhere else. It moves to whoever has the best source material and the clearest instructions, which means the people who win here aren't the ones with the fanciest camera. They're the ones who already wrote things down, who kept notes, who documented what they know. If that's

you, you're sitting on a pile of videos and you don't know it. If that's not you, start writing things down this week. That's the whole prep. There's one more thing about the language expansion that I keep coming back to. Roughly 3/4 of the world doesn't speak English as a first language. Every time a tool

launches English only, that's the shape of the market. For a while, English speakers get a head start. That head start just closed. 70 plus languages, same day, same tool, everyone on web. So, if you're watching this and English isn't your first language, you now have the exact same tool as anyone else. No

delay, no waiting for a translated version. And if English is your first language, understand that the gap you had is smaller. Now, that's not a bad thing. It just means speed matters more than it did. Now, I want to address the thing some of you are thinking right now, because I'd be thinking it, too.

Isn't this going to flood everything with the same generic AI videos? Some of it? Yeah, probably. When a tool gets easy, a lot of people use it lazily. But that's actually the opportunity. If most

people are clicking generate on an empty prompt, the ones writing proper instructions and uploading proper source material are going to stand out more, not less. The tool got easier. The bar for doing it well didn't move. And here's the other thing. Google has been shipping updates to this product at a pace that's honestly hard to keep up with. Video overviews launched in

English about a year ago. Then the whole product got rebranded to Gemini Notebook. Then the upgraded experience went out to all users in late August. Then Google Play ebooks became a source you can drop in on September 1st. Then this that's a lot of changes in a short window. And every single one of them is

a thing you either know about or you don't. That's the real gap forming right now. It's not between people who are smart and people who aren't. It's between people who know what shipped this week and people who find out 6 months later. Which brings me to the last thing I want to say. If you want to

actually put this to work, turning your documents into short videos that bring people to your business. That's what we build inside the AI profit boardroom. We've got the full Gemini notebook workflow mapped out, which format to pick, what to write in that custom instructions box, and how to line these 60-cond shorts up, so they feed people into your longer content and your offers. Four live coaching calls every week where you can bring your own notebook, and we'll rebuild your prompt with you on the call. New tutorials every day as Google keeps shipping so you're never the last to know. A prompt

library built for this exact kind of work. And a member map so you can find and meet other people doing the same thing near you. link in the comments and description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com. And one more thing, because it's the piece everyone forgets. If you're

creating all this content with AI, but nobody's finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a

free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic.