---
video_title: "How to Use GrokBot for AI SEO"
video_id: 0UwbnSiJcag
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0UwbnSiJcag
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Grok's new AI agent platform lets you build a team of specialized AI teammates that handle your entire SEO content pipeline — writing, publishing, and optimizing on autopilot. Plus: Google quietly launched a "preferred sources" button that gets your site inside AI answers without fighting the algorithm. Here's exactly how both work.
  
  0:00 Intro – Building an AI SEO team with Grok
  0:43 What Is Grokbot – AI teammates in one app
  1:16 Key Rule – Build by role, not by task
  1:38 Setup – Chief of staff, connections & routines
  2:39 Skills – Teach it your process once, reuse forever
  2:53 Real Example – A full content engine in action
  3:37 Preferred Sources – Google's new AI-answer button
  4:15 Why It Matters – Fast growth, repeat traffic for free
  5:16 Add The Button – Code, placement & where it works best
---
How to use GrokBot for AI SEO? What if you never had to outrank anyone on Google again? Sounds impossible. For years, one thing decided who Google trusts, an algorithm. Now your readers get a say. One click and your site drops

straight into the AI answers. And a team of AI helpers can do the whole thing for you. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and I help people actually use AI tools in their work, not just watch videos about them. Today, I'll show you how to use GrokBot to build a small team of AI helpers that handle your SEO. Then I'll show you the one button Google just gave every website owner that drops you inside AI answers without fighting the algorithm. The second half is the part

almost nobody's talking about yet. So first, what is GrokBot? It comes from xAI and it launched on August the 11th. Picture a small team living inside one app. You open it and it looks like a normal messaging app, but every chat in the sidebar is an AI teammate with a name and a job. One handles your inbox,

one your content, and you talk to them like teammates. Behind them all sits one cloud computer that belongs to your account running all day. So your laptop can be shut, your phone off, and the work keeps going. It started inside xAI and now it's open to everyone on Mac, Windows, iPhone, and Android. Quick heads up, GrokBot isn't free for everyone. It rides along with some of

the higher Grok and Cursor plans and it has weekly usage limits. So keep it lean and only build teammates that earn their spot. Now the most important idea in this whole video and get it before you build anything. Don't think in tasks, think in roles. Most AI tools do one job at a time. With GrokBot you build a

teammate around a theme and it owns that theme for good. You don't build a helper to write one article, you build an SEO helper that owns all your content. One teammate, one job. Cram 10 jobs into one and the quality drops. So let's build your SEO team. First I'd make a chief of

staff to keep everyone else on track. You create a new teammate and talk to it in plain words. Say, "You're my chief of staff, watch my calendar and email, and hand work to the right helper when it's needed." It names itself and writes its own description. That description matters because it works like a little job ad the other teammates read. So when

one hits a job outside its lane, it finds the right teammate and messages it directly. Next, connections. This used to mean fighting with keys and tokens. Gropbot handles it right in the chat. You say what you want, it says, "I'll need your Gmail, please sign in." One

click, done. And because everything runs on that one shared computer, once you connect something, every teammate you make already has it. No official connection for a site, the teammate opens its own browser and logs in like a person, and you type the password yourself, so it never sees it. Now, the part that turns this into a real SEO machine, routines. A routine is a saved job that runs on a schedule, and you describe it in the chat, not in some settings panel. You can say, "Every

morning at 9:00, look through my notes, find a trending keyword I haven't covered, write a full article, and post it to my site." It writes its own steps and runs on the cloud, whether your devices are on or not. You can also teach it skills. A skill is a saved way of doing something like your exact SEO writing process. Three ways to make one: tell a teammate to save this as a skill, upload a skill file from another AI tool, or hit record, walk through the steps on screen once, and it turns what you did into something it repeats forever. Teach it one time, and every

teammate can use it. Here's a real example. Julian built an SEO teammate, gave it his content skill, and connected it to Netlify, where his sites are hosted. He pointed it at the AI Profit Boardroom website and had it draft a full, formatted article and posted it live. Then he put it on a routine, so it looks through his notes each day and publishes a fresh post on its own, going after trending keywords he hasn't covered yet. That's a full content

engine built with a skill, a connection, and a couple of sentences. So, that's the content side handled. But in 2026, writing great content is only half the game. For the last couple of years, you felt it. AI answers show up at the top of Google, they answer the question right on the page, and fewer people click through to the sites underneath.

The algorithm decided who got shown inside those answers, and you just had to hope it picked you. Well, on August the 20th, Google changed that, and this is the part most people scrolled right past. It's called preferred sources. It's a button any website can add to its own pages. When a reader clicks it, your site gets added as one of their preferred sources. And from then on,

Google shows your content to that person more often across normal search, top stories, AI overviews, and AI mode. So, one click from one reader and you start showing up inside their AI answers going forward with a little badge marking you as trusted. Think about what that is. It's the closest thing to an email list that lives inside Google. Someone joins your email list, you can reach them again for free without ads. Someone

clicks your preferred sources button and Google keeps bringing your content back to them on its own. You earn that reader once and Google does the rest. And this isn't tiny. More than 600,000 sources have already been picked this way, up from around 345,000 in May. So, it's climbing fast. Google's own data says

people are about twice as likely to click through to a site they've marked as preferred. That's Google's own number, so take it with a pinch of salt, but the direction makes sense. People click on sources they chose. If you're looking at your own site right now wondering whether you show up in AI answers at all and where a button like this should go, that's exactly what my team helps with. You can book a free AI brand visibility session with us. We map

out a custom visibility plan, show you how you show up or don't across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini, run a gap analysis against your competitors, and you get to ask a strategist your own questions. 100% free, no obligation. Head to goldie.agency or use the link in the description. And if you want to build this GrokBot setup with people guiding you, come check out the AI Profit Boardroom. It's my community with over

4,000 members. We build with agent tools like GrokBot every week. You get walk-throughs for your teammates, routines, and SEO skills. You get coaching calls four times a week where you share your screen and get your real setup fixed live. You get prompt libraries, tutorials, and a 30-day roadmap, so you're never guessing what to build first. It's all at

aiprofitboardroom.com. So, how do you add this button? Google published the code in its Search Central documentation and it's basically one small snippet you drop into your page template once. Paste it in and the button shows up across your pages. Can't use that kind of code?

There's a link version where you plug your site's address into a Google link and point any button at it. And here's where it ties back to GrokBot. Remember the SEO teammate connected to your site host? You can have it add the button for you. Tell it to edit your template and drop the code in near the bottom of your articles. So, your content teammate

handles both sides now. It works at the domain or subdomain level, not a single folder, so the whole site gets preferred. Where should it go? Google recommends putting it next to your other calls to action right after someone reads something useful. Julian added it to his own sites the day it launched, testing it at the bottom near the call to action. The readers who scroll all

the way down are the ones most likely to click. Google announced a second thing the same day, quieter, but it tells you where this is heading. The Discover feed, that stream of articles millions scroll in the Google app every day, is getting personal, too. Soon, you'll tap a menu on any item and tell Google what you want in plain words, like more weekend road trip ideas, but no camping. The feed adjusts and remembers. So,

content people genuinely ask for gets pulled in, and misleading clickbait gets filtered out person by person. These together, and you see the pattern. Search is splitting into two lanes. Lane one is the old game, earning the algorithm's trust to rank. That still matters. Lane two is brand new, earn the

reader's click on that button, and for that person, you skip the algorithm race entirely. Every reader who clicks is one you never have to outrank again on that topic, and it compounds. A slice you click this month, and everyone now sees you in their AI answers going forward. Next month, another slice. Six months from now, a growing pool of people get your site served to them every time they search your topic. And a core update

can't easily take that away because the reader chose you. Let me be straight about the limits. Preferred sources works on people who already know you. A total stranger won't see your badge because they haven't picked you yet. It's a loyalty tool, not a discovery tool, and the button doesn't force a click. If the AI answer already gave

someone everything, your label won't drag them through, so your content still has to be worth clicking. But don't think your site's too small. A small, loyal, niche audience is more likely to pick you than a giant news brand because you're the one who covers their thing. Loyalty beats size. It takes about 2 minutes to add, and most owners don't even know it exists yet, so early movers get a head start. So, here's your next

step. If you want expert eyes on your own site first, book that free AI brand visibility session with my team. Think of it as your game plan. We look at your site together, show you where you stand in AI search, where this button should sit, which pages should carry it first, and what to publish so readers want to click it. You'll walk away knowing exactly what to do next. Free, no

obligation. Go to goldie.agency or tap the link below. And once you start building your Grok Bot team, you'll hit questions. Which team mate to make first? That's what the AI Profit

Boardroom is for. With over 4,000 members inside, you get coaching calls to fix your setup live, tutorials and walk-throughs for Grok Bot and the Preferred Sources button, prompt libraries, and a 30-day roadmap, so you move faster than you would alone. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com. Google just gave your readers a vote in AI search. Your job is to give them

something worth voting for, and to make sure that button is there when they're ready to press it. I'll see you in the next one.