---
video_title: "Run Codex For Free: Here's How! 🤯"
video_id: Bq-vpW3iQYU
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bq-vpW3iQYU
video_date: 2026-08-17T19:30:39+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Codex Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Run Codex for FREE: 93 AI Providers & No Token Limits!
  
  Discover how to run Codex for free by connecting it to 93 different AI providers using Omniroot. This guide shows you how to set up an 'Agent OS' to automate your coding projects with auto-fallback and zero subscription costs.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Run Codex for Free
  01:03 - Connecting Codex to Omniroot
  01:13 - Demo: Building a Landing Page
  02:04 - The Free Codex Engine Explained
  02:57 - Why You Need Agent OS
  04:20 - Routing and Auto-Fallback Features
  05:07 - Building a Lead Capture Tool
  07:07 - How to Get the Ready-to-Install System
---
Run Codex for free. Here's how. Today, I'm going to show you something wild. You can run Codex for free. No catch, no confusing setup, one tool, 93 different AI providers. It never quits even when

one runs dry. Stick with me. This is about to blow your mind. Today, I want to show you something crazy. You know Codex, right? It's one of the best

coding tools out there. Well, today, I'm going to show you how to run it for free. Not a trial, not a free week, free. This one tool can plug into like 93 different coding providers and it links straight into Claude Code, too. But, honestly, the real star of today's video is the system that makes all of this possible. It's called our Agent OS.

Think of it as one home base where all your AI tools live and work together. That's what I really want to show you today. If that sounds confusing, don't worry. I'm going to show you exactly how it works step-by-step. Let's jump in.

Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. So, here's Codex. And what we did is we plugged it into something called Omni Root. Omni Root connects Codex to

93 different AI providers. That means we can use Codex without needing anything from OpenAI directly. Watch this. I'm going to type in a simple prompt. Build a landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom that shows off the value of AI automation and helps get more leads and more customers. And just like that, it

starts building. It's writing the code. It's designing the page all on its own. Take a look at this. This is running inside what we call our Agent OS system.

Think of it like a home base for all your AI tools. Codex lives inside there and Omni Root powers it in the background. You can see it working live right now building this out in real time. And if I flip over to this tab, you can see everything we already built before right inside the same Agent OS. Here's a demo we made. Here's a full

landing page from another test. Look at this. It actually looks really good. Clean design, nice colors, simple layout, and all of it built inside one system. Here's the cool part. It's using

the same brain as Codex, the exact same smart coding agent, and it's running completely free because Omni route is powering it behind the scenes. So, let me break this down for you. I call this the free Codex engine. It's OpenAI's Codex, but it's rerouted through Omni route. Instead of using one provider, it spreads across 93 of them, and it's got something called auto fallback. That

means if one free provider stops working, it just quietly switches to another one. So, Codex never stops building. If you're not familiar with Omni route, it already has more than 12,000 stars on GitHub. That's huge for something so new. I tested it out on its own first. It actually works as its own

coding tool, too. But, if you want the full power of Codex plus Omni route together, you can do that as well. Remember that landing page I showed you? Here it is finished. Look how clean this is. Simple, but it works. It's not going

to beat the top AI models out there. But, for a basic prompt, this is really impressive, and it only took about 60 to 90 seconds to build. Everything I've made with this so far has looked solid. You can even see a live preview right inside the chat. And this connects straight into our Agent OS. So, why use

it with an Agent OS instead of just Codex by itself? Because now you can plug in memory. You can plug in context. Say you build a landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom with Codex. Then you plug in a video from your video agent.

Everything connects. Everything works together. You don't need to open five different apps. It's all in one system, and the best part is it's free. Before I keep going, let me show you something.

Look at everything you just saw, the landing page, the live preview, the workspace full of past builds. That is all one system. That's our Agent OS. And here's the thing, you don't have to build this from scratch yourself. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we hand you the entire Agent OS, the exact same setup you're watching right now as a ready-to-install zip file. You just

download it, install it, and you've got Codex, Omni route, and all your AI tools working together in one place just like this. If you want your own Agent OS so you can automate your business and get more leads and customers with AI, come join the AI Profit Boardroom. Link is in the comments and description. Now, let's keep going because this gets even better. Omni route connects 93 providers and in my testing it hasn't failed once.

You can code for free basically unlimited. Now, here's something interesting. You could run free models locally, too, like grabbing a model off Ollama and running it on your own computer. But from what I've seen, the outputs from these API providers are way better. They're faster, too. When you

run local models with tools like Codex, it can slow your whole computer down. This setup doesn't slow anything down at all and the results look great. Okay, let's get back into it. So, how does the routing actually work? Codex sends a request. It goes through Omni route

first. Omni route picks a provider. If that one fails, it falls over to the next one. You've got 93 to choose from and it still writes everything the same way. Same agent, no new tools to learn.

It plans, it writes files, it runs commands on its own just like before. The only thing that changed is the back end. Here's something honest. I actually stopped using Codex by itself before. Even when I used it normally, I kept running out of tokens fast. That's part

of why this setup is such a good alternative. Instead of relying on one provider, you get a free pool of them. 11 of these providers are actually permanently free. And with auto fallback, if one gets rate limited, it just quietly moves to the next. So, if you're in the middle of building something, it doesn't just stop. It

keeps going. Let's test it again. Let's ask Codex to build something else. This time, let's say, build a simple lead capture tool for the AI Profit Boardroom that collects emails and shows visitors why they should join. Watch how fast this works. And remember, this is all

cloud-based. You don't need a powerful computer. You could run this from a basic laptop and it would still work just fine. One thing I really like is the workspace. Normally with Codex, it's hard to find what you built before. But

with this setup, everything you create gets saved. You can come back to any project anytime you want. Now, let's compare the old way to the new way. The old way, every single Codex run uses up your token limit fast. These agents talk a lot. So, a long build can burn through

tokens fast. You end up scared to use it too much and you're stuck with just one provider. With this new setup, it's the same Codex but now it's pointed at one local gateway with 93 providers built in. If one fails, it falls back automatically. You could basically have this building for you all day long. Now,

maybe you're already using Codex normally. That's fine, too. This can run right alongside it. So, if your normal Codex ever runs out, you can just switch over to this system instead. It's ready to go right out the box. Setting this up

is actually really simple, just a couple of commands. You install the gateway, that one command sets up Omni route, then one more command writes the free profile. That's it, two commands and you're done. If you're thinking this sounds too advanced for me, it's not. It really is just two commands and then Codex automatically routes to multiple free providers from there. And if you're

someone running lots of different projects and chats at once, this really helps. The less tokens you burn, the more you can build without worrying about limits. Now, some people think you're always stuck watching your tokens run out fast with Codex. You're not with this setup. Same coding agent, just a different back end powering it. Other

people think switching providers is too complicated. It's really just one or two commands. And some people worry free AI tools get rate limited or stop working halfway through. That's exactly what the auto fallback fixes. When one provider caps out, the run just moves to the next one automatically and it finishes the job. So, that's the free Codex engine.

One system, 93 providers, auto fallback built in, and it's completely free. But, remember, the real magic isn't just Codex, it's the Agent OS holding all of it together. That's what makes everything you saw today actually work as one system instead of 10 separate tools. And here's the thing, you don't have to build this from scratch yourself. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we hand you the entire Agent OS, the exact same setup you're watching right now, as a ready-to-install zip file. You just download it, install it,

and you've got Codex, Omni route, and all your AI tools working together in one place, just like this. If you want your own Agent OS so you can automate your business and get more leads and customers with AI, come join the AI Profit Boardroom. Link is in the comments and description. If you want the full process, the SOPs, and over 100 AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. Links are in the comments and description. You'll get all the

video notes from there, plus access to our community of 38,000 members who are building real results with AI. I'll see you in the next video.