---
video_title: "NEW GPT-6 Astra Just Changed Everything!"
video_id: Q1Pm9lUyW8E
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q1Pm9lUyW8E
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  GPT6 Astra: OpenAI’s New AI That Can Use Your Computer
  
  OpenAI has just released GPT6 Astra, a revolutionary model that transitions AI from answering prompts to autonomously completing complex tasks like browsing and coding. Discover the insane performance benchmarks and learn how business owners can leverage this new technology to automate their entire workflow.
  
  00:00 - Intro to GPT6 Astra
  00:49 - AI That Does the Work for You
  01:35 - Performance Benchmarks & Memory
  02:45 - Practical Business Applications
  04:58 - Advanced Coding & Self-Fixing
  05:46 - Safety vs. The Black Box
  06:52 - Rollout & Accessing Astra
---
New GPT6. Astra just changed everything. Today, I'm going to show you the AI update everyone is talking about right now. OpenAI just dropped GPT6 Astra. And it's not just smarter than the last model. It can actually use your computer

like a real person. It can click, it can type, it can fix its own mistakes without you asking twice. It's new, it's huge, and it's a lot easier to use than you think. Stick around because by the end of this, you'll know exactly how to put it to work for your business. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's

out there helping clients get more leads and more customers, I'm here to give you the newest AI updates first. Julian reads every single comment, so drop one below and say hi. Today, we're talking about GPT6 Astra, OpenAI's newest and biggest model yet. This thing changes how we use AI. Let's get into it. So,

what's the big deal here? Old AI just answered your questions. You type something in, it types something back. That was it. GPT6 Astra is different.

You give it a goal and it goes and does the work for you. It can open a browser. It can fill out a form. It can build a spreadsheet. It can write code, run it, find the bug, and fix it all on its own without you sitting there watching every step. Let's say you run a business like

our AI profit boardroom. You could tell Astra, "Build me a landing page for the AI profit boardroom that shows business owners how AI automation gets them more leads and more customers." And Astra doesn't just write the code. It opens the page in a browser. It checks if it looks right. If something's broken, it

fixes it. Then it shows you the finished page. That's the real shift here. We're going from typing prompts to handing out jobs. Now, let's talk numbers because these are wild. On a test called ARC AGI

3, which is one of the hardest reasoning tests out there, Astra scored 99.9%. That's almost perfect on a test built to be nearly impossible on a computer used test called OS World. Astra hit 72.6% beating the older models 65.7%.

But here's the crazy part. It finished the job in about 40 minutes instead of 75. Almost half the time with a better score. And it's not just fast. It's got a massive memory. Astra can hold over 1

million tokens at once. That basically means you could feed it a giant pile of documents, spreadsheets, and research. And it remembers all of it at the same time. Imagine handing it every piece of research on your industry and asking it to turn it into one clear report. No more chopping your work into tiny pieces just so the AI can handle it. Now, I've

got to tell you about the demo Open AAI showed off because it's a good one. They put Astra in front of a real computer screen and gave it a real job, the kind of job you'd normally hand to an employee. It opened a browser on its own. It clicked around. It filled in a spreadsheet with real numbers. It did

all of that without a person clicking a single button. I'll walk you through exactly what that means for your own business in a second, but first, let's talk about how you can actually use something like this. So, back to that demo I mentioned earlier. The task was basically research something, put the findings into a spreadsheet, then turned that into a report. No person walked it through each click. It figured out the

steps on its own and got it done. Now, think about that for your own business. You could ask it to pull together everything about your competitors in your niche, drop the numbers into a spreadsheet, and hand you a summary. You can act on the same day. If you want to actually put a tool like GPT6 Astra to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. It's a

community built for business owners who want to use AI automation the right way without spending weeks trying to figure it out alone. Inside, we break down exactly how to set up tools like this step by step so you can save time, get more leads, and bring in more customers, all without doing everything by hand yourself. If you're serious about using AI to grow, that's exactly where you want to be. And if you want help making sure all this AI generated content and all these AI built pages actually get found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll sit down with you, take a look at exactly where you're at right now and map out a clear plan to get your business showing up in front of more of the right people. It's

completely free, so there's really no reason to skip it. Okay, let's get back into it. And there's more than just that one benchmark I mentioned earlier. On a really tough science and reasoning test called GPQA diamond, Astra scored 96%. On a hard math test called Frontier Math, it scored 97.6%.

These tests are built so that most people, even smart people, would struggle to pass them. That tells you the reasoning underneath all of this got a serious upgrade, not just the computer clicking part. I also want to mention something Greg Brockman, the president of OpenAI, said at the launch. He said, "It's not unreasonable to feel like we're now in the AGI era, meaning AI that can do most tasks as well as a person." Now, I'm not going to tell you that's true or false. That's a big

claim, and time will tell. But what I can tell you for certain is this. The practical shift is real. AI going from answering your questions to actually finishing your work. That part isn't a claim. That's just what's happening

right now. Open AAI says Astra is its best model ever for writing software. And I don't mean it just spits out code and hopes for the best. It reasons through the problem, writes the code, runs it, tests it, finds what's broken, and fixes it over and over until it actually works. So, picture this. You

tell it, "Build a booking page for our free SEO strategy session, and make sure it works perfectly on phones. It builds it, opens it, checks it like it's a phone screen, spots a problem, and fixes it before you even see the first draft." It's not just code, either. Astra can put together documents, presentations, spreadsheets, and full websites. Say you want a simple one-page report showing how AI automation could save a business owner hours every single week. You could

ask Astra to research it, build a spreadsheet with the numbers, and turn it into a clean presentation all from one instruction. That's a whole team's job done by one tool. Now, here's a part I actually love, and I want you to pay attention here. OpenAI ran a test to check if Astra would go outside the job it was actually given, meaning doing more than it was told to do. The older model went outside its boundaries 48% of the time in that test. Astra did it 0%

of the time. Zero. That matters a lot because the more powerful these tools get, the more it matters that they stay exactly inside the lines you draw for them. But I'll be straight with you, it's not perfect. OpenAI also said it's gotten harder to fully see and check what's going on inside Astra's thinking compared to the older models. So, yes,

it's more powerful and more obedient, but it's also a little more of a black box on the inside. That's the trade-off you get with a tool this advanced, and it's worth knowing before you build your whole workflow around it. So, who should actually care about all this? If you're a business owner, this is a tool that can take repeat tasks off your plate. If you do research for a living, you can hand off the boring digging and just get the summary. If you build websites or

write code, you get a partner that tests its own work before showing it to you. And if you're just someone trying to keep up with AI, this is the moment things shift from AI that answers questions to AI that finishes jobs. Here's something worth knowing, too. This isn't locked behind some top secret plan only a few people get. OpenAI is rolling this out to regular chat GPT plus users as well, not just the highest plans. So, a lot more people get their

hands on this and fast. Let me give you one more real example you could try today. Say you want more people finding the AI profit boardroom online. You could ask Astra to research what business owners are searching for when they want to save time with AI, build you a content plan around it, and even draft the first article. That's exactly the kind of job this tool was built to handle. For decades, we've been learning

how to use computers. Now, we're building computers that are learning how to use themselves. That's not a small update. That's a shift in how work actually gets done. And I don't think we're going back. That's GPT6 Astra. Big

power and a big opportunity if you know how to use it the right way. If you want to actually put a tool like GPT6 Astra to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. It's a community built for business owners who want to use AI automation the right way without spending weeks trying to figure it out alone. Inside we break down exactly how to set up tools like this step by step so you can save time, get more leads, and bring in more customers all without doing everything by hand yourself. If you're serious about using AI to grow, that's exactly where you want to be. And if you want

help making sure all this AI generated content and all these AI built pages actually get found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll sit down with you, take a look at exactly where you're at right now and map out a clear plan to get your business showing up in front of more of the right people. It's completely free, so there's really no reason to skip it. Julian reads every comment, so tell me down below, are you excited about this or does it freak you out a little? See you in the next video.