---
video_title: "NEW Solaris Interface World Model is WILD! 🤯"
video_id: CmCjkq3m5RU
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CmCjkq3m5RU
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Runway Solaris: The AI That Builds Apps Just By Talking
  
  Runway's new Solaris interface world model allows you to build functional apps in real-time simply by describing what you want. This no-code revolution eliminates traditional development hurdles, drawing interfaces frame-by-frame as you interact.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Future of No-Code Apps
  00:39 - What is Runway Solaris?
  01:14 - How Interface World Models Work
  02:12 - The Tech Behind Real-Time Generation
  03:13 - Scaling Your Business with AI
  05:20 - Why Solaris Matters for Business
  05:51 - Training Smarter AI Agents
  06:33 - Final Thoughts & SEO Strategy
---
New Solaris interface world model is wild. Today, I'm going to show you an AI that builds you an app just by talking to it. No code, no design tools, just words. This thing makes the screen appear right in front of your eyes in real time. It's brand new, it's wild, and it might change how every app gets built. Stick around because this one's

going to blow your mind. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below and tell me what you think of this one. And today's update is a big one.

It's called Solaris, and it comes from a company called Runway. So, here's the simple version. Right now, every app you use was built by a person. Someone had to draw the screens, someone had to write the code, someone had to test it, then you get to use it. Solaris flips that whole thing on its head. Instead of

a person building the app first, you just tell it what you want and it builds the screen right there in front of you while you're using it. Let me say that again slower because it's a big idea. You don't open an app, you ask for what you want, and the app just shows up. Think about that for a second. No code, no design software, no developer, just you talking and the screen appearing.

Runway calls this an interface world model. That's a fancy name, but the idea is simple. It builds the picture of the app one frame at a time, kind of like a movie, except every frame changes based on what you click, drag, or type. So, if you click a button, it doesn't just switch to a page someone already made, it draws you a brand new picture right then based on what you did. Here's an example Runway showed. Picture a virtual

clothing store. You see clothes floating around a room, you upload a photo of yourself, then you grab a shirt with your mouse and drag it onto your picture, and the shirt appears on you right there. No pre-made photo, no filter someone built ahead of time. The AI just drew it in the moment because you asked for it. Or picture this, you're designing a room, you say move the table over there, and it moves it.

You say make the couch blue, and it turns blue. You're not clicking through menus, you're just talking and the room changes around you. Or even simpler, making a salad. Normally an app would have a button for lettuce, a button for tomato, a button for cucumber. With Solaris, you just drag the ingredients into the bowl like it's real life and the app understands what you're doing.

That's the whole point. Old apps make you learn their buttons. Solaris tries to understand you. Now, before I go further, let's talk about how this actually works under the hood because it's pretty smart. There's two parts working together. One part is a language

model. That's the part that understands what you're asking for, like add a red hat or move the couch. The other part is the world model. That's the part that actually draws the picture. So, the language model thinks, the world model draws. Together, they build a new screen

every single time you do something. And here's the tricky bit. Normally AI that makes video or images is slow, like wait 10 seconds slow. That's way too slow for an app because you expect stuff to happen instantly when you click. So, Runway had to make this thing fast. They

did that a few ways. They made each new picture build off the last one instead of starting from scratch. They also shrunk down the number of steps it takes to draw each picture and they trained it on its own work, so it keeps getting more consistent the longer you use it. The result, they say, is something that runs way faster and way cheaper than normal AI video tools, close to real time. Now, let's zoom out because this is where it gets exciting for anyone running a business and it's the perfect time to pause and tell you where you can actually go, take this kind of thinking and put it to work for you. If you're

watching this and thinking, okay, this is cool, but how does it actually help me grow my business? That's exactly why we built the AI Profit Boardroom. It's a community where we take AI tools exactly like the one I'm breaking down today and we show you step-by-step how to turn them into real systems that save you time, take work off your plate and help you bring in more customers without you having to do everything yourself. We don't just talk theory in there. We show you the actual automations, the actual workflows and the actual prompts that are working right now, so you're never left wondering how to apply what you just learned. If you want to be the kind

of business owner who's using tools like Solaris to get ahead instead of watching from the sidelines wondering what everyone else is doing, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. It's built for exactly this moment where AI is changing fast and the businesses that move first are the ones that win. And on top of that, none of this AI stuff matters if people can't actually find your business online in the first place. You can have the best tools, the best automation, the best offer in the world, but if you're not showing up on Google, you're invisible. That's the piece my team and I focus on every single day.

So, if you want real eyes on your website, more people finding you when they search, and a steady stream of the right traffic coming to your business, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll look at exactly where you're at right now, what's holding you back from ranking, and what the clearest path forward looks like for your specific business. No pressure, just a straight conversation about where the opportunities are for you. All right, let's keep going because there's more to this story. Runway also says Solaris actually beat regular AI models when it comes to rebuilding interfaces accurately. That means when they tested

it on how well it keeps the shape and the details of an app correct, it scored higher than the big language models people usually use for building apps and websites. Now, I want to be fair here because I never want to over hype something for you. This is Runway's own test on their own benchmark. So, take it as a strong result, not as some independent official ranking. But, it's still impressive. Now, let's talk about

why this actually matters for business owners like you. Right now, if you want an app or a landing page or some kind of online tool, you either pay a developer, or you learn to code, or you use a template that looks like everyone else's. If something like Solaris becomes normal, that could change. Imagine telling an AI, "Build me a page for my business that shows how AI automation saves my customers time and gets them more leads." Yes, and it just builds it right there. No developer, no

waiting weeks. That's the direction this is heading. Not there yet, but heading that way fast. There's another angle here, too, and it's one most people are sleeping on. AI agents. You've probably

heard about AI agents, the ones that can go click around on websites and do tasks for you. Right now, those agents learn a website and its buttons, kind of like memorizing a maze. But Runway thinks something like Solaris could actually train agents better because it can give them a different looking screen every time, instead of the exact same layout over and over. That means agents could learn to handle new situations, not just memorize one specific app. So this isn't just about pretty interfaces. It could

be about teaching AI to actually think on its feet. Now, I want to keep this real with you because I always do. This is not a finished product you can go buy today. Runway is calling this research. It's early access. That means it's still

being tested and improved. All right, let's wrap this up. Solaris is Runway's big bet that software doesn't need to be built ahead of time anymore. It can just be generated live while you're using it. It's early, it's not perfect, but it's a real look at where things might be heading. And like I said at the start of

this video, tools like this are exactly why I built the AI Profit Boardroom. It's the place I put together for business owners who want to actually use AI, not just hear about it. So you can save time, take busy work off your plate, and bring in more customers using the same kind of automation we talk about right here on this channel. Every week we break down tools like Solaris, show you exactly how they apply to a real business, and hand you the workflows so you're not left trying to figure it out alone. If you're serious about staying ahead as AI keeps come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom.

It's built for people who want to actually take action, not just watch from the sidelines. And remember, none of these AI tools matter if nobody can find your business online. That's where my team comes in. If you want to make sure your business is actually showing up on Google, getting found by the right people, and turning that visibility into real leads for your business, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll go through exactly where your website stands today and map out the clearest path to get you more traffic and more customers going forward. Drop a comment

and tell me what you'd build first if an AI could just generate any app you ask for. Julian reads every single comment, so don't be shy. I'll see you in the next update.