---
video_title: "NEW Celeris 1 Magnus Just Dropped! 🔥"
video_id: gycBIwJIM70
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gycBIwJIM70
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  0:00 NEW Celeris Magnus AI Model Is Here
  0:42 Celeris Magnus vs GPT-5.6
  1:25 What Is TAU-Bench?
  1:44 Magnus vs Celeris 1: 8× Agent Improvement
  2:01 How Magnus’ Hybrid Diffusion Architecture Works
  2:37 Why AI Agents Need Faster Models
  3:09 Magnus Reasoning Modes Explained
  3:33 How to Use Magnus for Business Automation
  4:53 AI Agent Workflows You Can Build
  5:00 Lead Recovery Automation
  5:39 Automated Member Onboarding
  6:13 AI SEO & Lead Generation
  6:53 Building Agentic AI Workflows
  7:00 30-Day AI Automation Roadmap
  7:14 AI Coaching, Tutorials & Prompt Library
  7:43 Magnus Workflows for Lead Gen & Content
  7:51 How to Get Started
---
New Cerebrus 1 Magnus just dropped, and it's built to do something most AI models completely ignore. Cerebrus says it just beat GPT 5.6 on the agent benchmark that actually matters, and it did it 30% faster. Let me show you exactly what this is, what it actually does, and how you can use it to grow a real business. Here's what just happened. Cerebrus already released

Cerebrus 1 back in July. That model was fast, 1,664 tokens per second, 24 times faster than GPT 5. Tom Hamer, CEO of Cerebrus, said it plainly, "Speed changes what you can build." But speed alone wasn't the whole story. Now they've shipped Magnus, and this one is different. Cerebrus 1 was

built to answer questions. Magnus was built to complete tasks. That one distinction is everything. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. While he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie

reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Cerebrus reports Magnus hits 41.2% on the Tau 3 bench banking benchmark. GPT 5.6 comes in at 38.1%.

Magnus does it in a median 55 seconds. GPT takes 79. More accurate, faster. On multi-step agent work, those are Cerebrus reported numbers worth taking with that context. But even directionally, this is a real signal worth watching. What is Tau 3 bench

banking? Not quite. 97 tasks, real customer service scenarios, knowledge retrieval, tool use, database checks, account state updates. The model doesn't just answer, it has to get the job done across multiple steps. And here's the number that stopped me. Cerebrus 1, the

base model with no agent training, scored 5.3% on that benchmark. Magnus with agent specific training hits 41.2%. That's nearly an eight times improvement. That's what happens when

you build a model specifically for agents instead of retrofitting a chat model and hoping it figures it out. Now, here's something most people skip past, and it actually matters a lot. Every AI model you've heard of runs on auto-regressive decoding, one token at a time, word by word, left to right. Magnus uses a hybrid diffusion approach. Think of it like this, auto-regressive AI writes a sentence one word at a time, never looking ahead. Diffusion-style

generation sketches the rough shape of the whole response, then cleans it up, multiple parts processed in parallel. Celeris combines both, sequential where language needs it, parallel everywhere else. That's how Magnus gets so fast on multi-step tasks without losing coherence. Here's why that architecture matters for real business use. AI agents don't call a model once, they call it 10, 20, sometimes 30 times per task.

Routing decisions, tool selections, validations, rewrites, every call stacks. At 79 seconds per call, a 10-step workflow takes over 13 minutes. At 55 seconds, the same workflow runs in just over 9 minutes. Across dozens of workflows running simultaneously in a business, that difference compounds fast. Magnus also has a reasoning dial.

Celeris says enabling thinking adds 13.4 percentage points on benchmark performance at the cost of about six extra seconds. For fast routing decisions inside a workflow, you turn thinking off, pure speed. For complex reasoning like analyzing a lead's full history and choosing the right follow-up strategy, you turn it on. The API supports low, medium, and high reasoning effort settings. You pick what each step

needs. Look, before I show you the workflows, if you want to get more leads and customers from Google and AI search right now, we run a free SEO strategy session where we build you a fully custom game plan for your business. We'll look at exactly where your site stands, what's working in your market right now, and give you a clear road map to rank and get found. Link in the comments and description or go to goldie.agency to book your free session.

And if you want to go even deeper on building AI automation workflows like the ones I'm about to show you, the AI Profit Boardroom is where that happens. We've got business owners inside right now actively building multi-step AI automation lead recovery content pipelines client onboarding sales qualification all the workflows I'm walking you through today. We run four live coaching calls every week where we go deep on your specific setup and answer your questions live. There are daily step-by-step tutorials, a full prompt library built around real business workflows, a 30-day roadmap for getting agentic AI running in your business, and a member map so you can connect locally with people doing exactly what you're trying to do. There's always someone online 24/7 support inside the community.

If you want coaching specifically on how to implement Magnus style agentic workflows and a clear 30-day plan to start automating lead gen, content, and client work, link is in the description or go to AI profitboardroom.com. Now, let me show you the workflows. For each one, I'm going to tell you what it's for, show you the exact prompt, and tell you what comes out the other side. Lead recovery. This is for automatically

re-engaging cold leads for the AI Profit Boardroom without anyone having to manually write follow-ups or dig through a CRM. Prompt, you are the lead recovery agent for the AI Profit Boardroom. When a lead has been inactive for 7 days, check their CRM history, identify the most likely reason they went quiet, timing, unclear value, or no follow-up. Write a personalized message addressing that reason, update the CRM status, and schedule the next touchpoint. Skip anyone who has opted out. Result, Magnus

reads the history, picks the objection type, writes the message, updates the CRM, and schedules the follow-up. Fully automated, no human needed until the call. Member onboarding. This is for giving every new AI Profit Boardroom member a personalized welcome and clear starting point the moment they join at scale. Prompt, you are the onboarding agent for the AI Profit Boardroom. When

a new member joins, read their intake form, identify their top business goal, write a personalized welcome message referencing that goal, name the most relevant 30-day roadmap for them, build a five-task starter checklist, and log everything to the member database. Result, every member gets a tailored welcome, a relevant roadmap, and a clear action list, automatically triggered the moment they join, no manual work involved. If you want to get found on Google and through AI search, and you don't have a clear plan for that yet, book a free SEO strategy session with our team. We'll build you a fully custom one-on-one game plan for your specific business. We'll look at where your site stands right now, what your competitors are doing, what AI search engines like ChatGPT and Perplexity are surfacing in your category, and give you a clear step-by-step roadmap to get more organic traffic and customers. No generic

advice, it's built specifically around your business and your market. Link in the comments and description, or go to goldie.agency to book your free session now. And if you want to actually implement the kind of agentic AI workflows I walked you through today, not just understand them but get them live inside your business, the AI Profit Boardroom is where that happens. We've built a full 30-day roadmap specifically around agentic AI automation, the lead recovery flow, the content pipeline, the member onboarding sequence, the sales qualification system, all mapped out step-by-step, so you know exactly what to build first. Four live coaching calls

every week where we go deep on your specific setup, troubleshoot what's not running cleanly, and walk through what's working for members right now. Daily tutorials with exact prompts, tool setups, and workflow templates. A prompt library built around real business automation, not theory, actual working prompts like the ones I showed you today. And members actively building this right now, many of them already running multi-step Magnus compatible workflows for lead gen, content, and client delivery at scale, plus a member map so you can find and connect with people near you doing exactly what you're working on. There's always someone online, 24/7 support inside the community whenever you need it. Link in

the description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com.