---
video_title: "New Hermes Agent Update is SCARY GOOD!"
video_id: CAoyqnq-6Cc
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CAoyqnq-6Cc
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Hermes AI Agent Update: The New Box Skill is Scary Good!
  
  Discover how the new Box skill transforms the Hermes AI agent into a powerful file management tool that can search, extract, and write data directly in your cloud storage. This guide covers the essential setup steps, security best practices for permissions, and the four new AI commands that automate your document workflow.
  
  00:00 - Introduction to Hermes Box Skill
  00:40 - Technical Specs & Licensing
  02:07 - Safe Setup & CLI Installation
  02:54 - Critical Permission & Security Tips
  05:39 - 4 New AI Commands Explained
  06:38 - Privacy & Efficient File Processing
  07:21 - Managing Large Data with Box Hubs
---
The new Hermes agent update is scary good, and it's because of one new skill built for Box. Here's what it does in plain English. Your Hermes agent can now sign into your cloud file storage as you, not as some separate account, as you with the exact permissions you hand it. And once it's in there, it doesn't just read your files. It moves them, renames them, makes new versions, searches across hundreds of documents at once, pulls answers out of them, and writes the answer back into the file.

The Box team said it themselves in the announcement, "With the official Box skill for Hermes, your agent accesses you within the permissions you set to manage files and versions in bulk, search and extract document data, and query your cloud file system." Read past the polite wording and you'll see what actually changed. Your agent now has a real job inside a real system. Let me give you the facts first because they matter. The skill is called Box. It sits

in the productivity folder of Hermes at skills/productivity/box. It's version 1.0.0. It's MIT licensed, so it's open. It was built by Chris Kim,

GitHub handle is ksn96, along with the Hermes agent team. It works on Windows, Mac, and Linux. Hey, if we have not met already, I am the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of Goldie Agency. While he is out there helping clients grow, I am here keeping you up to date on everything AI. Julian reads every comment, so drop one below and he will see it. And here's the part most people

miss. It's bundled by default. If you have Hermes installed, this is already sitting on your machine right now. You didn't have to go get it. There's one question this skill asks you before it connects anything. It's the kind of

question most of us click straight past. This one decides how much of your file system the agent can ever touch forever. I'll come back to it in about 2 minutes because it's the single most important part of this whole update. Quick bit of context, then we move. Hermes is the open agent from Noose Research. It runs

on your own machine. Skills are the way you teach it things. A skill is just an instruction file. The agent loads it only when it needs it, so it doesn't clog up its own head with instructions for jobs it isn't doing. That's why Hermes can ship with dozens of skills and still stay fast. Box is cloud file

storage. Teams keep their documents in it. Contracts, notes, guides, recordings, spreadsheets, all of it. Put those together and you get something new. Your files stop being a place you go. They become a place your agent

works. Now, setup. This surprised me. The instructions tell Hermes to do the setup itself, not hand you a list of commands to copy. The skill literally says, "Don't turn the next response into instructions for the user to copy. Take

the next safe action yourself." So, if you don't have the Box command line tool installed, Hermes asks for your approval and installs it. And it installs it inside its own folder at tools/box a global install. No admin access, no touching your system settings, no changing your path. It stays in its own lane, in its own box, and it cleans up after itself. I've set up a lot of

tools. Most of them want to spread out across your whole machine. This one deliberately doesn't. Then it asks you a question, and this is the one I flagged earlier. Before it connects, Hermes asks you this: Is Hermes running on the same computer as the browser you'll use to sign in, or is it running on a remote machine like a server somewhere else?

Sounds boring. It isn't. Because the sign-in method changes based on your answer. Same computer, it uses the normal login. Remote machine, it uses a code-based login instead. The skill even

says, "Don't guess this from the operating system. Ask the human." And then comes the line that should make you sit up. Before it opens that browser window, Hermes has to tell you that it will act as whatever Box account you sign in with. Whatever that account can see, Hermes can see. Whatever that

account can delete, Hermes can delete. The docs give you the fix, and it's simple. If you want Hermes to have narrower access, sign in with an account that's only been invited to the specific folders you want it working in. Don't give it your master account. Give it a small one. And there's a line in there I

really like. Do not make that account an administrator to unlock an exceptional operation. Meaning, if the agent hits a wall, the answer isn't to hand it more power. That's a rule written by someone who has watched people do exactly that. So, set up a limited account first, then connect. That one choice is the

difference between an agent that helps you and an agent that can wipe out a folder you needed. Right, quick pause. If you want to actually set this up properly, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. We run four coaching calls every week, and Hermes setups like this one are exactly what we work through live. You can bring your screen, show us your folder structure, and we'll walk you through the permission setup so your agent has to what it needs and nothing else. We've got daily step-by-step

tutorials on connecting Hermes to your files, a 30-day roadmap for putting document work on autopilot, a prompt library, and 2,800 members. Plenty of them are running Hermes right now. Link in the comments and description, or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody's finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's

where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team, and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below.

Okay, back to it. Here's the part that made me raise my eyebrows. Every single time you give this thing a task, it checks who it is first. It runs a command that asks box, "Who am I logged in as?" It gets back an ID, a name, a login. It records that, and only then

does it start working. Think about how many mistakes that prevents. The agent never assumes. It confirms its own identity before touching a file. And the docs go further. If it can't find a

file, it's told not to assume the file doesn't exist. It's told to check whether it's looking with the right eyes first. Now, let's get to the fun part because there are four commands here that change what's possible. The first one is AI ask. You point it at your files and ask a question. It answers

from what's actually in them. Here's a real one you could run today. Point it at your coaching call notes folder and ask, "What are the three questions members ask most often about setting up automations?" The second is AI extract. You give it files and it pulls out the useful bits as a clean list, even when you don't know exactly what you're looking for yet. Point it at a folder of

member onboarding forms and it'll pull out what each person said they want help with. The third is AI extract structured. Same idea, except you tell it exactly which fields you want: name, date, topic, status. It fills them in. Point it at every 30-day roadmap document you have and get back a tidy list of which ones are missing a step.

The fourth is AI text gen. It writes something new grounded in one specific file, so it isn't making things up from thin air. It's writing from your document. Point it at your member welcome guide and ask it to write a shorter version for people who are brand new to AI automation. One sentence each.

That's the whole prompt. No coding. But here's the bit underneath that's actually clever and almost nobody is talking about it. Normally, when you want an AI to read your documents, you have to feed the documents to the AI. The whole file goes into the model's head. That's slow, it costs a lot of

processing, and your file contents end up somewhere you didn't fully plan for. This skill does it the other way around. The reading happens inside Box. The agent asks the question, Box does the reading with its own AI, and only the answer comes back. The exact wording in the instructions is that it keeps source file bodies out of Hermes's coding model context. Plain English, your documents

stay where they are. Only the answer travels, which means you can point this at a folder with hundreds of files and it doesn't choke. It's not trying to swallow them. It's asking a question through the front door. And speaking of hundreds of files, there's a number in here worth knowing, 25. If you're asking

questions across more than 25 files, the skill is told to stop and use something different. Box has a feature called hubs. A hub is a curated collection of documents that AI can answer over as one body of knowledge. Think of it like building a permanent reference shelf instead of pulling books off the floor every time. And it doesn't just build one without asking. It's told to look

for a hub you already have first. Only if you approve, does it create or feel a new one because that's a shared thing other people can see. So, if you've got 200 documents worth of member questions, tutorials, and guides, you can turn that into something your agent answers from every day. Ask it what our members struggle with most and it answers from your actual material, not from the internet. Now, here's the honest bit to finish on. The people who get value out

of this won't be the ones with the most technical skill. They'll be the ones who took an afternoon to set their permissions properly and picked one job to hand over. That's it. The gap between watching this and doing this is about 90 minutes. If you want help crossing that gap, come and join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. On our weekly coaching

calls, we go deep on Hermes setups exactly like this one including permission scoping, folder structure, and which of your document jobs to hand over first so nothing breaks. You get daily tutorials showing you the setup step-by-step, a 30-day roadmap for getting your file work running on autopilot, a prompt library with the Box AI prompts ready to paste in, and a member map so you can find other people near you doing the same thing. 2,800 members and there's always someone online. Link in the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com.

And if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank. And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free

SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below.