---
video_title: "NEW Claude Update is CRAZY GOOD!"
video_id: Cq7659ZVfIk
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cq7659ZVfIk
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  New Claude Update: AI Can Now Use Your Computer!
  
  Anthropic's latest update allows Claude to interact with your desktop, clicking buttons and typing to automate your workflow. Discover how this new agentic capability works, real business use cases, and the essential safety steps to protect your data.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Claude Can Use Your PC
  01:03 - How Claude Controls Your Screen
  01:51 - 3 Practical Business Examples
  03:44 - Automating Lead Management
  04:23 - Safety Risks & Limitations
  05:56 - The Future of AI Agents
---
New Claude update is crazy good. Today I'm going to show you something wild. Claude can now use your own computer. It clicks, it types, it opens apps, all while you go do something else. This is not a small update. This changes how you

work forever. Today's topic is huge. It's the new Claude update and it is crazy good. Claude can now use your computer for you, not just talk, not just give advice. It can click buttons, open apps, and get real work done while you work on something else. Let's break

it down in plain simple words. Before this update, Claude was like a smart friend on the phone. You ask a question, Claude tells you what to do, then you go do it yourself. Now, Claude is more like a helper who sits at your desk. You say do this and Claude actually does it. It

opens the app, it clicks the buttons, it types the words, it saves the file, and you go do something else while it works. Hey, if we haven't met yet, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. While he's out there helping real clients get more leads and more customers, I'm here to break down the newest AI updates for you fast and simple. And Julian reads every single comment on these videos. So drop a comment below, he will see it. Here is

the coolest part. Claude has three ways it tries to get things done. First, it tries a direct connection to the app, like Gmail or Google Drive, fast and clean. Second, if there is no direct connection, Claude opens a browser and clicks around like a person would. Third, if nothing else works, Claude takes control of your screen. It moves

the mouse, it types on the keyboard, it opens apps just like you would. So, Claude always tries the easiest way first, but if there is no shortcut, it just rolls up its sleeves and does the work by hand, like a real employee would. Why does this matter for you? Because now you don't need a fancy tool or a special plugin for every single app. Claude can learn to use almost anything on your screen, even apps that don't talk to AI at all. Let me give you

three real examples. I'm going to use the kind of tasks we actually do here growing the AI Profit Boardroom, so you can see how this fits into real business work, not just a cool tech demo. Example one, say you have a messy spreadsheet full of leads. You could type this prompt, open this spreadsheet of leads for the AI Profit Boardroom, clean up the formatting, sort them by who is most likely to join, and save a new file. Claude opens the spreadsheet, it cleans the data, it fixes the formatting, it saves the final file. You never touch

the mouse. Example two, say you want to report on what your competitors are doing. You type this prompt, look at these AI communities and build a short report on what they offer so we can see how the AI Profit Boardroom compares and where we can add more value. Claude opens a browser, checks around, and puts together a clean report. That is real research work done for you. Example

three, say you're testing a new page for a course or a community. You type this prompt, open this landing page, click through it like a new visitor would, and tell me if anything is confusing about how it explains the value of AI automation. Claude clicks through your page like a real customer, then it tells you what's confusing. That is a tester working while you sleep. See how that works? This isn't just a party trick,

this is real time saved on real business tasks. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We break down exactly how to use AI automation like this to save time, cut out busy work, and bring in more customers. You get real step-by-step training, you get a community of people building with AI right now, and you get support when you get stuck. It's built for business owners who want AI doing the boring stuff so they can focus on the parts that actually move the needle. And if

you want to help making sure your content actually gets found on Google while you're using tools like this to save time, book a free SEO strategy session with my team. On that call, we'll look at where your content stands right now, show you what's holding you back from ranking, and give you a clear plan to get found by more of the right people. No pressure, no pitch, just real advice. The link is in the description. Let me give you one more example because this one really shows the power of it.

Say you you a folder full of new leads that came in from different places. Some from a form, some from a spreadsheet, some just sitting in your downloads folder as messy files. You could say, "Go through this folder, pull out every lead, put them in one clean spreadsheet, and flag the ones that look most ready to join the AI Profit Boardroom." Claude opens the folder, it checks each file, it builds a spreadsheet, it flags the best leads. That used to take a person an hour, now it happens in the background while you're doing something else completely. Now, here's a big

question you're probably asking. If Claude can click around your computer, can it really grow your business and keep more of your time free? That's exactly what we teach inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Okay, now let's talk about the catch, because there is one and it's important. This feature is still what Anthropic calls a research preview. That means it's new, it's being

tested, and it's not perfect yet. Here's the big thing to understand. Claude sees your screen to work on it. That means it can technically see whatever is open while it's working. So, don't use this on banking apps. Don't use this for

healthcare accounts. Don't use it with passwords or private customer data on screen. Start with simple, low-risk tasks. Save the sensitive stuff for yourself. The good news is Anthropic built in some safety. Claude has to ask

your permission before it opens a new app. You can build a list of apps it's never allowed to touch, and you can stop it at any point mid-task just by telling it to stop. Think of it like hiring a brand new employee. You wouldn't hand them your bank login on day one. You'd start them on small, safe tasks and build trust from there. Same idea here.

There are a few more limits worth knowing. It's still early, so Claude can make mistakes. Since it's clicking around like a person, it's slower than using a direct connection. Hard, multi-step tasks might need a second try. And your computer needs to actually be turned on and awake for it to work on your desktop. None of that means skip

it. It just means go in with your eyes open, like you would with any new tool. And here's something worth thinking about before we move on. If a tool like this can already save a business owner an hour a day on messy, repeat tasks, imagine where this is heading in the next year. That's not a small thing.

That's the kind of shift that changes who wins and who gets left behind. Now, here's the bigger story, and this is the part I really want you to sit with. For years, AI could talk to you, but it couldn't act for you. You had to be the hands, you had to click the buttons, you had to open the apps. That wall is coming down, slowly, but it's coming down.

Picture this, instead of learning 10 different tools to run your business, you just tell Claude the outcome you want. Clean this list, test this page, build this report, and it goes and does the work across whatever apps it needs to use. That's a totally different way to work. You stop thinking about which button to press, you start thinking about which result you want. Think about how much of your day is spent just clicking around, opening a tab, finding a file, copying a number from one place to another. None of that is actually

growing your business. It's just the tax you pay to get to the real work. This update is Anthropic trying to take that tax away from you one click at a time. So, here's my honest take. Is it perfect? No. Is it ready for every task

on day one or so? No, but the direction is clear as day. Claude isn't just getting better at answering questions, it's getting better at actually doing the work. And that is a huge deal if you're trying to grow a business without hiring a huge team to do it. If this is the kind of update that excites you, and you want to actually learn how to use tools like this to save time and bring in more customers, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. This is exactly

the kind of AI automation we help you set up step-by-step, whether that's cleaning up your leads, testing your pages, or building out reports like the ones I showed you. You don't need to be technical, you just need someone showing you the exact prompts and the exact setup, and that's what we do inside the community. And if you want help making sure people can actually find your business on Google while you're using tools like this to save time, book a free SEO strategy session with my team. We'll go through your content, show you exactly what's stopping you from ranking higher, and map out the next steps together. It's a free, no pressure conversation. The link is right there in

the description. Before you go, drop a comment and tell me this. Would you let Claude control your computer? Julian reads every comment, so let him know what you think. This has been your digital avatar breaking down the newest AI updates. I'll see you in the next

one.