---
video_title: "NEW Meta Muse Glimmer is Absurd"
video_id: yBgBAe08y38
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBgBAe08y38
video_date: 20260815
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Meta Muse Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Meta Muse Glimmer: The 30B Local AI That Changes Everything
  
  Meta's new Muse Glimmer model allows you to run a powerful 30B parameter AI agent locally on your computer with zero API costs and total privacy. Discover how this open-weights model outperforms cloud solutions and how you can use it to automate lead research and business onboarding today.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Meta Muse Glimmer Explained
  01:15 - Hardware Specs and Speed Benchmarks
  02:21 - Local AI vs. Cloud Subscriptions
  03:20 - The 30-Day Local AI Roadmap
  04:31 - Workflow: Local Lead Research Agent
  05:49 - Workflow: Automated Member Onboarding
  08:08 - Getting Started with Local Agents
---
New Meta Muse, Glimmer is absurd and here's why this changes everything for your business. Meta just released a 30 billion parameter AI model and instead of putting it behind a cloud subscription, they built it to run directly on your computer. No API key, no internet connection required, no sending your data to some server you've never seen. Your machine, your AI, always on. This is called Muse Glimmer.

It came from Meta Super Intelligence Labs, released August 10th, 2026. Open weights, Apache 2.0 license, meaning anyone can use it right now. AI Weekly. But here's the part most people are missing. This is not a chatbot. Muse

Glimmer was built for always-on local agent workflows, multi-step reasoning, local coding, end-to-end task completion. That's a completely different thing. Silicon Angle. A chatbot answers a question. An agent plans, acts, uses tools, checks its own mistakes, and keeps going until the job is done. That's what Meta built here and

they put it on your laptop. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Let me give you the numbers fast so you understand what we're dealing with. A 30 billion parameter model

normally needs over 55 GB of memory at full precision. Meta compressed it down using 4-bit quantization, so now it fits inside 24 GB of VRAM, one consumer GPU. That's a standard gaming card, an RTX 4090 or a Mac with an M4 Max. AMD Meta also uses something called DF Flash speculative decoding. It delivers a 3.1

times speed boost on an RTX 5090, 1.8 times on an M5 Max, and 1.5 times on an M4 Max. So it's not just smaller, it's fast. AI Weekly and on benchmarks on E 2026, Muse Glimmer hits 94.7%

on SWE-Bench Pro, it scores 51.2%. A year ago, those numbers would have been impressive for a 70 billion parameter model. This is 30 billion running locally on your machine, Phoenix. Now, here's what I want you to really grasp because this isn't just a tech story. The reason AI has mostly

lived in the cloud is because the models were too big, too slow, too expensive to run anywhere else. Cloud AI made sense because you needed massive compute to get good results. That has been the rule for years. Muse Glimmer breaks that rule. A 30 billion parameter open model aimed squarely at running agents on a single consumer GPU. If it can genuinely

do multi-step tool use, screenshot reading, and code editing on one card, a lot of the agent stack that used to live inside paid AP is moves onto the user's own hardware. That is a real shift for privacy sensitive teams, students, and anyone building serious automation workflows. Explainx, think about what that means. Every AI task you run locally, the data stays on your machine. Your client documents, your SOPs, your lead lists, your internal strategy, all of it stays local. Now, this is exactly

the kind of thing we go deep on inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we've already built a 30-day roadmap specifically around local AI agents like Muse Glimmer. Week one is getting it running on your machine using Ollama or LM Studio. We walk through the full setup. Week two is building your first real agent workflows, lead research, content generation, client onboarding using the exact prompts and templates that members are already testing. Week three is connecting those

workflows together into something that actually saves you hours every week. Week four is scaling and refining. We run four live coaching calls every week where members are actively testing Glimmer right now, showing their setups, sharing what's working, troubleshooting together live. Daily step-by-step tutorials added every single day. A full prompt library built around Music Glimmer's tool calling and reasoning capabilities. Business owners in there,

a lot of them already deep into local AI automation. And a member map so you can find and connect with people near you building the same workflows. Link is in the description. Go to AIprofitboardroom.com.

Now, let's get into the actual workflows because this is where it gets real. Everything I'm about to show you, every prompt, every workflow is built around how a business like the AI Profit Boardroom would use Music Glimmer. So, you can see exactly how this works in practice for growing an AI automation community and business. Workflow one, local lead research agent for AI Profit Boardroom. Here's the situation. You've

got a list of business owners you want to invite into the AI Profit Boardroom. You need to research each one, what they do, what their biggest problem probably is, and what angle you'd use to reach them. Doing that manually for 50 people takes hours. With Music Glimmer running locally, you set up an agent that handles the whole thing while you do something else. The prompt you'd give the agent, "I'm going to give you a list of 20 business owners. For each one,

research what their business does, identify the most likely operational problem they have right now, explain why AI automation through a community like the AI Profit Boardroom would solve that problem, and write a one-paragraph personalized outreach message for each. Format the output as a table." The result, Glimmer goes through each business, reasons through their situation, generates a personalized outreach brief for every single one, formatted, organized, and ready to use. What would have taken you a full afternoon happens while you're on a call. And because it's local, none of that business intelligence leaves your machine. Workflow two, new member

onboarding agent for AI Profit Boardroom. Every time a new member joins the AI Profit Boardroom, there's a process. Welcome message, orientation, point them towards the right road map, connect them with the right people. Right now, that takes time. With Muse Glimmer, you build an agent that handles the first stage of that automatically.

The prompt, a new member has just joined the AI Profit Boardroom. Here is their intake form. Case form, based on their business type, their current AI experience level, and the goals they've stated, create a personalized seven-day onboarding plan for them. Include which tutorials to watch first, which coaching call topics are most relevant, who in the community they should connect with based on their industry, and three specific prompts they should try in their first week. The result, a fully personalized onboarding document for that member, generated in under two minutes locally without any cloud API call. Scale that across 100 new members

a month, and you've just saved a significant chunk of your team's time. If you want to actually implement Muse Glimmer in your business, not just understand what it is, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. We've built the complete playbook for running Muse Glimmer as a local AI agent in your business. There's a 30-day road map that walks you through setup, your first workflows, connecting Glimmer to your real business operations, and scaling the automation over time. Four live coaching calls every week where you can show up, share your Glimmer setup, ask questions about the workflows we covered in this video, and get direct feedback from people already running local agents in their businesses. Daily tutorials

covering new local AI tools, prompt structures, and workflow builds added every single day. Members in there right now, a prompt library with hundreds of Muse Glimmer ready prompts for lead research, content creation, onboarding SOPs, and community growth. And a member map so you can connect with and meet up with people near you who are building the exact same kinds of local agent workflows. Link is in the description. Go to aiprofitboardroom.com.

And if you want the full notes from this video, all six of those prompts in one place, and over 100 AI automation use cases like the ones we just covered, join the AI Success Lab. It's completely free. Members already in there, you'll get everything from this video organized and ready to use, plus a community of people who are actively implementing local AI tools right now. Links in the comments and description. Muse glimmer just dropped. Local AI agents are no

longer a future thing. They're here, they're free to use, and they run on hardware you probably already owned. The question isn't whether this technology is real, it's whether you're going to use it before everyone else figures out it's available.