---
video_title: "China's Qwen3.8-27B Just MATCHED Opus 4.6 Max?!"
video_id: U7rrce-dwqI
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U7rrce-dwqI
video_date: 2026-08-16T16:30:04+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the QWEN Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  A free, open 27B model that runs on your own laptop just posted numbers next to Claude Opus 4.6 — the model that sat at the top six months ago. But the benchmarks came from the team that built it, so I put both side by side and handed them the same two build jobs, live. Here's what's real, what's hype, and whether it's worth the download.
  
  00:00  Intro – Free model matches Opus 4.6
  00:51  What Shipped – 27B, Aug 14 drop
  01:28  Why It Matters – Open, local, multimodal, 256K
  02:35  Reality Check – Who ran these benchmarks
  04:16  Live Test – Same brief, both models
  06:13  How To Use It – Pick version, match the job
---
China's Qwen 3.8-27B just matched Opus 4.6. Max 6 months ago, one AI model sat at the very top, the smartest one out there, the one everyone wanted. Now, a model that keeps right up with it runs on your own laptop, fully open, free to download, no cloud needed, and it came from a team in China almost nobody saw moving this fast. Stick with

me because this changes what a small model can even do. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and I help you actually learn and use AI tools in your real work, not just watch from the sidelines. Today, we're looking at Qwen 3.8-27B, the brand new open model from Alibaba's Qwen team. People are saying it keeps pace with Claude Opus 4.6, the model

that was Anthropic's best just 6 months ago. I'm going to show you what's real, what's hype, and then I'll put both models on one screen and hand them the exact same jobs. One of those jobs is going to surprise you. Let's get into it. So, here's what actually happened.

Just a couple of days ago, on August 14th, the Qwen team dropped Qwen 3.8-27B. It's small, 27 billion parameters, which in AI terms is tiny next to the giant models. But, the benchmark numbers they shared put it right up next to Claude Opus 4.6 on a bunch of tests, especially coding, agent work, and reading images.

Quick reminder on the two names. Opus 4.6 is a Claude model from Anthropic. When it came out in February, it was their most capable model, sitting at the top of everything. Qwen is Alibaba's open model family. Open means the

weights are public. You can download the whole thing and run it yourself. So, a free, open model keeping pace with a top model from 6 months ago, that's the story. Let me show you why people won't stop talking about this one. First, it's open. It ships under the Apache 2.0

license, which is about as free and friendly as licenses get. You can grab it, use it, build on it. Second, it runs local. With the trim down versions, it fits on a graphics card or a Mac with around 16 GB of memory. Some squeezed versions get down near nine. That means

it runs on your own machine, and nothing you type leaves your computer. Third, it's multimodal. It reads text, images, and video, not just words. Fourth, it holds a huge amount of wants, around 256,000 tokens natively. So, it can keep a lot in its head in one go. For a model

this small, that makes it genuinely impressive. Now, if you're watching this and thinking, "Okay, I want to actually run models like Qwen 3.8-27B myself and know which one to reach for." That's exactly what we do inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we've got walkthroughs on setting up open models like this on your own machine, so you're not guessing. We

run live coaching calls where you can bring your exact setup and ask what's going wrong. There are roadmaps that take you from never having touched a local model to running one with confidence. And we test new drops like this one together, so you always know which model fits which job. If that's where you want to be, the link's in the description. But, stay with me because the test is coming up. Before I run

anything, I want to be straight with you because this matters. All those benchmark numbers I mentioned, they come from Qwen's own team. That's normal. Every lab tests its own model and shares its own scores, but it means no outside group has fully checked them yet. And the setups aren't always apples to apples. The way Qwen tested itself isn't

always the exact same way Opus was tested. So, take the headline, "It matches Opus 4.6." with a pinch of salt. Here's the honest read. On the tasks

Qwen focused on, mainly coding and agent work and reading screens, this little model looks shockingly close to a top model from 6 months ago. On some other tasks, like deep general knowledge, the bigger cloud models still pull ahead. So, it's not the best model ever. It's a free model you can run yourself that punches way above its size. And that's still huge. And here's the part that's

easy to miss. Because it's open, this model is truly yours once you've got it. Nobody can switch it off, change it under you, or move it behind a wall next month. The version you download today keeps working exactly the same way a year from now. That's a very different feeling from renting a model in the cloud and hoping it stays the same.

There's also a pattern here worth noticing. The last version, Qwen 3.6-27B, was already a favorite for people running AI on their own machines. This new one is a real step up on top of that, not a tiny bump. So, this isn't a one-off fluke. Open models keep closing

the gap on the big cloud names release after release and they're doing it faster each time. Put those together and you can see where this is heading. Strong AI that you own that runs on hardware you already have, that reads text and images and video and that gets better every few months. A year ago, that sentence would have sounded like a stretch. Right now, it's just a download. Now, why does this even matter

to you? Because it changes what you can do without depending on the cloud. A model on your own machine means no limits to hit, nothing leaving your computer, and you're in control. And who is this for? Anyone who wants strong AI for coding, building pages, reading documents and images, or running quiet agents in the background, all on their own hardware. That's the promise. So,

let's stop talking and test it. The only way to really know is to give both models the same job and watch. Here's how I set it up. I put Qwen 3.8-27B and Claude Opus 4.6 side by side on one

screen, and I hand them the exact same brief at the same time. First job, I ask both of them to build a modern premium fully responsive single page website for the AI Profit Boardroom. That's a real thing I'd want for the AI Profit Boardroom, a clean one-page site that looks sharp on a phone and a laptop. So, watch what each one does with the same words. I'm looking at a few things. Does

it come out as one clean page? Does it actually look premium or plain and flat? Does it stretch nicely on mobile without breaking? And how much do I have to fix afterward? This is the fun part, because you can see the difference in real time.

One model might give me a polished layout for the AI Profit Boardroom straight away. The other might need another pass. Whatever happens on the screen right now is the honest result. No do-overs, no cherry-picking. Second job, and this one's a harder test. I ask

both models to build a working calculator page for the AI Profit Boardroom. You type in a few course numbers, and it does the math and shows the totals for you, all in one page. This is tougher than a website, because now the page has to actually work. The buttons have to do something. The math has to be right. It's not just looks,

it's function. So, I give them both the same calculator brief for the AI Profit Boardroom and let them run. Watch whether each page loads clean, whether you can type in the boxes, and whether the numbers update the second you change them. A model that can build a working tool like this for the AI Profit Boardroom in one shot is doing something that used to take real coding time. Again, what you see on screen is what actually came out. That's the whole

point of testing it live instead of trusting a chart. So, step back for a second. Six months ago, a model this capable lived only in the cloud locked behind a top-tier service. Now, something in the same league runs on a laptop for free, fully open, from a team that keeps shipping fast. That's the real headline here, not China beat Anthropic. It's that the gap between the

best cloud models and what you can run at home keeps shrinking and it's shrinking fast. And when you can run strong AI yourself, you stop waiting on limits and start building on your own terms. All right, three quick tips to actually use this well. Tip one, match the model to the job. Qwen 3.8-27B

looks strongest at coding, building pages, and reading screens and images. So, reach for it on those. For deep research or tricky general questions, a bigger model may still serve you better. Use the right tool for the right task. Tip two, start with a trimmed-down version. You don't need the full heavy

file to try this. Grab one of the smaller compressed versions first. It'll run on a normal graphics card or a decent Mac, and you can always size up later once you know it fits your machine. Tip three, test it on your own real work before you trust it. Don't just take my word or Qwen's chart. Give

it a job you actually care about, like I did with the AI Profit Boardroom pages, and see how it does for you. Your own eyes beat any benchmark. And one bonus, because it's open and runs local, it's perfect for the boring repeat jobs you don't want sitting in the cloud. Drafting pages, cleaning up notes, reading documents, let a local model chew through those quietly while you focus on the big stuff. Okay, before the last thing. If you want

the full process, the SOPs, and over 100 AI use cases just like this one, come join the AI Success Lab. The links are in the comments and the description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are all crushing it with AI. And if you're about to go try Qwen 3.8-27B yourself, here's the honest truth. You're going to hit a few snags.

The download, the setup, getting it running smooth on your machine, picking the right version, that's exactly where the AI Profit Boardroom saves you the headache. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you get the step-by-step tutorials for running open models like this, live coaching calls where we sort out your setup on the spot, road maps that take you from stuck to running, and ready-to-use prompts so you're not starting from a blank page. It's over 4,000 members figuring this out together, testing every new drop as it lands. So, if you want to actually run this, not just watch me do it, come join us. Head to aiprofitboardroom.com

and I'll see you inside.