---
video_title: "This Is What AI Actually Cites in Search Results"
video_id: 6h6NQmPdrMg
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6h6NQmPdrMg
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  AI search doesn't cite what you think it does. A 107M-answer study just revealed exactly where ChatGPT, Gemini, Perplexity, and Google AI Overviews actually pull their answers from — and it's different for every industry. Here's the source map, broken down by engine, plus a free 5-step audit you can run today.
  
  00:00 Hook – AI barely reads the page you polished
  00:41 The Study – 107M AI answers analyzed, 3 source buckets
  01:40 Big Finding – Community content = ~50% of all citations
  02:08 Software/IT – Your site is nearly invisible (2%), reviews win (47%)
  03:00 Consumer Goods – Your listing IS the answer (46%)
  03:29 Telecom/Media – Press and Wikipedia dominate (40%)
  05:08 Engine Differences – Google, ChatGPT, Perplexity, Gemini all cite differently
  06:19 The Universal Source – Reddit tops every engine, every industry
  06:54 Free 5-Step Audit – Map your own AI citation gaps today
---
This is what AI actually sites in search results. Want to know a secret about AI search? That page you keep polishing, AI barely reads it. Half of what it quotes comes from somewhere else, and most people have no clue where. Someone just pulled apart 107 million AI answers.

What they found is not what you'd expect. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie. I help people learn and actually use AI tools in their real work, not the hype, the stuff that moves the needle. And today, I'm going to show you exactly where AI grabs its answers from, by industry, by engine, so you stop guessing and start showing up in the places AI is actually reading. Stick with me all the way, because there's one source that gets cited in every single industry, no matter what you sell, and I'm saving it for the end, okay? Let's

talk about what actually happened here. A company called Trendos looked at 107 million AI answers this year. That is a huge pile of data, and they did something smart with it. They pulled the top 10 sources that AI leans on the most, and they did it for three different industries: software and IT services, consumer goods, so physical products people buy, and communication services, think telecom and media. Then they checked four AI engines: ChatGPT, Perplexity, Gemini, and Google's AI overviews, the ones you and your customers actually use every day. And

here's how they sorted it all. Every source AI quoted fell into one of three simple buckets. Bucket one is community content. This is just people talking in public, Reddit threads, YouTube videos, forums, Quora, real humans having real conversations. Bucket two is brand and owned pages, your own website, your product pages, your Amazon listing, stuff you control.

Bucket three is independent media, press articles, review directories, Wikipedia, third parties who don't make a thing when you make a sale. Simple enough, right? Now, here's the part that made me sit up. Across all three industries, community content made up about half of everything AI cited, half. Not a little, not just sometimes, roughly five out of every 10 top sources were just people talking to each other online. Think

about that for a second. You could have the cleanest website on the planet, and half the sources AI reaches for to talk about your market aren't yours at all. They're strangers on Reddit and YouTube. So, if your brand never shows up in those conversations, you're already invisible in half the answer before you even start. That's the half that stays the same no matter what you sell. Now,

here's where it gets really interesting. The other half, it completely flips depending on your industry. And most people are working on the wrong one. Let me break it down. First up, software and IT services. If you sell software,

listen closely. Your own website almost vanishes here. We are talking about 2%. Two out of the top 10 sources AI sites for software, your own page is barely registered. So, what does AI trust instead? Outside proof, independent

media and review sites made up about 47%. Nearly half. Places like G2, Clutch, Gartner, the review directories buyers use to compare tools. Here's the plain truth. When you ask AI to recommend software, it does not take the company's word for it. It goes looking

for what other people said. It wants proof from somewhere that isn't trying to sell you something. So, if you're in software and you're pouring all your effort into your home page, you are polishing the one thing AI trusts the least. The real work is on those third-party profiles. Claim them. Fill

them out completely. Get real recent reviews on them. That's what gets quoted. Now, flip it completely. Consumer goods, physical products. Here,

it's the opposite world. Your own pages and your marketplace listings, they make up about 46% of what AI sites, almost half. And independent media, it nearly disappears, 4%. So, for physical products, your Amazon listing and your product page basically are the answer. The title, the bullet points, the specs, the reviews sitting right there on the page. AI reads all of that and pulls it

straight into what it tells the buyer. Which means for consumer goods, you treat your listing like answer copy, not sales fluff. Actual clear answers to what people ask. Does it fit this? What's it made of? Will it work with

that? If a shopper asks AI and the answer's not on your page, you just don't get picked. And then the third one, communication services, telecom and media. This one leans public, too. Independent media came in around 40%.

Your own pages only about 10. This is a world where Wikipedia and press coverage feed the answer. Where what gets written about you matters way more than what you write about yourself. Now, real quick, because I know exactly what a lot of you are thinking right now. Okay, this is great, but which one is me? Where do I

actually start? That's exactly the kind of thing I map out with people one-on-one. Not a course, not a big group call where you're just a name in the chat. A direct one-on-one strategy session. Just you and a real plan built around your specific site.

Because your situation isn't a general chart. It's your industry, your keywords, your competitors, the exact questions your customers ask AI right before they choose. In a session like that, we look at which sources AI is actually citing in your corner of the market, where your competitors already show up and you don't, and which of these three buckets you should be putting your time into first. So, instead of guessing, you walk away knowing the two or three moves that actually matter for you. If that sounds useful, the link's right below. And if

you want the faster version of all this without piecing it together alone, that's exactly what we do inside the AI Profit Boardroom. This exact topic, getting cited by AI, is right in the wheelhouse. Inside, you get walk-throughs on setting up your own citation audit, prompts you can copy and paste to test every engine, and step-by-step roadmaps for showing up in the sources AI actually reads, broken down by industry, just like we did today. Plus, weekly coaching calls where you can bring your own site and get real eyes on it. Every time a study like this one drops, we break it down together and turn it into moves you can make that same week. If you're serious about

showing up in AI search, come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com. Let's keep going though, because the engine part is where this gets really practical. So far, I've talked about industries, but here's the twist. The engines don't all behave the same way at all. Google's AI overviews, it's the

most social of the bunch. YouTube and Reddit dominate. In some industries, they make up something like 4/5 of the whole top 10. So, if you want to show up in Google's AI answers, video and Reddit threads are the game. ChatGPT is different. It leans the most on

editorial, Wikipedia, trade press, reference sites. Though, Reddit still shows up high even here. Perplexity sits in the middle. It loves community. So, Reddit and YouTube go up top, but it backs them with proof, review directories and media right behind. And

Gemini, Gemini is the shapeshifter. For services, it leans on media and reference. But for physical products, it swings hard toward brand and retail pages, Amazon and vendor sites. So, here's the big lesson. Optimize for AI is not one job, it's several. Ranking in

Google's AI answers means YouTube and Reddit. Winning a retail answer means your product pages. Getting picked by the more editorial engines means Wikipedia and press. Same brand, totally different playbook each time. That's why a blanket approach falls flat. You can't

do one single thing and expect to show up everywhere, okay? Remember that one source I promised you at the very start? The one that shows up everywhere? It's Reddit. Across all four engines, Reddit landed in the top three sources for every single one of those three industries, every one. And it was the

number one most cited source in more than half of those cases. Nothing else even came close to being that consistent. So, if you change one thing after this video, make it Reddit. And I don't mean go spam it. That backfires fast. And honestly, people can smell it

a mile away. I mean, go look at how your brand actually shows up in the subreddits that matter for your market. What are people already saying about you? What questions keep coming up that nobody's answering well? Because those threads are literally what AI is quoting back to your buyers. Now, let me give

you something you can go do today for free. A simple way to see all of this for your own business. Step one, write down the real questions your customers ask AI right before they choose. Not keywords, actual questions. Step two, run each question in every engine that matters to you. ChatGPT,

Perplexity, Gemini, Google. Step three, write down every source it sites. One line per website. Step four, sort them into those three buckets, community, your own pages, or outside media. Step five, mark where you show up, mark where a competitor shows up and you don't. And

notice which bucket is driving the whole answer. Do that across the four engines and a bunch of questions, and you've got a real picture of where AI is getting its answers about you. It's slow, and it goes out of date the second the engines change. But even doing it once will open your eyes. And if you want the faster version of all this without piecing it together alone, that's exactly what we do inside the AI Profit Boardroom. This

exact topic, getting cited by AI, is right in the wheelhouse. Inside, you get walkthroughs on setting up your own citation audit, prompts you can copy and paste to test every engine, and step-by-step roadmaps for showing up in the sources AI actually reads, broken down by industry, just like we did today. Plus, weekly coaching calls where you can bring your own site and get real eyes on it. Every time a study like this one drops, we break it down together and turn it into moves you can make that same week. If you're serious about showing up in AI search, come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com. And look, here's

what's going to happen when you go try this yourself. You'll run your questions through the engines, and you'll probably find that you're missing. Missing from the Reddit threads, missing from the review sites, missing from the answer entirely, while a competitor is sitting right there in it. That moment right there is exactly where a one-on-one strategy session helps. Instead of staring at a messy spreadsheet wondering what to fix first, we build a plan around your actual site, your industry, your engines, the specific sources you need to get into in the right order, so you're not burning weeks on the bucket It doesn't even matter for what you sell. If you want that, grab a session.

Link in the comment and description below.