---
video_title: "NEW Hermes Astros is Absoultely WILD!"
video_id: aeOcUEgSMC0
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aeOcUEgSMC0
video_date: 2026-08-13T08:30:36+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Hermes Astros Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Hermes Astros: Automate Your Content Strategy with AI Agents
  
  Discover how Hermes Astros transforms competitor research and content creation into a 24/7 automated operating system. This tool identifies trending topics and generates unique angles that sync directly with your AI memory vault for a streamlined workflow.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The Hermes Astros Update
  00:45 - How the Astros Dashboard Works
  01:31 - Analyzing Trending Topic Cards
  02:21 - One-Click Content Workflows
  03:19 - Syncing with Obsidian Memory
  05:31 - The Full Hermes Agent OS
  07:09 - Join the AI Profit Boardroom8
---
New Hermes Astros update is wild. Hermes Astros just changed how I do competitor research and content ideas forever. And I want to show you exactly what it does step-by-step, sticking to the real workflows inside the system. So, here's what this actually is. Inside the Hermes Agent OS, there's a system called Astros. It's a competitor radar. You

tell it which keywords and creators to watch, and it finds trending topics, scores them, gives you unique angles and titles, and hands them straight to your content pipeline. It runs 24/7. And it's plugged into your agent's memory, so every other agent in the system knows what you're working on. That last part matters. Every time you use Astros, it syncs directly to Obsidian, your memory system. So, all your agents know what

content you're focused on right now. That's not just a research tool, that's an operating system. Let me walk you through how the dashboard actually works. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. When you open Astros,

you've got a watch list. You add the keywords you want to monitor for the AI Profit Boardroom, that's things like AI automation, Claude Code, AI agents, AI SEO. You add competitors or creators in your space you want to study, and you can add, edit, or delete any of these at any time. Once your watch list is set, Astros scans on a schedule. It refreshes every 24 hours, but you can also rescan manually anytime by hitting scan the skies. And every time it scans, it

surfaces new topic cards. Each one is a star on your dashboard. Here's what each topic card contains. You click a star, and you get the idea, the category, the signal, meaning where it came from, how much reach that piece of content got, when it was published, the virality score, and the link to the original content. Then below that, you get recommended titles and recommended angles, completely unique, not copies of what you found. Astros builds a fresh

angle based on the signal. So, for the AI Profit Boardroom, Astros might surface a trending topic around AI agents and client outreach. It scores it high. I click it. I see where it came from, how it performed, and then Astros hands me a unique title, something like how to use AI agents to get more leads for your business without spending hours manually reaching out. And an angle I

can run with right away. From there, one click. You choose what you want to create. If I click SEO content, it starts writing an article for my website directly using my SEO skill, completely unique angle, ready to publish. If I click video agent, it takes me straight to the video director. I plug in the

topic and the angle, hit write the script, and it generates a video, avatar, script, B-roll, all plugged together. And I can customize everything from there. The length up to 10 minutes, whether it's voice-over only or using an AI presenter, which engine handles the B-roll, which avatar to use, all adjustable in one place. If I click notebook, it creates a notebook around that topic. And from the notebook, in one single click, I can generate short videos. That's a new

notebook LLM update that just dropped. Or I can generate an audio overview, a slide deck, a mind map, an infographic, flashcards, a quiz, a data table, a report, all from inside the studio in one single click. So, one Astros topic becomes an entire content package across multiple formats. And here's the memory piece again, because it's worth really understanding this. Every time you use Astros, every topic, every angle, every title it generates, it gets logged into Obsidian. So, if you go to Hermes and

say, "What should I create content about for the AI Profit Boardroom this week?" it's not guessing. It already has everything Astros found. It pulls from your trending archive and gives you relevant ideas based on real research you've already done. You're building a compounding system.

Now, inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we've got the full Agent OS as a ready-to-install zip file, Astros, Oracle, Apollo, the video agent, the full memory system, all set up and working together. You get step-by-step video tutorials and a full guide, so you can install it and start using it the same day. There's a 30-day roadmap built specifically around using Astros to grow your audience and bring in more clients, showing you how to set your watchlist, find your best content opportunities, and build your first content pipeline from a trending signal. Four coaching calls every week where we go deep on exactly how to use these workflows in your business, and you can ask live questions about your setup. A community of 3,700 business owners who are already building with the Agent OS right now. And a

member map, so you can connect with people near you who are doing the same thing. Link in the comments and description, or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. Let me show you what the video agent workflow actually looks like. You go back to Astros, you find your topic, you click video agent, it takes you to your video director, you plug in the topic and the angle, you hit write the script, and then it generates a video avatar script, B-roll, all in one place. You

can change the length, switch between voiceover and AI presenter, pick your B-roll engine, choose your avatar, and that's it. A trending signal from Astros becomes a finished video draft without you switching tools. Same with the notebook workflow, one click from Astros to notebook. The notebook gets created around that topic. Then inside the studio in one single click, you can generate a short video, infographics, slide deck, audio overview, mind map, whatever format you need. And the SEO

content workflow. One click from Astros, and it starts writing an article directly to your website using your SEO skill, unique angle, no manual writing. The article is drafted and ready to review. Now, the system itself also lives next to two other agents. Astros sits inside the Agent OS next to Hermes Oracle, which monitors Twitter and finds the latest trending news, then lets you draft social content or SEO content in one click and Hermes Apollo, the voice agent, where you can talk to your agent, chat with it, and use mixture of agents for higher quality outputs than a single model alone. So, these three Astros,

Oracle, Apollo, all live in the same operating system, all sharing the same memory, all aware of what the others are doing. If you're wondering whether this works without a technical background, inside the system, there are 194 pages of people winning, learning, and growing with the Agent OS. Non-technical people building workflows like this. So, if you can navigate a dashboard, you can run Astros. The schedule is simple, too. You

can change how often Astros scans. Every 24 hours is plenty. It scans, ranks what's trending, comes up with unique content ideas, logs everything to Obsidian, and repeats. Then, from any topic, you go from signal to content in one single click, and it works for any niche. The watchlist is just keywords.

You're not locked into AI content. You add whatever keywords and competitors are relevant to your space, and Astros monitors those. That's it. The old way of doing this was a lot of manual work, monitoring competitors, guessing what's trending, trying to come up with new angles, writing from scratch. With Astros, the monitoring is automatic, the ranking is automatic, the angle generation is automatic, and the content creation is one click, and every step gets logged to your memory, so your whole system gets smarter over time.

That is Hermes Astros, and this system is ready to go right now inside the AI Profit Boardroom. You can get the full Agent OS, including Astros, Oracle, Apollo, the video agent, and the Obsidian Memory Vault as a complete zip file you install directly. No building from scratch, daily video tutorials with step-by-step guides, and a zip file to download every time there's an update. A 30-day roadmap specifically for using Astros and the Agent OS to grow your audience, bring in more clients, and automate your content research so you never run out of ideas again. Four weekly coaching calls where you can get live help on your Astro setup, your watch list, your content pipeline, whatever you're working on.

3,700 business owners in the community right now. A lot of them already running Astros and the Agent OS daily. And a member map so you can connect with people in your area building the same kind of system. Link in the comments and description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com.

And if you want the full process SOPs and 100 plus AI use cases like this one for free, come join the AI Success Lab. It's free. 87,000 members in there right now sharing what's working with AI automation. You'll get all the video notes from this episode plus access to the full community. Link is in the comments and description.