---
video_title: "FREE Codex Is Absolutely WILD!"
video_id: VnU_iJNM2hY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VnU_iJNM2hY
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian 
  
  How to Use Codeex for FREE with Omniroot and Agent OS
  
  Discover how to unlock Codeex for free by leveraging Omniroot and Agent OS to access 93 different AI providers with automatic fallback. Learn how to build high-quality landing pages and apps quickly without the need for expensive plans or heavy local models.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Free Codeex and Omniroot
  00:47 - Demo: Building a Landing Page
  01:28 - What is Omniroot?
  02:23 - The Power of Agent OS Integration
  04:07 - Cloud Providers vs Local Models
  04:35 - How Auto-Fallback Works
  05:39 - The New Way to Build AI Apps
  06:43 - 2-Command Installation Guide
---
Free Codex is absolutely wild. Today, I'm going to show you how to use Codex for free. This is brand new and honestly, it's a little bit crazy. One coding tool with 93 providers behind it. It never stops, it never breaks, and it sets up in two commands. Your laptop

won't even break a sweat. Stick with me because this one changed how I build. So, let me show you what I mean. This is Codex and it's running inside my Agent OS system. Normally, Codex is stuck with one brain behind it. But, what I've done

is rooted it through a tool called Omni Root. So, now Codex has 93 different providers sitting behind it and I don't need a Codex plan to use it. Watch this. I go into the chat inside Agent OS and I type, "Build out a beautiful landing page for the AI Profit Boardroom that converts, that shows the real value of AI automation, and that explains all the benefits of joining our community so we bring in more leads and more traffic." That's it. One prompt and it just goes.

It plans, it writes the files, it builds the page for free. And I can sit here and watch it work in real time. Here's the part I really like. I can also see everything I built before. There's a tab right here inside Agent OS with all my old builds in it. There's a demo I made

earlier. There's a full page from another test I ran for the Boardroom. So, I can build something, walk away, come back tomorrow, and it's all still sitting there. If you've used Codex on its own, you know that's usually a pain. You build something good, then you can't find it again. You're digging around

trying to remember where it went. Not here. Everything lives in one workspace and I think that's just a smarter way to do it. Hey, if we haven't met yet, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of Goldie Agency, an SEO agency. Julian reads every single comment, so drop one below, he will see it. So, let's talk

about Omni Root because this thing only dropped recently and it's already got 12,000 stars on GitHub. That's wild for something this new. It's even got a coding tool built into it, so you can use it on its own if you want. But, if you want the full harness of Codex with Omni Root behind it, you can have that, too. And that's what's running here.

Same Codex, same agent, nothing new to learn. It plans, it writes files, it runs commands on its own, exactly like before. The only thing that changes is the back end. Nothing on the front changes at all. And look at the boardroom landing page it just made.

It's clean, the colors are nice, it's simple, it's not messy, and nothing looks thrown together. Is it the most advanced page ever built? No. But for a one-line prompt, that is really, really good. And it only took about 60 to 90 seconds. That's the bit that gets me.

Everything I've built with this so far has come out looking solid, and I haven't had a single ugly result yet. I think that's because we're still using the harness of Codex, so we get better outputs than you'd normally get from free tools. Here's why running Codex inside Agent OS matters so much. Agent OS gives you memory and context, so I can build that boardroom landing page in Codex, then plug it straight into Claude code. I can pull in a video from the video agent inside Agent OS, and drop it right onto the page. I can run Claude,

Hermes, and Open Claude from the same screen. There's a Kanban board, so I can see exactly what every agent is working on for the boardroom. There's voice mode, there's goal tracking, there's MCP connections, everything talks to everything, and everything syncs together. I'm not opening Codex over here and something else over there, and juggling 10 tabs to get one job done. One screen, one room, and it's all free to run. That's a pretty amazing thing.

Now, if you want this exact setup, I want to be really clear about something. Most people tell you they've built a 30-day roadmap and leave it there. I'm not doing that. Inside my AI Profit Boardroom, you can download the actual Agent OS zip file ready to install. You unzip it, you install it, and you've got the whole thing running with Codex, Omni Root, and all my main agents already plugged in. Quick heads-up, too, I'm

Julian's AI avatar, and this whole video is built with the same automation you'll find in there. So, if you want to save hours every week and automate your work with tools like Codex, Omni Root, and Agent OS, come join us. The links in the comments and description. If you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if

it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see, because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Okay, back to it into have. Let's talk about

local models for a second because people always ask me this. You could go over to Ollama, grab a free model and plug it into Codex on your machine. And yeah, that works, but here's what I found. The outputs from the providers Omni route is using are way nicer. They're also a lot faster. And the big one, local models

eat your computer alive. They chew through your power, everything gets slow and you're sitting there waiting. With this setup, nothing slows down at all. My machine doesn't even flinch because the free APIs are all running in the cloud. So, it's not just free, it's actually better in a bunch of ways. So,

how does it work step-by-step? Codex goes through Omni route, Omni route picks a provider. If that provider doesn't work, it falls over to the next one. You've got 93 of them and 11 are permanently free. That auto fallback is the magic bit. Free stuff gets rate

limited. That's just how it goes. Normally, your agent stops halfway through build and you're stuck staring at a broken page and you've lost the whole thread. With this, it silently hops onto the next provider and keeps going. Your build finishes. The

conversation doesn't break. It just keeps building like nothing happened. And I've tested it a lot now and it has never failed on me. Let me run another test so you can see it live. I'll go into the chat and say, "Build me a beautiful to-do app that tracks all the daily tasks for growing the AI Profit Boardroom so I can see what needs posting, what needs answering, and what needs building." Again, none of this is

running locally. Codex itself is super light so you don't need a fancy machine for any of this. A basic laptop is completely fine. And there it is. That's the app it just made and it actually works. You can click it, add things,

tick things off. It looks really clean. That's from one sentence. And there's the preview right in the chat so I can test it without ever leaving Agent OS. Now, let's compare the old way and the new way because this is where it clicks.

The old way, every Codex run sits on 1 meter and agents are chatty. They talk a lot. So, a long build burns through it fast, which means you hesitate. You don't want to run too many builds, so you sit on ideas instead of testing them. And you're locked into one provider, so whoever you're signed up with, that's your only option. The new

way is the same Codex, but pointed at one local gateway with all those providers behind it with auto fallback if one fails. And you could genuinely have this building for you all day long. So instead of making one boardroom page a week, I can run 10 different versions, look at all of them, and keep the best one. That changes how you work, not just what it uses. Some people say, "Well, I already use Codex, so why bother with this?" And the answer is you can run

both side by side. Keep Codex on your machine and have the Agent OS Codex here plugged into Omni Route. When one runs dry, you switch over and keep working. Omni Route is ready to go straight out the box. Other people say rewiring a coding agent sounds like advanced stuff.

It's really not. You install the gateway with one command, that spins up Omni Route, then one more command writes the free profile. You type Omni Route setup Codex, and you're done. Two commands, then it's one click away inside your Agent OS. That's the entire install. If

you can copy and paste, you can do this. And this matters even more if you're using Agent OS properly because you've got loads of CLEs in there. You've probably got lots of chats and agents running at once or doing different jobs. So the less you burn on each one, the more you can actually run at the same time. That's the whole game. If you want

to stretch it even further, I've got a token minimization playbook, too. There are some really smart ways to cut down how much you use. You can use open-source projects like Caveman, Headroom, and Ponytail for coding, and you can use RTK as well. Stack a few of those together, and suddenly you're using a fraction of what you were before, which means you never have to stop halfway through the thing you're building. Here's something I haven't tested yet, and I'm genuinely curious about it. What happens if you run this

with goal mode? If you don't know what goal mode is, you give Codex a goal, it loops around, it takes as many turns as it needs, and a judge checks whether the task is actually done. Now, pair that with auto fallback. It never runs dry. So could you hand it a goal like build out a a set of pages for the AI Profit Boardroom and let it run for hours completely on its own. I don't know yet,

but I really want to find out. If you test it before I do, tell me in the comments because I want to see what happens. And back in the workspace, I can see everything I've built sitting there. I can open any of it in a new tab. I can save it. I can copy the code

out. I can switch to the preview and click around it. Nothing gets lost. So, that's the free Codex engine, same agent you already know, way more power behind it, and a workspace that actually keeps your work for you. Now, if you want this exact set I want to be really clear about something. Most people tell you

they've built a 30-day roadmap and leave it there. I'm not doing that. Inside my AI profit boardroom, you can download the actual AgentOS zip file ready to install. You unzip it, you install it, and you've got the whole thing running with Codex, OmniRoot, and all my main agents already plugged in. Quick heads-up, too, I'm Julian's AI avatar, and this whole video is built with the same automation you'll find in there.

So, if you want to save hours every week and automate your work with tools like Codex, OmniRoot, and AgentOS, come join us. Dot the links in the comments and description. And if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank, and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team

focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team, and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Thanks for watching, and see you in the next one.