---
video_title: "NEW Gemini Omni Flash 1.1 is WILD"
video_id: IkUIccfE7uY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IkUIccfE7uY
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Gemini Omni Flash 1.1: How to Direct Professional AI Video
  
  Google's Gemini Omni Flash 1.1 shifts AI video from random lottery shots to a fully controllable production system. This guide covers how to master scene extensions, frame control, and style matching for consistent 4K branded content.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:04 - Gemini Omni Flash 1.1 Overview
  01:12 - Scene Extension Mastery
  02:22 - First and Last Frame Control
  02:54 - Consistent Style Matching
  04:46 - 8-Step Production Workflow
  05:41 - Advanced Prompting Formula
  06:33 - Where to Access Gemini 1.1
---
New Gemini Omni Flash 1.1 is wild. Google just dropped Gemini Omni Flash 1.1. And this one is genuinely different. This isn't just a better

text-to-video model. What Google actually built here is a controllable video production system. Generate, extend, control the start and end frame, reference your own characters, edit through conversation, upscale to 4K. And right now, according to Google, it's sitting at number one on the text-to-video arena leaderboard with 1,515 points. I'm going to walk you through every major change, why each one matters, and the exact workflows we use inside the AI Profit Boardroom to put this to actual work. The problem with

old AI video tools, you type a prompt, hope the clip came out decent, regenerate it four times, and still end up with something that barely matched what was in your head. Every clip was a lottery ticket. No control over what came before or after. Just hope. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. What changed with 1.1 is what happens after that first clip. Google DeepMind rebuilt how the model handles continuation. Several concrete

features define this release. Let me go through each one. Scene extension. Gemini Omni 1.1 Flash can now analyze up to 10 seconds of preceding footage before generating the next part. The

previous model used only the final second for context. 1 second versus 10. That's the key number. Google says the larger context window maintains consistency across characters, motion, and scene direction. You can extend videos in 10-second increments up to 40 seconds total. Here's how we use this

for the AI Profit Boardroom. Say we're creating content to attract new members, showing what AI automation actually looks like in practice. Prompt one, a business owner overwhelmed at their desk, inbox full, tasks piling up, cinematic office lighting, slow push in. Extend. Continue the scene. The AI

Profit Boardroom dashboard appears on screen. Tasks start moving automatically. The founder leans forward. Extend again. Continue. The

workload has cleared. Founder leans back, calm expression, soft warm light. 30 seconds, problem, solution, result, three extensions, one coherent scene. That's what this unlocks. First and last frame control. You provide one image for

the opening frame and one for the final frame. Omni generates the video sequence between them. For the AI Profit Boardroom, first frame is someone staring at a blank screen, stuck, overwhelmed. Last frame is the Boardroom dashboard, automations running, leads coming in. Prompt, cinematic transition between these two frames, slow camera push toward the screen, warm lighting, premium commercial feel. You're

directing the AI. You're telling it where the story starts and where it ends. Video style matching. Feed the model a short reference clip and ask it to match the visual aesthetic, the color grade, lighting, and feel of that reference when generating new content. For the AI Profit Boardroom, this means filming one branded clip with the right look, warm tones, premium lighting, shallow depth of field, and using that as a style reference for every piece of content after it. Every short, every

tutorial promo, every ad matches that visual identity. One reference, consistent output at scale. If you want to actually implement Gemini Omni 1.1 into your content and lead generation system, the AI Profit Boardroom is the place to do it. We've built a full step-by-step tutorial series on AI video automation, how to set up your Omni 1.1

workflow from scratch, how to use scene extension to build content series that bring in new members and leads, how to use video references and style matching to keep your brand identity consistent, and how to run the 360p draft to 4K upscale pipeline. So, you're moving fast and only spending on shots that are already approved. Four coaching calls every week where we go deep on tools exactly like this. Not just watching a demo, but building the actual system inside your business. A 30-day roadmap, a prompt library with Omni 1.1 templates

already built in, and business owners in there right now. Many of them already building AI video workflows with someone always online if you get stuck. Link in the description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And if you want a free one-on-one SEO strategy session where we look at your website and build you a custom game plan to rank on Google and AI search engines.

So, when people search for what you offer, they find you. Book that session now. We'll map out exactly what needs to happen for your site based on your business, your market, and where search is heading with AI. No generic advice, a real strategy built around you. Link in the comments and description or go to goldie.agency to book. The AI Profit

Boardroom production workflow. Step one, pick the topic. Let's say we're promoting a new automation tutorial. How AI Profit Boardroom members are saving hours every week with automated lead follow-up. Step two, write the visual brief. What does the opening shot look

like? What's the environment? What emotion? Step three, generate a 360p. Use conversational editing to refine, adjust the lighting, slow the camera, tweak the background without regenerating the whole thing. Step four,

lock the shot, extend it, build the scene out 10 seconds at a time up to 40 seconds. Step five, first/last frame control for the transitions between scenes. Step six, video references and style matching to keep the visual identity consistent. Step seven, upscale final shots to 4K. Step eight, editor, captions, voiceover, music, publish. One

person, structured workflow. What used to take a team, the prompt formula, subject plus action plus environment plus camera plus lighting plus style plus audio plus continuity instruction. Built for the AI profit boardroom. An AI profit boardroom member sits at a clean modern desk. She opens a laptop and the automation dashboard loads leads processing automatically in the background. Camera starts wide, slowly

pushes towards the screen, warm interior lighting, shallow depth of field, premium commercial aesthetic, subtle keyboard sounds, soft notification chimes as leads register. Maintain same character and office environment throughout. Specific directorial The difference in output quality versus a vague prompt is massive. Etai Shiff, creative director at Figma Weave, said, "With extensions, richer reference material, and 4K resolution, Gemini Omni Flash takes teams beyond generating videos to truly directing them. That's the real shift. AI video is moving from

generate shot to direct a sequence, and it's available right now on Google AI Studio, Google Flow, the Gemini app, and ComfyUI. If you want to actually implement Gemini Omni 1.1 into your content and lead generation system, the AI profit boardroom is the place to do it. We've built a full step-by-step tutorial series on AI video automation, how to set up your Omni 1.1 workflow from scratch, how to use scene extension to build content series that bring in new members and leads, how to use video references and style matching to keep your brand identity consistent, and how to run the 360p draft to 4K upscale pipeline so you're moving fast and only spending on shots that are already approved. Four coaching calls every week

where we go deep on tools exactly like this, not just watching a demo, but building the actual system inside your business. A 30-day roadmap, a prompt library with Omni 1.1 templates already built in, and business owners in there right now, many of them already building AI video workflows with someone always online if you get stuck. Link in the description or go to AIprofitboardroom.com.

And if you want a free one-on-one SEO strategy session where we look at your website and build you a custom game plan to rank on Google and AI search engines. So, when people search for what you offer, they find you. Book that session now. We'll map out exactly what needs to happen for your site based on your business, your market, and where search is heading with AI. No generic advice, a real strategy built around you. Link in

the comments and description, or go to goldie.agency to book.