---
video_title: "Hermes AI Agent Update is WILD! 🤯"
video_id: aWZVaUDZmS4
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aWZVaUDZmS4
video_date: 20260818
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Hermes Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Build a 24/7 AI Agent OS with Hermes & Claude (The 3 Layers)
  
  Learn how to transform Hermes and Claude into a powerful AI operating system that automates your business around the clock. We break down the three essential layers—Brain, Mission Control, and Memory—that prevent your agents from forgetting context and allow them to work autonomously.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The AI Agent OS
  00:42 - The Problem with Chat Windows
  01:44 - The Power of Centralized AI
  03:06 - Automating Custom Workflows
  03:41 - Hermes Oracle: 24/7 Autopilot
  04:31 - The 3-Layer Agent Blueprint
  06:10 - Setting Up the Memory Vault
  07:27 - Get the Agent OS Zip File
---
Hermes AI agent update is wild and today I'm going to show you the agent operating system that basically automates everything for us. This is running with Hermes and Claude together. And Hermes is the most powerful AI agent you can run right now, but only if you build these three layers around it. If you skip them, Hermes is basically just a smart chat window. But even if you've already set up Hermes, adding these three layers turns it into a 247 system that knows your business and never forgets a thing. It works around the

clock, gets smarter every single day. And by the end of this, you're going to have the full blueprint, the brain, the mission control, and the memory system. And the third layer is the one that changes everything. Most people skip it. And it's exactly why their agent setup never actually works properly. So here's

the problem first, because this is why it matters. A chat window is not an operating system. The pattern I see over and over, someone installs Claude, installs Hermes, it's impressive for a day, then reality hits. Every session starts from zero. Every job needs you sitting there typing. You close your

laptop, everything stops. A week later, you've abandoned the whole thing. Compare that to what you're looking at right now on screen. A full system with all your agents orchestrated together. Different layers plugged in. An agent

alone forgets everything. It needs you to babysit it. It stops the moment your laptop closes. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. The

agent OS remembers everything. Your brand, your business, your goals, one dashboard. Jobs keep running while you sleep. So, right here, you can see we can visualize our memory galaxy. Every single one of these points is a memory.

All of our agents, Claude, Hermes, whatever we plug into this stack, they've all got our context ready to go inside there. So, and this is way more useful than jumping between tabs. Grock over here, Claude over there, chat GPT in another window, codeex in a fourth tab, super messy, super fragmented. Instead, plug them all into one system where they all work together. And here's something I love about this. It doesn't

matter what model drops next. GPT 5.6 releases, something new, no problem. We plug it into codeex right here. Claude Fable 6 comes out. Plug it straight into

our Claude setup right here. You're not chasing anything. You're not scrambling. Everything is controlled inside one system that just improves every day, no matter what releases. Here's the middle CTA. And this is important inside the AI

profit boardroom. Right now, you can download the full agent OS as a zip file already built, already configured. You install it and you've got Hermes, Claude, Mission Control, Memory, Galaxy, Voice Agent, Paperclip agent, Teams, Video Agent, Cambod, everything I'm showing you today ready to go. We've built out a complete 30-day road map inside there specifically around the agent OS, how to set it up, how to add each layer, how to get it running hands-off, and you can just grab the Agent OS tool directly from us without building it from scratch yourself. Daily tutorials every time we add something new. Four live coaching calls every

week. 3,700 members already running this link in the comments and description or go to aprofitboardroom.com. Now, let me show you the custom workflows because this is where it gets really practical. So, we have a video agent right here. I type in a prompt and

it creates a fully edited AI avatar video. Voice over included, B-roll included, everything. All I do is type what I want and it's ready to go. Anything you spend time on dayto-day, you can build a custom workflow for it inside the system. I looked at every task I repeat and automated it.

Everything is ready in one place with one click. Now, we've also got a custom voice agent built right into the dashboard. It speaks back whenever I want, listens whenever I want. It can control my browser. It can control my computer is listening in the background.

We can see our full conversation history and all the builds we've created directly inside the workspace. And then we've got Hermes Oracle. This runs 24/7 on autopilot. I don't babysit it at all. It finds the latest news right here.

It's picked up that Grock 4.6 six is dropping in 7 days. It drafts social media content about that, publishes it straight to a WordPress website, shows me the direct link to the post. It monitors competitors too, pulls that data in, gives content ideas based on what competitors are doing. Everything I used to do manually, this handles automatically. Now, you might be

thinking, I'm not technical. Can I actually use this? We've got over 20 pages of testimonials and wins from people inside the AI profit boardroom who are using the system. non-technical people, agency owners, coaches, people who've never written a line of code. They set this up and use it every single day. You don't need to be technical at

all. Now, let me break down the three layers because this is the actual blueprint. Layer one is the brain Hermes plus the models it thinks with. And you can use free models if you want. We've got Omniroot plugged into this system.

So, if you want to run everything for free, you absolutely can. Layer two is mission control. one dashboard where every agent job has a button, chat, voice, agent, teams, a workspace where all your builds land. You stop driving everything from the terminal, which is messy and slow, and instead you've got one clean place to control everything from. Layer three is the memory vault, and this is the one most people skip.

But it's the layer that separates a basic agent from an actual operating system. Your agents read and write your business context, your decisions, your daily logs, so that every session starts with full context. Every agent you plug in already understands everything about you. Now, let me show you each part of mission control in more detail. So, if we go over to Hermes here, we've got the chat, the everyday line to the agent profiles set up for different jobs.

We've got the voice section where you can talk instead of type. So, for example, this is Hermes Apollo. I say to Apollo, "Open up Obsidian." Boom. It opens Obsidian directly. Super simple

and easy. Then we've got agent teams. Paperclip over here. a full team of AI agents and Hermes working together. And we've got a camb board where we can assign a task and the agents just go off, triage it, and get it done. I

assign the job. They do the work. And then we've got the workspace. Everything we build ends up in a workspace for that particular agent. Build something with Claude, it goes in the Claude workspace.

Build something with Hermes, it goes in the Hermes workspace. Everything saved in one place. Nothing lost. Easy to come back to at any time. Now, the memory vault because this is the layer that most people completely miss. This is

running on Obsidian. And I don't organize this myself. It looks clean and organized, but I'm not the one doing that. My agents are. The vault means your agent never starts cold, never forgets anything about you. Without this

layer, every session is like a first date. You reexplain yourself, your preferences, your projects, your goals over and over, hundreds of times a year. And it's the reason a lot of people use AI agents and the output feels generic because the agent doesn't actually know them. The memory layer is embarrassingly simple. It's just a folder of plain text notes that your agents read before working and write to after finishing. I

use Obsidian. It's free. It's open source. You plug it into the agent OS and visualize it in the memory galaxy. It has details about me and who I am, my decision logs, daily logs of what I worked on. to if I ask it what are some

good keywords to rank for when it comes to SEO. It knows all my websites, all the content I produce, and gives me super specific suggestions. Before I had this, agents lived in different windows. Every morning, I had to reexplain myself. It's like reexplaining yourself to a goldfish. Jobs only ran when I was

sitting there watching. With the camb board and paperclip, jobs run 24/7 without me. So, if you want this whole system, you don't have to build it yourself. Inside the IP profit boardroom, you can get the full agent OS as a zip file ready to install. Hermes, Claude, Mission Control, Memory, Galaxy, Voice Agent, Paperclip agent, Teams, Video Agent, Cambod, Hermes, Oracle, every single thing I showed you today already built, already configured, ready to go the moment you download it. We've

built a complete 30-day road map specifically around the Agent OS, so you know exactly what to set up and when. And you can grab the Agent OS tool directly from us. You don't need to build any of this from scratch. Daily tutorials every time we update the system. Four coaching calls every week where you can share your screen live.

3,700 members already building with this link in the comments and description or go to a profitboardroom.com. And if you want all the notes from today's video in one place, join the AI success lab. It's completely free. You'll get the full agent OS breakdown, the three layer blueprint, the memory vault setup, the mission control walkthrough, e, all of it documented, plus access to 87,000 members sharing what's working with AI automation right now. New tutorials going in constantly,

real examples from real people running real businesses. And because there's always someone online, you can get help anytime, day or night. Someone's in there right now. If you want the notes, the community and 100 plus AI use cases like the ones we covered today, link in the comments and description. Join the AI success lab.