---
video_title: "Sparrow 2 The State of the ART AI MODEL! 🤯"
video_id: ZCI4kvWPb3E
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZCI4kvWPb3E
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Sparrow 2: The AI Voice Breakthrough That Stops Interruptions
  
  Discover how Tavis’s Sparrow 2 is revolutionizing AI voice interactions by eliminating awkward interruptions and robotic pauses. This video explores its advanced conversational understanding, impressive performance benchmarks, and real-world business applications for lead qualification and onboarding.
  
  00:00 - Intro: The AI Interruption Problem
  00:38 - Why Sparrow 2 is Different
  01:31 - Mastering Conversational Understanding
  02:21 - Sparrow 2 Performance Benchmarks
  03:55 - AI Business Workflows & SOPs
  04:42 - Technical Specs & Training Data
  05:53 - Lead Qualification Case Study
  06:50 - SEO Strategy & Final Thoughts
---
Sparrow 2, the state-of-the-art AI model. And I want to show you why this is one of the most interesting AI releases of 2026 because it solves a problem that has been quietly breaking every AI voice tool you've ever used. Here's the problem. You're talking to an AI. You pause for 2 seconds to think.

The AI jumps in. You weren't done. It interrupts you. You start again. It cuts you off again. Sound familiar? That's

not just annoying. For businesses using AI for sales calls, onboarding, coaching, support, that moment right there is where trust dies. And that's exactly what Tavis just fixed with Sparrow 2. Sparrow 2 dropped on August 27th, 2026, written by Brian Johnson and Eloy de Boys from the Tavis research team. And what they've built is genuinely different from anything that's come before it. Here's the key thing to

understand. Every AI voice system before this was built around one simple question. Has the user stopped talking? That's it. The system would wait for silence, then fire. And that worked,

sort of, in a quiet room, one speaker, no distractions. But that's not the real world. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. In the real world, you

pause to think. You say uh and mhm. Someone else speaks near you. There's background noise. You trail off and restart. You correct yourself

mid-sentence. Old AI couldn't handle any of that. So, it either cut you off or it waited so long it felt robotic. Sparrow 2 completely flips this. Instead of asking, "Did they stop?" it asks, "What

is actually happening in this conversation right now?" That's the shift, and it changes everything. Tavis calls this whole scene conversational understanding. Sparrow 2 takes in the entire audio environment, every sound, and works out what matters. Not just your words, your tone, your rhythm, whether you're mid-thought or finished, whether the person speaking is you or someone across the room, whether an mhm means I agree, keep talking or I want to speak now. Let me give you a concrete

example using the AI profit boardroom. Imagine we build an AI onboarding assistant for new members. A new member joins and the AI starts walking them through what's inside. The member says, "Okay, so the coaching calls are on." Pauses 4 seconds. "Wait, actually, what

day is it again?" Old AI, it's already talking over them. Sparrow 2, it waits. It read the pause as a mid-thought. It knows they're not done. The member gets

to finish. The conversation flows. That's the difference. Tavus benchmarked Sparrow 2 across 575 real conversational events from production video calls. The results are specific and worth knowing. Sparrow 2

had a 2.1% conversation failure rate. The best competitor, nearly four times higher. When someone pauses for 1 second or more, meaning they're actually thinking, Sparrow 2 let 97% of those pauses pass without interrupting. The competing systems, they interrupted roughly every other pause of that length. Every other one. And this one is

striking. The competing systems left 12.5% to 18% of finished turns completely unanswered, meaning the user finished speaking and the AI never replied at all. Sparrow 2 missed zero. None. One important note, Tavus ran

these benchmarks themselves. The LiveKit comparison used their V1 mini model specifically. So, take the competitive numbers as directional, not absolute. But even directionally, the gap is significant. Now, here's the technical side kept simple. If you want help

figuring out how to actually get found online so that the right people are discovering your business and booking calls with you, we offer a free SEO strategy session with our team. We'll look at your website, your current search visibility, and build you a custom plan to rank on Google and in AI search engines like ChatGPT and Perplexity so leads find you before they find your competitors. It's completely free, no obligation, just a real one-on-one game plan built around your business. We work with business owners who want more inbound leads without having to chase people down. If that's you, the link is in the comments and description, or go to goldie.agency to

book your free session now. And if you want the full step-by-step playbook for building AI voice workflows like every single one I just walked through, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. Right now inside, we're walking members through exactly how to set up Tavis and Sparrow 2 for lead qualification calls, member onboarding automation, and AI coaching intake, all the workflows I just showed you, built out with full SOPs and templates. We have four live coaching calls every week where you can show up, ask questions about your exact setup, and get it working. Business owners inside already automating with tools like this, a prompt library packed with AI voice scripts and conversation flows you can plug straight in, daily tutorials as these tools keep evolving, and a member map so you can find other business owners running Sparrow 2 and Tavis workflows near you, and learn from people doing it live. Link in the

comments and description, or go to AI profitboardroom.com. Sparrow 2 runs at a native 10 ms frame rate. That means it updates its read of the conversation up to 100 times per second. Sparrow 1 ran at 40 ms. So,

Sparrow 2 is four times more granular. It processes 80 ms of audio in around 7 ms. Sparrow 1 took about 30 ms for the same chunk. That's roughly four times faster inference. It was trained on 16,000 real conversations and 2,000 synthetic ones with interruptions, back channels, and overlapping speech all explicitly included in the training data. And here's what makes it

structurally different. There is no silence timer anywhere in the system. None. That's the entire old approach gone. Instead, it runs a six-layer causal transformer over streaming audio embeddings. It understands semantics,

tone, who's speaking, whether that person is directed at the AI or talking to someone else nearby, and what class of sound something is, background, interruption, back channel noise. It can also hold through mid-thought pauses of up to 6 to 8 seconds. Previous systems maxed out at 1 to 2 seconds. That's the difference between an AI that feels patient and one that feels like it's constantly rushing you. So, what can you actually do with this? Let me walk you

through the real-world workflows, all built around the AI Profit Boardroom as a business. First one, AI-powered lead qualification for new AI Profit Boardroom sign-ups. Right now, someone hits the landing page, fills out a form, waits. With Sparrow 2 powering a Tavus PAL 2, that's their personal AI liaison, you can have a real-time video conversation with every lead the moment they express interest. The AI asks qualifying questions, the lead answers naturally, pauses, thinks out loud, corrects themselves. The Sparrow 2 layer

handles all of it without breaking flow. The lead feels heard. At the end of the call, the AI Profit Boardroom CRM gets a full qualification summary, the lead is tagged, and a human follows up if needed. No silence detection failures, no awkward robotic gaps. Sparrow 2 is live right now, generally available across Tavus APIs and PALs.

You can test the demo at sparrow2.tavuslabs.org. The docs are at docs.tavus.io.

If you want help figuring out how to actually get found online so that the right people are discovering your business and booking calls with you, we offer a free SEO strategy session with our team. We'll look at your website, your current search visibility, and build you a custom plan to rank on Google and in AI search engines like ChatGPT and Perplexity so leads find you before they find your competitors. It's completely free, no obligation, just a real one-on-one game plan built around your business. We work with business owners who want more inbound leads without having to chase people down. If that's you, the link is in the comments and description, or go to goldie.agency

to book your free session now. And if you want the full step-by-step playbook for building AI voice workflows like every single one I just walked through, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. Right now inside, we're walking members through exactly how to set up Tavus and Sparrow 2 for lead qualification calls, member onboarding automation, and AI coaching intake. All the workflows I just showed you, built out with full SOPs and templates. We have four live coaching calls every week where you can show up, ask questions about your exact setup, and get it working. Business

owners inside already automating with tools like this. A prompt library packed with AI voice scripts and conversation flows you can plug straight in. Daily tutorials as these tools keep evolving. And a member map so you can find other business owners running Sparrow 2 and Taevas workflows near you and learn from people doing it live. Link in the comments and description, or go to AIprofitboardroom.com.