---
video_title: "This NEW Google AI Image Tool is WILD!"
video_id: Qb7A0a9xFzY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qb7A0a9xFzY
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google Pics: The New Game-Changing AI Tool Inside Google Docs
  
  Discover Google Pics, the revolutionary new AI image tool integrated directly into Google Workspace. Learn how to edit specific elements of your images without starting over, saving you hours of design time and growing your business.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Google's New AI Tool
  00:47 - The Problem with AI Image Tools
  01:02 - How Google Pics Fixes Everything
  01:33 - The Tech Behind Nano Banana
  02:41 - Google Docs & Slides Integration
  04:38 - Collaborative Real-Time Editing
  05:20 - Google Pics vs. Canva
  06:07 - How to Get Access
---
This new Google AI image tool is wild. Today, I'm going to show you a brand new AI tool that Google just dropped. It lets you edit AI pictures like magic without messing up the rest of the image. It lives right inside Google Docs, Slides, and soon Drive. This might be one of the biggest AI updates this year. And by the end of this video,

you'll know exactly how to use it to grow your business. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. While he's out there helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to give you the newest AI updates first. Julian reads every single comment, so drop one below. Today, we're talking about a new tool called Google Pix. Google just made it live for

everyone, and this one is different from any other AI image tool you've seen. Stick with me because the coolest part is coming up soon. So, here's the problem with most AI image tools. You type in a prompt, you get a picture back, it's almost perfect, but one tiny thing is wrong. Maybe a cup is in the wrong spot, maybe the text is spelled wrong. So, what do you do? You start all

over again. You type a new prompt and hope for the best. That's annoying, and it wastes so much time. Google Pix fixes this. Instead of making you start over, it lets you click on just one part of the picture and change only that part.

Everything else stays exactly the same. So, if you have a coffee cup on the left side of an image, you can just grab it and move it to the right side. The table stays the same. The background stays the same. Only the cup moves. That's a huge

deal because now AI images feel less like luck and more like something you actually control. This tool is powered by something called Nano Banana. That's Google's image technology working behind the scenes. Google has already said that more than 50 billion images have been made using Nano Banana across their products. So, this isn't some small experiment. This is a huge deal that

Google has been building for a while. Nano Banana is the brain. Google Pix is the tool you actually use to work with that brain. Now, here's where it gets even better. You can open Google Pix by going to pics.new. You can type in a

prompt like create a professional banner for my community called AI Profit Boardroom and it will give you a few different versions to pick from. You don't just get one image, you get options. Then you pick the one you like best and start editing it from there. Let's make this real for you. Say you run a business and you want a new graphic to promote your community or your offer. You could type something

like create a clean modern banner that shows business owners saving time and getting more customers through AI automation. Then Google pics gives you a few versions. You pick your favorite, then you click on any part you don't like like the color of the background or the placement of the text and change just that piece. You end up with a professional looking graphic in minutes without hiring a designer and without touching complicated software. Now here's an open loop for you because I haven't even told you the wildest part yet. This tool doesn't just live on its

own website. Google built it straight into the tools you probably already use every day. Before I show you that part, let's take a quick break. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Tools like Google pics are moving fast and it's easy to feel like you're falling behind if you're not using them the right way. Inside the AI Profit

Boardroom, we walk you through exactly how to use tools just like this one to create better marketing, save hours of your week and bring in more customers all without needing any design or tech skills. It's a community built for business owners who want to actually use AI not just hear about it. And once your visuals and your offer are looking sharp, the next question is always are people actually finding you on Google? That's where my team comes in. If you want help making sure your content, your site and your brand actually show up when people search for what you do, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll

take a look at where you're at right now and show you exactly what's holding your rankings back so you're not just creating great content, you're making sure people can actually find it. Okay, now back to the wild part. Google Pix is built right into Google Docs and Google Slides. So, if you're writing a document or building a slide deck and you have an image in there, you can click on that image and edit it with Pix without ever leaving the page. No downloading, no opening a different app, no exporting and re-uploading. You just click, edit,

and keep working. Google is also adding this to Google Drive soon, so you'll be able to open almost any picture saved in your Drive and edit it the exact same way. Think about what that means if a business. Let's say you're building a slide deck to pitch your new offer, and one of your images just isn't quite right. Normally, you'd have to stop, open another program, fix the image, save it, and bring it back in. With this

tool, you just click the image inside your slide and fix it right there. That saves you so much time, especially if you're a small team trying to move fast. Here's another thing worth mentioning. Google Pix also lets you and your team work on the same image together, kind of like how you can work on a Google Doc together. You can share a link, invite someone to look at your image, and make changes together in real time. So, if

you have a team helping you with marketing or content, everyone can jump into the same graphic and get it done faster, instead of sending files back and forth over email. There's also multiple sizes and quality options built in. You can upscale your image to a higher quality, which is great if you're using it for something like a printed flyer or a big presentation screen instead of just a small social media post. You can crop it to fit different formats, too. So, the same image can work as a square post, a wide banner, or a vertical story without you having to make three separate versions from scratch.

Now, people online are already comparing this to Canva, and I get why. But, here's the real difference. Canva is still mostly about you building something piece by piece. You're picking templates, dragging elements around, and putting the design together yourself. Google Pix flips that around. You

describe what you want, it builds it for you, and then you go in and fine-tune just the small pieces that aren't quite right. It's less like designing from scratch and more like directing an assistant who already built you a solid first draft. So, who is this actually good for? If you're a business owner trying to make marketing graphics without hiring a designer, this is for you. If you're running social media and need fresh images fast, this is for you.

If you're building presentations or pitch decks for clients, this is for you. Basically, if you've ever needed a good-looking image but didn't have the time or design skills to make one, this tool was built with you in mind. Now, before we wrap up, here's something important. This isn't available to absolutely everyone yet. Google is rolling this out slowly. It's currently

available if you're on Google AI Pro, Google AI Ultra, or certain Google Workspace business and education plans. So, if you go to pix.new and don't see it right away, don't panic. Google said the rollout could take a couple of weeks to reach everyone, so just check back if it's not showing up for you yet. If I had to sum up why this update matters, it's this. AI image tools used to only

be good at making a picture. The hard part was always fixing that picture afterward. Google just solved that problem by letting you edit the exact piece you want changed, keep everything else the same, and do it all inside the tools you already use for work. That's a bigger deal than it sounds like because it means AI-made images finally feel like something you can control instead of something you have to hope turns out right. So, that's Google Pix, a new AI image tool that lets you generate images, move and change individual parts of them, fix and translate the text inside them, and do it all right inside Google Docs, Slides, and soon Drive. If

you want to try it yourself, head to pix.new and see if it's live on your account yet. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. This is exactly the kind of update we break down for you inside the community. How to take a brand new AI tool like Google Pix and actually use it to create real marketing assets, save hours of manual work, and bring in more customers step-by-step without needing to be a designer or a tech expert. If you've been wanting to

use AI to grow your business but don't know where to start, this is the place. And once you've got your visuals and your offer looking great, the last piece of the puzzle is making sure people can actually find you. So, if you want help getting your content and your site found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team using the link in the description. We'll walk through your current setup together and show you exactly what's holding you back from showing up higher in search. So, all this great content you're creating actually gets seen. Drop a comment below

and let Julian know what you think of this and what AI update you want us to cover next. See you in the next video.