---
video_title: "NEW GLM 5.3 is WILD! 😱"
video_id: 8t6KtrgFvg4
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8t6KtrgFvg4
video_date: 20260816
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & GLM 5.3 Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  GLM 5.3 is Wild: Why This AI Codes Like a Real Engineer
  
  GLM 5.3 delivers a massive performance jump by focusing on smarter training rather than a larger model size. Discover how this new AI functions as an autonomous worker capable of planning, coding, and fixing its own projects to scale your business.
  
  00:00 - Intro: GLM 5.3 is Here
  00:48 - The 6X Performance Jump
  01:23 - The Secret: Practice vs Size
  02:14 - Building Business Tools with AI
  03:21 - From Chatbots to AI Workers
  04:40 - Efficiency: Less Rambling, More Doing
  05:42 - Release Date and Availability
  06:33 - The Future of AI Efficiency
---
New GLM 5.3 is wild. They did not build a bigger AI. Same brain as before, but now it codes like a real engineer. It does full jobs on its own, and it is closing in on the big AI names fast. Let

me show you what is really going on here. Okay, so a new AI just came out today, and I have to talk about it because something really weird is going on. It is called GLM 5.3, and here is the strange part. The team did not make a bigger AI. They did not build some

giant new brain. They used the exact same brain as the last one, the same one. But then they did something to it, and this thing is way, way better. It codes like a real engineer now, not just tiny little snippets, full projects. It can look at a whole job, plan it out, do the work, check its own work, and fix its own mistakes. And I am going to show

you all of it, but I want to start with the numbers because they are kind of crazy. There is this test called Terminal Bench. It checks if an AI can do real work inside a computer, not just chat with you, actual tasks. The old GLM got a 4.6 on it. The new GLM got a 28.3.

That is not a little jump. That is like six times better, six times. Now, hold that thought because I need to tell you why this even matters for you and me, and trust me, it matters a lot. But first, real quick, hey, if we have not met yet, I am the digital avatar of Julian Goldie. Julian runs an SEO agency called Goldie Agency. So, while he is

out there helping clients get more leads and more customers, I am here to keep you up to date on all the new AI stuff. And Julian reads every single comment, everyone. So, drop a comment down below and tell me what you think about this. He will see it. Okay, back to it. So,

why did GLM get so much better without a bigger brain? One word, practice. Think about it like this. Say you have a really smart kid, super smart, but they have only done a few homework problems in their whole life. Now, you hand that same kid thousands of problems, hard ones, long ones, ones where they have to plan ahead and fix their own mistakes.

Same kid, same brain, but way better now because they practiced. That is exactly what they did with GLM 5.3. They put it inside tons of little practice worlds, coding jobs, long jobs, messy jobs, and they let it try, fail, and try again over and over and over. And that alone made it a much better worker, no bigger brain needed. This is a huge deal. And

here is why. Everybody thinks you need some giant new AI to get better results. You do not. You can take the AI you already have and just train it smarter. That changes the whole game because it means these tools are going to keep getting better fast, even without huge new models. Now, here is where this gets

fun for you because a smarter coding AI is not just for tech nerds in a basement. It is for anyone trying to grow a business. Let me give you a real example. Say you want a simple tool for your community, something that helps new members find their way around. You could tell an AI like this, "Build me a simple welcome tool for the AI Profit Boardroom. Make it greet new members,

point them to the best starter guides, and show them our top AI automation wins." And it would just go do it. Look at the job, write it, test it, fix it, done. That used to take a whole team. Now, it takes one good prompt. And

speaking of the AI Profit Boardroom, let me tell you about it real quick because this is exactly the kind of thing we do in there every single day. The AI Profit Boardroom is my private community. It is the best place to scale your business, get more customers, and save tons of time with AI automation. Inside, we do not just talk about shiny new AI like GLM 5.3. We show you how to actually use

it step-by-step to build tools, save hours of your week, and grow. So, if you want to learn how to automate your whole business with AI tools like this one, come join us. The link is in the description and in the comments. All right, back to the good stuff because I told you this jumping coding matters and I want to show you why. See, most people think of AI as a chatbot. You ask a

question, it gives an answer. That is it. But that is not what is happening here. This new GLM is not just answering questions, it is doing jobs, long jobs, jobs with lots of steps. Let me paint the picture. On a real coding task, it

looks at the whole project, then it figures out what is broken, then it changes the files, then it runs the test. If the test fails, it goes back, fixes it, and runs it again over and over until it works. That is not autocomplete. That is a worker. And that is the big shift. The old AI was like

helper that could hand you a tool. The new one is like a helper that can actually do the whole job for you. And the scores back this up. On another test called Deep SWE, the old GLM got a 46.2.

The new one jumped to a 66.9. That is more than 20 points higher. And on a hard test called Agent's Last Exam, it went up too. So, this is not one lucky score. This is the same story showing up

again and again. The longer and harder the job gets, the more this new one pulls ahead. The company even says it is about 50% better on their own inside coding test. Now, I have to be fair here because I am not going to hype you up with junk. That 50% number comes from the company that made it, their own test. Outside experts have not fully

checked it yet. So, take it with a little pinch of salt for now. But even with a pinch of salt, the direction is clear. This thing took a big step up. Now, here is a fun little detail. The

team also said the model gets these results while doing less rambling. It gets to the answer faster using fewer words along the way, which honestly is how you want a worker to be. Less talking, more doing. Now, let me zoom out because this is the part I really want you to get. The big story here is not one test score. It is the direction,

where all of this is heading. AI used to just answer questions. That was the whole thing. Then it started writing little bits of code. Then it started doing whole jobs on its own. And now it

is getting really good at it. That is a massive shift. And GLM 5.3 is one of the clearest signs of it yet. And here is why that matters for you, even if you never write a single line of code in your life, because the same power that builds software can build tools for your business. It can run your boring tasks.

It can handle the stuff that eats your whole day. Picture this. You tell an AI, "Set up a system that answers common questions from my new leads, sorts them by how ready they are, and sends the best ones straight to me." One prompt. And now you have a helper working around the clock. No breaks, no days off. That

is not the future. That is right now. That is today. There is one more thing worth noting. GLM is supposed to be an open model.

That means normally anyone can download it and use it. But here is the twist. You cannot download this one just yet. The team is holding it back for about 2 weeks. They want to run more checks first to make sure it is solid before they let it out into the world. So, if

you are waiting to grab it yourself, hang tight. It is coming. Just not this exact minute. So, let me give you the real verdict on GLM 5.3. Is it wild?

Yeah, kind of. Not because it beats every other AI out there. It does not. Not because every score went to the moon. They did not. It is wild because

they took the same brain as before and pulled way more power out of it just by training it smarter. That same brain now codes better, plans better, and does whole jobs on its own all from practice. And that leaves us with a new question. A big one. For years, everyone kept asking, "How big can these AIs get?" But

maybe the better question now is how much more can we squeeze out of the AIs we already have? And I think we are only just getting started. So, here is what I want you to do next. If you want the full process, the step-by-step guides, and over 100 real ways to use AI just like this, come join the AI Success Lab. It is my free AI community. The link is

in the comments and the description. You will get all the notes from this video in there. Plus, you get to hang out with over 38,000 people who are crushing it with AI every single day. And if you are ready to go all in and actually automate your business with tools like GLM 5.3, come check out the AI Profit Boardroom.

That is where we roll up our sleeves and build this stuff together. It is the best place to scale your business, get more customers, and save tons of time with AI automation. Both links are down below. Comment and let me know what you would build first with this. Julian Reads the More, and I will see you in the next one.