---
video_title: "Here's How to Make Hermes Agent 100x Better! 🤯"
video_id: sbDpBatlPNY
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sbDpBatlPNY
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  
  10 AI Skills to Make Hermes Run Your Business (100x Better)
  
  Learn how to transform Hermes into a full business operating system using 10 specialized skills for SEO, outreach, and video production. Julian Goldie shares the exact automation workflows and the Agent OS dashboard used to scale his community automatically.
  
  00:00 - Intro: 100x Your AI Agent
  01:04 - How AI Skills Work
  01:43 - Skill 1: Memory Vault (Obsidian)
  03:03 - Skill 2: Hyperframes Video Production
  04:05 - Inside the Agent OS Dashboard
  05:27 - Skill 3: Oracle Trend Tracking
  06:06 - Skill 4: Muse Content Gaps
  06:46 - How to Get the Agent OS Zip
---
Make Hermes agent 100 times better. I gave Hermes 10 skills and now it runs my entire business while I'm not at my desk. Content creation, SEO, outreach, video production, lead generation, all of it. Running automatically through one agent with one set of instructions. That's what this video is about and I want to be clear up front. This isn't

about making Hermes smarter. The model is already smart. This is about teaching it how your business works because the difference between Hermes as a general AI and Hermes as your actual business operating system, that gap is a skill file. So let me walk you through the exact 10 skills I use every single day and I'll show you real examples using the AI profit boardroom as the use case because every single one of these skills contributes to growing that community. These aren't abstract demos. This is a

real system running a real business. Let's start from the beginning. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie reads every comment so make sure you comment below.

A skill inside Hermes is just a text file. Plain English. It lives in your skills folder. You write down exactly how you want a task done and the agent follows it every single time. No code required. You're writing instructions

the same way you'd write a recipe or a standard operating procedure. Once you write it once, the agent repeats it perfectly 100 times, 1,000 times without getting tired, without forgetting a step, without needing to be told again. That's the compounding effect of skills. Skills also aren't locked to Hermes. The same skill files work with other agents too, but I'm using Hermes for these 10 because it keeps memory across sessions and it comes with a huge range of built-in tools already baked in. Now

let's get into the actual skills. Skill number one is the memory vault. This is the foundation that makes everything else possible. I connected Hermes directly to my Obsidian vault. It can read notes, search through them, create new ones and update old ones. So when

Hermes finishes a task, it writes what it did into a memories folder inside the vault. Most agents have some built-in memory, but they forget the details, and the details are what matter. Which idea got approved, which version of a message worked, which workflow we already tried and dropped, which coaching call topic got the most engagement from members. The vault holds all of that in plain text files you own on your machine. So, the next time any agent opens up, it reads the vault first and picks up exactly where you left off.

For the AI Profit Boardroom, I have Hermes log which weekly coaching call topics generated the most questions, which tutorial topics members keep requesting, and which onboarding steps people get stuck on. Every time something important happens, it gets logged. That becomes a living document of what's actually working inside the community. One example prompt, log today's most asked questions from the coaching call into the AI Profit Boardroom memories folder, tag them by topic, and flag anything that came up more than once. One sentence, done. And

tomorrow every agent in the system knows exactly which topics are hot. Skill number two is hyperframes, and this is where it gets visually interesting. Hyperframes turns a text description of a video into an actual finished video. Instead of using a timeline or editing software, you describe your video as a simple webpage. Text here, image there, this scene then that scene. Hermes

writes that page, hyperframes converts it into a composed, edited video. The reason this works so well is that a webpage is just text. Agents are excellent at writing text, so Hermes can produce an entire video by writing a file. Change one line, the video changes. No editing software, no dragging clips around a timeline. For

the AI Profit Boardroom, I give Hermes a topic like this week's biggest AI automation win from inside the community. It writes the scenes, the narration, the full structure. Hyperframes turns it into a video. It can even generate AI avatar videos using the same system. The whole production pipeline from idea to watchable content runs through text. And I want to pause

here for a second because I know some of you are already thinking, where do I actually get all of this? What you're looking at right now is my Agent OS. This is the full dashboard I've built. Hermes, all 10 skills, Oracle, Muse, the guide machine, the Kanban fleet, the video system, the outreach system, all wired together one interface you can open from anywhere. And here's the part I want to make really clear. You can get

the full Agent OS as a zip file ready to install inside the AI Profit Boardroom right now. Not a tutorial on how to build it yourself from scratch, the actual zip file. You install it, you open the dashboard, and you're running the same system you're watching in this video. On top of that, we have a complete 30-day roadmap specifically built around getting your Agent OS live and using it to grow your business, getting more leads, more customers, more content out the door automatically. Four coaching calls every week, daily tutorials, a prompt library built around these exact workflows. Link in the

description or go to AIProfitBoardroom.com. And if you want that free SEO strategy session I mentioned earlier, where we build you a custom game plan for ranking your website on Google and AI search, go to goldie.agency or hit the link in the description to book your free session. We'll look at your site, your content, your competitors, and tell you exactly what needs to happen to get you ranking and getting traffic consistently. Completely

free, book it now while spots are open. Skill number three is Oracle, and this one runs on a schedule. Oracle watches what's trending across the web. It pulls in what people are talking about right now, finds topics worth covering, and writes content from those topics straight to my website while the trends are still fresh. I don't have to notice the trend, I don't have to write the content. The skill runs on its own clock

on whatever schedule I set. For the AI Profit Boardroom, Oracle runs every morning. It finds the most talked about AI automation tools and updates, identifies which are most relevant to our members, and queues up content ideas. By the time I sit down to record, the research is already done. Setting a schedule in Hermes is one line in a text file. That's it. Skill number four is

Muse. If Oracle looks outward, Muse looks inward. Muse analyzes everything you've already published. It looks at your existing content, finds keywords hiding inside it, spots what's performing well, and identifies gaps. Things you haven't covered yet that your audience clearly wants. For the AI

Profit Boardroom, I feed Muse our YouTube videos, coaching call transcripts, tutorial titles, and newsletter subjects. Then I ask it, "What topics keep coming up that we haven't made a full tutorial about yet? Where are members asking questions we don't have a guide for? What existing content is almost ranking that we should go deeper on?" That gives me a content roadmap built from actual evidence. 10

skills, one system, one agent that grows with your business. Look, what you've been watching this entire video is my Agent OS in action. This is the actual dashboard, the actual system. And you can get the full thing as a ready-to-install zip file inside the AI Profit Boardroom right now. Not a guide on how to build something like it. The

exact zip file. You install it, open the dashboard, and you're running the same Agent OS you've been watching this whole video. Memory Vault, Oracle, Muse, Kanban Fleet, Guide Machine, Video System, Outreach Skill, all of it wired together. We also have a complete 30-day roadmap built specifically around using your Agent OS to get more leads and grow your business with AI automation. Four coaching calls every week where we go deep on how to use these exact skills.

Daily tutorials, a prompt library, and a member map so you can connect with people near you who are already running the system. Over 3,600 business owners in there right now. Link in the description, or go to AI Profit Boardroom.com to get the Agent OS zip file and get started today. And if you want that free SEO strategy session I mentioned earlier, where we build you a custom game plan for ranking your website on Google and AI search, go to goldie.agency

or hit the link in the description to book your free session. We'll look at your site, your content, your competitors, and tell you exactly what needs to happen to get you ranking and getting traffic consistently. Completely free. Book it now while spots are open.