---
video_title: "Claude Watermarks + Hermes + Agent OS (AI Q&A)"
video_id: cuf10qwot1s
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cuf10qwot1s
video_date: 20260812
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Claude + Hermes Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Claude Watermarks Explained & Best Hermes AI Models
  
  Learn how Claude's new invisible watermarks work and how to effectively remove them from your content. We also dive into the best AI models for Hermes and how to organize a messy Obsidian second brain using the PARA framework.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:39 - Claude Invisible Watermarks
  02:34 - How to Remove Watermarks
  03:39 - Best Models for Hermes
  04:47 - How to Change Models
  05:49 - Cleaning Up Your Obsidian Brain
  07:19 - Agent OS & Remote Access
  08:31 - AI Community & Coaching
---
Claude watermarks, Hermes, and Agent OS. Today, we're answering the biggest AI questions everyone is asking right now. By the end of this video, your whole setup is going to be smarter and way more powerful. First, Claude just dropped a huge update and visible watermarks are now hiding inside your content. I'll show you exactly what keeps a mark, what removes it, why you don't need to panic. Then, I'll reveal

the exact models I'd run Hermes on today, a fast one, a powerful one, and a free one that runs right on your own computer. I'll also be talking about Obsidian as well. I'd stick with me today because I'll show you how your Agent OS lets you run your entire team of agents from your phone. Let's get into it. So, the first question that we had was about watermarks. And basically,

Claude recently announced that they're going to add watermarks new models released after the 2nd of August and due to the new EU Act. And Morgan asks, "How does everyone feel about the recent news about Claude adding watermarks? I don't quite understand what it looks like in practice. What if, for example, we just voice transcribe in Claude, which is a great question." So, basically, if you were just voice transcribing in Claude and you use Claude to generate the content, the way that I understand it, and I think there's a lot of like gray areas here that aren't explained fully, but the way that I understand it is that actually it would put a watermark on anything that's added. So, for example,

even if like you wrote a human article and then you ask Claude to apply edits, it would still have a watermark inside the content that means that it's got edits, which means that if there's a watermark on Claude content, that doesn't necessarily mean it's AI-generated because there's going to be signals where it looks like it's AI-generated from watermark, but in actuality, it isn't. I also expect like there's going to be a bunch of tools that help remove the watermark. I can see that coming in the future, too. Some things to note in terms of what keeps a mark and what doesn't with these Claude watermarks. So, the first one is that if it's just copied and pasted straight out of Claude, untouched, then it would keep the mark. If it was like a super long

post, very easy for Claude to add the watermark and therefore it would show up much. If, for example, you had a draft and then you sent it through the grammar fixes, so if you use Claude as like a grammar fixer, I actually think that would come out as well, so that's kind of harsh. And then also if you, for example, copied and pasted Claude into a document, into a blog, into an email, it still had the watermark inside it. Now, apparently, according to the guidelines that Claude released on this, rewritten content heavily in your own words should remove the watermark. Also, it's very hard for Claude to add a watermark to short content. So, if it's

just like a two-line social media content post, that's not really going to have a watermark inside of it either. Older models, from what I saw on the post before the 2nd of August 2026, wouldn't have this change on them. So, for example, if you're using Fable 5 now, I wouldn't expect that to have the watermark inside it, but I know they are trying to figure out a way to apply it retroactively. And then also, if you had a file with the watermark inside it, that could be, for example, reformatted or converted in a way where it doesn't have the watermark as well. I think the main thing to know is like the mark system really is not a big deal. I don't

feel great about it, but also I know that, for example, like Gemini's had this for a couple of years anyway. And also, if you're doing something like SEO, it's not a big deal because Google have already said, like, doesn't matter if it's AI-generated content or not. And also, I think social media's the same, like, it doesn't matter whether it's AI or not. What matters is the the quality of the content itself, the people actually like it. So, that's the angle that I try to focus on. Robert was

asking, you know, what's everyone using for their models? Just curious how everyone has the Hermes and agents set up for models and that sort of thing. So, they're trying to decide what's the best way to set up Hermes and the Hermes team? So, for me personally, I really liked Qwen 3.8. If you're looking for a

local model, depending on your setup, you can see for example, Michael recommends Qwen 3.6 35B. That depends if you've got like an RTX. So, they've got an RTX 5060. For me personally, I would recommend Qwen 3.8 max if you're willing

to use an API. That's like a frontier model that's pretty fast. And also, DeepSeek v4 flash is really, really good with Hermes, like fast, responsive, reasonable right now. They'll probably change the price in the future. But, I think those are two good options. And

then, for local models, the only one that I've seen that's half decent on like a normal setup, like a Mac Studio for example, is using LFM 2.5 2.6B. That was like the fastest, most responsive, and actually useful API. And then, you've also got stuff like Kimiko 3, which is a bit slow right now. If you

have to pick one, I would go with Qwen 3.8 max. And for anyone watching, like if you want to change the model that you have working on Hermes, you can just type Hermes model inside your terminal or go to Hermes dashboard, and you can change the model from there. Depends as well what you're doing, right? So, if it's like a fast everyday model, you want to go for speed, DeepSeek v4 flash is pretty good. If you want a coding

model, frontier, something like Qwen 3.8 is pretty good. For a bulk worker, free local model like LFM 2.5 2.6B is pretty good. And then also, if you want like a

reviewer or a quality controller, then I'd actually go with like something that just disagrees or it's a different model to your main one. And that could be for example, DeepSeek versus GLM 5.2. It could be Kimiko 3 versus Grok 4.5.

Whatever you prefer to use. But, overall, I'd go with DeepSeek for fast or Qwen 3.8 for frontier. By the way, if you want me to answer these sort of questions for you, create a personalized video tutorial for you, like I'm doing today, feel free to post inside the AR Profit Warm community. Link in the comments description or just go to the arprofitwarm.com to get access and for

me to create personalized video tutorials for you like this. So, we've got a question from Michael and this is how do you clean up a messy second brain? So, they say, "My setup, Obsidian plus Graphify, connected to my AI agents, has got messy over time. Too many notes, unclear links. My agents don't always pull the right contacts anymore when I hand them a task. The

result is inconsistent output depending on what they happen to find. Has anyone successfully cleaned up and restructured a second brain that outgrew itself without losing the history?" So, this actually happened to me. One thing that I'd recommend is that you go and I really into Claude Desktop and then you can ask Claude to clean up your Obsidian memory and organize it. Now, one framework that I like to use when it comes to organizing Obsidian is PARA, P A R A, and that just helps organize your notes into something a bit more tidy and a bit more beautiful, right? And then

also, don't ask it to delete anything, just ask it to put it inside archive so you've still got a backup if you need to come back to it. So, for example, projects, areas, resources, and archive, that's a very good way, PARA, to organize your whole setup. And then you can ask Claude to just gradually fix the links and that sort of thing. One thing that works really well as as well, you can give the documentation of Obsidian and how it works into Claude and just say, "Based on this documentation and based on my notes that I currently have and based on the PARA framework that you already understand, can you organize and filter my notes so it's just much cleaner and easier and faster for my agents to organize?" And that makes everything easier. Now, we've got

another question from Jay, who's a legendary member of the AI Profit Forum. Shout out to Jay. Now, one problem he's actually facing is that he's running Omni Root and he's running it with the Agent OS. If you're not sure what an Agent OS is, here's an example. So, it's basically like all your agents plug into one system in one place and then, you know, you can use this on Tailscale remotely with your phone or whatever and you can have your agents working together. Now, Omni Root is running on a

local host, which means that if you run Omni Root, but you're trying to run it in the cloud, I think it'll be very difficult, as far as I'm aware. Now, I don't use Windows personally, so I'm probably not the best person to ask when it comes to Windows, but I did ask the agent that set it up to come up with some ideas, and I've detailed that for you on this guide. So, it's recommended some steps. Again, I don't use Windows, so I'm not like 100% an expert on this, but that could be something to check out, and I'll leave a link for you. Bear in mind, as far as I'm aware, Omni Root is local, so it runs through a local host, and then if you're trying to connect that local to Tailscale and use it from separate devices, you'd probably have to use Omni Root on the VPS, if that makes sense. But, I'm not 100%

certain on that. Again, WSL experts, help me out here. So, that's basically it for all the questions today. If you want me to answer your questions personally with video tutorial I've seen today. Also, what I do is I link to the video tutorial, and then I also break down the questions and the answers into a step-by-step like this, in case you don't have time to check it out. And

usually, I create a guide as well, so that you can just follow along, as you saw earlier. Inside the community, we've got loads of great people. There's people online 24/7 to help you whenever you need to. Inside the classroom, you get access to all of my best trainings, courses, tutorials, etc. Inside the calendar, you can jump on weekly coaching calls, share a screen, ask questions, and then in the map, you can meet people locally near you who are building with AI agents like these. Feel free to get this. Link in

the comments and description, or go to the airprofitbombs.com and watch the video.