---
video_title: "New Qwen 3.8 Max Update Is SCARY GOOD!"
video_id: NvhLL0YhIUc
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NvhLL0YhIUc
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Alibaba’s Qwen 3.8 Max Update: The AI That Works for 10 Days Straight
  
  Alibaba just released the Qwen 3.8 Max 0902 update, shifting AI from a tool you ask questions to an autonomous agent that can manage 10-day projects alone. This 2.4 trillion parameter model is outperforming humans in complex coding challenges and long-horizon strategic planning.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  01:05 - The Power of Post-Training
  01:37 - 2.4T Parameters & 1M Context
  02:40 - 10 Days of Autonomous Coding
  04:02 - Outperforming Human Researchers
  06:01 - Defining Cowork & Strategy
  07:44 - Benchmarks vs GPT-5 & Claude
  11:58 - Open Source Weights Released
---
New Quen 3.8 Max update is scary good. Alibaba just pushed an update to their biggest AI model. It's called Quen 3.8 Max 0902. It went live today. And before

I tell you what changed, I want to tell you what this model did back in August because it explains why anyone cares. They entered it into a real competition, a machine learning challenge from WW2025. 526 human teams were in it. Real people, real deadlines, real submissions. They gave the AI 24 hours, no human help. It read the competition

rules by itself. It wrote all the code by itself. It trained the models, tested them, checked the score, then went back and fixed things. It made 45 separate submissions, each one a little better than the last. Its accuracy climbed from 60% to 85.3%. It finished ahead of 458

of those 526 human teams, top 13%. That was the old version. Today, they made it better. So, here's what actually happened this morning. Alibaba took the model they already had and put it through a fresh round of training. It's

called post training. Think of it like this. The base model already read everything. Post-training is the part where you teach it how to actually do a job well. And they focused this round on two things. Coding and something they

call co-work. I'll explain co-work in a minute because that word matters more to you than the coding part does. The specs stayed the same. 2.4 trillion parameters, 1 million context tokens.

Let me put that in plain English because those numbers sound like nothing until you turn them into something real. 2.4 trillion parameters is the size of the model's brain. It's the biggest thing Alibaba has ever built. But here's the clever bit. It only wakes up about 95

billion of those at a time. It's called mixture of experts. Picture a hospital with 2,000 doctors on staff. You walk in with a broken arm. They don't call all 2,000. They call the bone guy. Same

idea. Big brain. Small slice of it used per question. So it stays fast. 1 million context tokens means it can hold about 750,000 words in its head at once.

That's the whole Harry Potter series. All seven books in one go. And it can still answer questions about page four. Now, here's what that means for you. You could take every single AI profit boardroom coaching call transcript from the last year, paste the whole lot in, and ask it to pull out the 20 questions members ask over and over in one shot.

No chopping it up. But the big number isn't the brain size, it's the time. Because there are three things this model did that I still think about, and each one is stranger than the last. Let's start with the first one. Alibaba gave it an empty folder. Not a

half-built project, empty. And they asked it to build a working command line tool called Oh my CLI completely on its own. It ran for over 10 days straight. And it didn't just write code. It built itself a system for managing its own work. It set up a job queue. Each task

moved through stages, ready, then claimed, then active. It ran its own tests. It checked its own results. When something broke, it caught it and went back. When a piece passed all the checks, it merged it in and moved to the next thing. 10 days, nobody watching. It

ran the whole project like a small team would. A year ago, most AI tools fell apart after about 30 minutes of working alone. They'd lose the thread, forget what they were doing, start repeating themselves. 10 days without a human is a completely different thing. And that leads into the second one, which honestly is the one that got me. They

handed it a research paper, a real one called unified data selection for LLM reasoning. The paper answers a practical question. If you've got way more training data than you can afford to use, which bits do you keep? They gave the AI the paper and some computers. That's it. No starter code, no template,

nothing. The task was two parts. First, rebuild the papers, experiment from scratch, then try to beat it. It worked alone for about 5 days. 125 hours of straight effort. It wrote

roughly 7,600 lines of code. It took over, 1100 separate actions. It ran 33 full rounds of training. And it beat the original paper's result by 2.71 points.

Sit with that for a second. Human researchers wrote that paper. This thing rebuilt their work from nothing and then improved on it on its own over 5 days. That's why they call this a long horizon model. Most AI tools are good at short jobs. Answer a question, write an email,

fix a bug. This one is built for jobs that take days. Quick thing before I get into what this means for normal work. If you're sitting there thinking, "Okay, this sounds powerful, but how do I actually point something like this at my own business?" That's the whole thing we do inside the I Profit Boardroom. We've

got a full 30-day road map built around setting up AI agents like Quen 3.8 Max. How to connect it, how to feed it your own documents and transcripts, how to set up long jobs that keep running while you're asleep, four coaching calls every single week where you can bring your actual setup and get it fixed live. Daily step-by-step tutorials on new models like this one as they land. And 2,800 business owners already in there testing these agents on real work, lead follow-ups, customer questions, content, all of it. Link in the comments and

description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com. And if you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody is finding it online, you've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank.

And most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in the comments and description below. Right back to it. So, let's talk about

that word co-work. Alibaba named this whole release a new bar for coding and co-work. Coding is obvious. Co-work is the interesting half and it's the half most people are skipping past. Co-work means normal work, office work, the stuff you and I do. Alibaba's phrase for

it was production quality deliverables across hundreds of professions. And they gave two examples that show what long actually means to them. 500 plus turns of chip design work and 365 days of e-commerce strategy planning, a full year of strategy planned out and adjusted step by step. So for you, that's something like handing it your whole customer support inbox and asking it to build a proper help dock from the questions that keep coming up or asking it to map out a full year of content for the AI profit boardroom, what to post, when, and how each piece connects to the next one. That's the shift here. This

isn't a tool for asking questions anymore. It's a tool for handing over projects. Now, let me be fair because I don't want to oversell this. A lot of the numbers Alibaba published are Alibaba's own numbers. They ran the test themselves. That's normal in this

industry. Everybody does it, but you should know it. And there's a funny detail. For a lot of the coding tests, they ran their model inside Anthropic's Claude code tool, which tells you something about which tools people actually use. And the model has real weak spots. On humanity's last exam,

that's a hard general knowledge test. Quen 3.8 Max scored 43.6. Claude Fable 5 got 53.3. GPT 5.6 Soul got 47.2. Quen

came last out of the four big models. That's a real gap. On S.Bench Pro, which tests fixing bugs in real software projects, it got 67.6. 7. Fable 5 got

80, 12 points behind. On Deepswe, another coding test, it got 56.6. Gemini 5 got 70. GPT 5.6 Soul got 73. So, it's

not the best at everything. Anyone telling you it is hasn't looked at the table. And there's one more piece that matters. Alibaba open sourced this. The weights are out on Hugging Face, both the big version and a smaller 27 billion one under an Apache license, which means basically anyone can use it. That's the

first time Alibaba has open sourced their top tier model. So a company anywhere in the world can now run something in this class on their own machines. The gap right now isn't between people who are smart and people who aren't. It's between people who've learned to hand work to these things and people who haven't. That's it. That's

the whole gap. And it's a skill which means it can be learned and it's not that hard to learn. And the people who learn it this year are going to be operating on a completely different level to the people who learn it in two years. 10-day autonomous runs, 5day research projects, a year of strategy planned out in one sitting. That's live today. Not coming soon. The tools are

here. The question is whether you're using them. And that's the thing we're doing every day inside the AI profit boardroom. If you want to actually set this up properly, not just play with it in a browser, but point it at your business and leave it running, come join us. There's a 30-day road map in there built specifically around getting AI agents like Quen 3.8 Max working on your

customer follow-ups, your content, and your lead generation. Four coaching calls every week where you can share your screen, show us your setup, and get it fixed live. Daily tutorials walking you through new releases like this 0902. Update the moment they land. a prompt library built for exactly this kind of longrunning agent work. 2,800 business

owners already inside doing it and a member map so you can find people near you and meet up. There's always someone online. Link in the comments and description or go to apiprofitboardroom.com. If you're creating all this content with AI, but nobody's finding it online.

You've got a traffic problem. That's where SEO comes in. Great content means nothing if it's not built to rank and most businesses are sitting on content that nobody will ever see because the SEO side was never handled properly. That's exactly what my team focuses on every single day. Book a free SEO strategy session with my team and we'll walk you through what it actually takes to get your site ranking on Google and pulling in real traffic. The link is in

the comments and description below.