---
video_title: "Anthropic Just Gave AI Control of Real-World Machines"
video_id: Kt_cshGHGas
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kt_cshGHGas
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Anthropic just gave Claude control over real lab machines—microscopes, robotic arms, and quantum computer lasers—through a new Model Hardware Standard (MHS). See how AI now discovers, operates, and troubleshoots physical equipment with no custom code. Plus real results from Genentech, QuEra, and more.
  
  00:00  Intro – AI can now control real machines
  00:31  One-Shot Demo – Claude builds a landing page
  00:46  The Problem – Why lab devices can't talk
  01:18  What Is MHS – One driver for every device
  01:34  Model Agnostic – Works with MCP, any AI
  01:43  How It Works – Read/write commands explained
  02:08  Three Control Paths – MCP, CLI, code files
  03:09  Genentech – Automating a protein assay
  03:41  QuEra – 58% to 99.3% laser recovery
  04:40  UW – 6 instruments connected in a week
  05:02  Carnegie Mellon – Experiments 3x faster
  05:18  HHMI Janelia – 7 vendor apps unified
  05:27  Citizen Science – Real-time bubble fix
  05:58  The Limits – Why humans stay in the loop
  06:33  Who's Adopting – AWS, Hugging Face & more
  07:01  Research Preview – What comes next
---
Anthropic just gave AI control of real-world machines. Okay, what if I told you Claude can now touch real machines, not write code about them, not describe them, actually run them? Microscopes, robotic arms, lasers inside a quantum computer. Sounds made up, right? It's not, and almost nobody's talking about it yet. Hey, I'm the

digital avatar of Julian Goldie. I help people learn AI tools and actually use them in real work. Today, I want to walk you through something Anthropic just opened up called the Model Hardware Standard. What it can actually do right now. Quick example first. I asked

Claude, using its current model, to build me a landing page showcasing this exact announcement. I gave it almost nothing else. In one shot, it came back with a full dark-themed page, a hero headline, a live-looking device panel, and a breakdown of the integration problem, all styled and structured on its own. That's the same kind of reasoning Anthropic is now pointing at physical lab equipment. So, here's the problem MHS is solving. Right now, if a

lab or a factory wants two machines to talk to each other, that's a nightmare. A microscope doesn't speak the same language as a liquid handler. A robotic arm doesn't speak the same language as a laser system. Every device usually needs its own custom-built bridge, coded by a specialist, and that can take weeks or months to set up before you even add AI into the mix. The Model Hardware Standard, or MHS, is a shared specification that lets AI agents discover, operate, and troubleshoot physical equipment through one interface. Microscopes, liquid

handlers, robotic arms, lasers, all through the same standard driver instead of a new bridge for every device. And it's model agnostic, meaning any AI agent can access it through standard protocols like MCP. So, this isn't locked to one company's tools. Here's how it actually works. The driver uses simple commands like read, for example, get temperature, change to write, like set temperature. Any device can

understand those. It also makes each device discoverable automatically, so machines and agents can find each other without a translator program sitting in between. And information that used to live in paper manuals, like the weight of a robotic arm, can now be written directly into the driver in plain language, which the system turns into a reference file the agent uses to operate the device safely. Once everything's connected, the agent controls hardware through three paths, MCP, the command line, or code files acting like APIs, letting one agent orchestrate multiple devices at once. This is exactly the kind of shift that changes how a brand or a business needs to show up online, and that's where our free AI brand visibility session comes in. It's completely free, no obligation.

You get a custom visibility plan for your site. We show you exactly how you show up or don't show up across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini, plus a competitor gap analysis, and direct answers from a strategist about your setup. And if you want to go further than just watching from the sidelines, that's exactly what we cover inside the AI Profit Boardroom. Around news like this MHS launch, we're breaking down how agent-based workflows like built, running live coaching calls where members bring their own setup and get direct answers, and walking through how to apply this kind of agentic reasoning to whatever tools you're already using in your work. Now, let's get into where MHS has actually been tested, because Anthropic didn't just announce this in theory. At Genentech, researchers used

MHS to coordinate a liquid handler, a robotic arm, and a plate reader to automate a standard protein measuring assay. Claude ran trial transfers, checked the results, and tuned the flow rate for both a simple liquid and a thick, foam-prone protein sample until it matched an expert's benchmark. It also had to learn, with human guidance, that bubbles in the liquid were a physical problem, not a software bug, which shows these systems still need a person watching closely. Then there's QuEra, a company building quantum computers with neutral atoms. Their lasers have to hold an incredibly precise frequency, and when one drifts, it's called being unlocked. Normally, a

trained specialist needs 5 to 10 minutes to fix that by hand. QuEra had already spent months building an automated script for this, and it only [snorts] worked 58% of the time. They handed the same problem to Claude through MHS. Four agent roles ran overnight, one proposing fixes, one writing the code, one testing it against the live laser, one deciding what to try next. That loop repeated hundreds of times unattended. By

morning, recovery time dropped to around 6 seconds with a 96% success rate. In a later cold test across 700 trials, it succeeded 99.3% of the time. Claude also retuned 12 interdependent laser parameters, and over an extended run, the machine held its lock without dropping once, while the manual expert tune lost lock roughly 1.6 times an hour. Other teams saw similar results.

At the University of Washington, a researcher connected six lab instruments through MHS in under a week, work that used to take months. He also used it to remotely watch a qPCR reaction, a process that copies DNA through repeated heating and cooling cycles, letting the system flag the exact moment the reaction needed to stop instead of him standing at the bench for hours. At Carnegie Mellon, researchers ran dose-response experiments about three times faster, coordinating a liquid handler, plate reader, robotic arm, and cameras across three computers that couldn't normally talk to each other. And at HHMI Janelia, where MHS actually started as a collaboration with Anthropic, a researcher unified a microscopy rig that used to need seven separate vendor programs just to start one experiment. There's also a citizen science angle worth mentioning. A

company called Tetraswan Scientific used MHS to help run qPCR tests as part of a community project studying pollution in a California creek. When a camera spotted bubbles forming in a reagent held by a robotic arm mid-run, the system scanned the lab for other connected devices, and Claude suggested moving the sample to a centrifuge and briefly spinning it to clear the bubbles, then carried out that fix on its own. That's a real-time troubleshooting decision, not a pre-written response, and it's a good example of what MHS is actually built to handle. It's worth being honest about the limits here, too. Claude learns about the physical world through text and images, not by existing in it, so its physical reasoning still needs expert oversight. MHS also doesn't work

yet with hardware that has no programmable interface at all. And in these tests, Claude often paused and waited for human approval before doing anything even slightly risky, which meant some experiments sat overnight waiting on a person to say go ahead. Anthropic has been upfront that this is still early, and that's exactly why they're calling this a research preview rather than a finished release. Hardware companies are already lining up, too. Amazon Web Services is building MHS into its Trans Robots library. Tecan is

adding support for their liquid handling platforms. Universal Robots, Doosan Robotics, Qiagen, and Danaher are exploring or testing integrations. Hugging Face is adding it into Le Robot, and Raspberry Pi is rolling it into several of their products. Even software companies that don't build hardware themselves, like MBF Bioscience, are writing MHS drivers, so their existing tools can plug straight into this same system. Right now, this is a research preview, not a full public release.

Anthropic is working with this first group of labs and manufacturers to build safety evaluations before opening the whole standard up. If this is the kind of shift you want your own brand ready for, go book that free AI brand visibility session. It costs you nothing, and you walk away with a clear custom plan for how you show up across AI search right now. And if you want to keep learning tools like this the moment they drop, that's exactly what the AI Profit Boardroom is built for. It's a community of over 4,000 members learning these tools together in real time with live coaching calls, walkthroughs breaking down releases like this one the same week they happen, and roadmaps that turn an announcement like MHS into something you actually understand. Head

to ai.profitboardroom.com.