---
video_title: "Hermes Bot Mode DESTROYS Grok Bot? (FREE!)"
video_id: UcU3Ztwu7WI
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UcU3Ztwu7WI
video_date: 20260814
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Hermes Agent Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Hermes Bot Mode: The Free, Open Source Grokbot Alternative
  
  Hermes Bot Mode has launched, offering a free and open-source way to build your own roster of specialized AI agents. This video walks through how to set up custom personalities, choose specific AI models for every bot, and use bot-to-bot messaging to automate your business workflows locally.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Hermes Bot Mode Launch
  00:42 - What is Bot Mode?
  01:39 - Customizing AI Brains per Bot
  02:54 - Bot-to-Bot Messaging & Mentions
  05:32 - Automating with Scheduled Routines
  06:18 - How Bot Mode Works Under the Hood
  08:11 - Real World Use Cases
  11:32 - Final Comparison & Wrap-up
---
Hermes Botmode just launched. It's a free alternative to Grokbot. Tech Nym, the co-founder and lead engineer at Hermes Agent at News Research, released it today as a one-day public beta, so you can install it as a plugin, the community sends feedback, and then it ships inside the main Hermes desktop app for everyone. And when someone pointed out that this looks a lot like Grokbot, Tech Nym actually answered with three words, "That's the point." So, in this video, you're going to see what Botmode actually does, how it compares to Grokbot, and the setting buried in the advanced menu that almost nobody will notice, and it's the one that lets every single bot run a completely different AI brain. That last one matters more than

anything else in this release, and I'll show you why in a minute. So, first of all, what is Botmode? Well, up until today, Hermes Agent worked in sessions. You open a chat, you give the agent a task, it does the work. When you want a different kind of task done, you open another session. It works, but it gets

messy fast. Your inbox summary lives in one session. Your content research lives in another. Your competitor tracking lives in a third. And they all look the same, just a long list of chats with no faces, no names, no jobs. Botmode

actually flips that, so instead of a pile of sessions, you get a roster, a panel on the left side of your screen with named bots. Each bot has its own avatar, its own personality, its own chat, its own memory, and its own schedule. You click a bot, and you land in the chat like you're messaging a person on your team. And you can create a new bot in seconds, give it a name, a title, and a description of its job, and it's done. That bot now exists. And if

you already have agent profiles set up in Hermes, they automatically show up as bots the moment you install the plugin. So, you don't rebuild anything. Now, the part that I said I'd come to. When you create or edit a bot, there's an advanced section. Inside it, you can pin a specific model to that bot. So, your

research bot can run one model. Your writing bot can run another. Your inbox bot can run a small, fast, local model that lives on your own machine. So, every bot in your roster could think with a different brain, and you pick each one. That's the piece Grokbot doesn't really give you. So, Grokbot

runs on xAI's models inside xAI's cloud. It's their agents, their infrastructure, their rules. Hermes bot mode is actually open source under an MIT license. It's free, it runs on your own computer, and every bot can use whatever model you want. A big frontier model, a free model, a local model that never touched the internet, your choice per bot. And

each bot keeps its own separate memory. So, your research bot remembers what it researched, your content bot remembers your style, they don't blur together. Each one builds up its own history over time, just like a team member who's been in the role for months. We've already added it inside our Agent OS, and it's just fitted in really quickly. We can even change the sole MD file over here.

We can add the routines, and it's all ready to go. So, now let's talk about the features that make this more than just a pretty UI. So, the biggest one is bot-to-bot messaging. So, every bot has a persistent inbox called the agent inbox. Your bots can now send messages to each other. So, when a message

arrives, it shows up with attribution. So, the receiving bot knows exactly which agent sent it. And each bot's personality file teaches it the protocol, including how to reply. Then there's mentions as well. So, you can type an at sign and a bot's name in any chat. Something like, for example,

"@researcher, have a look at this." The bot you're talking to hands a message off to the researcher bot, waits for the answer, reports back to you in the same conversation. So, if you think about what that looks like in plain terms, you're chatting with the main bot about a blog post, you type "@researcher, pull the latest facts on this topic," and then your main bot passes over, the researcher does the digging with his own memory and its own model, sends the answer back, and your main bot folds into the draft. So, you watch one conversation right here, two agents did the work. Quick pause here, because this is exactly the kind of release we jump on inside the AI Profit Boardroom. So,

the moment Bot Mode dropped this morning, this became the road map. How to set up your bot roster, how to set up everything, and give jobs to each bot, and which model to use for which as well. We've already got this running inside our Agent OS, and we have loads of members inside the AI Profit Boardroom using Hermes Agent for follow-up, for content research, for inbox management, and the daily step-by-step tutorials will walk you through turning those exact setups into systems like this. You get four coaching calls a week where you can ask questions live about your own Hermes setup, plus you get the Agent Operating System, the zip file, the 30-day road map, and the video tutorial where you can plug Hermes right in next to Claude, next to Open Claude, and free Claude, so your bots aren't just stuck on an island. I've helped over 3,700 people inside there, and some of them never touched AI before they joined. Link in the comments and

description, or just go to the AI Profit Boardroom.com to get access. So, your agents can now talk to each other. It's really easy to orchestrate your agents together. You can tag agents, you can use the outside, you can have loads of different agents working together, you can change the models, and you can give special abilities to each bot as well.

And then, you can run workflows, for example, like you type researcher, your main bot runs, that runs on its own memory and model, and then it's folded into the draft. And the other thing I saw is like a lot of people were trying to do this themselves manually, and it was super messy, whereas now they can use this whole system, and someone actually cloned the whole Grok bot, so they took their existing Grok bot setup, the coordinate AI bot and all the worker bots underneath it, and had Hermes actually clone the whole structure into Bot Mode. So, the same team layout rebuilt on free open-source software they fully control, which is really cool. Now, every bot also gets its own routines panel, so routine is a recurring task on a schedule, so you can summarize my You can say, "Summarize my inbox every morning. Check my niche for new developments every day at noon."

Right? "Pull fresh content ideas every Monday." And you attach the routine to the bot whose job it is, and the results land in that bot's own chat history. So, you can see an example here. We can change the routines, we can add them, we can edit them. Super easy to set up. So,

when you wake up and click your inbox, for example, the morning summary is just sitting there waiting for you. Now, under the hood, these run on Hermes cron jobs, which is the built-in scheduler Hermes already had. So, nothing new was bolted on here, but that's actually the smartest design decision in this whole release because it tells you whether this thing will still work in 6 months. A bot in bot mode is just a Hermes profile. Profiles already existed before. Each profile is its own isolated

setup, its own config, its own memory, its own skills, its own credentials, its own chat history, all stored in its own folder on your machine. Now, bot mode is a new interface laid on top of that. So, there's no core patches, no background demons run on your computer, no extra storage system. Technium actually confirmed this itself when someone asked how this differs from profiles. It's just a new simplified experience for profiles. Why should you care about

that? Because plugins that basically try to find a get around around this are just going to break. But, this one can't break that way because it only uses the standard surface Hermes already exposes, right? It's the difference between, for example, a house built on the foundation and a tree house that's not using the system. It's already using the fundamental infrastructure that Hermes had with profiles, and it's not really a new feature, it's just putting it into a nice UI that looks very similar to Grokbot. Now, also what's interesting

here is every bot has a sole FD file. That's the personality file. So, it defines how the bot talks, what it cares about, how it behaves. So, you can write a custom one for each bot, and cloning copies everything. So, the config, the skills, the personality file, even the memory. So, if you've spent years, or

sorry, months or weeks training up a research bot that knows your business inside out, you can duplicate it and point the copy at a different project, and the new one starts with everything the original learned. And yes, the avatars are fun as well. So, each bot gets a little geometric face, seven shapes, 10 colors with blinking eyes that scan back and forth while the bot works. So, you can upload your own actual image, generate an AI portrait, or give a bot a pixel pet that bounces next to its avatar while it's busy. It's a little bit silly, but when you've got like six bots and three of them are mid-task, you can see at a glance who's working. And the eyes moving means work

is happening. It's a status light or personality. Now, here's how I'm actually using this. So, inside my Jetic operating system, already run named agents. So, for example, like Oracle, which is my competitor's Astros, pulls keyword and content ideas from our search data. Apollo handles voice. Now,

before today, those lived as separate profiles I'd hop between, but bot mode actually gives each of them a face, a chat, and a schedule sitting side by side in one panel. And now, Oracle could message Astros directly when it spots a competitor moving on a keyword. And that handoff used to be me personally, copying and pasting between windows. And if you're sitting there thinking, "That's nice for you, Julian. I'm not technical. I couldn't set this up."

That's exactly the belief I want to push on because the whole point of bot mode is removing the technical part. Creating a bot is just three simple clicks. You just click here, type in a few boxes, and you're good to go. You add the name, the title, description. The install is just copying one folder onto the machine where you run the desktop app. And after

this beta, you won't even have to do that because it ships built into the app. The people struggling with Hermes a year ago were writing config files by hand. The people using it today are clicking a button that says "New agent." That gap keeps shrinking every month, and it shrinks in your favor. And also, let me be straight with you about the limitations here. This is just a beta,

right? And it's not super smooth. So, it's just a a desktop plugin that has to be installed on the machine running the Hermes desktop app, not on your server. So, a bunch of early testers actually got confused by this. They installed it on their home server and saw nothing because it belongs on the laptop where the apps actually runs. And if your

homie's gateway lives on a VPS somewhere, that's fine. The desktop app connects to it remotely and technically I'm actually confirmed remote gateways work. Second, you can't put multiple bots in one group chat yet. So someone actually asked and the answer was not yet. So right now it's one bot per chat plus a message and a mentions between them. Third, bot-to-bot delivery isn't

instant interruption. So when one bot messages another, the receiving bot sees it in his inbox the next time it runs. It's not going to drop what it's doing mid-task to answer. Live interrupts are probably on the future list. And then fourth, deleting a bot isn't in the interface on purpose. I think they do

that from the command line instead. It's just a safety choice to stop you accidentally wiping a bot's memory with a misclick. Not only these are like big things, they're just rough edges of software that went from ideas to public beta at News Research speed. Also, it's a really easy way to just orchestrate your agents, which I know people are struggling with. I've seen a lot of people using paperclip as well, but this might be an easy way cuz it just looks and feels like WhatsApp to be honest.

And also, I'd say about this Grog Bot Open Mouth Bot, the thing that we're noticing here is that the specific tool matters less than the pattern, right? And the pattern is now very good. Named agents with jobs with memory with schedules talking to each other. If you learn to run a bot roster once, what jobs to define, how to write personality, how to split work between agents, that skill transfers to every version of this that ships from here on. And then probably will be more tools.

Claude might even release something similar to this as well. So the people who wait for things to settle down will probably be waiting forever. You know, I would recommend that you learn this stuff now. Now also, some people are going to think like agent teams have for developers that this is just for coders, but the routines actually tell you otherwise, right? Summarize my inbox every morning is not a developer task.

Watch my market for new ideas, not a developer task. Draft my weekly newsletter from these notes, not a developer task either. So these are like business owner tasks and I think that's who it's targeted in here cuz this is all like business automation related stuff. So here's where this leaves you. Grap bot showed the world that AI agent team looks like this. Hermes bot mode

just made that free open source and yours. Open mouse bot did the same sort of thing as well. So, you've got per bot models, per bot memory, and bot to bot messaging. They took this whole system and turned it into something you can easily orchestrate. The people who set up their roster now, whilst it's fresh, will have bots with months of built up memory by the time everyone else installs it. And if you want to build

that roster with people already using it, the AI profit forum is where we're breaking this down. We put together the full Hermes playbook, which bots to create first for a business like yours, how to write agent jobs and personality files so it actually behaves, how to set up custom workflows like the agent OS with Hermes Oracle, Hermes Muse, Hermes Astros as well. And you also get daily tutorials with step-by-step videos, and you can bring your own bot roster to the four weekly coaching course and get it reviewed live. You also get my agent operating system, the zip file, the video walkthroughs, and the 30-day road maps where Hermes plugs in alongside Claude, Open Claude, and all your other agents, and you get daily updates as we improve. And with the member map, you can find people near you who are running Hermes agents right now and compare setups. We've got over 3,700 members

inside there, so there's always someone around the clock ready to help. Link in the comments description or go to the AI profit forum.com. Really powerful system, super easy to use, actually works as I've shown you. I'll see you in the next one.