---
video_title: "This Google AI Studio Update is AMAZING!"
video_id: 6Op7tLgdNJs
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Op7tLgdNJs
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Build Google Workspace Apps with AI: New Google AI Studio Update!
  
  Learn how to use the latest Google AI Studio update to build custom apps that connect directly to your Gmail, Sheets, and Calendar without writing any code. This game-changing feature allows you to automate your business workflows and create personal command centers in minutes.
  
  00:00 - Intro: A Huge AI Studio Update
  00:37 - Connecting to Google Workspace
  01:18 - No Coding or Setup Required
  02:48 - Real-World App Examples
  04:35 - How it Works Under the Hood
  05:08 - Supported Apps Rapid Fire
  06:40 - Final Take & Summary
---
This Google AI Studio update is amazing. Today, I'm going to show you something crazy. Google just gave AI Studio the power to build apps that talk to your Gmail and your calendar and your sheets. All of it. This is brand new. This is

big and it's stupid easy to use. No coding, no boring setup screens. Just type what you want. Stick around because this changes what you can build with AI. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's

helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Today, we're talking about a huge update to Google AI Studio. This is the tool that lets you build apps just by typing what you want. And now it can connect to your real Google apps. Gmail,

Calendar, Drive, Sheets, Docs, Slides, Tasks, Forms, Meet, Chat, Keep, Contacts, all of them. Let me break this down in the simplest way I can. Before this update, AI Studio could build you an app. You type a prompt and it would make software for you. Cool, right? But

that app was kind of stuck in its own little bubble. It couldn't touch your real emails. It couldn't look at your real spreadsheet. It couldn't check your real calendar. Now it can. So instead of

just saying, "Build me an app," you can say, "Build me an app that works with my Gmail or your sheets or your calendar." That's a much bigger deal than it sounds like. And here's the part that made my jaw drop. You don't have to set any of this up yourself. Normally, if you wanted an app to talk to Gmail, you'd need to go set up special developer keys, turn on permissions, write backend code, and handle login. That takes

hours, sometimes days, even for people who code every day. Google's own documentation says AI Studio does all of that for you. Now, it connects the right Google tool, writes the code behind the scenes, and even sets up a safe sign in with Google button so you can log in and give it permission. So, instead of a giant technical maze, it's just type your idea, click connect, and go. Before I show you what people are building with this, I want to stop right here for a second because this is exactly the kind of shift I talk about with business owners all the time. If you want to

actually put a tool like this to work growing your business, come join us inside the AI profit boardroom. It's the best place to scale your business, get more customers, and use AI automation to save yourself hundreds of hours of manual work every single month. Inside, we walk you through real workflows, real automations, and real ways to plug tools exactly like this one into your business. So, you're not just watching cool tech, you're actually using it to bring in more leads and more customers. If you're serious about using AI to grow, that's where you want to be. And

if you want help making sure your content and your business actually get found on Google in the first place, book a free SEO strategy session with my team. will sit down, look at where you're at right now, and map out exactly what needs to happen to get your business showing up in front of more people searching for what you offer. No pressure, no pitch, just a real conversation about your SEO. The link is in the description below. So, go grab a spot before this episode ends. Okay, now

let's get into the good stuff. Let me show you what people are actually building with this. First one, imagine you type this into AI Studio. Build me a clean AI email assistant. Connect it to Gmail. Show my unread emails. Sort them

by how urgent they are. summarize each one and let me write replies right from the app. That's it. That's the whole prompt. And AI Studio builds a working app that logs into your Gmail and does exactly that. If you run a business,

think about how much time that saves. You open one dashboard and instead of digging through 50 emails, you get a clean list of what actually matters. Now, here's a demo idea I love because it shows off the exact kind of thinking we teach inside the AI profit boardroom. What if you used a prompt like, "Build me a lead tracking dashboard connected to my sheets that shows which leads are hot, which ones went cold, and which ones I need to follow up with today." That's exactly the kind of automation that helps a business grow. It's not

just a cool tech demo. It's a tool that saves real time and helps you close more deals. All right, this next one is the wait. It can do that moment. You can connect Google Calendar and Gmail together in the same app. Try this

prompt. Build a meeting prep assistant. Connect my calendar and Gmail. Show my upcoming meetings. Summarize relevant emails from the people I'm meeting with and create a short briefing for each meeting. So now before every call, you

already know exactly who you're talking to and what's been said in your email thread. No more walking into a meeting blindly. If you want to go even bigger, you can connect multiple Google apps at the same time. Gmail, Calendar, Drive, and Sheets all in one app. Imagine typing, "Build me a daily business assistant connected to my Google Workspace. Show today's meetings.

Summarize my important unread emails. Find relevant files in Drive. Look at my business spreadsheet. And give me one simple daily briefing. That one prompt gives you a full command center for your day. Your emails, your meetings, your

files, and your numbers all in one screen every single morning. Now, let's talk about how this actually works under the hood. But I'll keep it simple. You type your idea into AI Studio. The AI Studio build system reads it, figures out what Google apps you need, and builds the app for you. That app runs on

a server behind the scenes. That server is the piece that safely talks to Google's official tools for Gmail, Sheets, Calendar, and the rest. Then it uses only the data you personally authorized. So really, it's just four steps. Your idea, the app gets built, it connects safely, and it uses your real data. Let me give you a quick rapidfire

list of what people are building with this because the ideas go way beyond email and spreadsheets. With Gmail, people are building smart inboxes that sort and summarize messages. With Sheets, people are building full business dashboards. With Docs, people are building tools that read and improve their writing. With Drive, people are building search tools that dig through company files in seconds. With calendar,

people are building meeting planners. With Slides, people are building tools that turn a plain document into a full presentation automatically. With tasks, people are building simple AI to-do managers. With forms, people are building tools that read survey answers and pull out the important patterns. And with Meat, people are building tools to manage and organize their video calls.

Every single one of those is already supported. This isn't a coming soon feature. It's live right now. So, here's why I think this update actually matters. And it's not just hype. Before,

AI could generate software. Cool software, sure, but it lived in its own little box, separate from your real work. Now, AI can generate software that plugs straight into the tools you already use every day. Your email, your calendar, your spreadsheets, your files. That's a totally different level. It's

the difference between a toy and a tool. And honestly, the barrier to building something useful just dropped again. It's not about knowing how to code anymore. It's about knowing what workflow you want. If you can describe your problem in plain simple words, AI Studio can now build something that actually touches your real data and solves it. So, here's my final take on

this one. Google AI Studio was already one of the easiest ways to build an AI app from a simple text prompt. But now that it can connect straight into Gmail, Drive, Sheets, Calendar, and the rest of Google Workspace, it's not just for demos and experiments anymore. You can build tools that plug directly into how you already run your business. If you want to actually put a tool like this to work, growing your business, come join us inside the AI Profit Boardroom. It's

the best place to scale your business, get more customers, and use AI automation to save yourself hundreds of hours of manual work every single month. Inside, we show you exactly how to set up automations like the ones I showed you today, so they're working for your business instead of just sitting there as a cool demo. If you want your business to actually use AI, not just talk about it, that's where you need to be. And if you want help making sure your content actually gets found on Google, book a free SEO strategy session with my team. We'll go through your website, your content, and your rankings together and build you a clear plan to get found by more of the right people.

It's completely free. There's no pressure. And it's the same kind of conversation that's helped so many businesses turn their SEO around. The link is in the description below. So, go book your spot now. If you want me to go

test some of the craziest AI Studio workflows I can think of, let me know in the comments below. Julian reads every single one, so tell us what you want to see built next. Thanks for watching and I'll catch you in the next