---
video_title: "Google Just Launched Its Own AI Image Editor"
video_id: OGCtocd8p9A
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OGCtocd8p9A
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google just dropped Pics — an AI image editor hiding inside the apps you already use every day. Change one part of a photo without wrecking the rest, then edit and even translate text right inside the picture. Here's what it does, the one feature worth stealing, and whether you actually need it.
  
  0:00  Intro – Fix one part, not the whole photo
  0:35  What It Is – Google Pics, built into Workspace
  2:01  The Engine – Runs on Nano Banana
  2:43  Key Feature – Object segmentation, edit just one thing
  3:17  Text Edits – Change & translate text in-image
  4:04  Why It Wins – Lives inside Docs & Slides
  6:39  Who It's For – Creators, teams, small brands
  7:27  Access – Plans & rollout
---
Google just launched its own AI image editor. Ever fix one tiny thing in a photo and wreck the whole picture? What if you could change just that one part and leave everything else untouched? Google just made that real and it's hiding inside the apps you already open every single day. Most people have no clue it's even there yet. Let me show

you. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and my job is helping you learn and actually use AI tools in your real work, not just watch demos and forget them. Today Google dropped something brand new and by the end you'll know what it does. The one feature I think everyone's going to steal ideas from and whether you even need it. Stick with me because the part most people miss is the part that changes how you work the most.

Let's get into it. So here's what happened. Today Google launched a new tool called Google Pix. It's an AI tool for making and editing images and it lives right inside Google Workspace Docs, Slides, Drive, the stuff you probably already use. Google first showed it off at their big IO event in May and now it's actually here. You can

use it as a standalone app at a link called pix.new or right inside Docs and Slides starting today. Drive gets added in the coming weeks. The idea is simple. You type what you want to see, Pix makes it, then you change little pieces without redoing the whole thing. Design

a poster, make a social post, clean up an illustration and you don't need to be a designer to do any of it. Google even said it plainly, they want to take away the frustration of wrangling pixels and feeling like you need to be a pro to make one good image. Now here's the part I want you to really hear because it's easy to shrug this off as just another AI image maker. It's not and this is where most tools fall apart. Think about how normal AI image tools work. You type

a prompt, it gives you a picture, but one thing is wrong. Maybe the text is off, maybe one object is in the wrong spot. So what do you do? You type the prompt again and hope. You roll the dice over and over. It's like sending the

whole plate back because you didn't like one side dish. Google Pix is built to fix that. It's a generator and an editor in one. Instead of starting over every time, you go in and fix just the thing that's wrong. Sounds small. It's

actually a huge shift. Hold that thought because in a second I'll show you the exact feature that makes it possible. First, what's under the hood because it explains why this is different. Google Pix runs on a model called Nano Banana. Yeah, that's the real name. I didn't

make it up. It's Google's image model and you've probably already used it without knowing. Google's been quietly putting it inside Google Photos, Search, Lens, and the Gemini app. It's the engine behind a lot of Google's image magic right now. Here's why that matters. Nano Banana got really good at

two things that used to be a nightmare for AI. One is drawing clean text inside an image. Old AI tools were famous for spelling words wrong or turning letters into gibberish. Two is keeping a style or look consistent across your image. So, when Google built Pix on top of it, they weren't starting from zero. They

dropped a strong tested engine into a friendly tool. That's why it can do the precise stuff we're about to talk about. Okay, here's the feature I think is the most interesting. This is the one to remember. It's called object segmentation. Don't let the fancy name

scare you. Here's what it really means. You point at one thing in your image. Just that one thing. Maybe a chair, maybe a person's jacket, maybe a logo, and you tell Pix to change only that.

Move it, resize it, recolor it, swap it out, and the rest of your image stays exactly the same. That's the dream, right? No more redoing the whole picture because one corner was off. You can leave text notes on specific spots, run a bunch of changes at once, and undo anything you don't like. It works on images you made with AI and ones you uploaded yourself, so you can bring in your own photo and start fixing it.

There's a second piece that pairs with this. Pix lets you edit the text that's already inside an image. Say you've got a flyer and the date is wrong. Normally, that's a pain. Here, you change the text right in the picture and it keeps the same font and design. It doesn't wreck

the layout and it can even translate that text into another language while keeping the look the same. So, one graphic can become 10 versions for 10 different places. A few more things it can do quickly. It gives you more than one option from a single prompt, so you pick your favorite instead of being stuck with one shot. You can crop your image for web, social, print, whatever you need, and you can sharpen it up to 2K or 4K, so it looks crisp. Small

stuff, but it adds up. Now, here's the thing I think Google is really betting on. It's not the images themselves, it's where they put it. Google is building Pex directly inside Workspace. That's the quiet genius of the whole launch.

Here's why that's a big deal. Right now, if you make a graphic, you jump between tabs, open a design tool, make the thing, download it, come back, upload it, realize it's wrong, do it all again. That tab switching eats your day alive. With Pex, you click an image right inside Google Docs or Slides, and the editor pops up as an overlay right there. You fix it on the spot, you never leave the doc. You can even pull files

straight from Google Drive or Google Photos to start editing. And because it uses the same sharing setup as the rest of Workspace, you can invite your team and all edit the same image together with a link. No emailing files back and forth, no which version is the final one. That stay where you already are idea is the real story. It's less about flashy AI and more about saving you time and headaches every single day. Now,

before I go on, if you're watching this and thinking, "Okay, this is cool, but how does any of it actually help my brand get seen?" I've got something for you, and it's completely free. We're running free AI brand visibility sessions right now. Here's what that is. You hop on a call, and a real strategist builds you a custom visibility plan for your site or your brand. They show you

exactly how you show up or don't show up by across Google, across AI overviews, and across the AI tools people search on now like ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. You get a competitor gap analysis so you can see where others are beating you. And you get your actual questions answered live by a person who does this all day. It's 100% free, no obligation, no catch. If you want in, check the link below and grab a spot before they fill up. And right after

that, let me tell you about the AI Profit Boardroom because this is where you go deeper on tools exactly like Google Pex. When something brand new like this drops, our members don't get left figuring it out alone. Inside the Boardroom, we do walkthroughs of new AI tools, we run live coaching calls where you can ask about your own setup and your own images, and we build simple roadmaps and ready-to-use prompts so you can put this stuff to work fast instead of guessing. So, if you want a group of people learning these tools with you step-by-step, the board room is built for exactly that. I'll show you how to join in a second. All right, let's get

back into it because you might be wondering, why does this even matter? There are already a hundred design tools out there. Why should you care about this one? Here's my honest take. It matters because of where it lives and who already uses it. Millions of people

are inside Google Workspace every single day and Google said people touch billions of images across these apps every month. So, instead of asking all those people to go learn a whole new design app, Google brought the design tool to them right where they already work. The tool doesn't need you to change your habits. It shows up in the habits you already have and there's a bigger pattern worth noticing. AI is stopping being its own separate app you have to go visit. It's getting baked

into the software you already use. You don't go to the AI, the AI is just there inside the button you were already clicking. Once you see it, you'll notice it everywhere. So, who actually needs this? Let me make it simple. If you make

social posts, this is for you. You can build a post and tweak one piece without redoing the whole thing. If you put together slides and decks, this is for you because now you can fix the image right inside the slide. If you run a small brand and you're the one wearing every hat, this saves you real time. Google itself pointed to things like making social and web assets for different countries, dropping a product into different backgrounds to show it off and brainstorming flyers, business cards and event materials. Teachers and

students can use it, too. It's available on the education plan. And if you work with a team, the shared editing means everyone stays on the same page, literally. Here's who maybe doesn't need it. If you're a deep pro level photo editor, doing heavy detailed retouching, this isn't trying to replace your serious tools. It's not built to be

Photoshop. It's built to make good images fast for normal work. Know the difference and you'll know if it's for you. One quick note on getting it. Google Pix is rolling out starting today to Google AI Pro and Ultra plans to a bunch of Workspace business plans like Business Standard, Business Plus and the Enterprise ones and to Google AI Pro for education. So, if you're on one of

those, keep an eye out, it's coming to you. So, that's Google Pix, a real image editor, not just a maker. Point at one thing, change only that. Edit and translate text right inside the picture. And it all lives inside the Google apps you already use. So, you stop wasting

your day jumping between tabs. That's the whole thing in a nutshell. Now, if you actually want to use what you just learned and get seen online, do this next. Book your free AI brand visibility session. It's the fastest way to get real expert eyes on your own brand.

You'll get a custom plan made just for you, a clear look at how you show up across Google and the AI search tools, straight comparative insights, and simple next steps you can act on right away. It's completely free and there's no obligation. The link is right below this video. Go grab your spot. And once you've done that, come join us in the AI Profit Boardroom. Here's the thing about

a tool like Google Pix. The moment you start using it, you're going to hit little walls. How do I get this exact edit? What prompt gets the cleanest text? How do I make 10 versions fast?

That's exactly what we solve inside. You get coaching calls where you can ask those questions live, tutorials that walk you through new tools like this one, road maps that keep you moving, and prompts you can copy and use today. We've got over 4,000 members all learning this stuff together. So, you're never stuck figuring it out on your own. Come get in the room with us. Join at

aiprofitboardroom.com.