---
video_title: "Tencent WorldClaw Just Changed 3D AI Forever"
video_id: BPCPH-lljgc
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BPCPH-lljgc
video_date: 20260813
video_description: |
  Get the Tencent WorldClaw Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Tencent just dropped WorldClaw — the first AI that builds a full, editable 3D world from one sentence, not just a single object. See how it works, why it's different from every other AI 3D tool, and what it means for game devs, filmmakers, and creators.
  
  00:00 Intro – The AI 3D shift nobody's talking about
  00:39 The Old Problem – One object at a time, slow manual placing
  01:05 Who's Behind It – Tencent Hunyuan's 3D team
  01:31 What Is WorldClaw – One prompt, a full editable world
  02:40 Key Features – Terrain, meshes, auto-placement, agents
  03:36 How It Works – Claude Opus 4.8 runs the 3-stage build
  04:46 Why It's Different – No more "one frozen blob" worlds
  05:33 Demo Worlds – Pirate island, canyon, desert, snow valley
  06:03 Who Needs This – Game devs, filmmakers, VR, robotics
  06:36 Reality Check – Research release, not downloadable yet
  07:07 3 Tips – Learn Blender, think in regions, start now
  07:47 Learn More – Free resources + community links
---
10-centent worldclaw just changed 3D AI forever. You know how AI makes 3D stuff right now? One chair, one tree, one rocket at a time. That was pretty much the whole game until this week. What if you could type one sentence and get a whole world back? Not one object. A full

3D place you can walk through and edit. Tencent just made that real and most people haven't caught it yet. I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie and my whole job is helping you learn AI tools and actually use them in your work. Today, I'm breaking down 10-centent worldclaw. Stick with me because how it builds these worlds is honestly wild.

And there's one detail near the end that changes how you should think about 3D from now on. Let me set the stage first. For years, AI3D has been about single things. You type a wooden barrel, you get a wooden barrel. Type a small house, you get a small house. Super useful, but

it's one piece. If you wanted a whole scene, a real environment, you had to make each piece and then place it all by hand. That's slow. and placing things so they sit right at the right size on the right ground. That's the part that eats your whole afternoon. So, the dream has

always been the same. Skip the piece by piece grind. Just describe the world and get the world. Now, who's behind this? 10-centent Hunuan. That's 10 cent's own

family of big AI models. They've got models for text, for images, for video, and a strong line for 3D called Hunuan 3D. This is the same team that put out open 3D tools before, stuff a lot of creators already use. So, this isn't some random lab. It's a group that's been shipping 3D AI for a while and they keep pushing it further and this week they push it a lot further. 10 cent just

dropped WorldClaw. The full name is WorldClaw. Aentic 3D open world generation at scale. Say that five times fast. Here's the plain version. Instead

of making a single 3D asset, WorldClaw builds an entire 3D world full of editable pieces from one prompt. You give it a sentence. It gives you back land, hills, rivers, plants, buildings, vehicles, all placed into one connected scene. And every object in there is its own editable piece you can grab and change. That's the leap. Not a picture

of a world. Not just a video flying over a world. An actual full 3D world you can open up and mess with piece by piece. Before I go deeper, quick thing because this is exactly the kind of tool we go hands-on with inside the AI profit boardroom. When something like Worldclaw lands, it's easy to watch a clip, feel amazed, and then never touch it. Inside

the boardroom, we fix that. We break new 3D and agent tools down into simple walkthroughs. We run live coaching calls where you can bring your own project and ask what to do next. And we lay out step-by-step road maps so you're not guessing. Right now, the focus is exactly this wave. Agent systems that

plan, use tools, and build things for you. So, if 3D Worlds and AI agents are where you want to skill up, you'll get walkthroughs, prompts, and real answers from people building alongside you. That's what's waiting the moment you join. Okay, let's talk about what worldclaw actually does feature by feature. First, region aare terrain. It

doesn't just drop a flat floor. It builds real landforms, mountains, canyons, dunes, valleys, and it knows which part of the map is which. A beach region looks like a beach. A canyon region looks like a canyon, and they connect smoothly instead of feeling like separate chunks glued together. Second, editable textured meshes. A mesh is just

the real 3D shape. The thing made of points you can actually grab. Every object comes out as its own mesh with its own texture. So, you can move it, resize it, swap it, delete it. Nothing is baked into one frozen blob. Third,

automatic object generation and placement. It makes the objects for each area and sets them down where they belong. And fourth, this is the clever bit. It has agents that fix scale, pose, and ground contact. So, if a boat is floating in the air or a tower is sinking into the dirt, the system catches that and fixes it. All of this

happens inside Blender, which is the free open 3D program tons of artists already use. So, how does it actually pull this off? This is where the word agentic matters. So let me explain it simply. An agent isn't just an AI that answers you. It takes steps. It uses

tools. It looks at its own work and fixes mistakes. Worldclaw runs on that idea and the brain steering the whole thing is a top language model. Claude Opus 4.8 directing every step. It works

in three stages. Stage one, it reads your prompt and turns your short sentence into a full plan. What regions the world needs, what the ground should look like, what objects go where. Stage two, it builds the global terrain, the whole landscape using that plan. Then renders it and checks it. Stage three,

it fills in the detailed regions with actual objects, buildings, plants, vehicles, and places them on the ground. Then a refinement agent renders the scene, spots problems like floating or sinking or wrong sizes, and quietly corrects them over and over until it looks right. It even reaches into Blender through a connector called MCP, which basically lets the AI push the buttons inside the 3D program itself. is using real image tools and real 3D tools as its hands, not faking any of it. Here's why that careful step-by-step approach is such a big deal. Most other

AI world tools work a totally different way. They make a video or a bunch of pictures flying around a scene, then try to squeeze 3D out of that, and it looks amazing at first glance, but move the camera somewhere the video never showed and it falls apart, blurry edges, shapes that kind of melt, and worse, you end up with one frozen blob you can't really pull apart or edit. WorldClaw flips that whole idea. It doesn't try to dream up the entire world in one shot. It sets the big rules first, the land and the layout, then fills in the detailed spots, one region at a time, checking its own work as it goes. That's why the

pieces stay separate. That's why the ground stays consistent when you walk across it. It's slower and more careful on purpose. And that care is exactly what turns the result into something you can actually build with, not just something pretty to look at once. Now, the fun part, the demos. In their write

up, Tencent shows four worlds, all made from open-ended prompts. A tropical pirate island with docks, ships, and settlements tucked into the coastline. A river canyon with tribal villages spread across big changes in height. A desert battlefield with rocky ridges, buildings, and vehicles. And a snow-covered mountain valley with futuristic bases done in a classic strategy game style. Four totally

different vibes, four different shapes of land, all from a sentence each. And because everything saves as separate editable pieces, you can drop these straight into normal game making workflows and keep building. So, who actually needs this? Game makers, obviously. Instead of blocking out a level by hand for days, you generate a starting world in one go and then tweak it. Film and video folks who need

environments, VR, and simulation builders. And anyone training AI or robots who needs lots of 3D spaces to practice in, even if you're just learning, this is a huge deal because it drops the wall that used to keep normal people out of 3D world building. You don't need to be a master artist to get a real starting point anymore. Now, why does this matter? And let me be straight with you. This is early. 10 cents says

so themselves. Right now, WorldClaw is a research release, a paper, and a project page showing what it can do. The code isn't sitting there for you to download and run today. And the results are impressive, but not perfect. So, don't expect to type a prompt tonight and ship a game tomorrow. But here's why it still

matters a ton. It shows the direction is real. We've gone from AI makes one object to AI plans, builds, and fixes a whole editable world. That jump is the story. Once this kind of thing gets into your hands, the slow part of 3D, the building and the placing starts to melt away. All right, let me leave you with

three quick tips so you're ready when this lands. Tip one, get comfy with Blender. Now, it's free. It's what worldclaw builds inside, and even a few hours poking around means you'll be ready to actually edit these worlds instead of staring at them. Tip two, learn to think in regions. Worldclaw

works by splitting a world into areas, terrain, and objects. When you describe any scene, name the regions, the land, and the key pieces. Prompting in layers like that gets you cleaner results in almost every 3D tool, not just this one. Tip three, don't just wait. 10 cents Huan 3D team already has 3D tools you can use today. So, go play with those.

Build the habit and keep an eye on the worldclaw project page so you're first in line when the full thing opens up. If you want the full process, SOPS, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI success lab. Links are in the comments and description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And if you're the type who wants to actually build with tools like this instead of just watching, come into the AI profit boardroom. Here's what's coming for you.

The moment you start with Worldclaw or any agent-driven 3D tool, you'll hit real questions. How to prompt a world, how to fix a broken scene, how to fit it into what you're making. That's exactly where we come in. You get walkthroughs on these new 3D and agent tools, live coaching calls where you can ask about your own build, road maps that show you what to learn next, and prompts you can copy and run. With over 4,000 members already in there sharing what works, you move way faster than going it alone.

Come join us at AIprofit Boardroom.com.