---
video_title: "Claude Code Sessions Just Got 10X Smarter"
video_id: Mr6oNAIWvEo
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mr6oNAIWvEo
video_date: 2026-08-13T09:30:39+00:00
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Claude Code Masterclass  👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Claude Code sessions can now message each other automatically — no more copy-pasting context between windows. Here's what changed, how it actually works, and the one catch nobody's talking about.
  
  00:00 Intro – Claude Code sessions now talk to each other
  00:38 The Update – sessions can message automatically
  01:20 Real Example – proposal + research sessions syncing
  01:38 Why It Matters – the beehive effect
  02:17 The Old Pain – losing context between sessions
  03:00 Agent OS – shared memory setup
  03:53 The Catch – short notes = thin details
  04:37 Setup – Mac/Linux, /list-agents command
  04:52 Safety – permissions still apply
  05:18 Remote Use – reply from anywhere
  05:34 Pro Tip – how to write a good handoff note
  05:52 Where This Is Heading – AI as a workforce
  06:41 Your Action Step – try the two-session test
  07:06 Agent OS + Messaging – why they work together
---
Claude code sessions just got 10 times smarter. Ever notice your AI has no idea what your other AI is doing? You fix something in one window, the other window has no clue. So, you copy, you paste, you explain it all over again. That just ended, and most people haven't even noticed yet. I'm the digital avatar

of Julian Goldie, and my whole job is helping you actually use AI tools in your real work, not just watch clips about them. And here's the thing I want you to stick around for. What Anthropic just shipped into Claude code, we've been running our own version of it for months. We call it Agent OS. I'll show you how the two fit together in a minute. But first, let me show you what

actually changed, because it's simpler than it sounds and bigger than it looks. So, here's the update. Your Claude code sessions can now message each other. Before this, every session was on its own little island. One session had no idea another session even existed. Now,

one session can send a note straight to another, and that other session reads it and keeps working. No copy, no paste, no switching windows. And here's the part that got my attention. Claude can send that message on its own. Say one session makes a change that affects what another session is building. Claude notices, and

it taps the other session on the shoulder for you. You don't have to ask, it just happens. Now, one thing to be clear about because it matters, the thing that gets sent is just a short message, plain text. It is not your files, it is not your whole chat history. It's one session writing a quick note to another in its own words.

That's the whole thing. Let me make that real. Say you've got two sessions open. One is writing up a client proposal, the other is digging into that client's industry. Old way, the proposal session has no clue the research even exists.

You'd finish the research, copy the good bits over, and explain how they fit. New way, the proposal session just asks the research session what it found. The answer comes back, and the writing keeps going. You did nothing. And once you see why this is a big deal, you can't unsee it. Think about how a beehive works. One

bee finds something good, flies back, and tells the rest where to go. No single bee is a genius. The hive is smart because the bees share what they know. That's the shift here. Each session used to be one lonely bee bumbling around with no clue what the others were up to. Now they can talk,

now they share. You don't have one helper anymore, you've got a team. And that automatic part is the real sleeper here. Your sessions aren't just able to talk now, they're watching out for each other. One session quietly catches something the other one broke before you ever see the mistake. And if you've used

AI for more than a week, you already know the pain this fixes. You're deep in a session, it knows your project, your style, the way you like things. Then the session fills up or you close it and all that context is gone. You open a fresh one and you're a stranger again explaining everything from scratch. People have built entire routines just to survive that. One person even replied

to the announcement saying he'd been doing this by hand for 2 years, writing a handoff note every time a session got close to full, then feeding it into the next one. 2 years of playing messenger pigeon between his own AI sessions. That's the old way. Copy from session A, hand carry it to session B. The new way is the sessions pass the notes themselves. And this is exactly the

muscle we've been building on our end for a while now. Getting agents to work off one shared brain instead of a pile of separate islands, which brings me to something you'll want if this is clicking for you. Because inside the AI Profit Boardroom, this shared brain setup already has a home. It's our Agent OS. It's a dashboard where you plug in all your AI agents and they share one memory through Obsidian, a simple plain text vault, so they're all working off the same notes, the same context, the same brain. And with this new Claude

code messaging feature, we're showing members exactly how to wire it into that Agent OS setup step by step. When you join, you get the full Agent OS zip file ready to install plus a 30-day roadmap that walks you through setting it up in your own work. You get Claude code walkthroughs built around updates just like this one, four live coaching calls every week where you can ask about your own multi-session setup, and daily tutorials on running your sessions as a team to save hours off your week. Over 3,800 people are already inside. Some had never touched AI before joining.

Links in in description or head to aiprofitboardroom.com. Now let me give you the honest part, the bit almost nobody's covering. Remember I said the message is just text? That's smart design. It keeps things private

and it keeps each session's memory light, so you're not dumping one huge session into another and clogging it up. But, there's a catch. A short note is a short note. If one session says, "Hey, I fixed the pricing thing." the other session has to guess which pricing thing, which page, which fix. The

message carries the point, but the underlying files don't travel with it. So, the details can get thin. It's like asking how the movie was and they just say, "Good." Technically an answer, not super useful. So, no, this doesn't magically make the memory problem disappear. What it does is automate that

handoff people were doing by hand for years. And the handoff is only as good as what the session actually writes. Okay, the practical stuff, quick and simple. This is live right now on Mac and Linux, not on regular Windows yet. If you already use Claude Code, just update it and it turns on by itself.

Nothing to switch on. Want to see which sessions it can reach? Type {slash} list-agents. And here's a smart safety detail. A message from another session can't approve things for you. It can't change

your settings. And if there's a command sitting in the text, it just shows up as words. It does not run. Your permissions still guard everything. On top of that, messages between two sessions on the same machine stay right there on your computer. They don't go through any

outside servers. If a session's on another machine or on the web, it can only reply. It can't start the conversation and it can't spiral into a loop, either, because repeated messages get throttled automatically. And here's a use most people are going to miss. Because a session on another machine or on the web can send you a reply, you can be away from your desk and still answer a session that's waiting on you. Picture a long job

running on your home computer. It hits a question, sends it over, and you tap back an answer from wherever you are. The work keeps moving without you sitting there watching it. Now, quick tip on making these handoffs actually good, because I told you the notes can go thin. When you ask one session to message another, tell it to be specific.

Name the file, name the change, say what the other session should do next. A clear note lands. A vague one like "Fix the checkout thing." just makes the other session guess. You're the one who decides how sharp it is. Now, let me

show you where this is heading because the pattern is clear. First, agents got tools. Then, agents got sub agents. Now, agents can message each other. Every step points the same way. Your AI stops

being one worker and becomes a workforce. And when that clicks, the question changes. It stops being "Which AI should I use?" and becomes "How do I run my AI team? Who does the research?

Who does the writing? Who checks the work? Who tells who what?" That's a management question. And if you've ever managed people, you're already better at this than you think. Same muscle. You're

just pointing it at sessions instead of staff. And that kills the biggest excuse I hear, which is "I'll wait for this stuff to settle down." Here's the problem. It doesn't settle. It stacks. This

messaging update sits on top of sub agents, which sat on top of memory tools before that. People using Claude code right now pick up each new piece in about 10 minutes because they've got the base. People waiting are just watching the pile get taller every week. You don't need to master all of it. You need to start with one thing. So, here's your

one thing this week. If you use Claude code, update it, open two sessions on two related tasks, and have one ask the other a question. Feel how the handoff works. Check how good the notes are for your kind of work. That one test will teach you more than any video, including this one. And this is why I keep coming

back to Agent OS. Session messaging is the handoff. Agent OS is the shared brain that makes the handoff worth something because the notes and the memory all live in one place your agents can read. The two together are where this gets powerful. And if you want the full process, the SOPs, and 100 plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. Links are in the comments

and the description. You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And when you go and actually run that two-session test, you're going to hit questions. What makes a good handoff note? How do you keep your sessions from stepping on each other? How do you wire this into one

shared brain so nothing gets lost? That's the whole point of the AI Profit Boardroom. You get the Agent OS zip file ready to install, the 30-day roadmap to set it up around your own work, the Claude code walkthroughs for this exact update, four coaching calls a week to get unstuck live, and a prompt library so you're never staring at a blank session. Over 4,000 people are already in there figuring this out together. The bees can talk to each other now. Your

job is to be the beekeeper. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.