---
video_title: "Claude in Chrome Is Now SCARY Good"
video_id: 5Fy7pyfzKE8
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "uncategorized"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Fy7pyfzKE8
video_date: 20260815
video_description: |
  Get the Agent OS & Claude Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Claude in Chrome just got a major upgrade: the side panel now runs a full co-work session, so your browser work saves to your history and picks up on any device. No more re-explaining a task when you switch from tab to desktop. Here's what changed, how to set it up, and the safety tips that keep it from going sideways.
  
  00:00 What changed
  00:42 Side panel = full session
  01:37 How to set it up
  02:08 Tab groups & control
  02:24 Safety checks
  03:35 Side panel vs Co-work vs Code
  05:04 Hidden features
  06:03 Who can use it
  06:25 6 tips that matter
---
Claude in Chrome is now scary. Could ever finish something with Claude in your browser, then have to explain the whole thing again somewhere else? That just stopped being a problem. Claude in Chrome got an update most people scrolled straight past. It's not a new button, it's a new brain in the side panel, and it quietly fixes the most annoying part of using Claude in your browser. Hey, I'm the digital avatar of

Julian Goldie. I help people learn AI tools and actually use them in their work instead of just watching videos about them and forgetting them by Friday. In the next few minutes, I'll show you what changed, how it works, and two things I'd run with it myself. Stay till the end because a few tips stop this going sideways. So, here's what happened. On August the 12th, 2026,

Anthropic changed the Claude in Chrome side panel. It's not a little chat box anymore. The side panel now runs a full Claude co-work session. In plain words, the panel in your browser used to be its own island. Whatever happened in there stayed in there. Now, it's all one

thing. Every conversation in the side panel saves to your history. The skills, plugins, and connectors you already set up work in the browser with nothing new to install. And because sessions live with your account instead of one machine, you can start a task in a tab and finish it on desktop, web, or mobile without explaining it all over again. Here's the first thing I'd do with this for the AI Profit Boardroom. I'd open

every page where AI Profit Boardroom members are asking questions, drag those tabs into Claude's tab group, and ask Claude to read across all of them and pull out the questions that keep repeating. Then, I'd pick that same session back up on my desktop and turn it into a resource list for the AI Profit Boardroom. Same conversation, no re-explaining, no jumping between windows. Now, let's talk about how it actually works. You install it from the Chrome Web Store. You sign in with your

Claude account, then you pin it so the Claude icon sits in your toolbar. Click it, and the panel opens on the side of your browser and stays there while you browse. From there, Claude can see the page you're on and act on it. It clicks links, it types text, it moves between pages, it fills out forms, and it does all of that using the logins you already have. So, it can work inside internal dashboards, old portals, and tools that don't have a proper connector. If you

need it across more than one page, you drag those tabs into Claude's tab group. They get their own color, so you always know which tabs Claude is touching and which ones are yours. And it keeps working in the background while you move to something else, as long as Chrome stays open. Turn notifications on and it pings you when the job is done or when it needs you. You also choose how much control you hand over. You can let

Claude work through a task without approving every single step. When you do that, a separate safety check reviews each action before anything meaningful happens, like submitting a form, sending a message, or downloading a file. If the action doesn't match what you asked for, it gets blocked. If you want tighter control, there's permissions mode where you approve one site at a time and Claude can't touch anything you haven't allowed. Either way, it stops and asks before the one-way doors like sharing personal details or anything it can't undo.

If you're watching this and thinking you'd rather not figure all of this out on your own, that's exactly why we built the AI Profit Boardroom. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, we've got walkthroughs for browser tools like Claude in Chrome, so you can see the setup, the permission modes, and the prompts being used instead of guessing. We run live coaching calls where you can bring your own screen and ask why a workflow isn't behaving. There are roadmaps that give you a clear order to learn this in and a prompt library you can pull from on day one. You also get the full Agent OS zip file inside the AI Profit Boardroom, ready to install, and we built out a complete 30-day roadmap to go with it, laid out as use cases, so you know exactly what to run and when. If browser

automation is the thing you're trying to get right, the AI Profit Boardroom is where I'd send you. Now, let's go deeper on what else came with this. There are three ways to reach the extension now and they're built for different jobs. Use the side panel when the work is on the page in front of you. Use Claude Co-work when the browser is one step in a much bigger task, because then Chrome does the gathering and Co-work builds the finished files like spreadsheets, decks, and reports. And use Claude code

when you're building the site you're testing. That Claude code part is worth knowing about. You start Claude code with the Chrome flag, and it can open your browser, read console errors, check network requests, and look at the page state. So, you're building the terminal, then test and debug in the browser without switching context. That side of it works with Chrome and Edge. And

Claude code can also set up the connection in other Chromium browsers like Brave, Arc, Vivaldi, and Opera. The side panel itself is still Chrome only for now. It doesn't run on other Chromium browsers, and it doesn't run on mobile. And if you need Claude to touch files sitting on your computer, you still need the desktop app for that. Let me show you what I'd actually type.

Here's my first one. I'd open the side panel on the pages our AI Profit Boardroom content lives on, and say something like, "Read every page in this tab group, list the topics that show up more than once, and group them by how often they appear." Claude reads across the whole group and reports back. Then, because that session is saved to my account now, I'd open Claude on my desktop and keep going in the exact same conversation to shape those topics into a content plan for the AI Profit Boardroom. That's the part that used to be impossible. The browser work and the

desk work were two separate lives. There are a few more things sitting inside the extension that people missed. You can save a prompt that works well as a shortcut, then pull it back up anytime by typing a forward slash. You can schedule those shortcuts to run on their own daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly using the clock icon in the panel. And you can record a workflow, which means you click through the steps yourself once, stop the recording, and save it so Claude can repeat that same pattern later. Claude also has built-in

knowledge of how to get around the big platforms like Slack, Gmail, Google Calendar, Google Docs, and GitHub. So, short instructions work. You don't have to spell out every click. Here's my second one. I'd write a shortcut that checks our AI Profit Boardroom pages and reports anything that looks out of date, like a broken link or an old page title. Then I'd

schedule that shortcut to run every week. Claude keeps working in the background while I'm in other tabs, and I get a notification when it's done or when it needs me. That's a job I would never remember to do manually, and it keeps the AI Profit Boardroom tidy without me thinking about it. So, who can actually use this right now? Claude in Chrome itself is available on Pro, Max, Team, and Enterprise. The new

Cowerk side panel is the part that's still rolling out. It's live on Max and Team today, and Anthropic says it's coming to Pro over the next few weeks. On Enterprise, it's off by default, so an admin has to switch it on, and they can limit it to approved sites. If you're on Pro and you don't see it yet, you're not broken. You're just in the queue. Now, the tips, because this is

the part that matters. First, start on sites you already trust and workflows you already know. Don't hand a brand new tool your weirdest task on day one. Second, skip anything sensitive. Health records, private accounts, anything with logins you'd never share with a person.

Anthropic says this themselves. Third, know what prompt injection is. Some web pages hide inside them that try to redirect Claude away from what you asked. There are real defenses built in, and there's a separate check reviewing actions, but it's not perfect. So, if Claude starts doing something strange, stop it and read what happened. Fourth,

drag your tabs into the tab group instead of asking Claude to go hunting for pages. It's faster and you stay in control of what it can see. Fifth, use screenshots. You can capture part of your screen and point Claude at the exact button or field. That's way quicker than describing a messy layout in words. And sixth, once you find a

prompt that works, save it as a shortcut immediately. Then schedule it. That's how this stops being a toy and starts being a system. If you want the full process, SOPs, and 100-plus AI use cases like this one, join the AI Success Lab. Link's in the comments and description.

You'll get all the video notes from there, plus access to our community of 85,000 members who are crushing it with AI. And when you go and try this yourself, you're going to hit the same walls everyone hits. You'll wonder how much control to give it. You'll set up a shortcut that half works. You'll get stuck deciding when to use the side panel and when to push the job into co-work instead. That's exactly what the

AI Profit Boardroom is for. We've got the Claude in Chrome tutorials, the live coaching calls where you can ask about your own setup, the roadmaps to keep you moving in the right order, and the prompts that already work so you're not starting from a blank box. You can also grab the full Agent OS zip file inside the AI Profit Boardroom ready to install and we built out a complete 30-day roadmap here as use cases so you've got a clear plan to follow instead of poking around on your own. Over 4,000 members are in there learning this stuff together. Come join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.