---
video_title: "NEW ChatGPT Updates Are Absurd"
video_id: kgADg_555Ak
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kgADg_555Ak
video_date: 2026-08-17T21:30:18+00:00
video_description: |
  Free SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Get the Agent OS & ChatGPT Masterclass 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  4 New ChatGPT Updates That Will Change SEO Forever
  
  ChatGPT recently dropped four massive updates that transform it from a simple chatbot into a proactive SEO assistant. Discover how to use new features like Google Drive integration and live quizzes to streamline your workflow and scale your rankings.
  
  00:00 - Intro
  00:51 - New Feature: Live SEO Quizzes
  01:35 - Real-World Bookings in ChatGPT
  02:46 - Google Drive Integration for Content
  04:36 - Personalized Proactive Suggestions
  05:58 - 4 Practical Prompts to Try Today
  07:45 - How to Scale Your SEO Results
---
New Chat GPT updates are absurd. Today, I'm going to show you four new Chat GPT updates. They are going to change how you do SEO. One of them lets Chat GPT quiz you like a teacher. One of them books things for you in real life. One

of them reads your Google Drive files. This is big. This is new and it's stupid easy to use. SEO is changing fast and Chat GPT just dropped four updates that make it change even faster. These four updates rolled out between August 10th and August 14th, 2026. And I want to

walk you through all of them because if you do SEO content or you run any kind of online business, these updates matter to you. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Let's start with the first one.

Chat GPT can now quiz you. You just say, "Quiz me on this." and Chat GPT builds a live quiz right there in the chat. You answer, it checks you, then it asks the next question. It even gets harder as you get better. Here's why this matters

for SEO. Let's say you're learning keyword research or you're trying to get better at technical SEO. You can type this prompt, "Quiz me on on-page SEO. Give me 10 questions one at a time. Start easy, get harder based on my answers and explain anything I get wrong." That is a free tutor. It is

available on all plans including free plans on web and on mobile. If you're training a new hire on your team or you're teaching your community how SEO works, this is huge. Picture a group like the AI Profit Boardroom. You could use this to quiz members on SEO basics, AI tools, or content strategy right inside a chat with zero setup. Now, let's talk about update number two. This

one is about real-world bookings. Chat GPT can now search for restaurant reservations through OpenTable, Resy, and Yelp. You just describe what you want in plain words. Location, date, time, party size, cuisine, vibe. Chat GPT finds real options and can take you into the booking flow. Here's a prompt

you could use. "Find me a reservation for four next Thursday evening. I'm meeting a client to talk about growing their business online. I want somewhere quiet where we can actually talk. Then you can narrow it down. Only show me

places with great reviews. Which one has the quietest seating? Now, I want to be honest with you here because I'm not going to make this sound bigger than it is. Not every restaurant is supported. It depends on the restaurant and the provider. OpenTable is available

worldwide. Resy is US only right now. Yelp is US and Canada only right now. And ChatGPT doesn't save your reservation. Your confirmation comes from the restaurant provider, not from ChatGPT. Why does this matter for SEO

people specifically? Because so much of SEO and business growth happens outside the computer. Client dinners, partner meetings, networking events. This update removes a small task off your plate so you can focus on the SEO work that actually moves the needle for your business. Now, here's update number three. And honestly, this might be the

biggest one for anyone doing content or SEO work. ChatGPT can now connect to your Google Drive. It shows up right inside your ChatGPT library. You don't have to download a file and upload it again. You just pick it from your drive and start chatting with it. Think about

what this means for SEO content. Let's say you run a content team for the AI Profit Boardroom. You've got a folder full of blog drafts, keyword research sheets, and content briefs sitting in Google Drive. Now you can say this, "Analyze the SEO blog drafts in this folder. Tell me which ones are missing a clear keyword focus and which ones need stronger headlines." Or you could say

this, "Compare these three content briefs and combine them into one clear SEO content plan." Or even this, "Based on everything in this folder, build me a 30-day content calendar focused on ranking for our main keywords." That is a real workflow. Find file, ask ChatGPT, done. No downloading, no uploading, no wasted time. Now, a fair warning here so

I don't overclaim, shared drives are not supported yet. Only My Drive and files shared directly with you. And it's rolling out to select plans on web first, mobile is coming later. And one more thing, if you're creating all this content with ChatGPT's new tools, but nobody's finding it on Google, you've got a traffic problem, and that's a real problem because great content that nobody sees doesn't do anything for your business. That's where SEO comes in. SEO

is what makes sure the content you're building with all these new AI tools actually gets found by the right people. If you want more leads, more traffic, and more customers finding your content on Google, my team can help. We look at your website, your content, and your backlink profile, and we build a real plan to get you ranking higher. Check the link in the comments and description to book a free SEO strategy session. On that call, we'll walk through exactly where you're losing traffic and what to fix first, and we'll show you how our team can handle your backlinks and your rankings while you focus on growing your business. All right, let's get back into

it. All right, let's get into update number four. This one is quiet, but it might be the most important one long-term. ChatGPT can now show you personalized suggestions on your homepage. It looks at your past conversations and the tools you've connected, and it suggests things you might want to do next. So, instead of

ChatGPT just sitting there waiting for you to type something, it starts to say, "Hey, based on what you've been working on, here's something you might want to try." This is a shift from reactive to proactive. Old way, you ask, it answers. New way, it watches how you work, and it starts suggesting the next useful step. For SEO, this could mean ChatGPT starts nudging you towards things like reviewing old content, checking keyword performance, or picking up a task you left half done. It's currently rolling

out to select eligible users based on your history and connected tools. Now, let's zoom out cuz I want you to see the bigger picture here, not just four random updates. Quizzes turn ChatGPT into a tutor. Reservations turn it into a real-world assistant. Google Drive turns it into a workspace. Suggestions

turn it proactive. Learn, do, know, anticipate. That's the pattern. ChatGPT is moving from a simple chatbot into something closer to a full assistant that works with your files, your schedule, and your goals. And for SEO specifically, this means less time doing manual, boring tasks, and more time on strategy. Less time hunting through

Google Drive folders, less time building quizzes for your team by hand, more time actually improving your content and your rankings. Before I wrap up, let me give you four prompts you can try today. For learning, try this. Quiz me on SEO link building. Start easy, get harder based on my answers, and explain anything I get wrong. For getting things done, try

this. Find me a reservation for two this Saturday evening at a quiet restaurant good for a business conversation. For your content and files, try this. Analyze the SEO files I've added from my drive and tell me the biggest content gaps and opportunities. And for staying ahead, try this. Based on the SEO work

I've been doing recently, what are five things I should tackle next? So, that's it, four updates, but they're all pointing the same direction. ChatGPT isn't just answering your questions anymore. It's learning with you. It's helping you get things done in real life. It's working with your actual

files, and it's starting to figure out what might help you next. If you're completely new to SEO and you want to build a solid foundation alongside these AI tools, this next part is for you. Maybe you don't fully understand how content strategy works. Maybe link building sounds confusing. Maybe you don't even know what a good keyword looks like versus a bad one. That's

totally fine. Everyone starts somewhere, and we built something to help you skip the confusing part. We've got a free SEO course in the description with over 260 lessons covering everything from the basics all the way up to advanced strategy. It walks you through content, keywords, technical SEO, and link building step-by-step, so you're not guessing. Go check that out, too. The

link is below. And if you want to be around other people who are using AI to grow their business the smart way, people who are testing these same tools, sharing what's working, and pushing each other forward, come join the AI Profit Boardroom. It's a community built for exactly this kind of stuff. Real strategies, real tools, real people helping each other grow all in one place. You're not figuring this out alone. The link for that is in the

description, too. And finally, if you want help turning everything you just learned into actual SEO results, more traffic, more leads, and more customers finding you on Google, my team at Goldie Agency can help. This isn't a generic pitch. We sit down with you, look at where your site stands right now, and build a real plan around your content and your backlinks. Book a free SEO strategy session using the link in the comments and description, and let us handle your backlinks and your rankings while you focus on growing your business. Drop a comment below and let

me know which of these four updates you're going to try first. Julian reads every single comment. See you in the next one.