---
video_title: "Quasar 438B - The Top European AI Model! 🤯"
video_id: p-H_DlDsdD4
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p-H_DlDsdD4
video_date: 2026-09-04
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Quazar 438B: Europe’s New Powerhouse AI Model for Agents
  
  Multiverse Computing just released Quazar 438B, a massive 438-billion-parameter model built specifically for AI agents and complex workflows. Discover why this European powerhouse is a game-changer for business automation and long-document reasoning.
  
  00:00 - Intro: Meet Quazar 438B
  00:44 - Performance Benchmarks
  01:42 - The Importance of Speed
  03:36 - 1 Million Token Context
  04:51 - Member Success Workflows
  06:07 - Call Intelligence Agents
  07:01 - Business Growth Strategy
---
Quasar 438B, the top European AI model. Europe just dropped something big. A Spanish AI company called Multiverse Computing just released a 438 billion parameter AI model called Quasar 438B. And according to the latest artificial analysis benchmarks, it just became the highest scoring European AI model they've ever evaluated. But here's the part that actually matters for your business. Quasar wasn't built to be a

chatbot. It was built specifically for AI agents, multi-step workflows, long document reasoning, complex automation, tool calling. So if you've been watching the AI agent space, this one is worth paying attention to. Let me break down exactly what Quasar 438B is, why the benchmarks are genuinely impressive, and then I'm going to walk you through real workflows you can use to automate your business with it. First, the numbers.

Quasar scored 43 on the artificial analysis intelligence index. That's a combined benchmark that tests nine different things: agentic tasks, coding, scientific reasoning, long context understanding, complex problem solving. And at 43, Quasar came out as the highest scoring European model in that comparison. To put that in context, hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie

reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. Mistral Medium 3.5 scored 30. Nvidia Nemotron 3 Ultra scored 38. Inkling scored 42. Quasar scored 43.

Claude Opus 5 is still ahead at 63. So this isn't suddenly the smartest model in the world. But for a European model, first major release from this company, this is a genuinely strong debut. Now here's the thing most people miss when they look at AI benchmarks. Raw intelligence isn't everything. Speed

matters a lot, especially for AI agents. Quasar generates a 500 token response, including its reasoning time, in 15.3 seconds. Only three models in the comparison were faster, and only one of those faster models also had a higher intelligence score. So, Quasar is sitting in a very interesting spot on the speed versus intelligence curve. Why

does speed matter so much? Because AI agents don't make one decision, they make dozens. Think about it this way. If you ask an AI agent to do something for your business, here's what's actually happening behind the scenes. It reads your request. It makes a plan. It calls

a tool. It reads the result. It makes another decision. It calls another tool. It checks if the output is right. It

adjusts. It finishes the task. That could be 10, 15, 20 separate model calls. If every single call is slow, your entire workflow grinds to a halt. Quasar's speed makes it a genuinely interesting option for agent-based systems. Look, if you want to learn how

to build real AI agent workflows like this for your business, the AI Profit Boardroom is where to go. We've built a full 30-day roadmap specifically around AI automation tools like Quasar. Inside, you get four weekly coaching calls where we go deep on how to set these agent systems up, how to connect them to your actual business, and how to get results fast. We've got daily step-by-step tutorials, a full prompt library, and 3,600 business owners already running these kinds of workflows right now. There's always someone online 24/7 ready to help. And with our member map, you

can connect with automation builders near you. Links in the description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com. And one more thing, if your business needs more visibility online, we're offering a free SEO strategy session where we put together a custom plan to help you rank on Google and AI search engines and get more traffic to your business. No pitch, just a real game plan built around your site. Links in

the comments and description or go to goldie.agency to book your free session. Now, let's talk about the context window. Quasar has a 1 million token context window. That's roughly 1,500 pages of text. And on the Artificial

Analysis Long Context Reasoning benchmark, it scored 75.0. That benchmark tests whether an AI can actually read, connect, and reason across huge amounts of information, not just retrieve it, reason across it. Quasar matched Grok 4.6 high at 75.0 on

that test and came within about 1 point of Claude Opus 5. Here's why this is a big deal for growing a community like AI Profit Boardroom. You've got coaching call transcripts, member questions, onboarding forms, tutorial content, community conversations, support requests, automation playbooks. A human team cannot read all of that and figure out what every member actually needs. There are too many people, too much information. But an AI agent with a 1

million token context window, you feed it everything. And then you ask it something like this, "You are an AI analyst for the AI Profit Boardroom community. Read everything in this document and identify the 10 biggest problems members are facing this month. Group them by business type and recommend which tutorial or coaching call would help each group most." It reads all of it, connects the dots, gives you a structured answer. That's

the real power of long context. Let me walk you through real workflows now. The AI Profit Boardroom member success agent. When you're running a community of thousands of people, every member has different needs. Some are brand new, some are stuck on a specific automation, some haven't had a win yet and are losing momentum. A generic message to

everyone doesn't work. Here's how you'd build a personalized member support system with Quasar. Step one, pull in every piece of member data you have. Onboarding forms, coaching call transcripts, community messages, tutorial completion rates, support tickets. Step two, feed it all into Quasar. Step three, run this prompt,

"You are an AI success coach for the AI Profit Boardroom. Based on this member data, identify which members are most at risk of disengaging, what their specific blockers are, and write a personalized check-in message for each one that references their exact situation and recommends one specific next step." Quasar reasons across all of that and gives you a structured breakdown. Member A is an agency owner struggling with lead follow-up automation. Member B is a coach spending 10 hours a week answering the same questions manually. Step four,

use Quasar's tool calling to trigger actions. Send personalized emails, tag members in your community platform, push tutorial recommendations automatically. Every member gets a personalized next step without a human manually doing that for 3,600 people. The coaching call intelligence agent Every week inside AI Profit Boardroom, there are four coaching calls packed with questions, problems, tool discussions, automation ideas. Unless someone watches the replay, they miss everything. Here's the

workflow. Upload the transcript, run this prompt in Quasar. Analyze this AI Profit Boardroom coaching call transcript, extract every question asked, every tool discussed, and every automation problem mentioned. Then create three things. A FAQ document for the community, a list of five tutorial ideas based on the most common questions, and a personalized follow-up email for each business type that was on the call. Quasar processes the whole

thing. Use tool calling to automatically post the FAQ to the community, send the follow-up emails, and brief your content team on what to create next. One coaching call becomes a full content and support system automatically. If you want to build AI agent workflows like the ones I just walked through, the AI Profit Boardroom is where to start. We've got a full 30-day AI automation roadmap, four weekly coaching calls where we go deep on exactly how to set these systems up for your business, and daily tutorials walking you through the process step by step. We've got a prompt

library with hundreds of prompts built specifically for business automation, a member map so you can connect with other builders near you, and 3,600 business owners inside already running these kinds of workflows. There's always someone online to help you. If you're serious about using AI agents to save time and grow your business, this is the place. Link's in the description, or go to aiprofitboardroom.com.

And one more thing, if your business needs more visibility online, we're offering a free SEO strategy session where we put together a custom plan to help you rank on Google and AI search engines and get more traffic to your business. No pitch, just a real game plan built around your site. Links in the comments and description or go to goldie.agency to book your free session.