---
video_title: "Xcode Just Got a Huge AI Upgrade With Antigravity"
video_id: 9hWjkOER4SM
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9hWjkOER4SM
video_date: 2026-09-01
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
  
  Google's Antigravity AI coding agent just landed inside Xcode — no more copy-pasting between apps. Here's exactly what it does, how to set it up (plus the beta requirement that will block most people), and what the free tier actually limits.
  
  00:00 Intro – Xcode's new AI upgrade
  00:38 What Is Antigravity – agent vs. autocomplete
  01:17 Big News – now built into Xcode
  01:56 Why It Matters – no more app-switching
  02:29 Setup Guide – requirements & install steps
  04:26 Beyond Xcode – VS Code, JetBrains, Zed support
  05:09 The Bigger Picture – full Antigravity ecosystem
  05:51 Usage Limits – free vs. paid tiers explained
  06:41 Key Takeaway – what this shift means for devs
  07:10 Final Thought – would you trust it with your code?
---
Xcode just got a huge AI upgrade with antigravity. Ever notice how Apple developers always get the AI stuff last? That just stopped being true. Google's coding agent now runs inside Xcode, not a chat tab, not a second app on your other screen, inside the exact place you already build. And most iOS devs still have no idea it's sitting there. I'm the

digital avatar of Julian Goldie, and I help people learn AI tools and actually use them in real work instead of just watching videos about them. In the next few minutes, I'll break down what antigravity really is, what changes now that it lives inside Xcode, the exact clicks to turn it on, and the one requirement that will stop most people from using it today. Stay with me because near the end, I'll cover the limits question, which is the part nobody wants to talk about. Let's start with what antigravity even is because the name confuses people. Antigravity is Google's agentic development platform.

That word agentic gets thrown around a lot, so let me make it simple. Most AI coding tools are helpers. You type, they guess the next line. You highlight some code, they explain it. Useful, but small. An agent is different. An agent

takes a task, makes a plan, does the work step by step, and shows you what it did. You're not asking for a snippet. You're handing off a job. Google says the agents can operate across the editor, the terminal, and the browser, and carry out bigger end-to-end tasks. Building features, changing how a screen looks, fixing bugs, doing research, that's a different shape of tool than autocomplete. Now, here's the news that

made me want to record this. On the 20th of August, 2026, Google announced antigravity extensions, and Xcode is on the list. You can now use antigravity directly inside Apple's Xcode. Google's docs say you can build across the Apple ecosystem without leaving your native development environment. That means macOS, iOS, iPadOS, watchOS, and visionOS, all from inside Xcode. That

last part matters more than it sounds. Think about how most people use AI for Apple development right now. You're in Xcode, something breaks, you copy the error, switch to another app, paste it, then paste some code, then paste another file because the AI needs more context. You copy the answer back, and half the time it doesn't fit because the AI never actually saw your project. Putting the agent inside Xcode removes that loop.

It's already where your code lives, where you debug, where you build, where you run on a simulator. And what you get inside the editor isn't just a chat box. Google describes the extensions this way. You talk to agents in a dedicated side panel. You review detailed line-by-line diffs. You inspect

interactive plans. You hand off multi-step engineering tasks. Notice the word plans. The agent tells you what it intends to do before it does it, and you can read it and adjust it. On a small script, auto complete is fine. On a real

app with dozens of files, networking, and tests, you want something that can look around, form a plan, and work through it while you watch the diffs. So, how do you actually get this? Here's the path straight from Google's documentation, and listen carefully to the first requirement. You need Xcode 17 beta 6 or later on macOS. That's the gate. If you're on an older Xcode, this

doesn't exist for you yet. That's what will stop most people watching this today. You also need a Google account with an antigravity plan. The free tier accounts. Once you've got those, it's four steps.

Open Xcode, go to Xcode, then settings, or just press command and comma. Select the intelligent settings panel, then install antigravity by clicking get. After it installs, select antigravity and use the three dots button to start authentication. You sign in with your Google account in your browser, and your session connects to your plan. Quick note, if you're on a team, Google says enterprise support for Xcode is currently in preview, and that route goes through Gemini enterprise with your Google Cloud project. So, it exists, but

it's early. Now, before I get into how far this goes beyond Xcode, quick word, if you're building something people are supposed to find, you can ship the best app out there and still be invisible. People don't only search on Google anymore. They ask ChatGPT for recommendations. They ask Perplexity.

They ask Gemini. They read the AI overview at the top of the page and never scroll. So, we're running free AI brand visibility sessions. It's a call where you get a custom visibility plan for your brand or your site. We look at how you actually show up or don't show up across Google, AI overviews, ChatGPT, Perplexity, and Gemini. You get a

competitor gap analysis, so you can see who's being recommended instead of you and why, and you get to ask a real strategist your own questions and get direct answers. It's 100% free and there's no obligation. The link is below. And if you want the deeper training, that's the AI Profit Boardroom. Inside, we go through tools like Antigravity properly. There are

walkthroughs of agentic coding setups, so you're not guessing which settings to use. There are live coaching calls where you bring your own project and your own stuck point and ask about it directly instead of digging through forum threads at midnight. And there are prompt libraries, tutorials, and 30-day roadmaps that give you an order to learn things in. If you're planning to try Antigravity and Xcode this week, that's exactly the kind of thing members bring to the calls. Join now and you can ask about your setup on the next one. Okay,

back to it because Xcode is only one piece of this. Antigravity extensions didn't launch for Xcode alone. They launched for Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio, JetBrains, Zed, and Xcode. For VS Code, it's a lightweight extension in the marketplace running on macOS, Linux, and Windows. For Visual Studio, it's an extension for Visual Studio 2026, currently in preview. JetBrains covers

the whole IntelliJ family, IntelliJ IDEA, PyCharm, WebStorm, GoLand, CLion, Rider, and more starting with version 2026.2.1. And Zed gets a one-click install. Read what that tells you about the strategy.

Google isn't trying to drag you into a brand new editor. The standalone app still exists, but with extensions, they're going to where developers already are. Xcode is the loudest signal of the lot because it's the one editor Apple developers can't just walk away from. Now, zoom out one more level because the extension is a small part of something bigger. Antigravity has several surfaces.

Antigravity 2.0, the standalone desktop app described as a command center for running agents across projects and workspaces. The Antigravity CLI, the terminal version for fast keyboard-driven work and SSH sessions. The SDK, a Python framework for building your own agents with custom tools and safety rules. And the IDE side, which is what we've been talking about. Google

says these all run on a shared agent system and the extensions share context with the rest of the ecosystem. So, the mental model isn't my editor got a new button. It's the same agent setup follows me from my terminal to my editor to my desktop app. You're not learning one plugin, you're learning a workflow that moves with you. Now, the limits question I promised. There is a free

tier and it works with the Xcode extension. On it, you get Gemini models as the core agent, unlimited tab completions, and access to product features, but your quota refreshes weekly and there's a weekly rate limit. Google AI Pro gives you a higher quota that refreshes every 5 hours until you hit the weekly limit. Google AI Ultra gives the most generous quota, the highest weekly limits, and access to third-party models. Here's the part most people don't read. Google says the

limits are tied to how much work the agent actually does, not how many messages you send. So, a small task might barely touch your quota, while one big messy refactor could eat a lot of it. Google also says these limits can change as they manage capacity. Practically, the free tier is great for trying it, learning the flow, and doing focused tasks. If you plan to run an agent all day on a real app, you'll feel the ceiling. So, what does all this

actually mean? For years, the pitch was AI suggests code. Now, the pitch is AI does the task and shows you the plan and the diff. Those are not the same product. One saves you typing, the other changes who does the work and turns you into the person reviewing it. And when

Xcode, one of the most locked-down development environments out there, opens its intelligence panel to an outside agent, that tells you which direction things are moving. Editors aren't fighting the agents anymore, they're hosting them, which leaves the real question. Would you actually trust an agent with your Xcode project, not one file? The whole thing. Drop a comment and tell me honestly, because I think this one splits people right down the middle. If you want help applying

any of this to your own brand, book your free AI brand visibility session. It's the fastest way to get expert eyes on where you stand right now. You'll get a custom plan, a look at what your competitors are doing that you aren't, and clear recommendations you can act on straight away. 100% free, no obligation. Links in the description. And when you

go and try Antigravity in Xcode, you're going to hit friction, the beta requirement. Deciding how much freedom to give the agent, reviewing diffs properly instead of just clicking accept, working out which tasks are worth handing over. That's normal and it's much faster to get through with people already doing it. That's what the AI Profit Boardroom is for. Coaching calls where you bring your setup, tutorials and walkthroughs on Agentic coding tools, tested prompts and roadmaps that give you a clear order to follow. Over 4,000 members are already

inside working through this together. Join us at aiprofitboardroom.com.