---
video_title: "The NEW Agent OS is CRAZY GOOD! 🤯"
video_id: QU-qaGE-kKw
channel_name: "Julian Goldie SEO"
channel_id: UCGpsgNbzdF7BECCVbB1COHw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QU-qaGE-kKw
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Want to make money and save time with AI? Join here: https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Video notes + links to the tools 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-profit-lab-7462/about
  
  Get a FREE AI Course + Community + 1,000 AI Agents 👉 https://www.skool.com/ai-seo-with-julian-goldie-1553/about
  
  Get a FREE AI SEO Strategy Session: https://go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session?utm=julian
---
The new Agent OS is crazy good, and in this video, I'm going to walk you through exactly what it does, what's new in 2026, and why I think this is the most powerful AI setup you can run right now. I'm going to show you the whole system live, how I use it, and some of the stuff you can actually build with it. Let me start with the problem. Most people are using AI completely wrong. They've got Claude open in one tab, ChatGPT in another, maybe something else on the side. They're copying and pasting

between everything. They spend hours on stuff that should take minutes. And AI feels useful, but it's not really compounding. Every session starts from scratch. Nothing connects. That's what

Agent OS fixes. Here's the simple version. It's one dashboard. You plug all your AI agents into it. Claude, Hermes, Omni Root, voice tools, email tools, content tools, and they all run together from one screen, one click away. Instead of switching tabs all day,

you run workflows. Instead of starting over every conversation, the system remembers everything. And the key thing, I'm not a developer. I don't write code. I don't touch the terminal unless I have to. This is a zip file you download, a

guide you follow, and it works. No technical background needed. Let me show you what's actually inside it. Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping clients get more leads and customers, I'm here to help you get the latest AI updates. And Julian Goldie

reads every comment, so make sure you comment below. The first thing that changed everything for me is the memory system. When you use a regular AI in a browser tab, it knows nothing about you. Every conversation starts cold. It doesn't know what you're working on, who your audience is, what your goals are.

Nothing sticks. Agent OS has a shared memory layer. Every agent running inside the system, Claude, Hermes, all of them, pulls from the same memory. So, when I tell the system something once, it's there forever. It knows my business. It

knows my workflows. It knows my audience. And over time it compounds. Every task gets better because the context builds up instead of resetting. That's a completely different relationship with AI. The second thing

is the model stack. We've now got HY3 from Tencent wired in as a coder inside Agent OS. I tested it on Goldie bench. That's our internal benchmark where we put models head-to-head on real build tasks. Honest verdict, it's solid. It's

not quite a GLM 5.2 level yet. GLM is still the top pick for open-source coding, but HY3 is free, it's fast, and having it inside the dashboard without switching tools is a big deal. We also have Omni Route built in. Omni Route is a free coding tool that runs across about 90 different models. The reason

that matters is it doesn't run out of tokens. You keep building, keep iterating, and it just keeps going. So, if you want a free coder inside Agent OS that doesn't drain your credits, Omni Route is the answer. We've got Hermes Astros running inside the system. What Astros does is it monitors competitor keywords using the Google Workspace API, then feeds content ideas straight into your workflow automatically. Fully

automated. I don't have to think about what to post. The system tells me. We've also got the email outreach tool. This one is probably the most useful thing for growing a business. It finds leads,

verifies contacts, and sends from your own mailbox. And then there's the agent Kanban. This is new. It's a live task board where a team of local agents, a planner, a builder, and a reviewer work through tasks together. Free. Runs

entirely on your machine. You watch them work in real time as they move tasks across the board. Here's how I'd use that for the AI Profit Boardroom. Give it a project. Build a 30-day onboarding sequence for new members so they get the most out of Agent OS in their first month. The planner maps it out. The

builder drafts each day's content. The reviewer checks it. You didn't do any of that. You just reviewed the output. That's the shift from doing the work to reviewing the work. Now, if you want to

get your hands on the full Agent OS system that I'm showing you right now, here's exactly how to get it. Inside the AI Profit Boardroom, you can download the complete Agent OS zip file already built, already set up, ready to install on your machine today. This isn't just a roadmap or a tutorial. You're getting the actual tool, the same system I run, the same workflows. You download it, follow the install guide, and you're up and running. On top of that, we've built

a full 30-day roadmap inside the community that walks you through exactly how to use it step-by-step from day one install all the way through to running fully automated workflows for your business. We run four live coaching calls every week where we go deep on Agent OS, specifically how to set it up, how to customize it for your type of business, how to use it to get more leads and save hours every week. 3,600 members are already in there building with this. Link is in the description or go to aiprofitboardroom.com.

One more thing, if you want to grow your business with SEO and AI search, and you want a custom game plan built specifically for your website, book a free SEO strategy session with our team. Go to go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session. We'll look at your site, your niche, your current rankings, and we'll map out exactly how to get you more traffic from Google and AI search engines like Perplexity and ChatGPT search. This

isn't a generic call. We look at your actual situation and build the plan around that. A lot of business owners we speak to have no idea how much traffic they're leaving on the table and how fast it can change once you've got the right strategy in place. If that sounds useful, link is in the description or go to go.juliangoldie.com/

strategy-session and book your free session. Back to the system. Let me talk about the Hermes update because it's a big one. The August 2026 release, and this is a real number, not hype, shipped with over 5,800 commits and 2,475 merge pull requests since the last major version. First turn response time dropped 80% across every platform.

Reasoning streams live by default now, which means you can watch the agent think through a problem in real time. The desktop version renders markdown 14 times faster than before. Session switching is instant. New models added, GPT-5.6, Grok 4.5 now live, Fable 5, Sonnet 5,

HY3 from Tencent, all available inside the system now. Fireworks AI and Deep Infra are now first-class providers. And for local setups, LM Studio JIT model loading means you can load any local model on demand without restarting anything. That last one is underrated. If you run local models, that changes your whole workflow. Let me address the

thing a lot of people are thinking right now. This looks complicated. It looks like something for people who've been doing this for years. It's not. The Agent OS zip file comes with a full 30-day roadmap. Day one is just install

and connect. You don't write code, you don't need to understand how any of this works under the hood. You follow the guide, you ask questions in the community, and someone helps you. The community's active around the clock. Members in different time zones, different industries, all building the same thing and helping each other.

There's always someone online. And the personalization bug from earlier versions is fixed. When you install Agent OS now, it's clean. You put your name in the config file and it's yours from the start. It doesn't call you Julian or reference someone else's business. It's set up for you. So,

here's what I'd say. If you've been watching these videos and thinking you should probably do something about this, now is the right time. You can get the full Agent OS system, the actual zip file, ready to download and install inside the AI Profit Boardroom right now. This is the same setup I've shown you throughout this video. The same workflows, the same tools. You're not getting a course about

it, you're getting the actual thing. Download it, install it, and you're running. Alongside that, you get the full 30-day roadmap we've built, so you know exactly what to do each day from install to full automation. Four live coaching calls every week where we go through Agent OS in real time, answer your questions live, and show you how to apply it to your specific business. Daily tutorials added every single day.

A prompt library built specifically around Agent OS workflows, and 3,600 members, a lot of them already running the setup for their businesses who can help you answer questions and share what's working. Plus a member map so you can connect with people near you who are building the same thing. Link is in the description or go to AIprofitboardroom.com. And if you want a one-on-one session where we look at your specific business and map out exactly how to use AI agents to get you more leads and grow faster, go to go.juliangoldie.com/strategy-session

and book a free strategy call. We'll look at where you are, where you want to be, and build the plan around that. Link is in the description.