---
video_title: "WALT DISNEY 1945 INDUSTRIAL CARTOON  \"THE ABC OF HAND TOOLS\"  TOOL CARE & HANDLING  48344"
video_id: 28NEoH9II6g
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=28NEoH9II6g
video_date: 2024-04-16T19:29:50+00:00
video_description: |
  “The ABC of Hand Tools” (1945) is a Walt Disney Co. produced training and educational film for General Motors (GM) about proper use of hand tools. The film, which is in Technicolor, is fully animated and opens with a caveman character “Primitive Pete” seen inventing the first hand tool: an early model hammer made from stone with a stick handle. The film then goes on to elegantly show different types of basic hand tools such as the hammer, screwdriver, wrench, and pliers and show their proper uses, design elements and proper care. 
  
  Opening credits and title page, General Motors (GM) logo (0:07). Animation of various hand tools on blue background: wrench, hammer, saw, screwdriver (0:28). Various human innovations built using hand tools stretch out from globe: Golden Gate Bridge, radio towers, train (0:35). Stone Age: cartoon character caveman “Primitive Pete” uses earliest form of hand tool, stone tied to stick “Stone Age hammer” (0:58 - 2:12). Various modern day hand tools derived from Primitive Pete’s invention and shots of Primitive Pete misusing these tools: Ball-Peen Hammer design and proper uses of peen vs. face (2:24). Brass or copper hammer, raw-hide face hammer, plastic tip hammer, claw hammer (3:38). Details of design, uses of claw hammer (how to tighten hammer head, how to insert or remove nail using hammer head and claw) and Primitive Pete demonstrating how NOT to use the hammer (3:56 - 5:32). Ordinary screwdriver: Primitive Pete struggles to open window using screwdriver, however, he fails and only ends up ruining the tool (5:35). More information on the screwdriver which is made up of three principal parts: handle, shank, blade (6:00). Various size screws screwed into wood plank, demo on how to find proper blade for screw head size; Consequences of not choosing proper blade (6:44). Repairing blade head on shank if damaged; Front and side view of properly ground screw driver (7:37). Special heavy duty model screwdriver with extra large square shank; Primitive Pete damages screw driver by using wrench (8:19). Pliers: combination pliers, diagonal cutting pliers, long round-nose pliers, side-cutting pliers (8:50). Details of side cutting pliers design and uses: detailed how-to steps for using these pliers to make an electrical connection (9:09). Use of long round-nose pliers to make loop to fit a terminal (9:43). Use of diagonal cutting pliers for removing and installing cotter pins (10:01). Use of combination pliers: design elements (slip joint, shear) and uses (10:26). Wrenches and size range of wrench head (measurements refer to distance between jaws) (11:09). Primitive Pete demos bad wrench use followed by demo of proper usage (11:34). Open end wrench: adjustable jaw; Correct use of wrench; Proper care - keep tool well oiled (12:38). Medium sized monkey wrench: adjustable jaw for tight fit against nut; Proper use (13:35). Primitive Pete shown destroying tool by trying to force stubborn nut by hammering on wrench handle (14:11). Pipe wrench: how to use on pipes and other round objects, protective measures to prevent teeth marks (14:43). Box wrench: 12 notches in its head for good fit over nuts; head and handle offset at 15-degree angle (15:25). Combination box and open end wrench “half and half” (16:02). Boxes of socket wrenches: normal box set and one ideal for mechanic workshops which includes hinged offset handle, T handle, ratchet handle (16:23). Primitive Pete uses early model hammer against rock before film cuts to closing credits (17:40).
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. We collect, scan and preserve 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have films you'd like to have scanned or donate to Periscope Film, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the link below.
  
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
Simple tools in the hands of skilled craftsmen have helped to build the world we know today. A world of towering steel, of giant airplanes, fast-moving transportation, a world of mechanical wonders, products of fine craftsmanship, whose origin lies in the proper use of simple hand tools. But to more fully appreciate these tools in their part in our world today, let's turn back to pages of history. Sixtier 70,000 years ago, long before the beginning of civilization, our primitive ancestors lived in caves, and we today might also be living in caves except for a certain event that took place within the gloomy depths of this long forgotten cavern. Here, a certain stone age craftsman for the name of primitive peat stumbled upon a very good idea. He suddenly realized that by crashing a stick to a rock, Like this, he could extend the length of his arm, like this. And thereby greatly increased the force of his blow, like this. Us was born the world's first practical hand tool. Did we say practical? Well, anyway, it was a good idea. In fact, it eventually led to the development of all the numerous sledges and hammers we have today. But more than that, out of Pete's Stone Age hammer came other tools, tools for every purpose. This ball-peen hammer, for example, is just a practical version of primitive Pete's first crude invention. But like all tools, there's a right and wrong way to use it. There are still primitive Pete's among us today who would abuse this fine tool. And this would be the horrible result. Obviously, this hammer was never intended for crushing rocks. The ball-peen hammer was designed for many purposes. The peen end can be used for riveting. It's also used for shaping soft metal. When using the face, you can avoid damage when hitting a hard object simply by striking with a full face. Never strike the object with the edge. Of course, there are many other types of hammers, all based on the original Stone Age model. There's the brass or copper, the raw hide face, plastic tip, and the claw hammer, which is the most commonly used. Or we should say most commonly misused. To use the claw hammer correctly, rest the head squarely on the nail, give the nail a slight starting tap, then drive it in with steady blows. A long nail can be pulled part way with a natural leverage of the claw. Then a block of wood placed under the head will increase the leverage, making a stubborn nail easier to pull, with less strain on the handle. A hammer with a loose head can be plenty dangerous. Here's how primitive peat would tighten the head on his hammer, but that only damages the handle at both ends. Have you a little beauty like this in your home? A steel wedge is the right answer. Driven into the wood, the wedge spreads the handle to the tapered sides of the eye and holds it tight in both directions. Gripping the handle too close to the head reduces the force of the blow, and sometimes makes it difficult to drive a nail in straight. Always grip the handle close to the end to increase the length of the lever arm and make each blow more accurate and effective. Never use a handle for a crowbar. That's going all the way back to primitive peat. Another familiar tool that takes an awful lot of abuse is the ordinary screwdriver. Our modern day primitive peat often uses a screwdriver to pry open a stubborn window. Well, maybe he'll succeed in ruining the tool. This never would have happened if peat had known more about the screwdriver. It's made up of three principal parts. Handle, shank, and blade. Some screwdriver have a full length shank extending through the handle. But many household screwdrivers have a shorter shank. Pin to the handle in this fashion. This type will not stand a primitive peat treatment. The best rule is never hammer on any screwdriver. Many of us try to use one screwdriver for every size of screw head. Always choose a screwdriver with a blade equal in width to the length of the slot. Another thing, never attempt to turn a tight screw if there is too much blade between the blade and the slot. A bad fit can cause serious trouble. It can ruin the screw slot or the blade. This looks like the work of primitive peat. Well, it is. Fortunately, if the blade is not too badly chipped, it can be re-grounded in the surface of a shape. First, grind the tip straight and square with a shank. Then grind each face a little at a time. But never allow the blade to become hot. Excessive heat will draw the temper and the blade will become sore. Here are the front and side views of a properly ground screwdriver. Here is a little trick. If the faces of the blade are tapered in slightly, a short distance back of the tip, the screwdriver will stay down in the screw slot, even when a severe twisting force is exerted. Here is a special type screwdriver designed for heavy duty. The extra large square shank will stand a wrench if added leverages needed. Don't be a primitive peat and resort to the use of pliers. Thereafter chew up the shank. Fliers are made for other purposes. Here are some familiar types. Combination, diagonal cutting, long round nose, and side cutting. These side cutting pliers are used chiefly for electrical work. To make an electrical connection, first cut the insulated wire to the required length. Then use the parts back of the joint to flatten the insulation like this. Then grip the insulation with the cutting edges, without biting into the solid wire, and strip off the insulation. Now right here is where long round nose pliers come in handy. To make a neat loop to fit a terminal, first use the tip of your pliers to make a right angle bend. Then grip the wire farther up, and turn the end into a loop. These diagonal pliers have their cutting jaws at an angle. They are very useful for removing and installing cotter pins. The dropper boil every now and then is good insurance against rust. Like all tools, pliers should be kept in good working order. These combination pliers, equipped with a slip joint, are very commonly used. They usually have a small shear between the teeth and the joint for cutting wire or nails. Think of these pliers as a set of extra stronger fingers, valuable for all sorts of jobs. They should not be used to tighten or loosen nuts. The jaws might slip, chewing off the corners of the nut. A better tool for this job would be an open end wrench. They usually come in set, with openings ranging in size from 5'16", to 1". Rrench measurements refer to the distance between the jaws. Use a wrench that always fits the nut exactly. Pushing on a wrench when the nut is tight is bad practice. Better not, Pete, we're warning you. Oh! Well, some people have to learn the hard way. On open end wrenches, the head is set at an angle to the handle, usually 15 degrees. This permits efficient use in close quarters. For example, this nut has very little swing space around it. To start the nut, the wrench will fit one set of flats in this position. And we can give the nut a partial turn before the handle jams against the block. But if we try to repeat the action, we find the nut is in a new position and the wrench won't fit. So we flop the wrench over and get a new fit on the nut. Again, we pull the handle as far as it'll go. We keep repeating the procedure until the job is finished. An ingenious development of the open end wrench is this tight. It's adjustable jaw makes it handy for many sizes of nuts and bolt heads. But the jaw should always be set for a snug fit on the sides of the nut before exerting any great force. To use the wrench correctly, the pulling force should be applied to the stationary jaw, like this. Great force applied to this weaker adjustable jaw might ruin the tool. This type of wrench is not intended for hard service, so don't over strain it. And remember to keep the moving parts well oiled. There are many uses for a medium sized monkey wrench. This tool also is often abused. The jaw should always be adjusted to a tight fit. And remember to exert the pull on the right side opposite the opening. If the wrench is used the wrong way, it might slip off the nut and do a lot of damage. See what we mean? Trying to force a stubborn nut by hammering on the handle of the wrench is a sure sign that you're a primitive peat. If you really want to ruin a good tool, try this on your monkey wrench. You can ruin yourself too. What peat needed was a bigger wrench. And we should remember that there is a proper tool for every job if we'll only take the trouble to use it. Pipe wrenches are used for turning pipe, pipe fittings and other round objects. The teeth of the pipe wrench will not grip the fitting unless the tool is worked in the correct position. For best results, the bite should be taken at the center of the jaws. Remember the teeth will always leave their mark on the work. However, if you must use a pipe wrench on plated fixtures, you can first wrap the pipe with a leather strap. This will protect the finish. A popular wrench with mechanics is the box wrench designed for use in close quarters. The 12 nuts in the head of this tool make it possible to get a good fit over the nut in almost any position. Notice the nut is gripped at all six corners. To ensure a working clearance, the head of this wrench is offset from the handle at a 15 degree angle. Some mechanics call this tool a knuckle saver. Here's a combination of a box and open end wrench. Sometimes called a half and half. The box end is ideal for breaking loose a tight nut. Then if there's no clearance for a full spin, the open end may be used to turn the nut off more quickly than the box end. Every workshop should have a set of socket wrenches with at least one handle to fit the different sockets. However, a good mechanic needs a larger set like this one with a dozen sockets and several handles for different types of jobs. These special handles provide leverage in almost any position. For example, this hinged offset handle can be worked at various angles. This T-handle with a universal joint allows use in very confined areas where it would be difficult to work with ordinary handles. A further improvement is a ratchet handle. With this tool, the ratchet lever can be set so that the wrench pulls in either one direction or the other and ratchets in the opposite direction. When primitive P attached a simple handle to a piece of rock, he became the inventor of the first hand tool known to man. And from this beginning, through centuries of trial and error, came the vast array of fine tools we have today. Most of us take our modern tools for granted, not realizing what a vital part they play in our daily lives.