---
video_title: "\"THE POISONED AIR\"  1968 AIR POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL MOVEMENT DOCUMENTARY FILM GG47515"
video_id: Im7PzLMavZE
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Im7PzLMavZE
video_date: 2026-08-22
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This documentary "The Poisoned Air" dates to 1968 and looks at the threat of air pollution. (This is part one of the film, the second half has not yet been scanned.)
  
  00:00 The film describes air pollution across America, from the Midwest to the Pacific Coast, and its impact on various landscapes and communities.0:58: The film expands its scope, noting that air pollution is a global issue, affecting places like Lebanon and Rome.1:53: The film highlights the severity of air pollution in industrialized nations, including Britain and Japan.2:23: The film contrasts America's current polluted state with its past, when the air was much cleaner.2:48: The film presents perspectives from experts like Dr. Lewis Batton and Captain Lane Guthrie, who have witnessed the increasing haze and pollution over the years.3:55: The film explains the composition of the Earth's atmosphere and how it is being polluted by industrial waste.4:41: The film discusses the potential long-term consequences of air pollution, such as climate change and rising sea levels.5:16: The film shifts to the economic costs of air pollution, detailing the damage it causes to various materials and industries.6:42: The film explores the health effects of air pollution, referencing specific incidents like the Donora, Pennsylvania smog event and the London killer fog, and the rise of respiratory diseases.8:01: The film shows the damage polluted air does to human lungs.8:08: The film includes an interview with Dr. Paul Cotin, who discusses the link between air pollution and lung cancer, citing experiments with animals.9:30: The film traces the sources of air pollution to various human activities, including industry, transportation, and waste disposal.11:16: The film discusses the history of air pollution control efforts in the United States, noting the slow initial response.11:45: The film highlights Los Angeles as a city that took action due to the severity of its smog problem.11:59: The film recounts the history of air pollution in St. Louis and the citizen activism that led to cleanup efforts.14:43: The film discusses Pittsburgh's efforts to combat air pollution, led by Mayor David Lawrence, and the challenges faced due to the coal industry.18:21: The film explains that while cleaning up smoke from soft coal was a relatively simple problem, the 1950s and 1960s brought new and more complex pollution problems due to population growth, industrial expansion, and increased car usage.18:58: The film concludes by stating that Los Angeles was the first city to face the new threat of complex air pollution.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music] America, a cloud has gathered over the Midwestern plains of Illinois and Indiana. Over St. Lewis, which cleaned up its problem, but not the steel encampments in Illinois just across the Mississippi. Over the river towns in the Alaganis of West Virginia, over the small towns where the jaw fire smolder perpetually. Over the orchard lands of Florida, where fallout from chemical plants takes its toll of fruit trees. Over the clear desert air

Phoenix, Arizona, where clean air is sacrificed for budding industry. Over the forested mountains and the once wide open spaces. In Missoula, Montana, where a pulp mill sends its waste into the air. Clear over to the Pacific coast, which used to sell climate as its biggest attraction. In Los Angeles, an uphill battle against smug has been going on for 15 years.

But the affliction doesn't stop at the water's edge. For contaminated air knows no land boundaries and the Mojave desert community of Tachapi, California is linked in misery with the once crystalline coast of Lebanon on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean, linked by the common exhalations of their cement industries. And Rome, the eternal city, is on its way to becoming the infernal city from the exhausts of a million cars jammed into narrow streets where traffic slows to 3 m an hour. And the vehicles of the rural valley creep in a veil of industrial smoke, a wreath to crown the German economic miracle. Britain, 7 years ahead of the United States in passing a clean air law, still copes with its lethal combinations of fog, stagnant air, and combustion fuels. And Tokyo, where convolescent gis

are removed to the suburbs to recover from Tokyo asthma. Where industry and cars go, pollution follows. The greater the productivity, the dirtier the air. That's progress. And no industrial power beats America in economic growth or in pollution. But it wasn't always like

this. There was an America where the air was so clean that you could see for more than a 100 miles. There was a time when one simply said you can see and not on a clear day you can see. It didn't go up in smoke all at once. Those whose business it is to see watched it happening over the years. To

Dr. Lewis Batton, head of the University of Arizona Meteorological Center, it came like this. When I first came to Arizona in some 15 years ago, it was common to see 80 or 90 miles. Now, even a city like New York or Chicago or Pittsburgh, you could see 30 miles. People would say it's great here. When

it gets to 30 mi here, you notice that there are certain mountains which used to be crisp and clear are somewhat hazy. Captain Lane Guthrie, airline pilot for 30 years, watch the view from his cockpit gradually recede. The uh the density has not only increased of this uh material in the air, but the level at which we encounter it has constantly increased. In years gone, top of the smoke level at 3,000. today. Perhaps we won't top the smoke at

30,000. Have you ever had it because of this restricted visit? Have a number of them. Every pilot has had them. If our skies are growing murkier each year, it's peted our atmosphere as throwing into it 130 million tons per year of the God from our affluent society.

The Earth's atmosphere is not to be confused with the limitless space beyond. The atmosphere is an envelope of life-giving gases, mainly concentrated in the first 12 miles above the Earth's surface, and it can be poisoned. The comparatively new science of meteorology has begun to reveal the structure of the Earth's weather machine. It can predict hurricanes, can sense those forces which may produce tornadoes. This science has detected a significant increase of carbon dioxide in our planetary atmosphere during the past 60 years.

Man's unrestricted use of the sky as a dumping ground for the waste products of coal, oil, and gasoline, in the judgment of some meteorologists, may eventually establish a film between the sun and Earth's surface, which could result in radical changes in climate. The polar caps might begin to melt, coastal cities be drowned by the rising ocean level, and the northern hemisphere become tropical. Distant doom will be discounted by many who cannot calculate that far ahead. What can be calculated is today's cost of man's heedless fouling of his environment. In money, just money. Air pollution costs the

nation 11 billion a year, $65 per citizen. It takes its toll in many ways. It kills trees, damages crops, destroys vines, poisons cattle through their food. It weakens the fiber of clothing, cracks rubber, breaks down the surface of paint, corrods the metal in bridges, and erodess the surface of streets. It restricts visibility to add to flying hazards.

It blackens the surface of buildings, turns marble into a compound that washes away, causes limestone to crumble. The self-glorifying hieroglyphics of Thutmus III, which withtood Egyptian sun, wind, and sand for 3,000 years are melting today in the air of New York's Central Park. It deprivives white moths of the natural camouflage of white birch. Sukco covered trees in Britain made them targets for their bird to meet the man-made emergency. A darker strain of moth emerged, better abled by a modern illustration of Darwin's theory of natural selection. That's what it does

to our environment. Harder to measure in dollars is what it does to us in the 400 cubic feet of air we inhale each day. Some remember that in Denora, Pennsylvania in October 1948, a third of the 17,000 people became ill and 17 died of poison in the air. Many recall the 5-day killer fog in London in December 1952 when 4,000 deaths were recorded. But not many recollect that in November 1953, stagnant air and sulfur dioxide figured in the deaths of 200 persons in New York City or that in December 1962 340 died in London in a for only a few days. Did bad air kill them? Some

were already ailing or feeble. An aggravating circumstance the doctors call it. But we are not sure that foul air only aggravates. Respiratory diseases are on the increase in the United States. Deaths from the lung condition called emphyma are rising faster than fatalities from any other disease. The

evidence is that long-term low-level air pollution is a factor in lung ailments that are sometimes fatal. This black pitted tissue is what a human lung looks like that has been long exposed to contaminated air. The man who has done more research on the effects of polluted air on animal tissue than anyone else is a newly appointed director of the National Environmental Health Sciences Center, Dr. Paul Cotin. He tells producer Jack Beck that air pollution may help to explain the higher rate of lung cancer in cities than in the countryside. Uh we

have identified in urban air the presence of known cancer producing chemicals when you collect them out of the air and in paint them on animals or inject them into animals or when you expose animals in inhalation chambers to uh synthetically reproduced urban polluted air you get uh an effect on lung cancer incidents. Dr. Dr. Cotton, what did your experiments with mice subjected to hydrocarbons and other emissions from the auto exhaust demonstrate? The amount and number of cancers we got was in proportion to the amount of material that we painted or injected. But then we realized that

perhaps we might be shortch changing ourselves that uh people weren't exposed to any one thing at a given time. They were exposed to a lot of things. And maybe what we try and do is duplicate this multiple exposure situation under laboratory conditions. Let's suppose a man is breathing dirty air in a city. He's puffing on a cigarette. He's coming

home from a dusty job. He gets behind a bus and then in addition to that has a little virus infection. Not enough to keep him home, but enough so that he's he's got a few symptoms. Well, we picked out two of the things that had the highest index of suspicion to combine them. The smog with its known chemical carcinogens and we picked a virus, the flu virus, which we know has a certain effect on the lung. We wouldn't pick a

virus, for instance, that had its primary effect on the skin. Well, when we combined these in inhalation chambers, we infected the mice with the with the viruses and then put these animals in chambers where they were exposed to city smog. And uh sure enough, with the virus alone, we got some response, of course, but no cancers. With the smog alone, we got some response, but no cancers. But here is a a jackpot slide, as it were. We

have uh a cancer of the lung microscopically similar to that seen uh in man produced at least in our hands only by the combination of the virus the flu virus and the Los Angeles storm. Where does this menace spring from? Briefly from our way of life. The fires to heat our homes, the combustion to drive our automobiles, fly our jets, move our trains, propel our ships. The processing of raw materials into industrial products. The burning of

waste in city incinerators or in backyards. The refining of petroleum. The burning of coal and oil to generate electricity. The spraying of crops. The construction of roads and buildings. And

the blastoffs into space. All of this creates waste that goes into the air we breathe. More kinds of waste than we've ever known. and some produce effects that we do not yet understand. What's been done about it? Until

recently, not much. Up to 1963, little more than half of the 218 urban areas with air pollution problems had control agencies to deal with those problems. Only 17 states were spending as much as $5,000 a year on control programs. Of all the money spent by the states, California was investing 57%. And of that, Los Angeles County was spending 41%. Los Angeles awoke when smarting

eyes in the shroud of smog signaled crisis, which maybe teaches us something about what it takes to get action, a clear and present crisis. Long before St. Lewis, scene of the first air pollution crisis, showed how long apathy can persist. For 60 years, Missurrians had talked of the terrible soft coal blight. And as Missurrian Mark Twain said about the weather, they had done nothing about it as they watched property values drop at the rate of $25 million a year. In the winters of the 1930s, there

were day fumes from home furnaces, industry, and the rail yards lay over the city like a tightening noose. The sun, looking more like a sickly moon, was hardly visible at noon. You could stand on the corner of 12th and Olive Streets and see darkness at noon. Everybody knew the crusading St. Louis Post Dispatch had been badgering the city fathers for years, but to no avail until November 28th, 1939, Black Tuesday. That day, St. Louis was

submerged in its thickest blanket of smoke. Then the Post Dispatch talked tough, advanced a program of its own, rallied and outraged citizenry. Out of Black Tuesday came a smoke program and a smoke commissioner. Raymond Tucker laid a mayor for three terms. In order to accomplish anything, you had to change the merchandising habits of about 1,700 fuel dealers, the buying habits of about 750 800,000 people, and of course, the mining habits of one of the largest coal scenes in the United States over in Illinois. So,

there were built-in resistances that had to be overcome before anything materially could be done. What was the missing ingredient? Well, I would say the the tech everyone knew what to do. The missing ingredient was a will to do it. And unless that exists and you have unanimous support, you're you're going to be in trouble.

You can't get it done. What finally determined that something would be done about it? Well, that was the bad conditions that arose on the so-called Black Tuesday. The people became aroused and demanded something be done. The mayor then appointed a committee of outstanding citizens representing all elements in the community and they came in subsequently with a very very definite proposal that certain things be done uh and uh the ordinance was passed and from there on then it just became a matter of enforcement. Two winters later

the view from 12th and Olive Streets had changed or rather there was a view now. For some, it was a discovery that a few blocks away was a statue of General Sherman. And behind that, City Hall, Pittsburgh, a town known in those years as the Smoky City, had watched the effort in St. Louis. In 1945, with World War II over, Pittsburgh buckled down to clear its air. Leading that drive with

Richard Melon was Mayor David Lawrence, later governor of Pennsylvania, who recalls it to Jack Beck. Of course, it was a tough fight here in Pittsburgh because you had two elements to contend with that they don't have in New York and some of the other places because great fortunes were made and are still being made in this area in the coal business. You had the corporate side. Then thousands of men were earning their living in the co mines from the labor side. They were all concerned. A great

deal of their business came from hauling coal and they they uh they were fearful of what was going to happen to them. Of course, the place was dirty, filthy. Uh many days the street lights would be left on uh until 11:00 or 12:00 at noon because what would happen you know fog would come up and then of course the uh smoke would get involved with the fog or the fog with the smoke and created what came I guess the word was coined here smog and uh that uh drove a lot of people away that just didn't want to live here. for instance, our corporations would ask uh men to come here at a greatly advanced salary, but he'd go home and tell his wife that he had an offer of a job from a Pittsburgh corporation. She'd throw up her hands and say, "I don't want to live in Pittsburgh when that smoke and filth and so forth." So, that hurt us very uh

measurably. And our business leaders sensed that and made up their mind that when the war closed that and they came back here to start up again, take up where they'd left off, they'd better do something or Pittsburgh was going to fold up. I take it that the technology how to clean up Pittsburgh uh had been known for a long time before the job was done. What was the missing ingredient? Well, well, just the spirit to do it.

It's something that I like to call civic patriotism. You've got to arouse in the people uh a type of patriotism in their city uh comparable to the type of patriotism we Americans pride ourselves in having nationally. Then you've got to have public officials who are willing to take a chance on doing something that looks as if it might be unpopular and temporarily is unpopular. Fortunately, Mr. Melon was a director and a large stockholder in the Pennsylvania Railroad and he was very helpful in that field and convincing his associates uh finally to go along. Now the same happened with

George Love uh the head of Pittsburgh consolidated. Uh they realize now that Pittsburgh was saved and is now a much better looking city and a better much better place to live and they weren't destroyed in the process. No, no, they all made more money in the end. When David Lawrence and his fellow citizens finished their work, Pittsburgh's air had been scrubbed clean. The smoky city was smoky no more. Pittsburgh today is a

pleasant place to live and to work. But the spirit of Pittsburgh has not fully spread up the Manonga and the Alageney rivers to the nearby industrial regions. Smoke from soft coal was a relatively elementary problem. The technicians knew the answer. needed only was the will to do something about it.

In St. Louis and Pittsburgh, public outrage and industries enlightened self-interest provided the missing ingredients. The 1950s and the60s brought new and tougher pollution problems. The population exploded. So did the industrial economy. Half the

population was cramming into 1% of the land. Coal was being replaced by oil for home heating, for electric power, and we were heading towards becoming a nation of 88 million autos. More people, more crowding, more cars, more industry added up to more smoke and new, more complex kinds of smoke. First to face the sinister new threat was Los Angeles, which found itself in a battle for the survival of a great city.