---
video_title: "\"ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION\" 1957 POLICE OFFICER TRAINING FILM   ASSESSMENT OF DRUNK DRIVERS GG34575"
video_id: BpRzWqV2Kto
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BpRzWqV2Kto
video_date: 2026-08-14T19:29:49+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Dating to 1957, "Accident Investigation" is a police / law enforcement training film that was released by Police Science Productions. 
  
  The film teaches proper techniques for accident investigations and reports. Interestingly, it includes information about DUI, which at the time was not uniformly enforced as a crime.
  
  0:00 Main titles. 0:53 – Friday, September 20th, is an ordinary day for most people, but not for all... 
  
  1:22 – At 6:53 a.m., Frank Whitmore and his family are still asleep, unaware that this will be a day they will never forget.
  
  2:43 – The narrator reveals that Frank Whitmore is destined to kill someone on this day.
  
  2:55 – Seventeen blocks away, the Johnson family begins their morning, not knowing young Anne Johnson will die before the day’s end.
  
  3:17 – Jack Daly, a college student, and Janet King, a schoolteacher, are introduced as others whose lives will also be affected by the events of this day.
  
  4:00 – Law enforcement officers are introduced, tasked with investigating and responding to the day’s upcoming tragedies.
  
  5:07 – Unit 61 is dispatched to a traffic accident at 4th Avenue and Saxon Street.
  
  5:50 – The officer arrives at the accident scene, assessing the chaos and bringing order.
  
  6:18 – Quick observation reveals the probable cause: a right-of-way violation.
  
  7:00 – The officer checks for injuries, obtains licenses, and ensures both drivers remain at the scene.
  
  8:27 – With safety measures established, the investigation begins, and witnesses are interviewed separately to prevent disputes .
  
  10:03 – Miss King claims she was hit after entering the intersection.
  
  10:26 – The officer confirms her story against physical evidence, then moves to question the second driver, Jack Daly.
  
  11:00 – Daly insists he stopped at the intersection, but evidence suggests otherwise.
  
  12:03 – Skid marks indicate Daly’s brakes were applied too late, proving he didn’t stop as claimed.
  
  12:39 – The officer photographs and marks the skid lines with chalk to preserve evidence.
  
  13:17 – The officer identifies potential witnesses and interviews them. 15:00 – A witness confirms seeing Daly speeding before striking Miss King’s car.
  
  16:03 – The officer helps the witness clarify distance and speed estimates.
  
  16:48 – Skid marks are measured, showing 64 feet—evidence of excessive speed.
  
  17:42 – The witness adds that Daly appeared to be kissing the girl beside him just before the crash, confirming distraction as a factor.
  
  18:10 – The narrative transitions to nightfall, where new events unfold that will change lives.
  
  19:05 – Frank Whitmore, after drinking, calls his wife to say he’ll be late. 
  
  20:11 Whitmore decides to drive after “one for the road.” 
  
  21:09 – Behavior of intoxicated drivers—rigid posture, tunnel vision, and over-gripping the wheel.
  
  23:14 – A serious accident occurs; police and ambulances are dispatched 23:39 – The responding officer drives carefully, aware that multiple emergency vehicles are en route.
  
  24:05 – Upon arrival, officers lay flares, control crowds, and give first aid without moving victims unnecessarily.
  
  25:47 – Officers investigate; Whitmore’s unsteady behavior raises suspicion of intoxication. 27:08 – Detecting alcohol odor, the officer questions Whitmore about his drinking.
  
  27:36 – Whitmore claims to have had only a couple of beers and agrees to a sobriety test.
  
  28:12 – Field sobriety tests begin: balance, finger-to-nose, straight-line walking, and eye-light response.
  
  29:34 – Whitmore fails the tests; officers document his performance and photograph him for evidence.
  
  31:29 – The final eye test confirms slowed pupil reaction, proving intoxication.
  
  31:49 – Officers learn Anne Johnson was killed instantly; her parents are hospitalized.
  
  32:09 – Whitmore is arrested for felony manslaughter.
  
  33:07 – For most, Friday, September 20th will be forgotten, but for Frank Whitmore and those affected, it will never be erased.
  
  33:20 –  The End.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
Heat. Heat.

[Music] Friday, September 20th. History will make no note of this date. It will blend unremembered into hundreds of other similar days. For most people, perhaps its only distinguishing feature is the warm Indian summer breeze holding back the approach of autumn. But to a few in this suburban community and in every town, village, and city throughout the nation, this day will have a special meaning.

Friday, September 20th. The time, 6:53 a.m. For Frank Whitmore of 756 Morris Drive, the day has not yet begun. His family rests secure in their beds, gaining strength for this Friday, September 20th, the last day of the school week, the work week. They dream

perhaps of the relaxing weekend ahead.

[Music]

[Music] But this day, which will soon be forgotten by most people, will long be remembered by Frank Whitmore and his family. For on this day, this Friday, September 20th, Frank Whitmore is destined to kill someone. [Music] 17 blocks north of the Whitmore residence at 124 Vernon Street, the Johnson family enjoys a casual breakfast, not yet knowing that they too will have cause to remember this day, Friday, September 20th. But the memory will be brief for young Anne Johnson, for this is the last day of her life. There are still others in the small group who will have cause to remember this day. Jack Daly, college student, is

one of them. His girl awaiting his arrival even at this moment will mark the day, too. Miss Janet King, occupation school teacher. She embarks for her Friday classes, the close of another week. But this will be a special Friday for Miss Janet King, one she will remember.

Friday, September 20th, a day of great importance in a few isolated lives. But in addition to those directly concerned, there are others who will play major roles in the events of this day. enforcement officers whose job carries them into the entangled currents of daily living and who will on this Friday, September 20th, meet the participants of each separate incident.

The officer's duty in each of the cases must go beyond simple enforcement. He must be capable of conducting a swift and complete investigation, determining the nature of the violations, as well as the guilt and innocence of those involved from the evidence available. The job is not an easy one, sometimes confused by conflicting accounts of participants and even witnesses. The officer must be able to size up the case quickly and understand the use of all evidence on which he must build the case. The situation is one of the most common with which the officer is faced in his daily tour of duty, yet one of the most exacting. For it is

unit 61, traffic accident 4th Avenue at Saxon Street. >> Unless the call is designated as an emergency, the officer should respond with safe dispatch. Observe all traffic laws and rules of safe driving. In the minutes during which he proceeds toward the scene, the question looms before the officer, what will he find? What problems must he face in the next few moments?

He will assume many roles upon his arrival. Mediator, investigator, and enforcement officer.

The first glimpse of the accident. As is often the case, it is a picture of apparent chaos. But it is chaos into which the officer must bring order. Once in view of the accident, every opportunity should be taken to size it up. One vehicle damaged on the side.

The second vehicle with a damaged front end and a stop sign. Quick observation of three basic factors has provided this officer with the probable cause of the accident, a right-of-way violation. Whenever possible, park the police vehicle legally, and always take care that it does not create a hazard. Don't be too quick to move in on the bare nerves and high-pitched emotions at the scene. The officer removes the keys and having sized up the accident from the physical evidence, the officer plans his action before actually entering the scene. He prepares each step in his mind

so that he will be able to take command of the situation from the first moment. Determine immediately if there are any injuries and if an ambulance is required. In this incident, there were no injuries. The young boy is one of the drivers involved. The officer obtains his driver's license and keeps possession of it. He goes

immediately to the second driver to establish that both parties are at the scene, thus determining that no hitand-run violation is involved. The officer then scans the wreckage to ascertain if there is any spilled gasoline or oil. If combustibles do present a danger, the area must be washed down. None is found here. Flares or some similar device should be set out to warn other motorists of the wreckage.

Clear spectators from the street to prevent mishaps. Lay the flare so as to route traffic around the hazard. Unnecessary delay in performing this duty might contribute to still another accident at the scene. An accident situation constantly threatens confusion. An officer must always keep command with courteous authority.

The flares are a warning, but the hazard still exists. A call for tow service at this time will get the tow truck in route to the scene even while the officer conducts his investigation.

With safety precautions in force and control established, the actual investigation can begin. Statements must be obtained from the parties involved. But it is essential that each driver is questioned separately and out of hearing of the other. Any dispute that might arise from discrepancies in the stories would only tend to take the situation out of the officer's control. He must therefore take every precaution against the chance of an open argument. Nerves are usually

keyed high at an accident, and an officer is often faced with the difficult task of sifting facts from a statement riddled with emotion. Obtain the driver's license, a task which this officer finds is not always an easy one. And remember, accept only the license. Never take the wallet. Establish that the information on the license, especially the address, is correct. Make a note of the name and

address. It is good procedure for the officer to keep licenses until he has finished the investigation. This lessens the chance of the drivers leaving the scene, either by design or misunderstanding, before the officer has released them. Here, the officer asks leading questions to get the simple facts. Miss King did not see the other car until it skidded into her as she entered the intersection. She estimates

her own speed at about 30 mph. Unsure of her own position, she points out her right of way and other unnecessary facts. Having obtained a statement, the officer takes the driver to the scene to establish the point of impact. He asks her to restate her version of the accident, and he can check it now against the physical evidence.

He continues to give direction to the investigation with leading questions such as, "How far away was the other car when you first noticed it?" When the statement is complete, he thanks Miss King for her cooperation. This puts a courteous finality on the interrogation and allows him to move freely to the other driver. He must question the boy alone since the girl is actually a witness and though probably biased, she will be asked for a separate statement. The officer directs his questions so as to keep command of the interrogation at all times. Even though the accident is

the primary concern, the officer must not lose sight of the fact that other crimes sometimes are associated with traffic accidents. With careful questions such as, "What is your address?" Now, he ascertains that Daly knows the address on the driver's license, and he checks his physical appearance against the descriptive statistics. The vehicle registration is also checked against Dy's claim that the car is his. Turning to the accident itself, the officer takes Daly statement that he stopped at the intersection, then proceeded. Daly insists that he applied

his brakes, but his car skidded into Miss King's car. Daly restates his version while the officer checks it against the evidence. Skid marks from Dy's tires indicate that the brakes were applied suddenly at the last moment before approaching the intersection. The car skidded through the crosswalk and into the right-of-way traffic. Thus, a legal stop was not affected. The officer attacking the

issue through the back door asks Daly if there is anything wrong with his brakes. The boy jumps at this bait, insisting that his brakes are perfect. He indicates the skid marks as proof of their good condition. The officer casually agrees.

Since the skid marks are strong evidence contradicting Dy's claim that he affected a stop, the officer must preserve the marks with photographs. Skid marks do not always show up clearly in the picture, so they should be outlined with chalk. Still unaware of the significance of the marks and clinging to the theory that they prove the power of his brakes, Daly agrees to identify the marks in the photograph. This will strengthen the picture as evidence and weaken any possible denial that the marks were made by his car. The officer should take as many photographs as he thinks he may need for his case.

A casual and unobtrusive study of the crowd is usually the best method of obtaining witnesses. A blunt appeal is almost always feudal. Watch for talkative spectators. They often speak freely with others where they would not offer information to investigators.

Having observed this possible witness, the officer politely asks what part of the accident she saw. Even though authority within the crowd, she admits now that she didn't actually see it.

However, that man, the one over there, was on the scene when she arrived. She is sure he saw it. And the officer scrutiny pays off. Demeanor is extremely important. Now, in reality, the officer is asking for aid, and he should remember that civility and courtesy are disarming. Some witnesses

hesitate to speak in front of the crowd, but may be led to make a statement if they feel themselves speaking in confidence. Such situations can often be sensed and should be remedied. The witness name, address, age, occupation, and business address must be obtained and noted before proceeding with a statement. >> Now, will you tell me what you saw with regard to the accident? >> Well, uh, I saw it happen. I saw him

hit. >> The witness is still reluctant to take the initiative in offering a statement. Careful questions can bring out necessary information, lead the witness to reconstruct the scene in his mind, and finally start him talking voluntarily. >> Where were you when it happened? >> I was right over there, stand on the corner over there. Were you walking

along the sidewalk or were you just standing there? Well, >> I was standing there. Well, I um really I was walking, but I was standing there waiting to get across the street. I just about uh step off the curb and I see this car coming by. So I stepped back to let him go on by and that's when I noticed him. Well, he went right on

through to hit that lady over there. >> You made no attempt to stop? >> No. Well, it maybe tried to stop before he hit her. You know, his uh his tires made a lot of screeching noise. Maybe he

tried to stop before he hit her. >> Did you notice the other car? >> No. Well, yeah. Soon as he hit her, maybe a second before he hit her. Like I

told you, I was watching him. I was trying to get across the street. >> How far away was the car when you first noticed it? >> Oh, I don't know. 100 ft.

>> And how fast was the car traveling? >> Fast. He's going fast. >> The witness should go over his statement while standing where he claims to have been at the time of the accident. Discrepancies, in this case, errors of judgment are corrected. He estimated

that he saw the car first when it was about 100 ft away. He establishes the point definitely now using the telephone pole for reference. The officer advises him that the distance is closer to 50 ft and the witness accepts this correction. A final statement is then made and will be entered in the officer's report. Thus, now the case has definite direction and further evidence will be gathered to support it.

skid marks offer a valuable basis for calculating minimum speed. All three types of marks should be noted. impending caused when the brakes are being applied, locked when the brakes are fully applied, and centrifugal from spinning or sideward motion of the car. If marks are intermittent, measure them and note the distance of the gaps. In determining speed, the grade of the road, the type of surface, and the condition of the surface must be considered. In this case, the marks

measure 64 ft, indicating excessive speed in approaching the intersection. Distance from the curb must also be noted.

>> Officer, I was uh thinking I don't know if it's important, but uh there was something else that I noticed. Well, it looked like u when this car was coming down towards me, you know, it it looked like the young man was uh kissing the girl sitting next to him. Thought I'd better mention it. I don't know if it's important. >> Yes, sir. It's important.

>> The sun descends and night spreads its dark blanket over the city. And Friday, September 20th, begins its final hours. But for some, the day has not yet really begun. For there will be events in these evening hours which will alter their lives. [Music] Frank Whitmore considers himself a thoughtful husband. He calls his wife to

advise her that he will be a little late getting home on this evening of Friday, September 20th. His wife suggests that Frank sounds as if he has consumed a little beyond his capacity. [Music] But Frank Whitmore knows better. He can hold his liquor. It takes a lot to put him under.

In fact, Frank Whitmore is in such perfect control that he decides on one for the road. A quick one. [Music]

[Music]

[Music] Frank Whitmore is a sensible man. He would consider himself unfit to handle a loaded pistol under these circumstances. Yet paradoxically, he takes command of this implement of equal deadliness, filled with false confidence.

[Music] [Applause] The intoxicated driver has sold his skill to alcohol. His only hope is luck. [Music]

[Music]

One mark of the intoxicated driver is his fixed and determined stare at the road ahead. A normal driver sees a broad scope of roadway and his eyes move to both sides. But the drunk must doggedly keep his full attention on maintaining the vehicle in a relatively straight course. Often too, the intoxicated driver is forced to close one eye to eliminate the alcoholic curse of double vision. Another mark is his strangle hold on the steering wheel.

[Music]

Oh god. Oh my baby, my baby.

Units 45, five, and 61, ambulance traffic, Moss Avenue at 10th Street. Units 45, five, and 61. Ambulance traffic, Moss Avenue at 10th Street. The officer hurrying to this scene with red light and siren must travel with exceptional vigilance and caution. He knows that an ambulance is moving in the same area under emergency conditions. It

is extremely possible that the officer may mistake the ambulance siren for an echo of his own siren. And unless he is especially watchful at intersections, a particularly grave and unfortunate accident could occur. When officers arrive at the scene before the ambulance, they must give primary attention to the injured. It is essential, however, that flares be laid out, especially at night and when victims are lying on the roadway. Quick authoritative orders should also be called to the crowd to establish control. The injured should be given

basic first aid. However, officers should refrain from moving victims except under emergency conditions. [Music] [Applause] [Music] If conditions prevent a possible violator from being taken into custody, he must nevertheless be kept under close surveillance while emergency work continues. >> What's that cop going to do? Let him lay there and die? Why don't he get him out

of the car? Mere broken rib can pierce a lung or even the heart if the victim is not moved by skilled hands. A basic medical fact not always understood by layman. An officer performing his duty must not be harassed by comments from the crowd. And by no means should he take time to explain his action.

When help for the victims arrives, the officers ers direct all of their attention to the investigation, even if it requires the help of other units to direct traffic. A tow service is called to clear the intersection as soon as possible. Whitmore's gate, though possibly a result of injury, at least raises the possibility of intoxication. The officer checks his injuries, then removes Whitmore to a level sidewalk where he can make a further investigation into his sobriety.

The officer asks for Whitmore's license. His difficulty should be noted. Every opportunity should be taken to observe a person suspected of intoxication since it may be required for later court testimony.

Whitmore offers his theory that this was a total accident. This is something which the officer knows does not exist, for every accident has a cause. As Whitmore talks, the officer detects the odor of alcohol on his breath. He proceeds to investigate this facet with careful questions. >> How long has it been since you had your last drink?

>> About half hour ago, maybe. I'm not drunk, if that's what you mean. Only had a couple of beers. >> Well, we want to establish that. Would you mind taking a sobriety examination?

>> Sure. You can see I'm not drunk. Couple of beers don't make you drunk. >> Well, in that case, you shouldn't have any trouble with the examination. >> The field sobriety test should be given as soon as possible when intoxication is suspected. It is best administered by

two officers, and when practical, one officer should be equipped with a camera. Each test must be demonstrated first by an officer, both to show how it should be performed and to establish that it can be done by a sober person. Whitmore has been instructed to stand with his feet together, close his eyes, tilt his head back, and hold his arms outstretched. This balance test is a difficult task when alcohol is in control. The suspect's performance in the test is noted.

[Music]

For the next test, the officer stands erect with his feet together, his head tilted slightly back and his eyes shut. Both arms are extended to the sides with the index finger of each hand held out. On command, tip of the nose is to be touched with the index finger of the hand indicated by the officer.

Whitmore's alcoholic failures are noted by the officers for their report.

Using an expansion line on the sidewalk, the officer now demonstrates the method for walking a straight line on a level surface. If no line were available, the officer would draw one with chalk. He places his right foot on the line, then walks heel to toe for about 6 to 8 ft. A turn is executed by pivoting on the ball of the foot without leaving the line. A return trip is then made.

The officers have decided to photograph Whitmore's attempts in this test. It is essential that any photographs taken during tests be shot from behind the suspect so that he cannot plead that this interfered with his performance.

This photograph will be used as evidence and may be essential to offset Whitmore's probable immaculate appearance in court. These officers find it unnecessary for him to complete this test. The final test will indicate the reaction of the suspect's eyes to light. The normal eye will contract in light, while an abundance of alcohol in the system will slow this reaction. It is essential that this test be given last so that there can be no plea that the light blinded the suspect and thus affected the other tests. After the

suspect, the test must be performed on the officer's partner or other sober person to establish that the light used was sufficient to create a reaction in a normal eye. With the tests, the officers have strongly established Whitmore's intoxication. While the officer makes final notes on the tests, his partner goes to inquire into the extent of the injuries. The ambulance attendant reports that Anne Johnson was killed instantly. Her parents have been removed to emergency hospital.

[Music]

Whitmore, even in the face of the tests, continues to search for some excuse, some way out of his liability. The report of the girl's death is passed to the officer and it is passed to Frank Whitmore himself a father and husband. But he is now also a man charged with a serious crime. He is given a superficial search and handcuffed and taken into custody as a felony prisoner. A complete investigation of physical evidence and interrogation of witnesses will be conducted to build the case against Frank Whitmore. A man who drove

on luck, but a man whose luck ran out on this evening of Friday, September 20th. [Music] And as the final hours of the day pass on, few people will have cause to remember it. But for Frank Whitmore and a small group of others in this community, Friday, September 20th may never be forgotten. Heat. Heat.

[Music] [Applause]