---
video_title: "1920s KODAK CINEGRAPH SHORT FILMS   RURAL IRELAND, PENDLETON RODEO, PARIS, STEEPLECHASE GG38715"
video_id: HUhrRSxGkyI
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HUhrRSxGkyI
video_date: 2026-03-17T19:29:55+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Dating to the late 1920s, these tinted silent Kodak Cinegraph short films were originally sold with "toy" film projectors, which used a low wattage lightbulb and could be operated by children. The titles include:  
  
  0:00 "Rural Ireland" (green tint, how appropriate!) with views of the River Shannon, Kerry, Blarney Castle, Muckross Abbey, the Giant's Causeway, peasant farmers digging peat, a cave in which a Leprechaun is alleged to live, and a ruined castle. 3:48 "A Real Rodeo" shows the Pendleton, Oregon rodeo with initial shots of a group of Native Americans in traditional dress with war bonnets, a roping and tying contest,  bronco busting, steer bulldogging, and a look at the Queen of the Rodeo. 7:15 "Paris" with views of the Eiffel Tower, Notre Dame, Arc de Triomphe and the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, the Champs Elysees, the Trocadero, the Seine, Place de la Concorde, the original Statue of Liberty, and other sights and at 10:53 "Grand National Steeplechase Aintree, England 1928" showing the 4.5 mile long course, with 30 of the hardest jumps in the world. The race this year was won by Tipperary Tim, which was one of only two horses to survive the race. 
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you