---
video_title: "\"ONE WAY TICKET? \" 1970s BRITISH ANTI-DRUG, ANTI-ALCOHOL EDUCATIONAL / SCARE FILM  GG47315"
video_id: ab8p1WrEncs
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ab8p1WrEncs
video_date: 2026-08-05T16:29:49+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm 
  
  Produced by Magpie Films, "One Way Ticket" is a drug education film that portrays the dangers and psychological consequences of drug use. At a party, a girl named Judy is persuaded to try LSD for the first time, resulting in a terrifying bad trip that leads to her hospitalization. The incident prompts serious discussions among her friends and a doctor about the unpredictable effects of LSD, its mental risks, and the false sense of control users often believe they have. The film then explores substances including cannabis, amphetamines, and barbiturates, showing how their misuse can lead to dependency, mental health crises, and physical harm. Through personal testimonies the film emphasizes how drug use can escalate from casual experimentation to life-threatening addiction. It challenges the notion of “soft” drugs being safe and highlights the long-term consequences of substance abuse on individuals' health, judgment, and futures. The film features some actual addicts, as well as actors. It was written and produced by Denham Wright, and directed by Edmund Marshall.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  0:00: 
  People arriving at a party. Wes and Judy meet and settle in.
  
  2:00 :
  A group discusses trying LSD ("acid"). Judy agrees to take it after reassurance from others 3:11:Judy starts having a bad reaction (bad trip). She pleads for help.
  
  4:20: 
  Friends decide to get medical help. 
  
  5:42:
  At the hospital, a doctor examines Judy. He confirms she’s very unwell and discusses the unpredictability and dangers of LSD. Her friends express regret, fear legal consequences, and recall others who have had bad trips.
  
  7:05:
  The doctor further explains the psychological dangers of LSD. It affects the brain directly, causing hallucinations and potential long-term mental disturbances. He notes that while LSD is not physically addictive, it can be mentally habit-forming.
  
  8:55:Conversation shifts to cannabis (marijuana). Friends debate its relative safety. The doctor acknowledges that cannabis doesn’t cause physical addiction like heroin, but notes it can still affect health and motivation, and may lead to psychological dependence.
  
  10:29:
  Cannabis can impair judgment and promote escapism rather than helping users confront life challenges. A friend has become unmotivated due to regular pot use.
  
  11:21: 
  Cannabis may not lead directly to harder drugs, but tolerance and curiosity can result in people trying stronger substances. A patient named Paul started on pep pills and ended up seriously ill from heroin use.
  
  13:05:A heroin user describes the extreme dependence, withdrawal symptoms, and physical degradation caused by addiction. He explains the desperation of addiction, including using dirty water to inject drugs.
  
  14:00:The addict continues detailing the physical toll, including injury and hospitalization, all for the sake of getting the drug into his body.
  
  15:01:
  Discussion shifts to amphetamines ("pep pills"). They initially produce euphoria and energy, but are followed by intense comedowns, sleeplessness, and eventually dependency.
  
  16:04:
  Doctor describes the dangers of amphetamines: increased blood pressure, heart strain, and especially severe psychological effects—paranoia, hallucinations, and psychosis.
  
  17:26: 
  A user recounts a psychotic episode from staying awake on pep pills, believing someone was trying to kill him. He hallucinated vividly and needed psychiatric help.
  
  18:27:
  Julie, the girl from earlier, is now calmer and being moved to a hospital ward. The doctor says there's nothing more to be done tonight.
  
  19:17:
  A new patient is admitted with suspected barbiturate (sleeping pill) overdose. 
  
  20:12:Police recount finding two unconscious people at a flat in disarray. The girl describes how her depression led her to take barbiturates. She nearly died without realizing it and feels ashamed of losing self-control.
  
  21:18:Harsh reality of addiction—desperation, degradation, and self-deception, showing the cyclical and tragic nature of drug misuse.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
Heat. Heat.

[Music]

[Applause]

See you tonight then, Julie. Yeah. All right. See you at the party. Cheers.

[Music]

[Music]

Hi Wes. Hi Judy.

[Music] Finally made it. Yes. Thought you'd be early as usual. [Music]

[Music] Do you want some acid? What have you got? Blue cheer. How much? Quid each.

Gone up, haven't they? I'll get you one. You said you'd like to try it. Give us a cup. Yeah. Give her a treat. It's great.

You'll feel great. You're really missing something. I don't know. I've heard things about acid. Come on, love. You'll

be all right. Oh, you don't want to believe all that talk. Anyway, you won't have a bad trip. It's my first time. Go on. Well, all right. Thanks.

Good. All [Music] right. [Music] Fine.

[Music]

brush. Uhoh. [Music] Name a name. [Music] want to know

[Music] what's God. What's happening to me? a noise. I'll make him go away. Okay. God,

help me. Help me, please. She's having a bad trip, Wes. It's her first time. What should we do? Well, let's get her out of

here somewhere quiet where we can look after. Okay, we'll get her back to my place. We're going to take her out of here and it'll be fine. It'll be all right. I promise. Okay, just relax.

Oh, please help. Come on, J. Please help me. Please help me. You'll be okay. Christ, what's she

doing? She's in a bad way where she looks terrified. She's too bad for us to talk down. Well, let's take it off. We can't do that. They'll tell the fuzz.

We'll get busted. We don't want to get hurt, do we? We must get help. Well, okay. I suppose so. I know. I'll go ring

Jeff at the club. You know what? Good idea. You look for a phone and I'll stay with her. Okay. Come on, Julie. You're

going to be okay, darling. I promise you. Okay, love. You'll be all right. Come on, darling. You'll be okay. I

promise. Come on. Hello. Where's

Yes, I think that's a good idea. Yes, I think you should take it to hospital. No, no, you'll be fine. All right. Bye-bye. Oh, God. Help

me. Pete, help me. Please help me.

Oh god,

she's in a bad way. What drugs has she been taking? Well, doctor, she was at this party and she took some acid and then she got all hung up and frightened. She's going to be all right, isn't she? Has she taken anything else besides LSD?

No, nothing. She will be all right, won't she, doctor? Can't say yet. You wait here. I'll come and talk to you later when I've seen her.

Do you think she'll be okay? She looked awful. I wish I'd never given her the stuff. Don't start blaming yourself. She could have said no. Do you think they'll

fetch the fuzz? We could all be in trouble. Christ, I wish I'd never given it her. No, I don't think he'll tell the fuzz. His job's to get her better. He's

not the law. Right. Remember Jim when he had a bad trip? Nobody split on him and he had been wandering in the street and he told me that he thought everybody was out to get him. That's how he felt.

Hunted and out of his mind.

It must be terrible on a bad trip, Wes. And the trouble is they say the bad effects can come back even when you haven't taken any more acid. I hope that doesn't happen to Julie. Does your mate still take LSD? Yeah, he can't seem to give it up if there's any going. He only

remembers the good trips when he's felt great. How is she, doctor? Will she be all right? She's calmer now. I've given her a tranquilizer. Come and talk a minute.

Get a chair.

The trouble with LSD, what you call acid, is that you can never be sure how it's going to take anyone. And anyway, all this LSD is made illegally. So, you never know how much you're getting or even what you're getting. In any case, it's a very powerful drug. It works directly on the brain. That's why some

people get a a big lift from it. Fantastic sights and sounds in their heads. Yeah, I know that. I wanted Julie to have a great time. But LSD really throws the brain out of gear. Sight and

sound get all mixed up. And the trouble is people get several good trips from it and never believe there's a bad trip coming up sooner or later, even the first time. And then it hits them hard. Julie's having hallucinations, seeing and hearing things that don't exist. One thing's certain, at the moment, she's very ill.

Yes, but she'll get better and she won't get addicted. No, she won't get addicted to LSD like a heroin addict. Her body won't crave for it, but her mind could. So, she could become psychologically dependent. Doctor, one moment. Excuse me.

There's a bed on Ward 12. Shall I arrange to send her up there now? Well, not just yet, sister. I'd like to keep an eye on her for a bit. How is she now?

She's calmer, but still very disturbed. She doesn't know what happened. Thank you, sister. I wish we'd stuck to pot. Why do you say that? Why cannabis? Well, it's safe. We

don't know that yet. It's true that cannabis or marijuana, hash, whatever you call it, doesn't cause physical dependence of the body like heroin. That's what I mean. It's dead safe. Don't be too sure. It certainly has some

effect on the body. You probably know some pot smokers get sore eyes. Others have to eat a lot of sweet foods like chocolate or biscuits. That doesn't sound very dangerous to me. As a matter of fact, there's research going on right now to try and discover exactly what the long-term effects are and why people take risks with cannabis. Yeah, I

suppose there's something in that. Hey Pete, remember old Dave and the boys when they were smoking pot?

a drag. It's a great

Good stuff.

We're going to split. Yeah, we'll bail out. Let's blow.

Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat.

[Music]

[Music] [Applause]

You see the effect of pots like drinking. Alcohol may be nice but it distorts the judgment like cannabis. And so people do silly and dangerous things. But I know people who smoke cannabis and pass exams and get good jobs. Just because they've got away with it so far doesn't mean it's harmless. Yeah, I

know. Cannabis can give you a pleasant dreamy sensation. It seems as if your problems are not important. Yeah, but that's great, isn't it? No, that hides another danger. Our character and

personality only mature when we face up to real life problems and overcome them. Cannabis just becomes a means of escape. Hey Pete, like Steve, there's this friend of ours at college who's been smoking pot for some time and he's finding it very hard to get down to work or to think straight. He's become a bit one track, you know. That's the trouble.

Cannabis can certainly cause psychological or mind dependence. It's okay you saying that, but people like you mostly drink and you get sort of high on alcohol. What's the difference with pot? Yes, we've got nearly half a million alcoholics in this country doing themselves and other people a great deal of harm. Why accept another drug?

Especially one we don't know much about. We know a great deal about the effects of alcohol, but not so much about cannabis. I can take some of the things you've said. But it just isn't true, is it? That if you smoke pot, you'll move on to stronger drugs. That's true. Just

because you've been on cannabis, you won't automatically go on to heroin, but you could find that if you're not getting a kick you used to, you're tempted to try something different, something stronger, and then you're in trouble. For instance, take this chap. Let's call him Paul, who was in here the other day. He'd got bad abscesses because he'd been been injecting with a dirty needle. Now he started on pep pills. Now he's on heroin and very ill

indeed. Merly, could I have me um script please? Yeah. Okay. This is more or less my life, you know, living from the time the chemist, you know, from picking up time to um Okay. I mean, once all this

stuff is gone, I'll be more or less uh just waiting, you know, for tomorrow morning to come. Well, usually a fix will last you, you have a fix, it'll last you roughly 6 hours, you know, before you start to be sick. And I just had a few sleepers last night and that put me out. But, as I say, I've been awake since about 4:00 this morning. And once you wake up, you you just start being sick, you know, but uh you get different types of sickness. Sometimes you're wretching

very badly. Another time you just um you get this dead feeling in the back of your leg, cramps and things like that. You're either shivery cold sweats, you know, you're really hot or you're really cold, but you're sweating at the same time, you know. It's really weird. And of course, you smell terribly, you know, and you sweat and it does smell pretty vile, but you You know the trouble is sometimes you fix up say sleepers and uh this is how I got me broken rib I think or I did me chest you know and that I and me eye cut me eye open and end up in hospital because of uh you know heroin. I've come in here and I haven't

had water and rather than go just around the corner to the chemist again. There's been a puddle of rain water and I've used that. You know, it's just the getting this stuff into you. That's the only thing that's important to you. Nobody ever get me onto heroin. That's

what they all say. But we still get new cases. And now they're going on to other drugs like methadone. But they've all said, "Not me. I'll never get hooked."

Did you say this bloke started on pet pills, doctor? Yes, but they're used as medicines, aren't they? Yes, that's right. Amphetamines are a stimulant. They speed up the action of the brain.

We used to use them to help depression and overweight. Some of my mates take them at a weekend to keep them going. When they're on it, everything seems great. They feel sure of themselves. It's their world. It gives them

confidence. They feel closer together. They've got all the energy in the world. He wrote it and then, you know, [Music] That's the way it starts. But what about the comedown? What's that, doctor? Oh,

in a few hours the effect wears off and they feel irritable and depressed. They can't eat or sleep properly. So, they take some more. That's right. Or else they sleep it off. The trouble

is your body gets used to, four, eight pills. Then you find you have to take more to get the same kick. So, the people who sell the drugs are pushers are on a good market. Yeah. Yeah, there's big money in it. It pushes out

to Conor, right? Some people I know take up to 70 pills over a weekend. They're properly hooked, aren't they? At least their minds are. Sister, excuse me, doctor. This is the X-ray you asked to

see. Oh, yes. Thank you. H when did you last eat? About 4 hours ago. Just a

light meal. Yes. Well, we'll have to set that. Can you get that organized, please? Thank you. Now, where were we? Oh, yes.

You know, a lot of people talk about these drugs as soft drugs, but there's nothing soft about them. It's a very misleading term. There's a real physical danger with these amphetamines. How do you make that up? Well, they push up your blood pressure, and under strain, that could damage your heart. But the

worst effect is on the mind. What you call the horrors. Doctors call it a psychosis. It's a serious form of mental illness. Of course, you'd have to take a pretty large dose of pet pills to get that bad.

I've been taking these pet pills and I've been awake two or three days and I started imagining there was somebody else in the room where in actual fact there was only me. I could have sworn there was another bloke and he was going to kill me. So I went and got a poker to defend myself. I really believed somebody was trying to kill me. I got into a terrible state and I sat there all day with a poker talking to this chair where I could actually see this other bloke sitting. I really believe this fellow

was sitting there. Sometimes these feelings of the horrors go on for a long time and the patient has to have psychiatric treatment. Ah, here's Julie.

How is your sister? Has she been saying anything? No, not really. Rambling a bit and asleep on and off. Please.

I think she'll be all right now. Take her up to the wall, will you?

There's nothing more I can do for her tonight. Come back tomorrow if you want to see how she is. I hope she'll be okay. Thanks, doctor. Come on then, Pete. Let's go

home. Yes. Yes, sister. Oh, no. Not another one. What's his blood

pressure? Yeah. Sounds like barbit sleeping tablets to me. What's his breathing like? Well, get a drip ready. I'll be

along in a minute.

Hello, doctor. Nasty on this. Never there, but it's all right. Better get them checked.

What happened, officer? We were called to this flat during the night. There had been a disturbance and a smashed window. We had to break in and found the place in a shambles. They were both unconscious. He looked very

bad. I was feeling depressed, you know, about personal things. Then this chap fetched out these barbiterate tablets. He said they'd make me feel mellow. So, I took one and nothing happened. So, I

took some more. I began to feel sleepy and tried to get onto the bed. The next thing I remember was the banging on the door when they took me to the ambulance. I must have come round. There was stuff smashed in the flat. I

don't know how that happened. What worries me most is that I was nearly dead without knowing it. I felt degraded because I'd lost all self-control.

I could have sworn there was another bloke and he was going to kill me. I've come in here and I haven't had water and there's been a puddle of rain water and I've used that. You know, it's just getting this stuff into you. That's the only thing that's important to you. He's a drag. It's

a great smoke.

[Applause]

You're really missing something. I don't know. I've heard things about acid. You'll be all right, love. Go on. Yeah.

Do you want to believe all that talk? Anyway, you won't have a bad trip. Not first time. Noise. I'll make him go away. God, help

me.