---
video_title: "PIONEER U.S. NAVY AIRCRAFT CARRIERS USS LEXINGTON & USS SARATOGA ON MANEUVERS   USS LANGLEY  GG47275"
video_id: GTSKGhMnHno
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GTSKGhMnHno
video_date: 2026-03-09T19:24:48+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This silent pre-WWII newsreel offers a rare glimpse into the early development of U.S. naval aviation and fleet operations during the interwar period. It features pioneering aircraft carriers USS Saratoga (CV-3) and USS Lexington (CV-2) launching and recovering biplane aircraft off the coasts of San Diego and in the Atlantic, respectively, showcasing the Navy’s growing focus on carrier-based aviation. At the 51-second mark, the footage shifts to large-scale war games in Hawaiian waters, where Marine aircraft participate in Pacific maneuvers for the first time, highlighting inter-service cooperation. Shortly after, the film shows defense exercises off Hampton Roads, Virginia, simulating a potential coastal attack. At 1:21, the Saratoga is featured again during Navy Day in San Diego, emphasizing public engagement and naval pride. At 1:52, the historic USS Langley (CV-1)—the Navy’s first aircraft carrier—is seen conducting early flight tests, providing insight into the experimental origins of carrier aviation. The newsreel concludes with powerful images of battleships and destroyers on maneuvers, reflecting the Navy’s evolving tactics and the prominent role of torpedo bombers like the Douglas DT in pre-war strategy.
  
  The newsreel opens with striking footage of early U.S. Navy aircraft carriers in operation during the interwar years (0:00–0:50). The USS Saratoga (CV-3) is shown off San Diego, while the USS Lexington (CV-2) conducts exercises in the Atlantic. Both carriers, part of the Navy's first generation of flat-top warships, are seen launching and recovering biplane aircraft such as the Douglas DT-2 and Vought UO-1, highlighting the Navy’s growing investment in carrier aviation. At 0:51–0:54, the scene shifts to fleet maneuvers in Hawaiian waters, likely from the Fleet Problem series, which test naval strategies. For the first time, Marine Corps aviation units participate in these Pacific war games, reflecting a shift toward integrated joint-force operations.
  
  The focus then moves to the East Coast at 0:55–1:20, where a defense drill off Hampton Roads, Virginia, simulates a coastal attack. These exercises evaluate the Navy’s ability to coordinate carriers, submarines, and surface vessels in homeland defense scenarios. At 1:21–1:51, the USS Saratoga is shown again, this time docked in San Diego for Navy Day, a public event designed to display naval might and generate public support. Beginning at 1:52–2:18, rare footage of the USS Langley (CV-1)—America’s first aircraft carrier—is featured. Converted from a coal ship, the Langley has a unique flat deck with no island superstructure and is seen conducting early flight tests, illustrating the experimental origins of carrier operations.
  
  Finally, from 2:19 to the end, the film captures a series of impressive fleet maneuvers involving battleships and destroyers, reflecting the Navy’s traditional focus on heavily armored surface ships. However, the continued presence of Douglas DT torpedo bombers also signals a transitional phase in naval warfare, as the growing role of aviation begins to challenge older doctrines of sea power.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Música]

Calor. Aquecer.

[Música]

Calor. Aquecer.

[Música] Calor.

[Música] Calor. Aquecer.Aquecer. [Música]

Calor.Aquecer.

[Música]

[Música] Calor. Aquecer. [Música]