---
video_title: "1946 TRIP TO HAVASUPAI INDIAN RESERVATION AT THE GRAND CANYON w/ LEE MARSHALL GG11415"
video_id: UZYsJilxehk
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UZYsJilxehk
video_date: 2026-03-05T20:29:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Want to learn more about Periscope Film and get access to exclusive swag? Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Dating to 1946, this elaborate home movie shows an intrepid (and unnamed) tourist family's trip to the Havasupai Indian Reservation at the bottom of the Grand Canyon. The film begins with shots of a man and his wife studying a map and planning an itinerary. At (:46), the couple leaves the El Tovar Hotel at the Grand Canyon's South Rim, as a pencil traces a line on a map to the west end of the Canyon. At (1:42), 33 miles later the Havasupai tour guides help unload a flatbed truck and the adventure begins. At (2:27) mules or donkeys are loaded with supplies for the trip down to the Reservation. The man, his wife and daughter being the trek down. At (3:58) the Havasupai Indian tour guide is identified as Lee Marshall. (Marshall was later Tribal Chairman and visited Washington D.C. when the Havasupai clan was threatened with relocation. He famously declared at that hearing, “I am the Grand Canyon.”). He is shown examining calcified tree roots. At (4:40) is footage of Havasupai at play and at work, including a squaw harvesting plants and a cowboy on a horse. At (5:07) school aged kids are seen. At (5:19) a small sweat lodge is shown and at (6:00) views of what appears to be a horse ranch or farm. At (6:38) shots of some of the waterfalls followed by beautiful pools at (8:05). At (10:24) the main trail through the town of Supai, essentially the capital city of the reservation, at the bottom of Havasu “Cataract” Canyon. At (10:55) the tourists return to civilization on donkeys or mules. At (11:29) the dad is shown riding a horse bareback. The final shot in the film is from somewhere else, with a wave breaking on a distant shore. 
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
us