---
video_title: "JOE LOUIS VS. JACK SHARKEY  AUGUST 18, 1936 BOXING MATCH  YANKEE STADIUM, NEW YORK  GG40995"
video_id: BQW0wTp1Cgw
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BQW0wTp1Cgw
video_date: 2026-08-18
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This film shows highlights of the 1936 boxing match between Joe Louis and former heavyweight champion Jack Sharkey at Yankee Stadium, focusing on Louis's performance immediately following his only professional loss at that time. In this match, 4-to-1 favorite Joe Louis (known as "The Brown Bomber"), decisively defeated Jack Sharkey by TKO in the third round. The match was a critical test for Louis, who had been knocked out by Max Schmeling two months earlier, with observers watching to see if that defeat had ended his career.
  
  0:00: Pre-Fight Setup. The fight takes place at Yankee Stadium, New York City, on August 18, 1936, between Joe Louis (22, 199 3/4 lbs) and former World Heavyweight Champion Jack Sharkey (33, 197 1/4 lbs). Sharkey won the title in 1932 (from Max Schmeling) and lost it in 1933. This is Louis's first fight since his KO loss to Max Schmeling two months prior, and observers are watching to see if the devastating defeat has ruined him. Louis is a 4-to-1 favorite.
  
  1:03: The referee is Arthur Donovan. Louis, "The Brown Bomber," doesn't waste time, aggressively using right crosses to the head and left hooks to the stomach. Sharkey, a classic boxer with a good straight left jab and right cross, fights back but gets trapped in the corner. Louis continues to belt away. Louis has a professional record of 28 bouts, 23 KOs, 4 decisions, and 1 stop (by Schmeling). Sharkey has 54 bouts with 15 KOs. The round ends with Louis consistently beating Sharkey to the punch.
  
  4:07: Sharkey, who once modeled himself after Jack Dempsey, is now more of a stand-up fighter, but Louis, with his own style, is faster. Louis catches Sharkey with a short right, staggering him momentarily. Louis, showing tremendous power, pins Sharkey against the ropes. A solid right sends Sharkey down for the first knockdown (5:54). Sharkey gets up at the count of seven but is staggering, and Louis comes right after him, sending him down again for the second knockdown (6:13). Sharkey bravely fights back and holds on as the round ends.
  
  7:07: A slow-motion replay of round 2 shows the power of Louis's punches, particularly the overhand right that led to the first knockdown. Sharkey is shown stunned and dazed, getting up at the count of eight, and then going down again after a right and a left hook.
  
  9:15: The crowd senses an early KO as the fighters come out for round three. Louis is not impatient. Sharkey is hurt, and a solid right cross sends him down and through the ropes for the third knockdown (9:27). Sharkey gets up, but Louis pursues him relentlessly. Sharkey, no match for Louis, goes down again for the fourth knockdown (9:50); his mouthpiece is out. The fight is stopped. A slow-motion review confirms Louis's power and skill, proving that the Schmeling KO did not slow him down. A left hook to the stomach, followed by a left hook to the head, right uppercut, and left hook sends Sharkey down for the final time. Referee Arthur Donovan stops the fight.
  
  11:47: Joe Louis is announced as the winner, defeating former champion Jack Sharkey. Louis himself went on to become the World Heavyweight Champion. The radio announcer is Ted Husing. Louis wins by TKO in three rounds at Yankee Stadium.
  
  Jack Sharkey was a Lithuanian-American boxer who held the NYSAC, NBA, and The Ring heavyweight titles from 1932 to 1933. He was the only man to fight both Jack Dempsey and Joe Louis. After losing to Louis in 1936, Sharkey retired with a record of 38-14-3 with 13 knockouts. 
  
  Joseph Louis Barrow competed from 1934 to 1951. Nicknamed "the Brown Bomber", he is widely regarded as one of the greatest and most influential boxers of all time. He reigned as the world heavyweight champion from 1937 until his (temporary) retirement in 1949. He was victorious in 25 consecutive title defenses, a record for all weight classes. He has the longest single reign as champion of any boxer in history. Louis's cultural impact was enormous. He is widely regarded as the first African-American to be regarded as a national hero within the USA.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music]

It's Yankee Stadium, New York City, August 18th, 1936. Joe Lewis versus Jack Shocky. Lewis, 22 years of age. Shocky 33, the former world's heavyweight champion of the world. Jack Shocky had won the world's heavyweight title from Max Schmeling in 1932 and lost it in 1933 to Primo Coner.

This is Joe Lewis's first fight since he was KO'ed by Max Schmilling two months ago. [Applause] Everyone is closely watching this battle to see if Lewis has lost anything with the defeat by Schmeling. Many a fighter has been ruined by one devastating defeat. Joe Lewis libering up in his corner coming out for round one. [Applause] The referee is Arthur Donovan.

Lewis weighs 199 and 3/4. Sharky 197 and one quarter. Lewis isn't wasting any time.

[Applause] >> Joe Lewis, the Brown Bomber with right crosses to the head and left hooking to the stomach is Joe Lewis.

Jack Shocky fighting back. >> Shocky having trouble in that corner. Jolo is belting away. [Applause] Round one of a scheduled 10 rounder.

Shock has had a total of 54 professional bouts, scoring 15 knockouts, winning 20 decisions, winning three on fouls, drawing in three, and losing eight decisions, losing one on a foul, being stopped three times, and fighting one no decision bout. Joe Lewis going after Jack Shocky. [Applause] Lewis has had 28 professional bouts, scoring 23 KOs, winning four decisions, and being stopped once by Max Schmemelling two months ago.

Going in on the fight, Joe Lewis was a 4 to1 favorite. [Applause] As a crowd of 30,000 on hand, they've paid more than $160,000 to watch this bout. [Applause] Jack Shocky, a classic boxer with a good straight left jab and a fine right cross. [Applause]

Lewis again with that hook to the stomach. That's the end of the first round. [Applause] Joe Lewis in the corner to the right. Jack Shocky in the left. Coming out now for round two.

[Applause] shocky bobbing and weaving. >> He once modeled himself after the great Jack Dempsey. Now he's more of a stand-up fighter, though. Joe Lewis with a style all his own.

[Applause] Lewis beating Shocki to the punch. Shocki staggered momentarily but held on. Joe Lewis caught him with a short right. [Applause] Lewis with tremendous power on each and every punch.

[Applause]

[Applause] Shocky is in trouble. Joe Lewis has him against the ropes. A solid right down goes Shocky. He's being counted out. Holding on to one strand.

Six, seven. He's on his feet. He's staggering. Lewis coming right after him. Shy doing his best to hold on. And down

he goes again. This is the second round. Shy watching the count. Here comes Joe Lewis again. [Applause] >> Shocky holding off for all he's worth.

And now he's fighting back. [Applause] Joe Lewis looking to put away Jack Shocky right here and now. One good punch might do it. [Applause] And still Shy fights back just as game as they come. [Applause] >> Jack Shocky 11 years older than Joe Lewis at the end of round two and feeling a good deal older as well. Let's

look at it now in slow motion. A right and a left and another right. Joe Lewis setting up Jack Shocky for the knockdown and Shocky fighting back. Watch the tremendous power in each punch thrown by Joe Lewis.

[Applause] There it is. The overhand right over that left lead of Jack Shocky. Shocky stunned and dazed on the canvas. That was the first knockdown in the second round. And there's another [Applause] both off at Donovan and Jack Shocky looking over at the timekeeper.

Shocky on his feet at eight.

[Applause] Now the second knockdown coming up.

[Applause] >> A right and a left hook. There's the right and there's the left hook going down. [Applause] You can see the timekeeper at the far side counting for the knockdown.

Jack Shocky, the old pro, waiting for the full count. [Applause] And now he gets up. [Applause] Well, they're getting ready to come out now for round three, and they do. The crowd senses an early KO. [Applause] Lewis is not impatient.

Chalky is hurt. Down he goes and through the ropes on both knees. A solid right cross. Now he's on his feet. Lewis coming right after him. Shocky

trying to fight back gallantly. He's no match though for Joe Lewis. And down he goes. His mouthpiece is out.

And that's it. Let's look at it again in slow motion. these two knockdowns in the third round. [Applause] Two tremendous right hands and Shocky goes through the ropes. Joe Lewis has shown that his KO at the hands of Max Schmilling has not slowed him down one bit.

He looks just as sharp as ever >> and his punching power is perhaps even greater than it was before.

Shy did not even wait for the full count to get to his feet again here in this first knockdown in the third round. [Applause] And here's where Joe Lewis finishes them off.

[Applause] That's one he missed and that's one he didn't. That left hook and Shocky is staggered again. [Applause] Left hook to the stomach, doubles up Shocky and a left hook to the head. And Shock is on his way out. That right uppercut and the left hook and down goes Jack Shocky for the last time against Joe Lewis.

And now the fight is to be stopped. Referee Arthur Donovan sees that Jo Jack Shocki has had quite enough. And so the winner is Joe Lewis defeating former Worlds Heavyweight Champion Jack Shocky. [Applause] Joe Lewis, who himself went on to become the world's heavyweight champion. Jack Shocky being ministered to in his corner.

This was the end of the trail for Jack Shy. [Applause] That's Harry Balor, the ring announcer, >> coming over to get Joe Lewis and raise his hand in victory. Radio announcer is Ted using

Joe Lewis TKO winner against Jack Shocky in three rounds at Yankee Stadium.