---
video_title: "\"HIGH HAT AND DOWN LOW\"  1954 LOUIS ARMSTRONG, VELMA MIDDLETON & ROBERT MERRILL  (SILENT) GG48215"
video_id: wBjc5RFVEyI
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wBjc5RFVEyI
video_date: 2026-02-24T17:29:49+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This extraordinary raw footage was recently unearthed by film historian Jeff Joseph. The footage, which was clearly intended to be part of a production of some sort, was originally shot with sound — but unfortunately that element has now been lost. The film provides an extraordinary look at  Louis Armstrong making what might be his first appearance in Las Vegas circa 1954. Armstrong was the headliner for a show that partnered him with Metropolitan Opera star Robert Merrill. It was called "High Hat and Low Down" and initially ran at the Sands Hotel for two weeks -- but then was so popular that it became a seasonal act that ran for at least three years. Appearing with Armstrong was his "all star" Satchmo All Star Band and singer Velma Middleton, and (at least in 1956 or 57) Natalie & The Beachcombers, the Copa Girls and the Antonio Morelli Orchestra. The show was produced by Jack Entratter, who initially raised eyebrows by bringing together Merrill and Armstrong to share the top billing, but according to a review, "...this unique combination of opera and jazz was a hit with even the most jaded audiences on its opening night."  The lively show was full of good humor and interspersed with comedic segments. Some of the songs that were part of the set list included "Granada" (typically the opening song) and the spirituals "Nobody Knows the Trouble I've Seen", "Joshua Fit' the Battle of Jericho",  "Return to Sorrento" and "On the Street Where You Live". He also performed opera standards such as the Toreador Song from "Carmen" and Figaro’s aria from "Barber of Seville". Armstrong was said by a reviewer to be in "top form" performing "Sleepy Time Down South". The Satchmo & His All Stars band in 1957 included Billy Kyle, piano; Trummy Young, trombone; Edmond Hall, clarinet; Barrett Deems, drums; and Dale "Deacon" Jones, bass. Some of the jazz setlist included  "Back Home In Indiana," "Faithful Huzzar," "Stompin’ at the Savoy", "Mop Mop,"  "Perdido" (performed by the rhythm section). The show wrapped up with Velma Middleton belting out "Mama's Back In Town," followed by some hilarious gyrations and a duo with Armstrong on "Kokomo."
   
  Note: Velma Middleton sang with Louis Armstrong's big bands and small groups from 1942 until her death. Jack Entratter, nicknamed "Mr. Entertainment", is best known for management positions at the Copacabana nightclub in New York City in the 1940s and early 1950s, and at the iconic Sands Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas from the early 1950s. He is closely associated with Frank Sinatra and the Rat Pack in the history of Las Vegas.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you