---
video_title: "\"ARGENTINE PRIMER\" 1940 JULIEN BRYAN EDUCATIONAL TRAVELOGUE   BUENOS AIRES  ESTANCIAS  GG40735"
video_id: XQeHC_soe30
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XQeHC_soe30
video_date: 2026-08-09T19:29:48+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Released in 1940, "Argentine Primer / A Talk By Julien Bryan" was produced by Julian Bryan and assembled by James and Miriam Booker. The film presents a comprehensive portrait of Argentina as one of South America’s most advanced and influential nations, emphasizing its importance to the United States both as a potential ally and as an economic rival.  
  
  0:00: The film highlights Argentina's vital importance to the US   as a wealthy and progressive South American leader, but also as an economic rival. Mutual understanding is key to the nature of this rivalry. 0:42: Geography. Argentina's varied geography includes the  towering Andes  to the west, an eastern coastline, and the massive, fertile natural pasture known as the pampas. 1:08: People and Cultural Differences. Argentines are spirited, energetic, and proud, but their deep cultural roots are in the   Old World   (Spain, France, Italy). Spanish settlers were primarily   soldiers seeking gold  , unlike New England's colonists who were farmers seeking freedom. 1:48: Size and Early Settlement. Argentina is the size of the US east of the Mississippi, but the US population is 10 times larger. The first permanent settlement was in 1580; by 1800, the population was only one million. 2:37: Buenos Aires is now the   third-largest city in the Western Hemisphere   (1940). It is a brisk, modern, and magnificent city, resembling a great European capital with dense traffic (driving on the left) and efficient, colorfully decorated three subways. 3:24: Shops and Cinema. Buenos Aires boasts smart shops.   North American motion pictures are popular  , despite local complaints about Hollywood's inaccurate Latin American portrayals. Argentina has small, capable studios that produce films in their own language. 4:51: The Boca  is the old, colorful waterfront section. The Teatro Colón is a major cultural venue hosting great international singers and musicians. 5:38: The aristocracy lives graciously in magnificent homes, maintaining the devout traditions of their Spanish ancestors, many of whom are buried in the picturesque Recolleta Cemetery  .6:29: Argentina's government is modeled on the US system. Its Constitution has protected free press, speech, and assembly for 80 years. Newspapers like  La Prensa  and  La Nación  are world-famous, printing extensive foreign news. 7:43:. Argentina maintains the   largest and strongest military force in South America   to look to its defenses, as it wisely anticipates potential global troubles. 8:47: Buenos Aires depends heavily on  World Trade. A major problem is the lack of natural resources. 9:49: Argentina must  import machinery and parts for assembly plants. 10:34: Culture and the Gaucho. Argentines enjoy the asado (barbecue). While city dwellers often look to Europe, intellectuals are increasingly interested in colorful national traditions, such as the songs and dances of the Gaucho. 12:16: Argentine artists find inspiration in the hard-riding, fun-loving   Gaucho   (cowboy), who hunts wild ostrich with the bolo (a sling with two tied balls). 13:22: The largest estancias (ranches) are the country's heart, preserved by the landowning aristocracy. A feudal system persists.14:57: Argentina has four sheep for every human, providing wool, lamb, and mutton globally. Ranch owners supervise work while drinking   mate   (herb tea) from a gourd through a silver tube (bombilla). 16:27: The greatest problem was scrubby, wild cattle.   Railroads   arrived in 1857. The true transformation was in 1877 with the first   refrigerated ship, allowing fresh Argentine beef to be shipped globally. 17:10: Argentines imported the best breeds (Shorthorn, Angus, Hereford). Billions of foreign capital, especially British, were invested in railroads. Cattle are sold at the   Mercado   near Buenos Aires to   frigoríficos   (pack houses) owned by firms like Swift, Armour, and Wilson.
  18:49: Fresh or frozen beef cannot be sold in the US due to sanitary regulations against countries with foot-and-mouth disease. Argentina argues this is unfair. Resolving this without animosity is key to being "truly good neighbors." 20:10: The government is creating smaller specialized farms and modern dairies to produce goods for export. The great estancias are slowly breaking up, as they serve only a privileged few. South America must focus on the needs of the Common Man, turning away from Europe and back to her own hemisphere. 
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music] I want to talk to you today about Argentina and to show you some motion pictures which were made there recently. Some of these were taken by me and by my associate Jules Booker and others were made by the staff of the March of Time. Norman Lloyd wrote the music. Jules and Miriam Booker assembled this material. I want to show you these pictures because I believe that Argentina is of vital importance to you and to me and to every other American citizen. For

Argentina is outstanding in wealth and progress in South America, a leader on her own continent and a rival of the United States in the affairs of the Western Hemisphere. Whether this rivalry becomes friendly or bitter may depend upon how well we understand the reasons for it.

Argentina has the towering Andes on her western border and rocky arid hills in the south. A long vulnerable coastline on the east and running from the broad center of the country north toward Paraguay. Nearly 100,000 square miles of natural pasture land, the Pampas. The people of Argentina are much like us, more perhaps than any other people in South America. Spirited, aggressive, energetic, proud of their heritage and their personal accomplishments. But

there are underlying differences between us and these people, for their roots are deep in the old world culture of Spain and France and Italy. More than that, the Spaniards who settled here were soldiers and adventurers seeking gold, while New England was colonized by farmers and tradesmen seeking freedom.

Argentina covers a big area as large as the United States east of the Mississippi. But for every human being in Argentina, there are 10 in the United States. The Spaniards who came here first did not stay because they found no gold. Only a few hostile Indians. Not for many years did the Spaniards and after them the English, Italians, and Germans realize the riches that lay in the earth of Argentina. The first permanent

settlement was in 1580, but even in 1800 there were only a million people in the entire country. [Music] In 195, Buenosiris had only 1 million people. But today, it is the third largest city in the Western Hemisphere. Far from the traditional picture of a lazy Latin American capital, it is brisk, modern, and magnificent. Its crowded traffic, lefthand drive as in England, its handsome streets and business buildings combined to give the casual visitor the impression of a great European capital.

Residents of Buenosiris are proud of their three subways. They are short lines compared to the New York system, but they are clean, efficient, and colorfully decorated.

Buenos Iris has smart shops as fine as those of London and New York and expensive too. [Music] North American motion pictures are enormously popular, even though some of the bitterest complaints about Hollywood's lack of taste and accuracy in portraying Latin Americans have come from Argentina, [Music] but they want their own motion pictures in their own language and are capable of making them in small but efficient studios. They are turning out good films using Argentine actors, directors, and writers. [Music] All of Buenos Iris is not fine and modern. This is the bulk, an old and gaudy but picturesque waterfront section lined with cheap shops and cafes and dance halls.

Cabaris is uptown but gaudy too and more popular with gay young Argentines than with their conservative elders. [Music] More important to the cultural life of the country is the teatro cologne where great singers and musicians have come from all over the world.

Here [Music] [Applause] the aristocracy lives well in houses which are a constant surprise to those North Americans who suspect that all South Americans live primitively. But the old families of the nation live conservatively and graciously. They attend a church like this one where they are steeped in the devout traditions of their Spanish ancestors who were buried with pop in the picturesque cemetery of Recalleta. [Music] [Applause] [Music]

Argentina's government is modeled on that of the United States with a president, a Congress, powerful provincial governors, and a constitution which, with few exceptions during 80 years, has protected the rights of free speech, free press, and free assembly.

The newspapers of Buenosiris are famous throughout the world. They truly speak for their people with strength and eloquence. Papers like La Pransa and Lanasion print more foreign news than the New York Times. La Pransa has done distinguished work in offering free medical and legal consultations. Welle equipped consulting rooms and a capable staff of doctors and lawyers are employed in this humanitarian service.

[Applause]

Argentina has long tried to steer clear of Europe's troubles, but she is wise enough to know that she may not always succeed. So, she looks to her defenses, trains her men, and prepares with the largest and strongest military force in South America to defend her land.

[Music] [Applause]

[Applause] [Music] Argentina and above all Buenos Iris might be poor indeed if it were not for world trade. More than most countries she depends upon intercourse with foreign nations through these docks. They are far from the docks of the other great world markets. Nevertheless, Argentina has become a leader of world commerce, but war and the blockade have seriously hurt her economy. One of this country's most pressing problems is her lack of natural resources. But to her credit, she makes

the most of what she has. A government oil company is working feverishly to develop its small oil resources. But still there is no iron or coal or copper. And for these Argentina is reluctantly dependent upon other nations. [Music] Having few rich mineral resources of her own, she is naturally confined to light industry like shoes and textiles. But

even this machinery must be imported.

and her assembly plaques for cars and refrigerators must get their parts from abroad.

A national custom is the barbecue here called an assado. A glorified meal in the Gaucho Manor where 1,500 lb of meat are being consumed by 500 people with only bread and wine. Dieticians might disapprove, but Argentines thrive on it.

[Music]

Though the wealthy city dwellers have always looked to Europe for cultural guidance, many intellectuals are now becoming interested in their own colorful traditions such as the songs and dances of the gaucho. Heat. Heat.

Heat. Heat. [Music]

Argentina's artists like the great caricatur are turning toward the land for inspiration toward The hard-riding, fun-loving gaucho, Indian and Spanish, the half- wild nomadic cowboy who first settled on the land and herded the wild cattle. [Music]

Even his sports are affectionately pictured by campus, like his hunting of the wild ostrich with the bolo, a kind of sling made of two balls tied together on a leather thorn. This when thrown winds around the bird's legs and trips it up. [Music]

But ostrich hunting is only a game. And the great Estansia is a working proposition. Here is a ranch of 10,000 acres, 6 miles long, and three mi wide. The sort of minor kingdom the landowning aristocracy is fighting to preserve, for it is the very heart of Argentina. This is an agricultural country without an agricultural population as we know it. They do not need many farm workers

because a single gaucho can take care of 1,000 cows. A sort of feudal system has been preserved here. The wealth of the owners is great. The life of the peons is hard and bleak despite the fertility of the land. [Music] For the land is fertile almost unbelievably so. The soil is 10 ft

thick, rich and black, the deposited silt of thousands of years. But in our country, the average top soil is only 1 ft thick. Argentina is one of the world's great graneries, raising each year more than a million tons of corn and wheat. The climate is so mild and even that alalfa grows five crops a year, and the men who herd livestock can sleep outdoors the year round. [Music] There are four sheep for every human being in Argentina. Lamb and mutton and

wool enough for half the world. Brought here originally by canny sheep herders from Scotland.

Each season, thousands of yearlings are broken in. Horses whose ancestors once ran wild on the Great Panther

Here

[Applause] [Music] are the owners at lunchon. Big hearty men eating a heavy meal of meat, bread, wine, and fruit. At this ranch, unlike some others, the owners supervise the work themselves. After lunchon they sip mate, the herb tea which Argentina drinks in such great quantities. Mate is sipped from a hollow gourd through a silver tube called a bombia.

[Music] They are concerned with Argentina's greatest problem, her cattle. In the early days, the scrubby cattle ran wild by the millions and the land owners had no vision of their great future. Then in 1857 came the railroad and this meant an outlet for the lush fields of wheat and corn of the fertile Pampers. And in 1877, another miracle happened. The first refrigerated ship came to Argentina. As

North American life was developed and transformed, first by the railroads and then the automobile, so the railroads and the refrigerated ship transformed the life of Argentina. This new kind of shipping meant that for the first time, fresh Argentine beef could be shipped to all the world. Soon the Argentines began to take their cattle seriously. They imported the best and most expensive breeds, Shorthorn, Angus, and Herford.

Over a billion dollars in British capital was invested in the railroad to carry the beef and the grain to shipping centers. [Music] for all these cattle must eventually arrive at the market. The great markets are in the city like this marcado near Buenus Irish.

[Applause] [Music] Here come buyers from the great packing houses or Frigoripico to buy cattle at auctions. Many are native Argentines representing local firms. Others are Texans, Canadians or British representing firms like Swift, Armor, Wilson or Anglo with many millions of foreign capital invested here.

And although American capital is here, plus American management and machinery, none of this chilled or frozen beef can be sold in the United States. The sanitary regulations of our government make it impossible for any country where foot and mouth disease of cattle exists to ship fresh meat here because the spread of the disease would destroy our herds. On the other hand, Argentina is a large country and certain sections such as southern Patagonia have never had this disease. So the whole nation is angered at our refusal to import fresh meat even from Patagonia. Basically, it is a story of economic rivalry. The

difficult problem of two great nations who produce the same food stuff who could together feed the world. Canning meat requires clean hands. So, these girls get a manicure before beginning work. Here they are packing cooked meat, the only form in which it may be imported into the United States. There are two sides to the meat question with good arguments on each side. When

it is examined thoroughly without animosity, it may be settled to everyone's satisfaction. But until it is, we can never be truly good neighbors. Meanwhile, the government has turned to other solutions for her growing economic problems. Smaller specialized farms and clearing houses for their products are being established like this modern dairy which buys milk from neighboring Estansias and bottles it for sale in the city. Here is dried milk being prepared for export.

Eggs are also being shipped abroad. [Music] Vineyards are producing grapes for Argentina's excellent wine. And all of this specialization in farming and food processing is receiving attention and aid from the government. Slowly but surely, the greatest stansias are breaking up because like the huge aiendas of Mexico, they best serve the needs of only a privileged few. In the final analysis, it is the needs of the common man which South America must serve. her own underprivileged of

the country and city and she is slowly turning her eyes away from Europe back to her own hemisphere. In this critical period when a new price has been put upon earth and the food it yields Argentina is re-evaluating her own land and the people on it. [Music]