---
video_title: "1920s VIEWS OF YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK, GLACIER NATIONAL PARK & WASHINGTON, D.C. CS10135b"
video_id: 5SCP_LfqIA0
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5SCP_LfqIA0
video_date: 2026-05-13T19:29:47+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This reel of short, silent films from the Filmo Library dates to the late 1920s/early 1930s. It begins with images of Yellowstone National Park shot by William Horsley, including falls and cascades. At :18 the Morning Glory Pool is shown, followed by the Emerald Pool, Fire Hole River cascades or rapids at :50, paint pots at 1:09, Handkerchief Pool at 1:52. (Note: Handkerchief Pool was a famous, historic hot spring in Yellowstone National Park's Black Sand Basin, known for its unique convection currents that would pull dropped handkerchiefs down and return them, freshly laundered, to the surface. Once a major tourist attraction, this feature can no longer be interacted with.) At 2:40 a Mud Volcano is shown, and at 3:11 the Dragon's Mouth. At 3:30 the Kepler Cascade on the Fire Hole River is shown. At 3:46 the film switches to Glacier National Park, Lake McDermott and the Many Glacier Hotel. At 4:48, tourists venture forth on horseback. A cowboy guide is shown at 5:00, and at 5:28 a "gingler" is shown (note: In cowboy lingo, "jingling the horses" means to round up the horses before sunrise for the day's work.) At 6:05 the Ptarmigan Wall is shown. At 6:45 the "Going to the Sun Chalets" are shown. Starting at 7:05 are amateur shots of Washington D.C., part of a home movie. At 7:18 is a memorial column given by the citizens of Canada in honor of fallen American soldiers in World War I. At 7:22, the mast of the USS Maine is shown in Arlington Cemetery. At 7:49, the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier is shown. At 8:06, a view of Washington National Airport with a Trimotor airplane. At 8:09 are shots of the White House followed by shots of Pennsylvania Avenue and the Post Office building at 8:21, followed by shots of the Lincoln Memorial and at 9:05 the Capitol Building. 
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
Or I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.