---
video_title: "1929-1930 HOME MOVIE  GREENVALE FARM, POUGHKEEPSIE NY   ROXEBY ESTATE  CS10025"
video_id: LTQhPTXnhdI
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LTQhPTXnhdI
video_date: 2026-07-25T19:29:54+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This 1929-1930 silent home movie starts with images shot at the Greenvale Farm, owned by Homer Gray, located near Vassar in Poughkeepsie, New York. Greenvale hosted the so-called Rombout Horse Show every year in May; part of the show may be seen in the film.  The movie shows a large group of people riding horses cross country, presumably some of them are students from Vassar College. One part of the group has a lot of dogs, possibly for flushing out game as part of a hunt. At 5:27, shots of puppies on the farm being taken care of by a Black farm hand, and being taken for a walk. At 8;25 another ride is shown, here horses are shown jumping a fence or gate and at 10:00 a low wall. At 12:00 a large house is shown, the Roxeby estate also known as La Bergerie in Dutchess County, New York, followed by images of men in formal riding clothes on horseback riding and at 14:43 jumping a fence in rapid succession. 
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you