---
video_title: "\"WONDER EYE\" 1949 CELEBRATION OF THE MOTION PICTURE CAMERA DOCUMENTARY  TIME LAPSE  GG41255"
video_id: 1pxStWmbxlE
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1pxStWmbxlE
video_date: 2026-08-03T19:29:49+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  "Wonder Eye" dates to 1949 and was directed by Stuart Legg.
  
   The film celebrates the motion picture camera as humanity’s “wonder eye,” a tool that transforms both imagination and reality into shared experience. It begins by praising cinema’s power to create stories of emotion and beauty, then shifts to the camera’s role in documenting real life—from volcanoes and hurricanes to the ocean depths and the stratosphere. The narrator traces its scientific origins to 1887, when film first captured movement, and explains how innovations like slow and fast motion revealed unseen details of sports and nature, including a time-lapse battle between plants. The movie then ventures into space, where cameras record solar eclipses to study atomic energy, and into the human body through X-ray cinematography, humorously showing a couple’s racing hearts. Finally, the camera’s educational power is highlighted, letting children witness flight, plant growth, electricity, and great scientific feats once invisible to the eye. The film concludes that the movie camera unites art and science, extending human perception to embrace the wonders of both the real and imagined worlds.
  
  
  
  0:00 – Main titles, then moving in on a Mitchell type 35mm motion picture camera on a movie set or soundstage. The movie camera is a tool that creates millions of feet of film each year, illuminating stories of laughter, romance, and adventure for audiences around the world.
  1:29 – The camera also explores real life, capturing events beyond fiction.
  1:38 – A V-2 rocket is launched. Through the newsreel lens, viewers can see the Earth from the stratosphere, volcanoes erupting, hurricanes raging, and even the sewers of Paris and the depths of the sea.
  2:28 – A sailplane soars and the camera becomes a “third miraculous eye,” revealing wonders unseen by the human eye.
  2:48 – Cine Kodak Special 16mm movie camera. Film’s scientific roots to 1887, when early motion studies by Eadweard Muybridge first captured animal movement.
  3:10 – Runners in a foot race are frozen at the finish line. Scientists refined film technology, developing slow motion to study fast movements like those of athletes improving their form and timing.
  3:56 – Conversely, fast motion reveals extremely slow natural processes, such as plant growth.
  4:08 – Time-lapse photography (possibly by John Nash Ott) exposes the hidden violence and beauty of the plant world, as in a sequence showing a parasitic plant called “angel’s hair” attacking a nettle.
  5:30 – The film then moves from Earth to outer space, where cameras record a solar eclipse through telescopes.
  6:00 – Ancient rituals to “save” the sun from dragons are contrasted with modern science studying solar eruptions to understand atomic energy.
  6:49 – The movie camera captures vast jets of flaming gas during the solar eclipse, offering a glimpse of the sun’s atomic power.
  7:17 – A lens is put on a camera. The focus shifts back to Earth and the human body. Using X-ray film, the “Wonder Eye” peers inside people to show internal motion and anatomy.
  7:46 – A humorous vignette follows Miss Jones and Mr. Smith, who probably later died of cancer. Their flirtation and racing hearts are seen under X-rays—alongside a parallel cat-and-mouse chase.
  9:15 – The narrator notes that scientists continue to use cameras in laboratories and observatories to reveal the mysteries of nature and science.
  9:31 – Beautiful optical shot of a 16mm movie projector. Movies bring discovery to everyone—children can see how flight works, how birds migrate, and how plants grow over hours.
  10:01 – Electricity and other invisible forces come alive through the movie camera’s lens, showing audiences what few have witnessed firsthand.
  10:17 Atomic bomb blast at Bikini. The movie camera as humanity’s “wonder eye,” capable of capturing the marvels of life, science, and imagination across the world.
  10:31 The end.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music]

[Music] [Applause] [Music] Heat. Heat.

[Music]

Yes, it's a movie camera. Out of it every year are spun 4 million ft of film entertainment from the great studios of Hollywood and London. It is for the camera that the dazzling studio lights illumine a thousand scenes of laughter and tears, dancing and melody.

It brings the whole romantic and colorful world of make believe flashing onto the screen to warm the hearts and stir the imaginations of us all.

But the camera looks also into another world, the world of real life. [Applause] With the newsreel camera, we can rocket into the stratosphere for a Buck Rogers view of the Earth from 65 miles up in the blue. We can be slapped down beside a volcano in eruption. With the camera, we can get a sizzling impression of disaster. Anchored in its raging path, we can watch the violence of a hurricane.

The camera can slip us even under the earth's surface for a glimpse of the famous sewers of Paris. It can plunge us into the mysterious depths of the sea.

Wherever it goes, the camera points towards new horizons of adventure and knowledge. [Music] It gives us a third miraculous eye. A wonder eye with an eye for wonders. It all began with a scientist who wanted to know how animals move. So he dreamed up a new sort of camera and in 1887 amazed the world with these pictures.

Scientists have been in the movie game ever since. Today, through their efforts, the camera not only photographs movements straight, it can do what you want with them. If they're too fast to be seen clearly, the camera can slow them down. That's called slow motion. The slow motion camera has been a magic mirror for the sportsman. The champion

perfects style and timing by studying his own movements in slow motion. The enthusiastic amateur improves his performance by seeing how the champion does it under the camera's time microscope. There, one second is stretched out to 25 and the lightning run of muscles slowed to a walk.

The wonder eye of the camera plays revealing tricks with time. [Music] Some movements are so slow you just can't see them. But turn the fast motion camera on them and they become visible.

Mr. Average gardener can discover a lot of things about his radishes and roses when he sees them through the wonder eye of the camera. For all is not as it seems in the quiet and peaceful plant world. The camera shows that it's as full of violence as a Hollywood jungle. This snake in the grass is a plant. Its

name is the daughter, but they also call it angel's hair. It's attacking that other plant, a nettle. Angel's hair is a parasite. It lives off the juice of other plants and can cut itself off completely from the soil. Then, zooming out at no more than a half an inch a day, each new sprout strikes like a python to get a grip on the nettle.

[Music]

The nettle does its best to escape. But by this time, there isn't just one coil of angel's hair. There are hundreds. [Music] In real life, this battle lasts a month and a half. The fast motion camera concentrates its violence into a minute.

with Angel's Hair the winner and the metal a goner. [Music]

But the movie camera can sweep us outside our own world into the realms of space. Link it to a telescope's giant enlarging lens and it fixes its wonder on the universe beyond. As the hour of a total eclipse of the sun approaches, in the great observatories and in field expeditions scattered across the world, the cameras stand ready. In a faroff corner of Asia, one camera crew found natives still going through the eclipse rituals of their ancient ancestors. They believe that dragons are trying to swallow the sun, and their angle is to scare off the monsters by waving charms and beating tomtoms. They

say it works, too. Modern man sees it differently. He welcomes the eclipse because he knows he can get something from it. Out there in space nearly 93 million miles away is the sun, greatest atomic pile in our universe, the super cyclron. We study the atom in action in the sun to give us the lowdown on the atom in our own world. Solar atomic action is

best seen at times of total eclipse. Then the sun's blinding disc is blacked out, leaving only the flamelike rim visible. The movie I records the colossal movements of the sun's atomic eruption through a telescope fitted with special filters to cut out glare and gas haze. It catches jets of glowing gas blasted over a 100,000 m out into space. [Music]

We've come a long way since man welcomed the false dawn after an eclipse with a sigh of relief. Today, only the rooster gets fooled. Fit a different lens onto a movie camera and it's ready to record something closer to Earth. Something that's never lost its wonder, although you've lived with it every day of your life. Your own body. Not the surface you see in the

mirror, but what's underneath. Wonder Eye presents Inside Story with the aid of a fluorescent screen and a high power X-ray tube.

Meet Miss Jones, our heroine, who's fixing up for a date. As an X-ray babe, Miss Jones may not be your dish, but she'd pass in a different light. In Miss Jones house, there are some mice waiting for Miss Jones to scram. Waiting for the mice is Miss Jones's cat. We now take you over to Hotel Deluxe where among the paper palms, tea is being served. Tea with a dash of barium

in it, black under the X-rays.

Delicious, gulps Miss Jones, taking a sip of tea. So refreshing. So are you, says Mr. Smith. He's our glasseyed hero, whose heart at this stage in the game is beating at a normal clip.

But under the spell of seductive music from the hotel trio strictly schmaltz. Miss Jones gives a heart-rening sigh and takes another swallow. It's that sigh that does it. Mr. Jones tries to be nonchalant, but the nervous tapping of his foot and his heart beating twice as fast as it should be mark him as a dead duck.

Girl gets man and cat gets mouse. X-ray marks the spot.

Wherever scientists continue to probe the unknown and the all but unknowable, in their research laboratories and observatories, the movie camera goes with them as a tool ready to reveal and record.

By focusing experience and discovery from every facet of human life onto the screens of the world, movies have placed the marvels of our century within the grasp of everyone. Our kids can see the why of flight. They can follow birds migrating in their millions. They can watch 3 hours in the life of a plant.

Electricity snaps its greatest spark for them. And in the movies, they can see what thousands on the spot dared not see. Man's latest challenge to himself. [Music] The whole world is a wonder to the camera's wonder eye. [Music] [Applause]