---
video_title: "\"LOWELL THOMAS JOURNEYS TO FAR PLACES\" 1930s NATURE FILM  ALASKAN CARIBOU & WYOMING ELK  SM11605i"
video_id: K2R-1yPw4FM
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K2R-1yPw4FM
video_date: 2026-08-29
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: https://PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This short wildlife film from the "Journeys to Far Places" series featuring Lowell Thomas, is titled "Hungry Winters". It contrasts two seasonal struggles faced by North American big game: Alaskan caribou crossing the Yukon River during their annual migration and Wyoming elk surviving the harsh winter in Jackson Hole. The caribou must brave swift, cold water to reach fresh feeding grounds, while the elk descend from snowbound mountain ranges and depend on supplemental food. The film highlights an important early wildlife-management effort, explaining how the U.S. Biological Survey provided roughly 4,000 tons of hay annually to help Wyoming's elk survive severe winters. 
  
  0:00 - Main titles.
  
  0:46 - Lowell Thomas describes the annual migration of Alaskan caribou as the first of two “thrilling dramas.” The animals must cross the broad Yukon River to reach unfrozen feeding grounds, making the dangerous crossing essential to their survival.
  
  1:01 - Hungry caribou struggle against the river's swift current toward the fresh vegetation on the opposite bank. Their migration is portrayed as a seasonal battle against winter and the scarcity of food.
  
  1:18 - The film shifts to Wyoming's elk, which descend from their high mountain summer ranges into the famous Jackson Hole valley when snow and ice make their usual feeding grounds inaccessible.
  
  1:26 - The elk face severe winter conditions, with the grass buried beneath a heavy crust of snow and ice. After their long journey into Jackson Hole, the animals are shown facing the possibility of starvation.
  
  1:37 - Thomas presents the winter hardship as a looming tragedy for the elk before introducing the intervention that will save them.
  
  1:40 - The U.S. government, humorously personified as “Uncle Sam,” comes to the rescue. The Biological Survey provides tons of hay to supplement the elk's scarce winter food supply.
  
  1:52 - The narrator explains that approximately 4,000 tons of hay are distributed to Wyoming's elk each year, illustrating the scale of the government's winter wildlife-feeding program.
  
  1:57 - One elk, nicknamed “Bill,” becomes accustomed to the people and cameras around him. The narrator humorously portrays him as a friendly animal who even approaches and poses in front of the camera.
  
  2:07 - Bill is shown displaying a fondness for the female elk, with the narration maintaining the lighthearted anthropomorphic tone.
  
  2:15 - Farewell to Bill and the elk until the following winter.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit https://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[music]

[music]

[music]

[music]

[music]

>> There are two thrilling dramas of the north that I have seen more than once. The first of the two is a simple drama. The annual migration of the caribou of Alaska. They are migrating and they must swim the broad Yukon to reach unfrozen pastures. It's swim or starve.

They're hungry, too, and on beyond the other bank is fresh green moss. No wonder they buck their way against the swift-running current. They are headed for new pastures to put one over on old man winter. And here is our second drama played by the elk of Wyoming. With their summer pastures high in the mountains frozen solid, they have come down to the famous basin called Jackson Hole.

The grass, the only hope that nature has for them, is buried beneath a heavy crust of snow and ice, and they have come a long way, and stark tragedy stalks in their midst. But hark, the hero enters, and his name is Uncle Sam. Tons of hay turn tragedy into a happy ending. The Biological Survey and the State of Wyoming provided. And every year Uncle Sam dishes out 4,000 tons of hay to his brother elks.

When brother Bill tames down a bit, he turns out to be a regular guy. He even becomes a lens hound and parks right in front of the camera. Yes, and surprising as it may seem, Bill grows fond of the ladies if they pass the cigarettes. Well, so long, Bill, until next winter.