---
video_title: "\"DRIVIN' & DRUGS\"  1968 CHEVROLET ANTI-DRUG / ANTI-DUI DRIVER'S EDUCATION FILM  GG47335"
video_id: Pf3G6GDjdqA
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pf3G6GDjdqA
video_date: 2026-08-20
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films! Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Produced by Chevrolet, "Driving & Drugs" (1968) is a driver's education film about the dangers of drug use, especially when combined with driving. It explains how various substances—like barbiturates, amphetamines, marijuana, heroin, and LSD—can impair judgment, perception, and reaction time, making safe driving impossible. While some drugs may seem harmless at first, they often lead to dependence and risky behavior. The film also highlights how peer pressure plays a major role in getting young people started. Ultimately, it urges viewers to think for themselves and avoid drugs, especially when behind the wheel. The film was shot in Summit County, Ohio and written and produced by GM's Photographic department in cooperation with the National Safety Council.
  
  00:00 Film begins by emphasizing that drug exposure is a constant in modern society. While some individuals experiment or use occasionally, others abstain entirely. At the same time, driving is a fundamental part of daily life, and it is critical that drug use and driving remain completely separate due to the serious risks involved.
  (1:05 – 2:18)
  It then defines what constitutes a drug, highlighting heroin as one of the most dangerous due to its high potential for physical dependence. However, heroin is only one among many abused substances. Over time, most drugs can lead to psychological dependence, including barbiturates, amphetamines, and hallucinogens, whether natural or synthetic.
  (2:19 – 3:48)
  Barbiturates, often called "goofballs," include drugs like Seconal and Tuinal. When abused, they produce effects similar to alcohol: euphoria, slurred speech, and unconsciousness. These depressants are especially dangerous when combined with alcohol and are responsible for thousands of overdose deaths annually—some accidental, others intentional.
  (3:49 – 5:19)
  Amphetamines or "pep pills" (such as Dexies and Speed) don’t typically cause physical dependence but can create a strong psychological need. They act as stimulants, giving users a burst of confidence and energy. However, large doses may lead to irrational, violent behavior, and unlike alcohol, pep pill users may not appear obviously impaired—making their actions even more unpredictable.
  (5:20 – 6:44)
  The discussion turns to natural hallucinogens like marijuana, mescaline, and psilocybin. Marijuana, the most commonly used of these, can impair reaction time and perception, creating dangerous conditions for driving. Distorted sense of speed, delayed reactions, and visual hallucinations make safe driving nearly impossible under its influence.
  (6:45 – 7:35)
  Heroin use is portrayed as particularly devastating. A person can become addicted in just a few weeks, and once hooked, recovery is extremely difficult. The habit becomes financially burdensome, often leading individuals to crime or prostitution to support their addiction.
  (7:36 – 10:52)
  LSD’s effects are described as highly unpredictable and potentially terrifying. Personal accounts reveal users experiencing extreme hallucinations and losing touch with reality. Driving under LSD is extremely dangerous—users may see or hear things that aren't real, believe they can control traffic lights, or become convinced they have supernatural powers. These delusions pose a serious threat to themselves and others.
  (10:53 – 12:07)
  Next, the film discusses how young people are introduced to drugs, usually by friends or dates. Often, the first dose is free to entice new users. Once someone starts wanting the drug, the financial and psychological cost grows. It's suggested that people are being used by dealers to expand their market.
  (12:08 – 13:16) Critiques the notion that drug use is a form of rebellion or individuality. In reality, drug use can strip individuals of their autonomy and self-control. Although adults may seem hypocritical in their behaviors, the consequences of drugs—particularly loss of control and impaired judgment—are uniquely harmful.
  (13:17 – 14:03)
  In closing, the narrator quotes a recovering user who compares LSD to a “delicious death sandwich,” describing how it breaks down one’s identity, experiences, and emotional stability. The ultimate message is clear: while drug use may be a personal choice, driving under the influence is dangerously irresponsible and makes no sense at all.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music] We live in a society where the chance of coming in contact with drugs in some form or another is always present. Some of us have tried drugs of one kind or another. Some of us use them occasionally and a lot of us don't have anything to do with [Music] them. We also live in a society where driving a car is one of the most integral parts of our life. We need wheels for just about everything we do.

Sure, drug use is against the law. in many cases damaging physically and mentally. But beyond all that, driving and drugs must be separated. We know a lot about how to drive safely. But what do we know about drugs? How they affect

a person? How they might affect a driver? First of all, what is a drug? Heroin is a drug, the most dangerous of all the drugs from the point of physical drug dependence. But it is only one of many, many drugs that are abused. And

all drugs if used long enough will produce a psychological dependence. Barbbituates with names like schanol, nebl, amitol, luminol and tuenol commonly referred to as goofballs can induce drug dependence. There are amphetamines or pep pills referred to as dexis, bennies, speed etc that can also induce a dependence. And then there are the hallucinogens, drugs that can cause hallucinations such as marijuana, meascalene, and psyocin. These are all derived from growing plants. Finally, there are the

synthetics such as LSD and DMT. Let's take a closer look at each of these drugs which are capable of causing drug dependence in a user. First recognize one important thing. Barbbituates, amphetamines, and diet pills, frequently a combination of both barbituates and amphetamines, are useful drugs when taken in proper dosage and under a doctor's care. The trouble comes when they are abused. Consider barbituates.

The barbituate or goofball user acts very similar to a person under the influence of alcohol. Happy, staggering, slurred speech, finally unconsciousness. Like alcohol, the goofball is a depressant. And like heroin, barbituates may produce dependence, either psychological dependence or a physical dependence or a combination of both. And with use, more and more of the drug may be required to attain the intended [Music] effect. The risk is great. People on

goofballs tend to forget when the last pill was taken or how many. And thousands of people die every year from overdoses. Some by accident, some by [Music] design. Combining alcohol and barbituates, even small amounts, is really playing with fire. Both drugs are depressants and in combination can quickly send a person into a coma and even cause death.

[Music] Amphetamines or pep pills do not lead to a physical dependence, but they do very frequently produce a tolerance in a person and lead to a marked psychological dependence just as surely and certainly as a barbituate or heroin. Amphetamines are stimulants give the user a lift, a feeling of confidence, a high state of excitement. In large quantities, they can produce an uncontrolled, irrational state of mind. A good way to illustrate this effect is to compare it to alcohol. Most people under the influence of alcohol may have reasonably good judgment, though their muscular reflexes are impaired, and almost invariably their driving will improve when they sight a police car.

This is not the case with a pep pill user. His rationality, his reasonably good judgment [Music]

disappears. Pep pills do not cause a drunken-like state as do barbituates and alcohol. A user may often appear to be fully conscious of his actions, perhaps talk more than usual and be a little cocky, but act rather normal. At the same time, he may be in a state of temporary insanity and commit a violent act without

reason. Under the influence of pep pills, a person may start shooting if he happens to have a gun or intentionally use his car as a lethal weapon if he's

driving. These are the three most common natural type drugs. Marijuana is derived from the cannabis or hemp plant. Meascalene from the peyote cactus and psyoclobin from the Mexican magic mushroom. The effects of all three are similar with marijuana by far the most commonly used drug. Marijuana is usually

smoked and while it is not physically addicting, it very often leads to mental or psychological dependence. It has one particular side effect that makes safe driving impossible. Under the influence of marijuana, timing and reactions may slow down drastically. A person may be traveling at 60 mph, yet it feels like he's only going about 30 mph. Slow motion. Safe driving is impossible when

perception is altered like this. And what happens when a fork in the road suddenly appears? A fork that isn't really there. It could mean going over an embankment or into the path of another car. Visual distortions or hallucinations may be a very real part of the marijuana [Music] experience. Experimentation with any

drug may lead to more powerful drugs such as LSD or heroin. A person who uses heroin may progress to the addiction stage in a matter of weeks. And when he's hooked, he's hooked. And the cure is extremely difficult and in many cases impossible. [Music] It's a terribly expensive habit and almost every addict must turn to crime and prostitution to get the money. You

might think, "I could never do that." But you may have to if you ever become addicted to [Music] heroin. Now let's take a look at LSD. The effect is certainly not that of alcohol or the serene nothingness of heroin. The adverse effect of this drug approximates insanity.

LSD trips are completely unpredictable with a bad experience as likely as a good one. One young girl had this to say. I had been told it would be frightening, but I wasn't prepared for what came. I ran or I think I ran for miles before I gained some control. Then I walked for hours praying I wouldn't die. This was her first experience and

she required psychiatric treatment. Another student put it in a nutshell. It's not so much the trip that freaks me, it's getting back. The after effects may be even worse, said one young LSD user. I know a girl who took LSD three times and had happy, good experiences. A year later, she doesn't

trust her friends. Feels isolated. The same young man had this to say. A friend takes some acid and you sense he is going to have a bad trip. But you cop out. You let it pass. Let him slip out

of sight and he goes insane and spends the next six months trying to figure out what happened. Drive under the influence of LSD. Not a chance. Consider the statement of a 20-year-old LSD user taken from an actual police report filed on a charge of possessing drugs. He had observed radio waves in color coming from the radio and body heat in the form of color radiating from the driver of the car. Voices became magnified as if

created by a huge speaker [Music] system and the tires on the pavement began talking to [Applause] him. He stated that when the car stopped, outside objects continued to move. He couldn't tell whether this sense of movement was related to the car seeming to move or the objects. His estimate was that it would be impossible to drive under the influence of LSD. Good estimate. It's

ridiculous to try to do anything. Another driver under the influence of LSD became convinced he could control traffic lights, change them from red to green at will. It seemed to work for a while. [Music] But then one didn't turn

green. Still another young man driving after taking LSD were sure he could turn the engine off through his expanded powers of concentration. [Music] A researcher describing the effects of LSD says it brings about a vision of the spirit, a split in the person, a kind of schizophrenia. In other words, a form of insanity. To consciously try to arrive at a state of insanity that's almost unbelievable.

[Music] You've had a quick rundown on drugs and how they can affect you. You know the score. Now, let's take a look at how drugs are made available to a young man or woman. Nine times out of 10, it's a friend or a date who urges you to try it. Nobody knows exactly why, but drug users are often after their friends to try it. Right here is your moment of

decision. The first time you're offered a drug, the second time could be too late. But there's more to it than this. How'd you like to be a psy for some guy making a fast buck? Well, the first drug a person is offered may be free from one of his so-called friends and is usually a pep pill, a goofball, or maybe marijuana. But look beyond this.

Somewhere somebody is interested in using your friends, as you call them, to get you started on drugs for money. [Music] Usually a variety of drugs show up in a high school to appeal to as many prospects as possible. The idea is to get people started for free if necessary and then when they do get wanting the drug, it starts costing more and more. A total waste of good money. Think about it. If you're

approached, you're being used, friend. You say you've heard it's in to try drugs. Well, a lot of other guys and gals say it's in to be an individual, have a mind of your own, aim for your own goals, not to conform to any specific image. There is no group that is more conforming than the drug fraternity. Because answer me this, how can you be an individual when you have no control over your own mind, the source of your individuality? Okay, your parents, the

adult world, they preach no smoking and puff away. Preach no drinking and drink away. You might say that they're somewhat hypocritical, and you're probably right. But consider this. When alcohol and drugs are compared, you can have one drink and still have some control over yourself, your individuality. One shot of heroin, one

marijuana high, one LSD dose, one overdose of barbituates or amphetamans, and you just might be out of control. Go where the drug takes you. Your perception is distorted. Your physical reaction dulled to the point where your driving ability is seriously impaired. Probably the best evaluation of LSD, and it could apply to almost any drug was made by an intelligent young man trying to break his dependence after many trips. He said this. There's

something that does not want to go along on the trip. It's another part of you. your identity, your ego, your possessions, the things you need to function, your experience, your commitment to life. These are the precious things that are broken by LSD. LSD is a delicious death sandwich. Life's pretty good. Why take a

chance on ruining it with drugs? Of course, that decision is yours. but drive while under the influence of drugs. This makes no sense whatsoever. What do you think?

[Music]