---
video_title: "\"RECORD-BREAKING\" 1987 A.J. FOYT / OLDSMOBILE AEROTECH   CLOSED COURSE SPEED RECORD ATTEMPT  RJ10365"
video_id: ERn4iRY4P4I
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ERn4iRY4P4I
video_date: 2026-08-27
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Directed by Rodney Jacobs, narrated by Sam Posey, and released by Freewheelin' Films (https://freewheelinfilms.net/), "Record Breaking" shows legendary race car driver and multi-Indianapolis 500 champion A.J. Foyt's attempt to break the closed course record. 
  In West Texas, A.J. Foyt and a team of engineers from Oldsmobile prepared two highly modified cars for this effort. Built around the Quad 4 engine, these cars represented years of planning, testing, and engineering innovation. The Aerotech Project included both short-tail and long-tail versions, with the long-tail car achieving over 275 mph on its first test run. AJ initially missed the Flying Mile record due to handling and fuel issues, but the next day set a new world record averaging 267 mph. Finally, on August 27, 1987, the short-tail Aerotech exceeded the existing closed-course record at over 257 mph, marking the culmination of years of meticulous work and high-speed experimentation. Note: Oldsmobile Aerotech was a series of three experimental high-speed vehicles built between 1987 and 1992, with the first two created to demonstrate the potential of Oldsmobile's new Quad 4 engine design. Oldsmobile also used the Aerotech name on two unrelated concept cars in 1989. The Quad 4 engines in the Oldsmobile Aerotechs were purpose-built and turbocharged, and meant to showcase the design's capability. They were different from the production Quad 4s, which nevertheless were the first domestic regular production DOHC four-cylinder engines wholly designed and built by GM.
  
  
  
  
  0:00 – The desert of West Texas is vast and sparsely populated, with cattle and oil derricks scattered across the landscape.
  0:33 – A.J. Foyt, engineers, safety crews, and two modified cars arrive to attempt a world closed-course speed record.
  1:00 – The streamlined cars were built for speed, with highly modified four-cylinder engines, after years of planning and testing.
  1:20 – The Quad 4 engine project by Oldsmobile began in 1984, aiming to balance performance and fuel efficiency.
  2:03 – The Aerotech car was designed to explore the high-speed potential of the Quad 4 engine.
  2:25 – Record-breaking is solitary, with the car’s engine sound conveying its performance.
  2:59 – Engines are described as alive, needing careful tuning to perform at high speeds.
  3:26 – Aerotech approaches the existing record, but further engine and aerodynamic work is needed.
  4:11 – A.J. collaborates with engineers, working on both short-tail and long-tail versions of Aerotech.
  4:43 – The long-tail car’s first test run achieves over 275 mph for a flying mile, surprising the team.
  5:31 – The Flying Mile record requires two runs, upwind and downwind, averaged within an hour.
  6:17 – A.J. initially fails the return run due to handling and fuel issues, missing the record narrowly.
  7:01 – The next day, A.J. sets a new Flying Mile world record, averaging 267 mph.
  7:22 – The short-tail car is prepared for the closed-course record attempt, culminating three years of work.
  7:56 – Drivers must maintain focus and precision, aware of extreme risks at high speeds.
  8:25 – Aerotech exceeds previous closed-course records, reaching over 257 mph.
  8:47 – The team celebrates the achievement while acknowledging there is more work and experimentation to come.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
West Texas big like I guess you'd expect. Few oil derks here and there. Cattle more cattle than people. The rest of the world seems far away when you're out here. And while thoughts of speed may be entertained by some, others are concerned with, well, just putting one foot in front of the other. But this

week would be different. Descending on this West Texas landscape would be fourtime indie winner AJ Foy, a bevy of engineers from Ozemobile, safety crews, official USA timers, and two extraordinary cars. Extraordinary because underneath their sleek exteriors lie highly modified four-cylinder passenger car engines. These cars were built for a single purpose to shatter the world's closecourse record. One lap around any track anywhere in the world.

Three years of calculations, computer models, shakedown runs, and a lot of sweat are about to be put to the test as AJ Boy will attempt to travel more than 250 mph to go record-breaking. In 1984, a group of automotive engineers working for Ozemobile in Lancing, Michigan, began work on a project which, although it would soon involve Foy, at the outset, had nothing to do with him or any other driver or car or event. The project began with an engine. It was called the Quad 4. We hadn't had a clean sheet of paper engine for many years, and there was a need out there. The market's changing.

The needs are changing. fuel was deer and we also knew that eventually there'd be a great interest in performance and horsepower. So the Quad 4 was a search for something that could deliver both >> and uh he came up with the aerotech concept as a a way of combining a show car, a high-speed functional engineering type car to give us a good platform for just exploring the the uh high level capabilities of the basic quad 4 engine. [Music] [Applause] When the Aerotch rolled out to warm up, I realized what a strange business record-breaking really is. A solitary car on the track, no spectators, the adversary nowhere to be seen, represented only by the abstract fact of its speed achieved at another time and in another place. What is real is the

sound of Aerotch's engine, clear and crisp across the desert landscape. And to her, Porter, that sound is like a language all its own, telling the story of an engine coming to life. >> I like to hear them, and they'll tell you when they're happy, you can't tell them or they'll spit in your eye. You know what I mean? Engines are just like people. They got to breathe good and

breathe hard if they're going to run fast. So, when she's really pumping hard, well, you know, she's running hard. >> It just is harder work or maybe harder cuz you're trying a lot of things at very high speeds, unknown. It's very tricky to be truth with you. You're hanging it out just as far as when you're in competition.

>> And the sense of competition was all at once very real. Aerotch was just 2 m an hour shy of the record held by MercedesBenz. But before it could run again, there was much to do to the engine to the aerodynamics. >> The amazing thing is that we are pretty close to all the predictions. And uh I think uh some of the backseat drivers are realizing that the pencil guys maybe know a little bit too. And it's been a

very good uh relationship with AJ. He's he's been super to work with >> cuz I'm a halfway mechanic myself and engineer with the guys. If I was just a driver sitting there just pushing the button, it would drive me crazy. But with me kind of working with the aerodynamic people and discussing things back and forth, it's great. >> We got to get the motor While work proceeded on the short tail, the plot thickened with the appearance of the longtailed car, an untried body coupled to an engine worked on not by Herb Porter, but by a rival engine wizard named Rocky Phillips.

Interestingly enough, Rocky Phillip and Herb Porter used to be partners years ago. And now in Aerotch, they find themselves running side by side, if you will. So, I'm sure that they were looking over each other's shoulder to see what the other camp was doing. As AJ was pushed out for his maiden voyage in the longtail car, expectations were for a simple shakedown cruise. What happened was something else.

The longtail car had never been on a track before and we we literally finished assembling the car on Monday and Tuesday and uh we finally got it on the track Wednesday early afternoon and uh Floyd warmed the car up for two laps. uh just getting a feel of it because the aerodynamic uh properties on that longtail are just totally different than the short tail car. And either the third or the fourth lap around the track, we measured a flying mile at over 275. And I think the whole group was uh stunned to say the least. Brand new package, 275 for a flying mile.

The Flying Mile is an internationally recognized world record consisting of two flatout runs over the same measured mile, one upwind, one downwind. Bill Porterfield had done his homework, had the statistics, and knew that Aerotch had a shot at the record. >> AJ also sensed the opportunity. >> I can nail it right now, but I like to do it at three. I would like to do this.

>> This was the situation. And notice that AJ is pulling out onto the track essentially the wrong way. the reverse of what he's been doing. He's already gone 275 one way and now he's got to take a shot the other way and the two runs must be made within an hour of each other. Then the two speeds are averaged.

Those are the rules. AJ goes around once and doesn't make it. The car, its tires and suspension set up for lefthand turns is hard to handle turning the other way. >> Quick left bastard. But the car is low on fuel. Time is running out in the hour

allotted for the return run. This was not planned for and is very dangerous. Fuel must be pumped aboard next to the red hot engine. And to save time, AJ is gamely staying strapped in the car. And yes, there is another chance for a shot in the record. But no, he misses the

record by less than a mile an hour. >> Not enough time to make another pass. Well, he said he can't go again after a million. >> Yet the very next day, AJ blows the old record away, running one direction at 278 and the other at 257. Average speed and a new world record for the flying mile 267 mph.

Now the moment was at hand for the attempt on the closed course record. The short tail car had been worked on through the night and was ready. You could feel the emotion. The sense that 3 years of intense effort was coming to a head here and now. The look and the sound of the car seemed right somehow as if all the work on the engine, the aerodynamics, the chassis, all the logic and theory, all the dreams even were suddenly fused together under the big Texas sky. It was August 27th, 1987.

Yeah. When you get upset today, you know you're running. You know that you're on a fine line. And if you slip, you know you're going to be in serious trouble and you better be ready for it. You really got to look way ahead, not right in front of your nose. That's what I

found out. >> We knew that we were going to reach real hard. The kind of project that this is would require that you take an engine under 2 L and try to do the things that we're doing, you're going to be reaching out beyond the normal horizons. And the horizons of allout speed were expanded on that day as the Aerotch smashed the existing closed course record, reaching over 257 mph. >> Congratulations. Thank you. In the

spontaneous applause, you can sense the excitement and also the relief. [Applause] Then you have to do work on it. Don't give up. You know what's there?

Aerotech will run again because there are always lessons to be learned, concepts to try, and there will always be men who dream of speed. [Music] [Applause] [Music]