---
video_title: "AFTERMATH OF ISRAELI ATTACK ON USS LIBERTY  JUNE 8, 1967   SIX DAY WAR   GG50155"
video_id: UPoPqnuuYSY
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UPoPqnuuYSY
video_date: 2026-06-08T07:26:50+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: https://PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This silent news footage shows the aftermath of the Israeli attack on the U.S. Navy's ship, USS Liberty. This incident occurred on June 8, 1967, during the Six-Day War, when Israeli forces attacked the Liberty, a U.S. Navy technical research ship, in international waters off the Sinai Peninsula. The attack, involving aircraft and torpedo boats, killed 34 Americans and wounded over 170. Israel apologized, claiming mistaken identity, while many survivors maintain the attack was deliberate.  Israel eventually paid over $12 million in compensation for the deaths, injuries, and damages to the ship.The incident remains one of the most controversial events in U.S.-Israel relations. 
  
  
  Scenes include: 
  00:00 aerial shot of the ship post-attack, with damaged superstructure clearly visible. 
  00:13 deck areas of the USS Liberty clearly showing fire damage and impacts from projectile weapons
  00:24 .50 caliber machinegun position on the USS Liberty
  00:29 sailors are shown tossing wreckage overboard
  00:32 sailor stands beside blood-spattered area of ship's hull
  00:36 U.S. Navy helicopters are shown landing on the deck of the ship, removing wounded.
  00:38 Sikorsky CH-53 Sea Stallion sets down on the deck of the aircraft carrier USS America. 
  00:41 Wounded evacuated from the helicopter onto the America
  00:43 Kaman UH-2B helicopter lands on the deck of the USS America, and more wounded evacuated
  00:49 USS Liberty, with remaining crew, limped toward Valletta, Malta, for temporary repairs after the incident. As seen here, the ship then returned to the Naval Amphibious Base, Little Creek, Virginia, on July 27, 1967. Sailors are seen reuniting with their familes and hugging wives and children. 
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit https://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit https://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
you you you you