---
video_title: "\"THE DISEASE CALLED ALCOHOLISM\"  1970s ALCOHOL DEPENDENCY & TREATMENT EDUCATIONAL FILM   GG47365"
video_id: pr55dWaRJsk
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pr55dWaRJsk
video_date: 2026-08-02T16:29:51+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Created by Sturgis-Grant Productions, Inc. for the drug company Pfizer, "The Disease Called Alcoholism" (probably late 1970s) was created in part to promote the use of Vistaril (hydroxyzine). That drug was used not to treat alcoholism itself, but to manage anxiety and agitation associated with alcohol withdrawal experienced by those trying to get off the bottle. The film presents a comprehensive examination of alcoholism, framing it not merely as a symptom of psychiatric disorders but as a complex and progressive disease in its own right, involving psychological, sociocultural, and physiological factors. The film suggests that effective treatment requires both physical detoxification—using agents like hydroxyzine and magnesium—and individualized psychosocial rehabilitation, including group therapy and emotional re-education. Timely diagnosis and integrated treatment are crucial in addressing one of society’s most pervasive and underdiagnosed public health issues.
  
  
  
  0:00: Discussion of alcoholism. Is alcoholism a symptom of a psychiatric disorder or a disease in itself? It notes that while associated with psychopathology, alcoholism has evolved into a disease entity.
  
  2:27: Alcoholism is defined through five criteria of functional impairment: family, occupation, social life, self-image, and physiological health. A fifth consideration—alcohol’s adverse physiological effects—is emphasized as vital for diagnosis and treatment.
  
  4:42:Testimonials reveal how individuals use alcohol to cope with anxiety, social pressure, and stress. Alcohol can become a dependency.
  
  6:12: The etiology of alcoholism is discussed, including traits like dependency, immaturity, and poor ego functioning. However, not all alcoholics fit this mold. The video stresses that physiological susceptibility plays a key role.
  
  7:11: A study using well-nourished dogs to examine alcohol’s impact on fluid and electrolyte balance. Findings include isosmotic fluid retention, increased thirst, and reduced urinary excretion of key electrolytes.
  
  9:29: Clinical studies on human alcoholics confirm overhydration and electrolyte imbalances, sometimes masked by misleading symptoms like dry mouth. Diuresis is cited as an effective treatment, and magnesium loss is shown to increase nervous system irritability.
  
  10:51:Chronic alcohol intake leads to lipid abnormalities and fatty liver, with plasma lipids returning to normal upon cessation of alcohol. This supports alcohol’s direct role in hepatic damage.
  
  12:01: Liver function studies in 200 alcoholics show subclinical liver disease in 80% of cases, which improves with abstinence. Biopsies reveal fat accumulation in liver cells, which can reverse with sobriety.
  
  13:46: Alcohol’s effects on the cardiovascular and hematopoietic systems. It contributes to anemia and infection susceptibility—all independent of nutrition.
  
  15:00: Alcoholism is declared a major public health problem. 16:16: Physicians are encouraged to look beyond patient reports and rely on diagnostic tests. Establishing physical damage often prompts patients to accept treatment. Alcoholism involves both body and mind, so treatment must address both.
  
  18:07: Initial detox involves medications like hydroxyzine and magnesium sulfate, with anticonvulsants as needed. Overhydration is managed carefully.  
  
  20:04: Detoxification usually takes 24 hours. Once stabilized, psychosocial rehabilitation begins. This phase varies per individual and may involve group therapy, spiritual counseling, or self-help groups like Alcoholics Anonymous.
  
  21:18: Ongoing support through re-education, medication, and group therapy helps patients understand and manage their condition. Emotional re-education, coping with stress, and developing healthier responses to life’s pressures.
  
  23:11: Alcoholism is progressive and complex, requiring both medical and psychological intervention. Physicians play a vital role in detection and treatment to help mitigate its widespread societal impact.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music] [Applause] [Music]

[Music] really

again.

[Music] contemporary proceed. [Music] A fundamental question is frequently asked about alcoholism. Is it just a symptom of an underlying psychiatric disorder or is it a disease entity in itself? There have been many attempts to categorize alcoholics according to particular neurosis or even psychosis. But none of these attempts has had much success. Knowledge of both the

psychonamics and the physiodnamics of alcohol ingestion has increased considerably in recent years. As a result, it has become apparent that while alcoholism is certainly symptomatic of psychopathology, it is a symptom which has become a disease. Until recently, the standard concept of alcoholism has been that it is a disease when the ingestion of alcohol impairs the patients normal status or function in any one or a combination of four situations. First, when it impairs the relationship with

[Music] family. Second, when it impairs his relationship with his occupation. Third, when it affects his role in the social mu that is his relationship with friends and enemies. fourth when it impairs his concept of

himself. That is the standard concept. But an increasing understanding of the problems of alcoholism has convinced us that there is a fifth consideration. The adverse effect of alcohol ingestion on the person's physiologic well-being. For alcohol can cause potentially severe pathophysiologic processes which are often asymptomatic for a long time and which may or may not be accompanied by impairment of status or function in life situations. And an awareness of this

relatively new concept can play an important role in more effective diagnosis and treatment of alcoholism.

Well, I thought I needed something to relax me. A couple of drinks. Sometime it worked, maybe too often. I got so I couldn't write unless I had a couple of stiff ones. And then I needed more and more to keep going. I grew up with alcohol. Drinking

was an accepted part of my family's daily routine. In fact, I was sneaking a drink when I was 14 years old. Talking to people, expressing myself has always been the hardest part of my job. I think it affected my social contacts, too. I know I was always scared to death of sex. Having a drink with people to break

the ice was an easy way out. I guess I've got three kids, and there are times when they drive me out of my mind. Aspirin didn't work. Alcohol did. Ideologic factors are always important in considering a disease concept. But the ideology of alcoholism

is somewhat obscure. In many cases, the alcoholic patient is dependent, immature, and somewhat passive. He possesses few means to cope with the anxieties, tensions, and frustrations inherent in living. There is an inability of the individual to recognize the self in proper perspective. In other words, poor ego functioning. But this description does

not apply to all alcoholic patients. Nor does an inadequate ego necessarily predispose a person to alcoholism. Although it is probable that most individuals begin to use alcohol to ease psychic and/or social conflicts, individual susceptibility to the physiologic and psychologic effects of alcohol plays an important part in the pathogenesis of the disease. As susceptibility increases in certain persons, a specific pathophysiologic process results. And this can lead to a psychopysiologic dependency on alcohol. Alcohol can result in many

pathophysiologic processes. Of particular interest to us is the effect it may have on body fluid and electrolyte balance, lipid metabolism, and the functions of the liver, the cardiovascular system, and the amatopoetic system. With few exceptions, the consequences of chronic alcohol intake have been attributed to nutritional and vitamin deficiencies. Our own research, therefore, has been aimed at determining the pathophysiologic effects of alcohol when a nutritious diet is maintained daily. An intoxicating oral dose of ethyl alcohol was given daily to well-nourished dogs in an effort to study fluid and electrolyte balance. It was found that there was a

marked fluid retention in the dogs that received alcohol. In fact, the retention was isosmotic. The expansion of the body fluids was reflected in the water content of all the measured fluid spaces that is total body water, extracellular fluid volume and plasma volume. The diuretic effect of alcohol has long been recognized, but urine output increases only when the blood alcohol concentration is rising. thereafter an antidiuresis can occur. It was noted in this study that

the 24-hour fluid intake actually increased considerably over the urine output. During the experimental period, the 24-hour urinary excretion of sodium, potassium, and chloride was reduced. Initially this will lead to hypertenity of the extracellular fluid stimulating thirst. This accounts for the fact that over a relatively short period of alcohol ingestion a positive water balance can actually result. These experimental data have been corroborated clinically in a study of well-nourished chronic alcoholic patients who were admitted to the alcoholic rehabilitation unit with histories of at least one week of daily alcohol ingestion. They were not intoxicated at

the time of fluid and electrolyte measurements. However, within 4 days after withdrawal of alcohol, the body water balance returned to normal. Although some alcoholic patients are dehydrated due to vomiting or diarrhea, the majority may actually be overhydrated. In view of this, the attending physician must carefully consider the advisability of intravenous fluid and electrolyte therapy. An important point to note is that the presence of a dry mouth is not a valid sign of dehydration in an alcoholic patient. Indeed, in our

experience, diaresis is an effective therapeutic approach with many of these patients. One ion which is not retained during alcohol ingestion is magnesium. Since it normally exerts an inhibitory influence on the central nervous system, the depletion of magnesium by increased excretion during alcohol ingestion results in an increased irritability of neural tissue. Its replacement therefore is often useful in treating the alcohol withdrawal syndrome. Hyperipmia is a common finding in chronic alcoholic patients. Again,

with well-nourished dogs, chronic ingestion of ethyl alcohol over a 12-week period resulted in a significant and sustained increase in plasma concentrations of triglycerides, phospholipids, and total cholesterol. A fatty liver is often found concurrently with the hyperipmia. A possible explanation is an increased synthesis and decreased release of these lipids in the liver. When administration of the ethanol was discontinued, all of the abnormal concentrations of plasma lipids returned to control levels within a month. One question which is very important to the physician is whether there is subclinical asymptomatic liver disease in apparently healthy well-nourished chronic alcoholic patients. We made a study of 200

patients here at the alcoholic rehabilitation unit. Approximately 80% of these showed no signs or symptoms of liver disease. Yet a liver function panel including BSP retention, SGOT, SGPT, serum isocitric dehydrogenase, Billy Rubin and total proteins and their electrofpharesis indicated significant functional impairment. These findings suggested an acute rather than a chronic type of liver injury. After 3 weeks of hospitalization and abstinence from alcohol, the abnormal liver function tests showed significant improvement. Liver biopsies in these

patients indicated that the predominant morphologic lesion was an accumulation of fat in the hippatic parankal cell. With improvement in liver function, this fatty accumulation disappeared. Although alcohol is often used in treating cardiovascular disease, a number of investigators, including ourselves, have determined that alcohol adversely affects the metabolism of the mocardium, increases the workload on the heart, and produces cell death in the cardiac tissue. In our studies, we have found that the daily ingestion of alcohol for two weeks produces a marked accumulation of triglycerides in the left ventricle. This results in a fatty heart.

Thus, contrary to generally accepted practice, the use of alcohol may well be contraindicated in the treatment of any type of cardiovascular disease. Although the anemia of alcoholism has usually been attributed to vitamin deficiencies, the hematopoetic system is certainly not immune to the effect of alcohol, regardless of the state of nutrition. In our animal studies again with well-nourished dogs, we have found a marked decrease in amatocrit hemoglobin concentration and the red blood cell count without alteration of the mean corpuscular values. This in addition to the characterization of cell morphology in both peripheral blood and bone marrow indicated that the observed anemia was of the normocchromic normocitic variety following withdrawal of alcohol. These values returned to normal within 4 weeks. An absolute reduction in the

number of reticular sites was found during the period of alcohol administration. This was followed by significant reticulcytosis upon withdrawal of alcohol. In the experimental animals and in well-nourished chronic alcoholic patients, the total lucasite count was significantly reduced. Here again, withdrawal of alcohol was followed by a rapid return to normal lucasite values. Alcohol then can produce a profound depressing effect on hematopoetic function regardless of the state of nutrition. This effect can contribute to

an increased susceptibility to infection in these patients. And I think it should be emphasized again that all of the pathophysiologic changes that have been mentioned occurred without any associated nutritional deficiencies. We're convinced that they were the result of chronic alcohol ingestion alone. I think it's obvious that alcoholism is a complex problem because of the interaction of psychologic, socioultural, and physiologic factors. It is certainly one of the most critical public health problems today. Published reports estimate the

alcoholic population in the United States to be about 6 million. 80% of the adult population drinks. If you include those problem drinkers who are subject to increasing pathophysiologic damage, even though they are not impaired in psychosocial ways, the figure is probably closer to 20 million. This means that one out of five adult patients in the average physician's practice is suffering from some degree of alcoholism. Unfortunately, the majority are unrecognized.

Many of them, too many of them are keystones of our socioeconomic society. Their inability to function properly causes not only personal anguish, but also an economic loss to the nation, amounting to millions of dollars every year. Most alcoholic patients are reluctant to reveal their problems and the physician may be deceived into believing that no physiologic or psychologic problem exists. In most cases, the diagnosis of alcoholism depends on the physician's awareness of the toxicity of alcohol. Whenever possible, therefore, routine physical examinations are supplemented by diagnostic tests which if positive can provide evidence of pathophysiology for a true picture of the patient's condition. These tests

should include fluid and electrolyte studies, the more revealing liver function studies, and blood studies such as hematocrit, hemoglobin, both red and white cell counts, and meticulous counts. Once physical damage is established, the patient is often much more willing to examine the influence that alcohol may have had on other areas of his life. Since alcoholism in the newer concept involves both the psyche and the soma, therapy must be directed at both. And since we believe that no patient can respond effectively to emotional rehabilitation until he feels well physically, we start with the soma. Of course, no two patients are alike. No two present quite the same

therapeutic problems, but for the purpose of demonstration, an extreme case can be reviewed. The background of such patients is usually middle to upper class educationally, economically or socially. Often the presenting disorder to the practicing physician is the acute withdrawal syndrome. In such situations, the first consideration is to sedate the patient. The tendency has been to use sedation as the only therapeutic approach. Thus such

compounds as chloral hydrate, paralahhide, the barbbiturates, the pheninoines and even ethyl alcohol have been used frequently. Our agent of choice in most cases is hydroxazine available as vistil. Vsteril 100 mg administered intramuscularly every 3 to four hours alleviates anxiety with minimal sedation. This drug is non-habituating, apparently does not complicate the neurological examination and does not impair physiologic recovery. Replacement of magnesium loss by intramuscular administration of magnesium sulfate is an effective and often necessary adjunctive means for quieting the patient.

Administration of an anti-convulsant may be helpful not only in preventing seizure activity but also in clearing the sensorium. Overhydration which often results in cerebral edema can be counteracted by diuresis and restriction of fluid intake. Since the amatopoetic system may be involved in the pathophysiology, antibiotics should be given at the first sign of infection. Obviously with alcoholic patients, one must suspect coexistent disorders such as hepatitis, pancreatitis, gastritis, hypoglycemia, anemia or lucopenia. The major goal in this initial therapy is to detoxify the patient as effectively and rapidly as possible. Even in severe cases, with

proper medical management, this can usually be accomplished within 24 hours. Once the patient is again relating to his environment, psychosocial rehabilitation can be started. Whereas treatment for the pathophysiologic aspects of alcoholism is much the same for all patients, the psychosocial aspects must be treated on an individual basis. It is the physician's responsibility to refer his patient to an appropriate psychotherrapeutic environment. Group psychotherapy is often the most effective approach, but it must be structured to fit the needs and background of the specific patient.

Such therapy may be directed by professionally trained people, by the clergy, or by lay groups, the prototype of which is Alcoholics [Music] Anonymous. In our alcoholic rehabilitation unit, we have found that patients can benefit from a program of re-education concerning the varied aspects and uses of alcohol. Throughout the initial period of rehabilitation, the use of a psychotropic drug such as oral visceral 25 to 100 mgs three to four times a day is of help to the patient in reducing his anxieties and enabling him to relate more effectively to group therapy and to the various community activities of the alcoholic rehabilitation unit. Whatever psychotherrapeutic program is selected for the individual patient, it must give practical support in problem solving. There must be emotional support through encouragement and sympathy. Most importantly, there must

be an emotional re-education. This means that the patient must understand that therapy will not necessarily remove the stresses of life. Instead, it is designed to improve the patients reaction to the psychosocial pressures of everyday living. Alcoholism is a complex and progressive disease if it is left undiagnosed and untreated. Physiologic and psychologic deterioration is inevitable.

by suspecting, diagnosing, and then treating the physiologic consequences of excessive alcohol ingestion. And by aiding the patient in his search for appropriate psychotherapy, the physician can contribute significantly to the control of one of the major health problems in our society today.

[Music]