---
video_title: "1960s HOME MOVIE  VISIT TO ALASKA  POINT BARROW / UTQIAGVIK  INUIT TRIBE  GG30195"
video_id: bqNKBLCJsOo
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bqNKBLCJsOo
video_date: 2026-07-24T16:29:49+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films! Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
   
  This 1960s film follows a group of Americans traveling through Point Barrow and Fairbanks, Alaska to experience traditional Alaskan Inuit culture and the natural landscape. It features scenes of a visit to a traditional home, a celebration with singing, dancing, and storytelling performances. The film also includes extensive footage of Alaska's mountains, snowy landscapes, and a few scenes from the central town of Fairbanks. It concludes with aerial footage of a plane flying over San Francisco, suggesting the family's journey ends there.
  
  A young Inuit boy holds an unidentified item (00:08). An Inuit woman sews cone-shaped pieces (00:17). She and a man are seated, smiling at the camera (01:04). Children play blanket toss (Nalukataq in Iñupiaq) using a blanket traditionally made from walrus or seal skin, an activity especially associated with spring whaling festivals (01:10). A children's choir sings traditional songs, with children in the front row playing large, round, hand-held drums made from stretched animal skin over wooden or bone frames (01:38). Children and adults dance traditional dances to the songs (01:49). Alternating clips show solo and group dances (03:10). A performance, presented alongside the choir, features a man with wings on his arms and a woman who appears to be hunting him (03:35). A woman places her baby under her coat and onto her back (03:53). She ties a belt around her chest (04:05), spins around (04:10), and then removes the belt to take the baby out again (04:20). She holds her baby and smiles at the camera (04:34). They walk away, revealing a dog lying behind them (04:39). Five people stand in a line against the outer wall of a house (04:42). POV footage from the window of a flying plane follows (04:56). A house built from wooden logs is shown on a residential street (05:26), followed by another log house (05:35). Additional footage features houses in the residential area, some built from wooden logs, others from wooden planks (05:46). More POV footage from the window of a flying plane appears (06:31), including the plane descending onto a landing strip (06:42) and additional aerial views (06:50). Snowy mountain tops are seen (07:10), followed by footage of the plane flying above the clouds with snowy peaks in view (07:18). Views of Alaska’s snowy landscape continue (08:08), along with more plane footage (08:13). The historic and still-active Fairbanks Alaska Railroad Station, located in central Alaska, is shown (08:21), followed by general footage from Fairbanks (08:43). POV footage from a train traveling through Alaska captures scenes of a small town, crop fields, a track winding through a mountain tunnel, mountainous landscapes, and various bodies of water (08:44). Later, POV footage from a plane shows views over clouds, snowy mountain peaks, and more bodies of water (10:35). The plane flies over the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco, California (14:46), followed by views of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge (15:09), and a sunset seen from the window of the flying plane (15:13).
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work. I'm going to do a little bit of the work.