---
video_title: "1966 UNIVERSAL NEWSREEL  PRESIDENT JOHNSON IN MEXICO CITY   SS MICHELANGELO   MET OPERA GG57505a"
video_id: TaYXk9Nakck
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TaYXk9Nakck
video_date: 2026-06-05T16:24:50+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: https://PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This Universal Newsreel reel contains three stories. The first shows the April 14–15, 1966 trip of President Lyndon Johnson to Mexico City to meet with President Gustavo Díaz Ordaz and dedicate a statue of Abraham Lincoln. The second story recounts events of April 12, 1966,  when the ocean liner Michelangelo was hit by an unusually large wave during a storm in the mid-Atlantic, which caused the forward part of her superstructure to collapse, killing three people and injuring fifty. (When repairs were carried out after the accident, the aluminum plating in the superstructure was replaced by steel plates.) The final story, “Opera Era Ends,”  shows the final performance by the Metropolitan Opera company at the original Metropolitan Opera House on Broadway and 39th Street in New York City. Following the company's departure, the Bolshoi Ballet gave the actual final performance at the venue on May 8, 1966. The building was subsequently demolished in January 1967.
  
  
  0:08 - President Lyndon Johnson visits Mexico City, escorted by secret service security and police, while people press close to the curb to see the guests.
  
  0:24 - The scene shifts to night, showing illuminated historic buildings and a huge crowd 0:57 - A daytime ceremony begins with President Gustavo Díaz Ordaz for the statue of Abraham Lincoln 
  
  1:12 - The statue is revealed, showing a standing male figure on a pedestal; the event appears to be a formal monument dedication.
  
  1:16 - Officials gather at the base of the monument as photographers and spectators look on.
  
  1:32 “SEA KILLS THREE — Huge Wave Damages Liner In Atlantic.” 
  
  
  
  1:45 - The SS Michelangelo's damaged superstructure is shown 1:52 - People inspect damaged sections of the ship while standing near jagged openings and bent metal.
  
   
  
  2:06 - Damaged rooms or corridors, where furniture, railings, and wall sections appear broken or displaced.
  
  2:12 - A cabin or lounge area is shown with bedding or cushions pushed aside and structural damage nearby.
  
  2:20 - The most severe damage is shown in close-up: heavy metal supports and ceiling sections are bent, collapsed, and torn open.
  
  2:28 - A broken window.
  
  2:35 - Emotional reuniting of passengers with loved ones after the damaged liner arrives in New York.
  
   2:55 - “OPERA ERA ENDS — Metropolitan To Give Way For Offices.” 
  
  3:02 - Evening footage shows the Metropolitan Opera House exterior lit up, with crowds gathered outside for a major final-era event.
  
  3:10 - Inside, formally dressed attendees arrive in evening wear; photographers and press cameras capture the crowd.
  
  3:18 - A grand staircase and lobby are packed with opera patrons in tuxedos, gowns, and evening coats.
  
  3:25 - Close-ups show well-dressed guests socializing, with men in tuxedos and women in formal dresses.
  
  3:34 - More patrons mingle in the lobby; the event has the feeling of a farewell gala or final performance.
  
  3:42 - The camera shows the opera house balconies filled with seated audience members under glowing theater lights.
  
  3:50 - Additional views of the ornate auditorium reveal multiple tiers of balconies, emphasizing the old Metropolitan Opera House’s grand interior.
  
  3:58 - Onstage, a large ensemble performs in costume, with a chorus arranged behind principal performers.
  
  4:06 - A wider stage view shows the full production under theatrical lighting, with singers grouped across the set.
  
  4:14 - A lone performer appears beside tall columns or set pieces, standing dramatically in a spotlight.
  
  4:22 - The production returns to the full ensemble, with the chorus and principal performers gathered for a large final stage tableau.
  
  4:30 - The reel ends with a “THE END — Universal Newsreel” title card.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit https://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
ou quando se dirigem ao palácio presidencial, são recebidos por multidões tão grandes que a polícia desistiu de tentar contá-las. Sua visita ao exterior desde que assumiu o cargo e a recepção calorosa que recebeu dissipam qualquer dúvida sobre a popularidade de seu país na América Latina.

A noite cai quando o desfile chega ao centro da cidade, mas a escuridão apenas realça o brilho deslumbrante das luzes.

[aplausos] A chuva de confetes expressa a euforia do povo.

Na manhã seguinte, acontece a verdadeira missão da visita, [música] a inauguração de uma estátua de Abraham Lincoln, um presente dos Estados Unidos para o povo do México . É uma réplica daquela que fica no Lincoln Park, em Chicago.

Após depositar a coroa de flores, o Sr. Johnson aproveitou a ocasião para instar as nações do Hemisfério Ocidental a renovarem seus esforços para alcançar o progresso econômico e outros objetivos. Ele propõe uma reunião de cúpula para discutir problemas comuns e dar mais impulso à Aliança para o Progresso.

[música] Castigado, mas finalmente a salvo em um dique seco em Nova York, está o transatlântico Michelangelo. Uma onda gigante a alcançou enquanto ela fugia de uma tempestade no Atlântico. Três pessoas morreram e 12 ficaram feridas.

Placas de aço pesadas, rasgadas como se fossem papel, são observadas por pessoas curiosas que foram atraídas para a beira do cais para vê-las mais de perto. Os botes salva-vidas foram despedaçados [música] pela grande onda. Uma abertura no navio, sob a ponte, permitiu que a água do mar [música] invadisse as escotilhas. Algumas das cabines estavam em ruínas, e duas pessoas perderam a vida aqui quando a grande onda [música] atingiu. [sino] [música]

[sino]

Enquanto os passageiros deixavam o navio, parentes e amigos emocionados os beijavam e abraçavam , agradecidos por seu sofrimento ter terminado. [música]

[música]

[música] O lar de grandes vozes e grandes diamantes em Manhattan está apresentando seu último show. Em meio à multidão que se aglomera nas ruas e às mulheres elegantemente vestidas que entram no saguão, é difícil imaginar que, em poucos dias, equipes de demolição chegarão e o Metropolitan Opera House deixará de existir . Construída há 82 anos, a catedral apresenta poucas alterações em suas cinco varandas semicirculares, ou níveis, desde a ferradura dourada até o círculo familiar. Nos bastidores estão muitos dos cantores famosos [música] que cantaram em óperas conhecidas.

Na sua última noite, o Met arrecadou um total de 292.000 dólares, grande parte proveniente de apresentações de frequentadores da plateia na área conhecida como "Golden Horseshoe".

No palco, 57 cantores de ópera são o centro das atenções. Eles recebem aplausos [musicais] excepcionais de outras estrelas e de uma plateia lotada e entusiasmada, com 100 pessoas em pé.

[música]

A grande altura [música] acima do palco é revelada por uma vista das vigas, as mesmas vigas que Caruso fez vibrar. A boa notícia é que a Metropolitan Opera Company já encontrou uma nova sede no Lincoln Center.