---
video_title: "\"BY-LINE NEWSREEL\"  1957 PEPSI COLA PROMOTIONAL NEWSREEL FOR BLACK AUDIENCES GG48575"
video_id: o2rwDhkyQFg
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o2rwDhkyQFg
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Created by Bill Alexander of Alexander Productions for Pepsi Cola and apparently aimed at a Black /  African American audience, this "By-Line Newsreel" presents feature stories from around 1957-1958 (indicated by the Baltimore Harbor Tunnel opening in 1957, and Ghana's first anniversary in 1958). It was likely shown in segregated movie theaters before the feature presentation. 
  
  0:00-0:44: The Baltimore Harbor Tunnel is highlighted as the second-largest port in the nation. This major engineering project, costing $130 million, features twin tubes and runs over one mile underwater.
  0:57-1:40: The Miss Empire State Beauty Contest takes place in New York. Eighty-two contestants are judged on beauty and personality by 25 judges. The winner, Miss Mary Watson, will appear at the International Film Festival in Nice, France. The annual contest is sponsored by the Grace Marco Modeling Agency and cosmetic firms.
  1:45-2:01: Miss Spirit of Cotton, Elizabeth Gibson of Nashville, arrives in Washington D.C. Selected from over 50 major Negro colleges, she will model a cotton wardrobe and visit government officials.
  2:08-2:57: Ghana, the world's newest nation (formerly the Gold Coast), celebrates its first anniversary. The Duchess of Kent lights the Arch of Independence. The Prime Minister, Dr. Nkrumah, and his cabinet—who were political prisoners seven years prior—wear their prison caps as a reminder of their fight for freedom. Accra is presented as a modern African city.
  2:59-3:47: The film shows Ghana's modern schools and junior high boys playing soccer. Dr. Nkrumah serves his first anniversary in the official courtyard. Cabinet members, some American-educated, helped bring about independence. Modern buildings, churches, and streets are seen in Accra, and the Christianberg Castle (built by the Dutch) is now the Prime Minister's home.
  3:54-4:32: A segment on modern entertaining suggests serving a buffet supper for a relaxed host and guests. It advises on serving light and appealing food, promoting Pepsi-Cola as a "light refreshment" that is "reduced in calories."
  4:41-5:16: At the midwinter graduation at Morgan State College in Baltimore, honorary degrees are conferred on two outstanding American citizens: internationally famous concert singer Miss Marian Anderson and baseball star Jackie Robinson. The degrees are presented by College President Dr. Martin Jenkins.
  5:21-5:50: A college football game takes place at Morgan State College Stadium, pitting the Morgan Bears against North Carolina State in the opening CIAA game. Enthusiastic rooters watch as the Bears rally to achieve a six-to-six tie.
  6:01-7:10: A large crowd gathers to see a carnival and the One-Mile Relay Championship of America. The event provides "mile a minute excitement." Ron Delaney of Villanova uses his Olympian speed to put his team in the lead, ultimately winning along with Jenkins against runners-up Texas and Morgan State (second place).
  
  
  Producer William Alexander created documentaries, newsreels, musicals and dramas aimed at Black audiences. The By-Line newsreel series (1953-56) was produced to be shown at Black owned movie theaters. To make the films, Alexander and a small crew criss-crossed the USA. Eventually, changing financial times led Alexander to move to England, where he produced a string of documentary films for ABC about seven newly independent African nations. His last effort was producing the feature film "The Klansman", which unfortunately did not succeed at the box office.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music] 25 years in the planning, this Baltimore Harbor tunnel is the second largest port in the nation. These attractive toll takers are part of the staff at the harbor tunnel. With the use of twin tubes to accommodate traffic moving in two directions, this tunnel was built underwater for over one mile at a cost of $130 million. [Music] This important engineering project adds to the prosperity of Baltimore's harbor. The Miss Empire State Beauty contest swings into high gear in downtown New York at a hotel with 25 judges picking the winner from 82 contestants who will appear at the International Film Festival in Nice, France. The

contestants are being judged for beauty and personality. The winner of the contest is Miss Mary Watson.

These contestants certainly look charming in their evening gowns. [Music] The Miss Empire State Beauty Contest held annually is sponsored by the Grace Marco Modeling Agency and major firms in the cosmetic field and attracts lovely contestants from all over New York. Arriving in the nation's capital from Nashville, Tennessee is Miss Spirit of Cotton. She was selected from over 50 major negro colleges and universities in the south. Lovely Elizabeth Gibson will model a wardrobe of fashions made of cotton and will include in her itinerary visits with various government officials.

Ghana, the world's newest nation, is now celebrating its first anniversary. Lighting the Arch of Independence by the Duchess of Kent symbolizes the emergence of this new nation.

And at midnight, the forceful and dramatic gathering of the people was most stirring. Here you see Dr. Necruma and members of his cabinet who seven years ago were political prisoners. They are wearing prison caps as a reminder of the fight they waged to earn freedom. This is a crawl, the capital of Ghana.

It is a modern city, an African city. Geography books haven't been able to keep pace with the fast-moving developments that resulted in Ghana becoming an independent, free, and sovereign state. You probably know this nation by its old name, the Gold Coast. Here are Ghana's modern schools, such as this day nery, for the little children of Ghana. Close by the junior high school boys play a traditional game of soccer.

And here you see Dr. Neuma serving his first anniversary as prime minister in the official courtyard. Chatting with Ghana's prime minister is Clarence Holt. Other members of the prime minister's cabinet are American educated and taught the ideals of freedom that help them to assist the prime minister to bring about independence for the people of Ghana. In the capital city of Acra, one sees modern evidences of new buildings, churches, and streets.

The Christianberg Castle, built by the Dutch in the 1800s, is now the home of the prime minister. This modern high school plays the important part in the everyday life in Ghana. [Music] When you're having company, serve a modern buffet supper. It's the smart, easy way to entertain. makes for a relaxed hostess. And a relaxed hostess

makes for relaxed guests. All you have to do is see to it that the food is light and uh Mhm. appealing. Like most modern people, your friends will go for the buffet supper because judging from their slim, trim figures, they probably follow the sensible trend toward lighter, less filling food and drink. And today's Pepsicola reduced in calories fits right in. Never heavy or

too sweet, it refreshes without filling. Have a Pepsi, the light refreshment.

Among those receiving honorary degrees at the midwinter graduation at Morgan State College in Baltimore are the internationally famous concert singer, Miss Marian Anderson. [Music]

and Jackie Robinson of baseball fame. [Music] Conferring degrees on these two outstanding American citizens is the president of the college, Dr. Martin Jenkins.

It's a cloudy, cool day here at Morgan State College Stadium as the Morgan Bears clash with North Carolina State in the opening CIAA game. Both teams are out to take all the marbles and the competition is keen. [Music] [Applause] In the stands, enthusiastic rooters shout for the boys to bring home the bacon. The Bears in white rallied to gain a six to6 tie with the North Carolinians. [Music]

This crowd of over 25,000 people has come to see a carnival. And what a carnival they're going to see. Onemile relay championship of America. This mileer has always been used as the final because it has always provide the crowd with mile a minute excitement. [Music] Here's

Ron Delaney of Villanova using his Olympian speed to put his team in the lead. After a fine run, Charlesstead of Villanova lies exhausted. [Applause] Illinois's great foret of Ky Morris dead. Delaney and Jenkins once again proves too much for the field and runners up Texas and Morgan State. Second place Morgan State gives its attention to its anchor man.

[Music]