---
video_title: "1930s HOME MOVIES  TRIP TO BONES BROTHERS RANCH, BIRNEY MONTANA BY EASTERN GREENHORNS  CS10075"
video_id: v-od7UBsdiQ
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v-od7UBsdiQ
video_date: 2026-05-09T19:29:51+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This well-produced silent, amateur 16mm home movie shows part of a Montana dude ranch trip made in the 1930s. It starts with images of what we believe to be the Allan Ranch near Augusta, which was run by Ralph Allan, a licensed guide and packer who advertised that he could "pack you into good game country." It also shows the Bones Brothers Ranch in Birney, Montana, also known as  the Z.T. Cox Ranch. The footage includes fairly standard imagery in terms of showing the experience that a "greenhorn" tourist might have visiting Montana in this era -- going riding, meeting Native Americans, and getting a taste of cowboy culture. Some visual highlights include:
  
  0:00 Rodeo probably at the Allan Ranch, with cowboys trying to rope steers
  1:02 Native American women watch the rodeo
  1:44 Bucking bronco competition 
  3:29 Bones Brothers Ranch title card
  3:37 Black Pullman porter greets tourists boarding a train. The station is not known. Riding on the train, and arriving in Montana to be picked up by what might be a Hudson Motor Car. from Bones Brothers Ranch 
  4:33 images of the ranch buildings, and skull of a bull at the Bones Bros. ranch
  4:42 Cowboys at the ranch working on tack
  5:15 rounding up horses at the ranch
  6:30 tourists groom horses prior to riding
  7:30 tourists saddle up and prepare to ride
  10:11 Native American man and his wife pose for the camera
  12:48 family poses in front of a car, showing off the results of fishing -- some small prizes.
  15:02 The church in Birney, Montana, and shots of horses arrayed in front of a mercantile store, also likely in Birney, Montana
  
  According to the Internet, Birney, Montana boasted a two-room school, a church, a store, a ranch supply store which also housed the post office, a saloon, and the Corral dance hall which served as a community center where Saturday night dances were held.  
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you