---
video_title: "CZECH PRESIDENT NOVOTNY VISITS NORTH VIETNAM & BURMA / MYANMAR  1963  GG47715f"
video_id: 7vDKgEOmwcQ
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vDKgEOmwcQ
video_date: 2026-06-20T16:24:50+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: https://PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This fascinating 8mm home movie shows images from a diplomatic visit to Asia by Czechoslovakian President Antonin Novotny. At the time his official designation was the First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Czechoslovak Communist Party. It's not exactly clear what year these images were captured, but we believe it is almost certainly 1963 as he is known to have visited Cambodia and North Vietnam in January of that year. Apparently in North Vietnam he met with Hồ Chí Minh. (Note: we do not know who shot the film, but whoever they were was probably in the entourage of the President, and might have been a Western journalist as the film originated from an American collection.) 
  
  This film begins in Hanoi, North Vietnam, with a visit to the Temple of Literature, originally built in 1070 under Emperor Ly Thanh Tong. At :28, President Novotny's  Ilyushin Il-18 turboprop aircraft is seen at the airport. At :39, probably shot in Burma, a sculptor creates a buddha figure, followed by shots from a moving vehicle. At 1:13, images of the Shwedagon Pagoda in Yangon, Myanmar (at that time known as Burma), followed at 1:25 by shots of the guardian lion statues. At 1:34, another shot at an airport, crowds wave Burma flags followed by shots of a temple at Mingun, Myanmar. At 2:13, Novotny and his entourage proceed barefoot, out of respect for local religious tradition. At 2:35, soldiers in ceremonial dress, possibly part of President of Myanmar U Ne Win's bodyguard. Novotny is seen at the temple, accompanied by a figure that is probably President U Ne Win and some monks. 
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit https://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
you you you you you you you you