---
video_title: "\"THE GOLDEN TRIANGLE\" 1970s TAMPA, FT. LAUDERDALE & MIAMI, FLORIDA  NORTHWEST AIRLINES PROMO GG47435"
video_id: dCY9mAs0__0
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dCY9mAs0__0
video_date: 2026-08-11T16:29:47+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Want to learn more about Periscope Film and get access to exclusive swag? Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  
  This 1970s promotional film by Riehle, Inc./Communication Arts for Northwest Airlines presents Florida’s “Golden Triangle”—encompassing Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Tampa, and St. Petersburg—as a premier destination for sunshine, recreation, and opportunity. It emphasizes Florida’s appeal as a winter escape, highlighting activities like golfing, fishing, beachgoing, and boating. The film promotes Northwest Airlines as the best way to reach this region, offering luxury services such as gourmet meals, champagne, beach kits, and a high standard of service in both first class and coach. Featuring modern aircraft and 16 daily flights from major Midwestern cities, Northwest positions itself as both reliable and indulgent. The video also speaks directly to travel agents, encouraging them to sell Northwest as part of a “Golden Triangle” trio—Florida, the airline, and the agent—supported by advertising and high commission potential. Ultimately, it frames the airline as the ideal gateway to Florida’s fun, sun, and warmth.
  
  
  
  
  
  At 0:00–1:00, the video opens with music and a scenic introduction to Florida, described as a “golden land” of opportunity, fun, and sunshine. This area is referred to as the Golden Triangle, a region that stretches across southern Florida and is marketed as a dream destination for relaxation and enjoyment.
  
  
  00:00 highlights Florida’s appeal as a year-round sunny escape for Americans fleeing winter. The key cities within the Golden Triangle—Tampa, St. Petersburg, Fort Lauderdale, and Miami—are introduced as lively places full of recreational options, culture, and beautiful weather.
  
  During 2:01–3:00, specific activities available in the region are detailed. Visitors can golf in Miami Beach, fish off St. Petersburg’s million-dollar pier, boat through Fort Lauderdale’s canals, or relax on its beaches. The region is portrayed as a dynamic, all-season playground.
  
  At 3:01–4:00, a playful reference to Fidel Castro wanting to fly Northwest introduces the airline’s emphasis on staying within its core Golden Triangle route. The focus shifts to promoting Northwest Airlines' frequent service, fine dining, and premium experience to Florida.
  
  From 4:01–5:00, the airline promotes its “regal imperial service”, offering gourmet meals, hot towels, and champagne served on fine china with silver carts. Even coach passengers enjoy high-quality meals and complimentary wine, highlighting a standard of service rare among competitors.
  
  Between 5:01–6:00, Northwest’s added touches—such as beach kits for female passengers—are mentioned. The airline markets itself as the refined and international way to reach Florida, flying on state-of-the-art jets like the Stretch 727s and 707-320Bs, some originating as far away as Hong Kong or Tokyo.
  
  From 6:01–7:00, the airline emphasizes its 16 daily flights from Midwest cities like Chicago, Minneapolis/St. Paul, and Milwaukee. This high frequency and large seat availability create a strong opportunity for travel agents to earn volume-based commissions.
  
  At 7:01–8:00, the narrator explains the three-part “Golden Triangle” concept: the land (Florida), the airline (Northwest), and the agent (you). Agents are encouraged to book with Northwest and take part in this mutually beneficial business model.
  
  From 8:01–9:00, Northwest affirms its commitment to supporting travel agents with marketing materials, radio ads, and promotions. The airline emphasizes its strong presence in the Florida market and positions agents as essential partners in driving business.
  
  Finally, at 9:01–9:15, the video closes by reinforcing the idea that Northwest Airlines is the best way to access the sun, sea, and fun of the Golden Triangle, delivering quality service with fanjets, fine food, and frequent flights.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music]

[Music]

There's a golden land to the salt. You see, a golden land of opportunity. A land where people go to have some fun and to revel in the southern [Music] sun. They call it the golden triangle. They call it the golden triangle. They

call it the golden triangle. It crosses the land from sea to sea, from

Miami. The golden triangle, a golden triangle of land. [Music] There is a golden land down there in Florida. There's opportunity written in the sand, reflected in the splashing warm surf and echoed in the sounds of its turned on light. It's the land that beckons Americans by the hundreds of thousands to take off from their winter worries and soar on down to where the sun stays warm and awake all year long in the golden triangle of Tampa, St.

Petersburg, Fort Lauderdale, and Miami. This is fun territory here in Florida. Plenty of places to go, things to do, and the smiling kind of winter climate that makes the doing possible.

No matter where you go, whether you're driving a ball on one of Miami Beach's fabled golf courses or having a ball driving out to Kiscane, whether you're making a beline toward Tampa across the spectacular Sunshine Skyway or casting a sea line in for one of the big ones from St. Petersburg's Million-Dollar Recreational Pier. Whether you're gliding along the Venetian-like canals of Fort Lauderdale or just covering up some Lauderdale sand on the beach, no matter where you go, the time and the place are right because this is Golden Triangle territory. Fidel Castle says, "I want the best. So please hijack a fan jet from northwest. I want to see their

plane and taste their food and I like their service. It's also good. We don't want Fidel to f. But a banner is not our regular route. We stick to the golden triangle. We stick to the golden

triangle. We stick to the golden triangle. But if you're going south, ask his excellency. We've got fun jets, fine foods and frequency. We've got fun foods and [Music]

frequency. Yes, this beach scene may be a flight of fancy, but it's no fancier than the fine foods you get on a Northwest Jet. Now remember, you're flying on an international airline that knows how to cater to a gourmet taste. It isn't every airline that offers a hot oshi borate to tidy up one's beer before dinner. And what a dinner service fit for an emperor. Which is why we call it

regal imperial service. It's reflected not only in the preparation of its cosmopolitan menu, but also in the gracious manner of its presentation, in the little touches of savoir fair and [Applause] expertise, in the bright convenience of a silver cart that glides right up to your seaside in the elegance of fine china and the good taste of champagne. Pine champion. Yes, of course. These are the hallmarks of first class service. And

the coach passengers must get along as best they can with luscious shrimp cocktail, tenderloin steak with sauteed mushrooms, tender broccoli, stuffed baked potato, a salad of fresh greens and artichokes, and all the rest. It's a meal worth toasting. And the coach passengers can do it with complimentary wine. It may be a rarity among other airlines, but it's SOP on Northwest, and so are the beach kits. Every gal on the plane gets one to put her in the swim of things even before her plane touches down. Yes, it's a grand international

way to go to Florida because the sky's is the limit when you fly northwest. When you fly Northwest, you fly fanjet all the way from stretch 727s to intercontinental 707 320bs whose flights may have originated in Hong Kong or Tokyo. On planes like these, folks can wing down south in a hurry. And they go when they want to go because Northwest jets leave the Midwest from Chicago, Minneapolis, St. Paul, and Milwaukee some 16 times a day. And there are just

as many flights back from the Golden Triangle, too. That's a lot of seats, almost 1,900 of them. Now, this combination of Northwest's expanded frequency and expanded seat availability represent a golden profit opportunity for you. The opportunity for high volume commissions on both airfares and land arrangements because Northwest can seat just about everybody you can find to put on board. Fanjets, fine food and frequency. That's

the happy song you can sing about Northwest to your Florida happy customer. The happy customer is necessary. You can make him so with the golden three. Number one is the land and the airlines too. And the third golden part of course is you. We call it the

golden triangle. We call it the golden triangle. We call it the golden triangle. When you're going south, you should book the best. The sky is the limit when you fly

northwest. This is one triangle we hope remains eternal. Florida, Northwest, and you. We know how much you've helped our Florida business over the past few years, and our aim is to return the favor every way we can by putting Florida ads in the hands of all the potential customers possible by using radio and by utilizing every means possible to spread the word about the Golden Triangle of Florida, Northwest, and of course, you. The Golden Triangle. We serve it from

the Midwest like no other airline. Tampa, St. Petersburg, Fort Lauderdale, Miami. We serve it with fan jets, fine food, and frequency. 16 flights daily from Chicago, Minneapolis, St. Paul, and

Milwaukee. [Music] Northwest goes south to the sand and the sea and fun.

Yes, this is where it is here with Northwest in the Golden Triangle. [Music]