---
video_title: "\"THE SPIRIT OF DETROIT REGATTA\" 1981 HYDROPLANE RACES   DEAN CHENOWETH  BETTY COOK   RJ10205"
video_id: DINY2HcIvDA
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DINY2HcIvDA
video_date: 2026-08-22
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  
  Produced and directed by Rodney Jacobs of Freewheelin' Films (https://freewheelinfilms.net/), this  film "The Spirit of Detroit Regatta" covers the high-adrenaline world of powerboat racing, focusing on the 1981 Spirit of Detroit Regatta. It introduces colorful personalities including Bernie Little, a team owner in both racing formats, and his star drivers—Dean Chenoweth in Miss Budweiser and Betty Cook in Michelob Light. The film contrasts the speed and engineering of hydroplanes with the grueling endurance of offshore boats. Detroit's long-standing boat racing tradition is also highlighted. In the hydroplane finals, Chenoweth dominates, while in offshore racing, Betty Cook secures a dramatic victory—further proving her place as a groundbreaking figure in a male-dominated sport. The event underscores the mix of speed, strategy, and stamina that defines elite powerboat racing.
  
  
  
  0:00 – Offshore racers battle extreme open seas in high-speed, dangerous conditions, driven by a mix of adrenaline, engineering, and determination.
  
  0:39 – Hydroplane boats, powered by aircraft engines, skim the water at nearly 200 mph, piloted by a few daring racers who risk catastrophic crashes.
  
  1:09 – The Spirit of Detroit Regatta begins, combining offshore and hydroplane racing in Lake St. Clair,.
  
  1:31 – Detroit’s deep-rooted boat racing culture spans 65 years, with old racing boats showcased like museum artifacts.
  
  1:57 – Bernie Little arrives with two boats, aiming for dominance in both offshore and hydroplane racing.
  
  2:25 – With Betty Cook (Michelob Light) and Dean Chenoweth (Miss Budweiser) winning their events, Bernie Little edges closer to a historic sweep.
  
  3:00 – Miss Budweiser is engineered for left turns using powerful aircraft engines, giving it an edge on hydroplane courses.
  
  3:46 – Gar Wood, boat racing legend and PT boat innovator, is remembered as a pioneer.
  
  4:41 – Today’s Thunderboats use WWII aircraft engines and fly across the water, relying on design, not horsepower, for speed.
  
  5:18 – Jet turbine-powered hydroplanes enter the scene; one experiment ends in flight when a boat unintentionally takes off.
  
  5:52 – Driver John Walters recalls the terrifying solo flight.
  
  6:20 – In the first heat, Miss Budweiser dominates as Dean Chenoweth uses smart strategy and aggressive inside positioning.
  
  7:16 – Chenoweth reflects on reading water conditions; credits mentor Wild Bill Cantrell for his race tactics.
  
  8:08 – Atlas Van Lines’ Bill Muncey wins his heat but criticizes worsening water conditions; weather becomes a concern.
  
  9:00 – Final heat preparations begin; teams like Miss Budweiser swap engines quickly, aided by stockpiled vintage parts.
  
  10:01 – Chenoweth’s physical conditioning is highlighted.
  
  10:20 – The final race begins; Chenoweth leads and Muncey tries to pressure, but is disqualified.
  
  11:52 – Miss Budweiser wins the hydroplane championship; Bernie Little aims for offshore victory with Michelob Light next.
  
  12:18 – Offshore race begins; Detroiters watch as the boats launch into a grueling 178-mile open water course.
  
  13:06 – Offshore racing is physically punishing—drivers endure 15 G's and constant battering at high speeds.
  
  14:06 – Teams consist of a driver, throttleman, and navigator; precision and coordination are vital in rough conditions.
  
  15:09 – The offshore race starts; catamarans take the lead while traditional V-hulls try to keep pace.
  
  16:04 – Only six of 12 boats return from the first lake leg; navigation and survival play a bigger role than speed.
  
  16:40 – Betty Cook, a 58-year-old grandmother and former cabin cruiser passenger, emerges as a serious contender.
  
  17:52 – Cook overcame early doubt by winning the national championship in 1977.
  
  18:22 – As conditions worsen, Betty’s navigation proves superior; her team sticks to course while others drift off.
  
  19:25 – A key rival misses a checkpoint due to a broken stopwatch.
  
  20:09 – Wolverine boat finishes first but is disqualified for missing a mark; Betty Cook completes the race.
  
  20:59 – Cook’s team describes how they stayed on course as others went miles off.
  
  21:26 – Betty Cook’s victory gives her a commanding lead in the season standings and Bernie Little a double win in Detroit.
  
  If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music] Only offshore racers battling open seas for 200 m a race know what it's like to be mugged at sea. They are a mixed bag of millionaires stock car racers and engineers all competing with the same gritty determination and camaraderie of an RAF squadron defending Britain. Their boats are the ultimate toys of big kids, and their boating fraternity is open to anyone with the money, machines, and madness to survive the unforgiving pace. Hydroplanes are quite another breed of boat and are really only boats in name only. Powered by aircraft engines and built with space age materials and designs, they make like airplanes in their dicey game of touch and go with the water. Only a handful of men dare

pilot these awesome craft at speeds approaching 200 m an hour. And only they know what a lousy airplane they can be should a wave cause them to break their earthly bombs. And only the people of Detroit know what it's like when the offshore racers and the thunderboats come to their town for the spirit of Detroit regata. And for the old salts who claim there is nothing like the open ocean to test an offshore racers metal. Lake St. Clair near Detroit has a few

surprises in store for me. Think of Detroit and you think of automobiles, not boats. But don't tell that to any self-respecting Detroiter whose fondest summer memories are likely to stem from some kind of race on the Detroit River. In Mottown, they revere their boat racing tradition of 65 years and mount their old racing boats under glass like prize trophies in museums dedicated to the sport. But in one week in the summer of 81, Bernie Little, a beer wholesaler from Florida, arrived in Detroit with two very fast boats in a bold bid for a future spot in Detroit's boat racing museum. As the only man ever

to mount successful offshore and hydroplane campaigns simultaneously, Bernie Little is trying to accomplish in boat racing what the Pittsburgh Steelers did in football and what the Hunt brothers tried to do in silver. With Betty Cook and Michelob Light and Dean Chennowith and Miss Budweiser collecting silver victory trophies in their respective events, Bernie Little might corner the silver market as well with Michelob light ruling the open seas at speeds up to 90 m an hour in sport's greatest mix of speed, stamina, and strategy. As for taking the inevitable beating, Rocky Marciano once tried offshore racing and said he'd rather fight Joe Lewis and Jersey Joe Walcott at the same time. In the corners, the idea is raw power and moving left. That's why Bernie Little scavenged the country for some of the most powerful aircraft engines ever made and mounted them in Miss Budweiser slightly to the left in a radical design that allows her to accelerate in the turns on the Detroit River and all the other hydroplane courses. Bernie Little's

left-handed Miss Budweiser can go straight ahead and to the left faster than any other boat and as consistently as Eric Heighten on ice. Bernie Little has become another one of the bigger than-l life characters to color the history of boat racing. >> We're going to make an attempt in a few minutes to uh break the world record. >> The pioneer in this racing tradition was Gar Wood. He was to boats what Howard Hughes was to airplanes. He was the

first man to build and race a boat past the speed barrier of 100 mph. In the 20s and 30s, he defeated the British so many times for the prestigious Hworth Trophy, they thought he was John Paul Jones reincarnated. In reality, he was the inventor of the hydraulic lift and the father of the dump truck. He parlayed a 50 cent piece of pipe and a bottle of glycerin into a $50 million fortune. But Gar Wood's all-consuming passion was boats. He

personally introduced Franklin Delanor Roosevelt to his idea of building a fast and highly maneuverable warship for the Navy, which later evolved into the PT boat of World War II. When this year's fleet of Thunderboats arrived in Detroit, their only resemblance to Garwood's racing boats were round steering wheels. Instead of four automobile engines, most of these boats are powered by World War II Rolls-Royce aircraft engines. Oddly enough, they don't have as much horsepower as Gar Woods boats of the 30s, but they don't need it. These boats are designed to fly across the top of the water, not push through it like their predecessors. In a race and in

flight, only the space of a man's handkerchief touches the water at any one time. Your ears will tell you that this is not the sound of any surplus engine out of some ancient Spitfire. It is a jet turbine engine used in today's Chinook jet helicopters. It is a new breed of hydroplane and a bold experiment which unexpectedly went arry last year when it literally took off and gave driver John Walters the dubious honor of a solo flight in a hydroplane. [Music] John Walder survived the flight, but is not anxious to repeat the short trip again.

>> Now that it's over, uh you know, you have to uh be aware of of things like that that that can happen. You try to just block it out and get back in the boat uh you know, with a fresh attitude and and get back in as if it's a brand new boat and and you really don't know what's going to happen. So, uh, you know, we just basically started all over again and and kind of put that behind us. >> In the first heat on the Detroit River, it was the boat of the future, Pay Impact, battling the state-of-the-art Miss Budweiser, driven by Dean Chennowith. As they jockey for position in the final turn before the time start, they look like a pack of anxious alleycats.

Out of the wall of white water in Geyser's Old Faithful, Dean Chennowith demonstrates how he won three national championships by doggedly taking the inside lane and hitting the start at full throttle. The strategy leaves PayPac dead in the water, her hot turban engine cooled by the rooster tail of some hotter driving. The rest of the race for Dean Chennowith and Miss Budweiser was uncontested and merely a warm up as Chennowith pushed his red and gold beer wagon around the liquid oval at an average speed of 117 mph. >> You have to be on your toes and you have to know where your different water conditions change like here in Detroit. So each lap a driver has to be very sensitive of where the bad water is and where to look for it at. Chennowith

learned some of his racing tricks from this wy kuckian and thunderboat legend, Wild Bill Cantrell. Wild Bill raced until the tender age of 61 and won every race in the circuit at least once with his white knuckle driving and reckless flying starts like the one that swamped the field in ' 63. >> Well, they're both I say they're about running around 70 80 mph. They' gotten in there early. They had started good, but they got in there early and saw they were going to jump the gun and so they had to back off. And of course, I just

kept on going, I had it made. And of course, when I hit the line, why there's a lot of water flying and that was just too bad. >> Taking the start wide and in the outside lane is the trademark of Bill Muny in Atlas Vanlines, the driver with the most victories in the history of the sport. In his Atlas Vanlines hydroplane, he won the first heat convincingly, but gave a thumbs down to the deteriorating water conditions on the course. A stiff breeze out of the south has raised a noticeable chop on the Detroit River, slowing the boats and causing some of the drivers like Muny to suggest a delay in the race.

The win continues, but so does the racing until the field is paired down to the five finalists and the run for the money. >> I think the psychological warfare goes on just watching each other run and practice and qualifying and and wondering what the other man's going to do race day. So, I feel that I have to make two or three plans. I not only have to make one plan for the normal routine of Bill Muny, but I have to make two other plans on what Bill Muny might do if he drops from his norm. Minutes before the final heat, the Miss Budweiser crew decides it would be faster to change an engine than to adjust the valves on the one they started with. They've made the switch in

less than 18 minutes before, and they travel with a compliment of eight spare Rolls-Royce Griffin engines. They don't make these vintage airplane engines anymore. And some of the other teams jealously accuse Bernie Little of collecting all that still exist and having more than the Royal Air Force. When it comes to drivers, there are no spares. Veteran Bill Muny has learned over the years how to pace himself and his boats for the final heat. Dean

Chennowith takes a more physical approach to the sport. He trains with the Florida State football team, runs daily, and is a respectable marathoner for his age group. His physical conditioning has kept him racing after two serious accidents that would have prompted others to take up croquet. >> Different strategy in the final heat. >> Try to get out in front and improve my position. I think that would be a good

idea. >> Well, this is it. All elimination heat action is finished. This is for all the marbles as the field is set for the start of the championship heat. And over a half a million fans lining the banks of the Detroit River are set for the expected Budweiser at the Stan Lines robbery. Shadowan takes the Budweiser in

close in lane number one. Muny steers the Atlas wide in his patented start. Muny hopes to be in turn number one first be able to take a big advantage but it's not to be. Dean Senith gets the Budweiser there first and he's on his way to the bank in lap number one. Bill nuts must now hold on and keep pressing, hoping he can force the Budweiser to break. That's not likely to

happen as true chief Dave Cully and his team have built engines that have established and broken speed records on every race course in the country with strong performance. As they come off of corner number four, it's a 3second lead for Shenith in the Budweiser and 300 a second. Muny behind by over 900 ft. And knowing this, Ilman must take a chance. He must cut the buoys as close as possible. And as he comes in corner

number three, he's too close. Runs directly over a boy, destroying it by the rules. M and the Atlas lines are disqualified. [Music] With no more competition, Dean Sher with a big lead. Bill Muny black flagged by the referee Lee Shenf in the infield. He

comes off of pony number four and extends his unbeaten straight to six straight heats for Bernie Little and the Budweiser racing team. For one victory per stop on the circuit hasn't been enough for a two-fisted and twoboat campaigner like Bernie Little. Michelob Light arrived in Detroit leading the team standings. But in the unpredictable world of offshore racing, a single wave, a minor malfunction, or even the slightest navigational error can dash an entire campaign. When the offshore racers launch the Spirit of Detroit regata at high noon on a Wednesday, Detroit stops work just to watch. It's all part of a racing

tradition in Detroit that began a half century ago. The length and design of an offshore racer is every bit as long and efficient as that of a racing sailboat. But they don't christen sailboats with forboding names like sheer terror, smoking, and speedy rebel. Nor do they construct their hulls to survive 15 G's of punishment. A good wave can spring these boats 20 ft in the air in 100 ft bounds. A bad wave can spin them

uncontrollably into what the drivers casually dismiss as 180 degree course corrections. >> We've recorded up to 15 G's in these boats uh when we've had them instrumented um during a race. That might be similar to jumping off your roof several times uh a minute. >> Carbo racing, as you mentioned before, is a little bit like driving a race car and playing football at the same time. You're really getting knocked around, but you have to do some precision driving at the same time.

>> What they say, it's like uh taking a shower uh cold shower with no clothes on, getting beat up with a baseball bat, ripping up $100 bills at the same time. >> At 6'1, 240 lb, and a veteran of both football and the Daytona 500, Bill Ellswick doesn't take the sport lightly. He takes it with kidney belts, flack jackets, earplugs, helmets, and mouthpieces. Like the others, he races standing up for the simple anatomical reason that his legs can take more of a beating than his back. The offshore racing team of three people is something unique in motorsports. In

the case of Michelob Light, Betty Cook is the driver, but in the middle and right next to her in the race is John Connor, her crew chief and throttleman. You're on and off the throttles constantly. Uh if the props come out of the water, you have to keep the engines from over revving. Uh would be like dumping the clutch in a car if it came back in at 6,000 RPM. >> Keeping the entire effort on course and locating garbage cans size marks in open seas is Bill Vogel's job, the navigator.

One of the difficulties in navigating is not only finding your way across the ocean by means of your compass and your stopwatches and speedometers, but then once you get near your destination, picking out of the haze or maybe out of a fleet of fishing boats what the right check boat is to go to. Calm conditions on race day favor the catamaran design. The traditional Vhull boats privately hope just to keep it close and hope even more that the smoother running cats might get lost out on the lake. At the start, the marathoners of boat racing make like sprinters. Ahead, 178 miles in 2 hours of unadulterated punishment for both craft and cruise.

The course out the Detroit River to the open water of Lake St. Clair twice with two short river laps in between. True to their design and reputations, the speedier catamarants make like rabbits as they lead the pack out onto the lake for the first time. Michelob Light, Apache, and the other V's maintain a respectable distance in pursuit. The open water is where offshore racing becomes more of a sport than a race. And

this is when Lake St. Claire decides to serve up its version of the Bermuda Triangle, complete with gyrating compasses in disorientation. [Music] When over a 100,000 Detroititers on their lunch breaks first spot the returning fleet, the boats aren't nearly as close nor as many. Of the 12 starters, only six of the boats will return from the lake on schedule. The leader, Ted Tolman, an Englishman adamant about Britannia ruling the seas again, has the early lead over Betty Cook and Lee Bular in Wolverine, a local boat. All of this is strangely

reminiscent of another era of boat racing on the Detroit River between a Brit and a Yank, and a man and a woman. The year 1928. The man Gar Wood, the legendary great fox of American power boating. The British challenger, Miss Marian Barbara Karstairs, a woman famous for her wartime exploits as an ambulance driver on the battlefields of France. But as a racer on the Detroit River, she was the casualty. Her boat sank and with

it a quarter of a million dollars she had sunk into the project. 53 years later and only a half a minute behind the Englishman, Betty Cook driving Michelob Light is neither a sinker nor a swimmer. She's a winner. This amazing 58-year-old grandmother is the smallest, oldest, and only woman in unlimited offshore racing. Quite a contrast to her boating activities of only 2 years ago.

First boat was a 27 foot ChrisCraft. It was cabin cruiser, had a galley, had a head, had bunks. Uh, but I was never allowed to drive. >> But once Betty turned from boating to racing, most of her male competitors didn't take her seriously until she won her first race in 1977. She proved that was no fluke by going on to win the national championship despite breaking her ribs. She still wears the

commemorative gold victory necklace lest anyone forget her accomplishments at the expense of some of the good old boys pride. Two years ago when Betty Cook first raced in Detroit, she had to go through a narrow arch of the Bell Ale bridge to a breast with another boat at 80 mph. She won the race after two river laps. The two catamarans, the Tolman Group and Wolverine, still have an advantage over Betty Cook. And some of the stragglers begin to emerge from the Bermuda Triangle for the first time. A full lap

behind the leaders. The plot thickens a bit with the weather. Visibility is reduced for the final lake lap and a little more character is added to the water and the race. This is when state-of-the-art racing machines are at the mercy of basic navigation skills and a simple stopwatch, especially as they head for the most distant checkpoint out on the Canadian side of the lake. The leaders, including the local boat Wolverine, head east northeast, and the others follow, but Betty Cook continues eastsoutheast, straight on course. Navigator Bill Vogle

remembers the magnetic disturbance in the area that temporarily disables his compass. He keeps her on course by looking back at their wake and makes the appropriate course corrections. Not until they discover their stopwatch is jammed does the leader, the Tolman group, discover they have missed checkpoint number six. It costs them an extra 20 m to make up for their mistake. The confusion and excitement out on the lake spreads to the spectators in downtown Detroit. As a solo boat

approaches, the word spreads that it is Lee Bomar in Wolverine, the hometown favorite. Wolverine crosses the line first, the apparent victor, causing a stir amongst the crowd, but not with the official holding the checkered flag. A report from checkpoint number six indicates that Wolverine and several other boats have missed the mark and have been disqualified. Offshore racing is a sport that demands accuracy and durability as well as speed. Coming home alone and on one engine, Betty Cook and her crew chief John Connor nurse Michelob light up the river. They have made all their marks.

Bill Vogel will not see the finish. He is flat on his belly in the bow, giving ballast to their crippled craft in a race where survival is often more important than raw speed. When Betty Cook finally crosses the finish line, the officials aren't as reluctant with the checkered flag. Appropriately, it is Bill Vogel, the navigator, who proudly accepts the checkered flag for the crew in a race where only four of 12 starters will complete the entire course. going to be disqualified.

>> Well, what happened is when we came out of the Detroit River and headed across here towards the Tames, all the other boats except with the exception of a couple headed off way off to the left. They were heading out this direction and we were we were following our compass heading exactly and we figured they just ended up up in here because after we turned the boat, we were there with only two other boats. We started heading north. All the other boats showed up later on up by the wrong mark coming in from out in the lake. So they must have been a good I'd say that's a good five miles off the co.

>> Betty Cook's victory in Detroit puts her far ahead of the good old boys in the season's point standings and gives Bernie Little his second straight offshore victory in Detroit for Michelob Light.

[Music] [Applause]

Heat. Heat.

[Music]