---
video_title: "\"NARCOTICS FILE: THE SOURCE\" 1974 OPIUM, THE GOLDEN TRIANGLE & THAILAND DOCUMENTARY GG47405"
video_id: MNkSPrPgy1s
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MNkSPrPgy1s
video_date: 2026-08-12T16:29:50+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Produced by the United Nations, "Narcotics File: The Source" (1974) explores Thailand’s struggle with the illicit opium trade, focusing on the Golden Triangle region where Thailand, Laos, Burma, and China meet—responsible for over half the world’s illegal opium production. The film was directed by Pierre Desbonnet, edited by Annabel Compton, cinematography by Joseph Cabibbo, and narrated by Peter Thomas. It suggests that coordinated, efforts may eventually replace poppy fields with more sustainable livelihoods, offering hope to future generations. 
  
  00:00 
  Discussion of drug abuse and addiction. A seemingly innocuous setting—a bowling alley in Bangkok—is introduced as a symbol of how drug issues pervade everyday life around the world.
  
  1:20: 
  Bangkok is used as a case study to explore the global drug crisis. Exacerbated by Thailand’s proximity to the source of opium. Enforcement struggles to keep up with the scale of the issue, and the narrative introduces efforts by Thai authorities and the United Nations to intervene.
  
  2:13:The Golden Triangle, a remote region where Thailand, Laos, Burma, and China converge. This area is responsible for more than half of the world's illicit opium production, with around 1,000 tons produced annually. A significant amount finds its way into international markets.
  
  3:37:
  Among the hill tribes, opium use is widespread. Many begin using it for traditional medical reasons, but for most, it becomes a means of escape. Attempts to quit often involve visits to monks, healers, or missionaries.
  
  4:19:
  Thai government opened Tenurek Hospital in 1967. It is one of Southeast Asia’s leading drug treatment facilities. However, recovery is difficult. 
  
  5:30:Challenges of rehabilitation. Patients often relapse, and some visitors smuggle in drugs. The youngest patient is a 9-year-old boy.
  
  6:36:
  Thailand enforces strict anti-drug laws, with heroin use punishable by 2–10 years in prison. 
  
  7:32:
  The connection between opium production and the lives of rural hill tribes is explored. These communities grow opium out of economic necessity. Though self-sufficient in many ways, they rely on opium for cash. 9:52:
  Although not all tribes grow opium, some are exploited by others. Addicted laborers paid in opium rather than money, creating a cycle of dependency and de facto slavery.
  
  11:00:
  The Thai government, with support from the royal family, introduces agricultural projects to give hill tribes viable alternatives. These efforts aim to keep locals occupied year-round and steer them away from opium farming. 
  13:34: In 1970, Thailand sought United Nations assistance to further develop alternatives to opium. Projects include fish farming, improved livestock, and dietary diversification. These initiatives are intended to both improve health and provide alternative income sources.
  
  15:05:
  Cottage industries such as textile production are encouraged to generate additional income. Infrastructure like roads and permanent housing begins to appear in villages, showing signs of successful intervention. Transitioning from nomadic to stable lifestyles is seen as a crucial step.
  
  17:34:
  Case studies reveal how some villages are experimenting with new crops like potatoes and fruits to replace poppy fields. UN experts assist locals, providing education, seeds, and market insights. Road access is limited deliberately at first, to prevent exploitation by outsiders before villages can economically stabilize.
  
  21:16: Coordination between the Thai royal projects and the UN is emphasized. The importance of tailored, community-specific solutions.
  
  23:20:
  While only 30% of the hill tribespeople are opium users, the remainder of the harvest sustains international drug trafficking networks. Local law enforcement faces near-impossible odds.
  
  24:43: U.N. is investing $2 million in the first five years of this initiative, hoping that by eliminating one major source of opium, the global drug trade can be weakened. Hope for future generations.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
Heat. Heat.

[Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause]

[Music] You know I smoke a lot of grass. Oh Lord, I popped a lot of pills. [Music] But I've never touched nothing that my spirit could [Music] kill. You know, I've seen a lot of people walking around with tombstones in the This bowling alley happens to be in Bangkok, Thailand. But chances are extremely good that what you are watching is also happening right now in many of the other major cities of the world as well. For where there are

people these days, there is a market for illegal drugs and enforcement officers trying to cope with the problem. [Music] Pusher. Perhaps a million arrests are made each year around the world for unlawful possession, sale, or use of narcotics. What makes Bangkok unique and Thailand's drug problem difficult to solve is that the source of this morphine is right in their own backyard. The measures they and the UN are taking to dry up a major international drug source are the subject of this report.

In Thailand's fields just a few hundred miles from Bangkok, these particular pretty poppies blow and they produce opium from which you make morphine whose final most lethal end product is heroin. It's not just Thailand's problem either. Over half of the illicit opium grown on the entire globe comes from here or near here, an isolated corner of Southeast Asia where northern Thailand, Laos, Burma, and China share some common but largely uninhabited and unprolled boundaries. Drug traffickers and law enforcement officers use the same unofficial but wholly appropriate name for it, the Golden Triangle.

There are guesses that close to 1,000 tons of raw opium are produced in the Golden Triangle each year, but most remains in Asia. The rest, much too much, reaches markets in the West.

[Music] Part of it never leaves the area and is used by local people. Many of the hill people who live here smoke opium as a matter of course with little or no stigma attached. [Music] Some start on it for its traditional medical use as a painkiller. But most would rather dream away their lives than live them and use the pipe solely to escape that reality. Over the years, an attempt to kick the habit would usually involve a visit to a tribal healer, a Buddhist monk or Christian missionary, anyone they believed could cure their addiction. But now more and more have

heard of the new hospital near Bangkok. Tenure Rack opened in

1967. It is one of the most modern and well staffed drug hospitals in Southeast Asia. A sincere and genuine effort on the part of the Thai government to do something about the narcotics problem. [Music]

But so far the results are somewhat disappointing. The problem at tenure is an almost universal one in the world of drug treatment. The most respected majority medical and psychological opinion says that for treatment to be effective, it must be voluntary. The patients must be here because they want to be here. They themselves must desperately want to solve their drug problems.

[Music] And so they come voluntarily. But much more often than not, they leave after just a few weeks too soon to adapt easily to a drug-free life. And the result is that Tanurak sees quite a few revolving door customers. Repeaters coming back time and

again. Up forward.

[Music]

[Applause] There have been cases of visitors smuggling drugs in. So the nurses check all packages. [Music]

Addicts come in all ages, but the youngest one is a 9-year-old boy who became hooked because friends made him try funny tasting cigarettes. We asked the patient if he had been here before. Three times. Three times. What happened at the hospital? In

the first time, she stopped for two years and then it smoke again. Why? Because the one who smoke really hard to stop. I don't know what the reason because my body is need to smoke only all only times. It it depend upon the wind power would be stop or not. Well,

if I found one of my baby is smoking heroin, I will slap his face and kick him or sending him to the hospital or prison to recure them. I tried it long time ago in the party but just once in my life that's all and I really get a nice experience. I've heard it that uh the Thai Thai use takes drug. I know quite a few who, you know, take drugs, but uh maybe they just try for fun. I know a lot of them. But I

think that to live in the world today, we don't have to use any drug to help to help us to solve any problem in life. Under the laws of Thailand, non-medical use of a drug is an offense carrying a stiff penalty. Heroin users are liable to prison sentences of from 2 to 10 years. And by conservative estimate, there are over 200,000 addicts in Thailand. Some prisoners work, others are just plain bored by the monotony of it all. And many will revert to drugs

soon after the end of their sentences.

[Music]

[Music] There is a connection between those prisoners in Bangkok and these simple decent people living off the land. They don't look like an organized gang of international dope peddlers and they are not. But the land on which they live, the hills of northern Thailand are part of the Golden Triangle where the opium poppies grow. [Music] The half million hill tribe people are pretty much self-sufficient as far as food and clothing are concerned. They grow or make whatever they need, but they can't grow matches or canned goods, and they can't make transistor radios.

This requires cash at the village store, and opium is the only crop the hill people can sell for cash. And most of these hill people have never even heard of the 1959 law that makes opium growing [Applause] illegal. And the cash is not just for necessities or useful luxuries. A great deal of it goes to the local silver smith. Status is measured here by the amount of silver jewelry worn by the youngsters and marriageable daughters. A six roll

necklace costs 1,600 bots, 80 American dollars. 6 months income for a farming family is a very important part of a dowy. [Music] [Applause] [Music] The duties of the trib's women include fetching the supply of water each day at dawn. It is only in the last century that the hill tribes started to cultivate opium and even today not all of them grow it or smoke it. The Karins, for instance, generally do not grow any, but the Mayo, who always did, have devised an ingenious way to make their work lighter. The worst thing

that happens with is that these people become rather easily addicted to opium. And the opium growers higher up will often almost enslave Karen people by getting them addicted to opium and then having them go up and work in the opium fields, feeding them and paying them in opium, not in money. and they virtually become hopeless addicts and and sort of live a life of almost almost slavery working in the opium fields for the opium growers. And so this is probably the main problem, the fact that they provide a an unwitting labor force for opium production. But there are other major problems and chief among them is to provide a profitable alternative to opium production which despite the 1959 law goes right on. Aside from what is

consumed in the individual villages, the hill people never had much to do with processing or distribution. That's mostly the lucrative province of traffickers from the lands. But a sizable piece of the action is controlled by illegal armed bands who have lived in the area since 1949, refining the raw opium in secret laboratories and then running it across the borders in heavily armed caravans.

The first step in opium production is to slash and burn. After two or three crops, the thin unfertilized top soil is exhausted and the process begins all over again on virgin land. Just strike a match and watch everything, grass, brush, and trees go up in smoke. Thailand with its own population explosion simply could not afford to waste its countryside. And just as it had to put a stop to opium production, it had to put a stop to this wholesale deforestation with its consequent erosion and flash floods. The ties began in the 60s. They

attempted to reduce opium production by improving the lot of the hill tribes. The king himself contributes monies from the royal purse. This this piece of land is belong to the village we call demonstration plot and everybody uh they are the member of the of this village has each member has a certain part of the plot here and they work on it and they grow crops and they harvest and they earn from what they have done. See if we are convincing them that they have some work to do all the year round so they were not going to work with the male up in the hill. So that is the indirect way to help the people in stopping uh growing opium. See the the man who in the red uh

one they addicted uh he is addicted and uh he he still working you see but if he if we keep them busy I think we'll be uh we can help them in and later on if we can help them uh in if we can send them to the hospital uh so maybe they can be killed and then we'll be all right.

the the people here they are not growing opium but some are hired by the male up in the mountain nearby here they would like to keep the the labor for longer time and so when they are addicted they have to work for them otherwise they don't have enough money to buy

another problem comes when the rice crop fails instead of having to rely on cash from opium sales to buy food in emergencies. There is now a rice bank set up with money from the king. Now the hill people deposit surplus rice to draw upon the bank in lean

months. If they can live on the land all year, if they can earn enough, they will stay. I'm very sure on this point.

In 1970, the government of Thailand asked the United Nations help in finding even other ways for the hill people to make a living instead of growing opium.

Creating and stocking village fish ponds not only adds needed protein to a diet too heavy in starches, it also adds variety to the menu and sometimes a little money to the pockets.

[Music] [Laughter] [Applause]

[Laughter]

[Music]

Introducing better and hardier livestock also enriches the food supply and eventually makes possible a new dairy industry, new agricultural stations, complete with coffee and fruit tree nurseries from which tomorrow's orchards will grow. And when they grow and when the dairy industries and commercial fish farming become realities, ways to market the produce will have to be devised in a region where not even roads now exist.

The Hill people have always made their own clothing from their own handwoven material. One United Nations goal is to get them to make more than they need. Such cottage industries can also bring in cash to help eliminate the need to produce opium.

Progress is being made. New general stores and permanent housing are gradually appearing in some villages. They replace the usual flimsy and temporary thatch tuts. Proof that the government's effort is beginning to work. That people will give up their semi-nomadic existence when they are offered a better and more stable way of

life. This is a permanent village. Normally they they stay here and grow rice and in September they would go up the mountain that way and um cultivate opium poppy. But now some villagers have decided to forgo opium production and stay in the valley. In a few places poppy fields are bordered by fruit trees which may someday replace them and farmers have a chance to observe and learn from the Thai experts.

Fruits we take for granted cannot grow in the steamy lowlands. They fetch high prices in Bangkok and could make up for lost opium income. The United Nations has selected five isolated villages to start its own project. None has access roads to the rest of the world. They are Mayo and Lessaw villages and Mayo are the main opium growers. Richard man is the UN

expert in the field. We hope that it could be become a pilot village, a pilot project where uh we can put in uh useful work here that the people can uh see and get some benefit from in the crops that they would grown in the projects that are taking place here. But with this special fund from the United Nations, we hope to spread the resources around enough to benefit many villages.

In the village of Mato, Prince Bisadec shows potatoes to villagers who didn't even know such things existed and not only tells them how they grow, but how much they can get for them in the stores of a country which so far has had to rely on rice.

[Music]

potato is heavy but potato will give them more money than opium be very difficult I think to find a cash crop which you can get the returns that you can get with opium of course again we have to remember that this is all an experimental uh stage and it'll take time and a lot of experimentation demonstrations to come up with crops which would substitute for opium. Is there land available below here? They they they have been searching for several several places. That means you have to find at least 600 rye of irrigable land. Do you think we can get enough for terracing the sides of the valley? I don't know. I've got about 10

10 square kilometers. If we have a water source and if you work on it, but you can't do it one year, two years or three years, that's the problem. Oh, I think we could take it down to market. They have to take down by horse horse packs. This only about what uh 4 hours to the main road. But are you planning to build

roads uh leading to these villages? We will build some roads but not up to this village. I think we will about 2 miles short of the village.

We think that if we get the road up to here, the people from below will come and exploit them. Maybe they buy up the land and we want to get them strong economically first before we get the town people connected with the village. And roads do get built to connect the hamlets with towns. Not super highways by any means, but a decided improvement over old trails barely wide enough for one packor. Even before the roads can be planned, many studies must be made.

field surveys in countless villages to find out the special problems of each community and where each should fit in the projected scheme of things. I'm not uh I'm relatively confident that we can do something. How much I am not sure. This is a big project. It's never been done. We're working with many

diverse groups of people, tribal people with different languages, different cultural practices and so forth. And it's very difficult at this time to really say depending on the price of some of these fruits maybe they could work in nuts or something that you have a high. Dick man has one great advantage over other technical assistance experts. He has lived and worked in northern Thailand for some 10 years before being tapped by the UN for this job. He speaks the various hill tribes languages fluently.

Get down to business now. stop

beaming. He's saying that again that it would be very advantageous to the village. They could do many many things. Of course, if they had water coming right down this valley, but uh they want to make sure sometimes he even has to double up as interpreter between hill tribe villagers and ties from Bangkok. He just tested this man is very very good. He's he's

tried several trees. He says they're very good. He'd like to try more. They're very much interested in these things. If you can just show them the way.

I would say that the uh Kings project has been very successful for what they have done. They've done a good job and I think this is primarily because they are sincerely interested in helping the hill people. We hope that the United Nations project and the Kings project can work hand in hand being coordinated and actually cooperative effort. coordination and cooperation and a lot of hope that sometime in the future the pretty poppies will cease to grow in Thailand.

Opium may make for wonderful dreams, but in the stay awake world it is a hideous trap.

Now it's a stick. Like babies everywhere, he follows his mother. What will it be when he is 9 years old?

[Music] While only 30% of the Hill trib's people may be addicted to the opium they grow, the hundreds of tons they don't use themselves are what make the illegal traders rich. [Applause] The police set up roadblocks, but they might as well be looking for the proverbial needle in the hay stack. [Applause] There are so many roads, so many different ways. When this narcotics file was prepared, the bulk of the Golden Triangle's opium was consumed in Asia. But as Middle East production begins to dry up, the big dealers will seek new sources of supply. Thailand is doing

what it can to dry up her part of the Southeast Asian source. Our next file will trace the illegal routes of traffic, the connections which deliver the narcotics harvest into the world's markets, and the efforts to stamp out this traffic. Jail anywhere in the world is not a pretty place, nor is it intended to be. The hope of the United Nations project in Thailand, a $2 million investment for the first five years, and for the UN these days, that's a lot, is that by drawing up at least one source, there will be less drugs to push and fewer arrests to be made for their sale or use on the streets of Bangkok, Hong Kong, New York, Marseilles, or Munich. And it most certainly is worth a try.

[Music] [Applause] [Music] You know I smoke a lot of grass. Oh Lord down.

But I've never touched nothing. that my spirit could [Applause] [Music] kill. You know, I've seen a lot of people walking around with tombstones in their [Applause] eyes. But the don't [Music] care if you die. [Music]