---
video_title: "\"CHILD SAFETY\"  1950 DRIVER'S EDUCATION FILM   PEDESTRIAN & ROAD SAFETY  GG47495a"
video_id: Qoz-kAQro-Q
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qoz-kAQro-Q
video_date: 2026-08-30
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films! Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  One of a series of films produced in 1950 for Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Company by Traffic Safety Films, Inc. in cooperation with the Los Angeles Police Department, "Child Safety" emphasizes the shared responsibility of both drivers and pedestrians in preventing accidents and promoting safer streets, particularly for vulnerable groups like children and the elderly.
  
  00:00: The host, Sergeant Bruce of the LAPD reports.0:33: A discussion about responsibility for a child's safety, focusing on preventing accidents.0:56: A child, Willie, is involved in a near-accident. The importance of keeping children off the streets and drivers being cautious is emphasized.1:14: The narrative highlights that both the driver and the child have responsibilities, but drivers must be especially vigilant.1:27: The film stresses that drivers should be aware of where children are likely to be, such as school playgrounds and residential areas.2:19: The film advises drivers to slow down in areas where children are present and to watch for potential hazards.3:10: The film warns drivers to be cautious around schools and crosswalks, as children may act impulsively.3:30: The film discusses an accident where a child ran into the street, emphasizing that even when not legally responsible, drivers should exercise caution.3:53: The film highlights the consequences of drivers not being alert, with children being injured in accidents.4:08: The film reiterates that schools, playgrounds, and residential areas are dangerous and require extra caution from drivers.4:39: The film reminds drivers that children don't always think about safety, making it the driver's responsibility to protect them.5:27: Sergeant Bruce reports.5:54: The film introduces the concept of drivers also being pedestrians and the need for awareness in both roles.6:19: The film describes a driver who is also a pedestrian, highlighting the importance of following pedestrian rules.7:05: The film emphasizes that many traffic fatalities involve pedestrians.7:32: The film highlights the vulnerability of pedestrians compared to cars.8:11: Sergeant Bruce discusses the importance of driver awareness, especially concerning children.8:28: The film advises drivers to be extra cautious when children are playing near streets.8:49: The film notes that children and the elderly are particularly vulnerable pedestrians.9:21: The film discusses the dangers pedestrians face at night, including being blinded by headlights.9:41: The film concludes by urging both drivers and pedestrians to be alert and careful to improve road safety.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
Sergeant Bruce reporting.

Whose responsibility? Well, he's yours. I know that somebody else buys all the food Willie stows away and the shoes he scuffs through in a week, but it's partly your responsibility and mine to see that he stays alive and healthy.

Willie!

You all right, sonny? Willie, are you all right? I HURT MY ANKLE. OH. Why don't you keep your kid off the street? He almost ran into me.

Almost ran into you? Why, you ran into him. Why don't you watch where you're going? Drivers like you are a menace. A menace? What are you talking about? If

I hadn't stopped when I did They're both wrong and they're both right. Just now they're blowing off a little steam. It's a relief to discover Willie hasn't been seriously injured. Fortunately, the driver was careful and Willie, from his training, knows that he shouldn't run out into the street. But a child sometimes forgets when he's playing hard and then he's your responsibility.

This is one way of being responsible for our children. Keep them in safe surroundings, off the streets. The other way to protect them is in your hands, the driver. It's in knowing the danger signs. You know, when a prospector searches for gold, he looks for definite signs and traces.

It's the same with drivers. They have to watch for the signs. Now, the most likely place to find youngsters is around a school, playground, or vacant lot. School's out, and these youngsters are in a hurry to get somewhere. Like Willie, they're likely to forget the rules of safety.

So, that's where you come in. Watch for them. Drive slowly, and keep your eyes open. In a residential area, keep your speed way down, and watch for the real danger signs. Over on the left in the driveway is a wagon.

On the right is a toy automobile and a bicycle. With things like these around, you can be sure that some youngster won't be far away. Perhaps he might be just ahead of you in front of that parked car. He may be coming down a driveway on a scooter that he can't stop. Or like Willie, he may be going for a foul tip.

Slow down when you approach a school. Watch for children on bicycles coming out of the grounds. Keep an eye open for crosswalks where the kids have been taught to cross. But, don't forget that youngsters still get excited and dash into the street from between cars.

The driver in this accident may not be legally responsible. This child had been taught not to run into the street. For a moment, he forgot and ran out without looking. But, I don't believe this driver is going to sleep any better tonight when he realizes that a little more caution could have prevented this accident.

In half all over the country, there are children who could have been spared painful injury if the drivers had been aware of the danger signs that warned them to be on the alert for children. So, remember schools are always dangerous areas. They call for extra caution on your part as you approach them in a car. Watch carefully near vacant lots, public playgrounds, wherever children might play games. Be constantly alert in residential districts where children skate and ride wagons and bikes.

Don't expect an excited child to always remember the safety rules. It's your job. Never forget that a child doesn't always think for himself. So, it's your responsibility to think for him. It takes training and time to educate youngsters in the rules of safety.

So, remember while they're learning it's your responsibility to protect them.

Sergeant Bruce reporting.

There are two kinds of people in the world. Drivers and pedestrians. This is a driver who was a pedestrian. And this is how it happened.

Our driver was a good driver. He had the green light, but he was prepared for trouble, or there might have been one less pedestrian. He doesn't resent pedestrians, although there are times that they annoy him. He realizes that sometimes they can be as careless as drivers. When is a driver not a driver?

Question. Answer? When he's a pedestrian. Our driver just switched roles and became a pedestrian when he stepped out of his car. Now let's continue our story about this dual personality and see what happens.

And this is what happened to our driver who was a pedestrian. As you have seen, he was a good driver, but a bad pedestrian. As an alert driver, he knew all the rules a pedestrian should obey, but he disregarded them when he became a pedestrian. Two out of three persons killed in city traffic accidents last year were pedestrians. So let's look at this problem from a pedestrian's point of view.

In the first place, you haven't a fighting chance against a car. It's a bad match as far as weight is concerned. And don't forget that it's solid steel against flesh and bone. When one car crashes into another, it's a fair match. Usually both get smashed up.

But when it's automobile versus pedestrian, the pedestrian doesn't have a chance. Look at that car. Not a scratch. But the poor fellow in the ambulance who banged into it is headed for the hospital. This subject interests me not only because it's my job, but also because I've got a boy.

He's nine and he wants to play football. You know, a football and a kid are a lot alike. You never know which way they're going to bounce next. Right now, Junior's mind is on getting that ball and a driver in this neighborhood should have his mind on watching out for Junior.

Junior was lucky this time because we had a good driver who knows that when a ball bounces into the street, a child is not far behind. He also knows that a large percentage of pedestrian accidents involve children who forget the rules. They're young and cannot understand clearly the dangers involved. And he knows that people in the old age brackets, whose vision, hearing, and reactions aren't what they used to be, constitute a serious hazard. Most of these old folks are not drivers and are not aware of the driver's problems. So it becomes the driver's

responsibility to protect them. After dark, a pedestrian is an even greater danger. Both he and the driver must be more alert for a pedestrian can be temporarily blinded by headlights. If you don't think temporary blindness can be dangerous, Look into a flashlight sometime. So, when you're a pedestrian crossing the streets at night, look out for your own safety.

Remember, drivers too have limited vision at night. The rules are simple to follow. Just remember that you're playing a dual role. Sometimes you're a pedestrian, sometimes you're a driver. Whichever you are, remember that if you're alert and careful with each other's safety, our streets and highways can be much safer for your friends, your children, and yourselves.