---
video_title: "\"THE LOST CITY OF INCA LAND\"  1928 MACCHU PICCHU TRAVELOGUE   ANDES MOUNTAINS PERU  (SILENT) GG38575"
video_id: O8GWjZpAONo
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O8GWjZpAONo
video_date: 2026-03-07T20:29:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Dating to 1928, "The Lost City of Inca Land" shows stunning views of Macchu Picchu and the Andes. The movie was released by Traveltone Pictures, Inc. and filmed by Emma-Lindsay Squier and John Scott Douglas, with titles by Bransby.  (Squier was an American author, journalist, and screenwriter known for her nature and travel writing, particularly her work on Mexican and Native American folklore;  John Scott Douglas was also the author of The Story of the numerous books and was awarded the California Writers Guild Honor Award.)  At 3:05, Squier is shown ascending steps of the site; Douglas appears at 4:00 cooking over an open fire. At 8:40 are views of the "Temple of the Sun". 
  
  Machu Picchu is an Incan citadel set high in the Andes Mountains in Peru, above the Urubamba River valley. Built in the 15th century and later abandoned, it’s renowned for its sophisticated dry-stone walls that fuse huge blocks without the use of mortar, intriguing buildings that play on astronomical alignments and panoramic views. Although this film identifies the site as a "fortress", its exact former use remains a mystery. 
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
Music I am Good Good I am Really really really really really really really I am Good Good Good Good Good