---
video_title: "\"THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS\"   SENATOR JOHN F. KENNEDY   1956 DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION FILM  GG48415"
video_id: 9tVJSBZn_Jg
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9tVJSBZn_Jg
video_date: 2026-08-13T19:29:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This film "The Pursuit of Happiness" was shown at the Democratic National Convention on 13 August 1956 in Chicago. Senator John F. Kennedy hosts the program, promoting the Democratic Party and how it supports the American way of life. Kennedy describes the party as the oldest in the world, rooted in Thomas Jefferson’s vision of liberty, the Bill of Rights, and the Louisiana Purchase. He highlights James Monroe’s foreign policy, Andrew Jackson’s defense of the working man and expansion of democracy, and the party’s role in guiding the nation through conflicts like the Civil War. The narrative emphasizes Franklin D. Roosevelt’s leadership in lifting America out of the Depression, preparing the nation for World War II despite Republican opposition, and planning for peace before his death. It then turns to Harry Truman, who completed the war’s victory, launched the Truman Doctrine and Marshall Plan, strengthened NATO, led the Berlin Airlift, and committed forces in Korea while also advancing the Fair Deal and preventing post-war depression. By 1953, after two decades of Democratic leadership, the nation was prosperous, strong, and respected worldwide. Kennedy concludes that the Democratic Party remains progressive and forward-looking, dedicated to free enterprise, prosperity for all, freedom, security, social progress, peace, and the pursuit of happiness.
  
  
  
  
  
  0:00 Senator John F. Kennedy introduces himself and describes the Democratic Party as representing a philosophy, tradition, and a hope for the nation’s future.
   1:00 Kennedy explains that the Democratic Party is the oldest political party in the world, always dedicated to the pursuit of happiness, which means peace, prosperity, responsibility, and security.
  
  2:11 He honors Thomas Jefferson as the party’s first leader, crediting him with freedoms enshrined in the Bill of Rights and landmark achievements like the Louisiana Purchase.
  
  4:00 Kennedy highlights James Monroe and the Monroe Doctrine, which defended the Western Hemisphere from foreign aggression.
  
  4:39 He turns to Andrew Jackson, praising his defense of pioneers and working people, and his expansion of freedom and democracy.
  
  5:11 The era of Jackson led into disputes over slavery, the Civil War, and the leadership of Abraham Lincoln, followed by turmoil under weaker Republican leaders.
  
  6:00 Kennedy describes Franklin D. Roosevelt’s reforms, his leadership during the Depression, and his foresight in preparing for World War II despite Republican opposition.
  
  7:55 FDR built military strength, led the U.S. into global war, and planned for peace through alliances, though his health suffered until his death in 1945.
  
  9:03 Harry Truman succeeded him, calling for unity, finishing victory in WWII, and countering communism with the Truman Doctrine, Marshall Plan, NATO, and the Berlin Airlift.
  
  12:37 Truman also committed U.S. forces in Korea, avoided a post-war depression, and extended the New Deal with the Fair Deal, leaving the nation strong and prosperous by 1953.
  
  13:53 Kennedy concludes that Jefferson would still recognize Democratic principles—progressive, vital, and forward-looking—summed up by FDR’s call to “sail ahead.”
  
  14:40 The Democratic Party’s enduring goals are free enterprise, prosperity for all, freedom of thought and conscience, security, social progress, peace, and the pursuit of happiness.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music]

Ladies and gentlemen, I'm Senator John Kennedy of Massachusetts. Some the Democratic Party represents a philosophy, a point of view, a way of life. Others think in terms of personalities of the great Democratic leaders of past and present. To others, the party is an old friend of the family. To others, it is a crusading cause. To still others, a treasury of

fundamental truths. But whatever the unique quality of the party may represent to each of you, I believe that you will find it in the course of this film which singles out the principal events which have given our party special character and dignity which make it today as always the nation's best and greatest hope. Whatever living thing endures long in this world must have solid substance and great inner strength. The Democratic Party whose 32nd National Convention you comprise is the oldest political party in the world today. In its entire history, it has been dedicated to one objective above all. An objective

expressed by the magic phrase familiar to every person in America, the pursuit of happiness. For happiness means to a nation much the same things it means to us as individuals. It means peace. It means prosperity. It means responsibility.

It means security. Democrats have pursued these meanings of happiness ever since the phrase was coined 180 years ago by the first leader of the Democratic Party. You have only to reach in your pocket for his likeness. Thomas Jefferson, whose memory lives among us in a thousand ways in the heritage of freedom which he conspicuously among our founding fathers left to us. Freedoms that in their time were as bold and unprecedented as the New Deal and the Fair Deal were in our time, but which today are taken for granted. The freedom

to worship in our own way. Freedom of speech, freedom of the press, the right peaceibly to assemble, the right to petition the government for a redress of grievances. The Bill of Rights sacred to every American because it protects every American was in no small measure inspired by Thomas Jefferson. But that was only to be expected from the man who wrote the Declaration of Independence. This is the man. And what greater

ancestor could a living political party ask for? He was not only the idealist who created the most poetic, exciting, and forceful statement of freedom in the history of the world. But he was also in many ways a practical man. Practical enough to double the size of the United States by a single master stroke that Louisiana purchased. For $15 million, Jefferson bought us a territory that began at the mouth of the Mississippi and stretched north to Canada and west to the ridge of the Rockies. It included

the richest river valley in the entire world, the Mississippi, a great buy, no matter how you look at it. One historian has called the Louisiana Purchase the best bargain in American diplomatic history. Historically, we've been called the party of strong presidents. And there's a good reason for it. Not long after Jefferson, another Democratic president, was the first to formulate a permanent foreign policy for Americans. He was

James Monroe, whose famous doctrine bearing his name has come down to this day as a vital force in keeping foreign powers from any aggressive designs on the entire Western Hemisphere. During Monroe's administration, five more states became part of the growing republic. But with the next Democratic president, more than states were added to the Union. Andrew Jackson, hero of the Battle of New Orleans, was elected seventh president of the United States. We treasure his accomplishments for the Western pioneers and for the working man in the city. Under Jackson, we turned

away from aristocracy and exclusion and towards a wider freedom, often noisy and turbulent, but always strong and progressive. Growth, of course, is often painful. After the era of Jackson came war with Mexico, the annexation of Texas and the growing dispute over slavery with its attempts at compromise. The raids of John Brown, the little giant Steven Douglas, and Abraham Lincoln, one of the immortals of our country and the world. But after Lincoln's assassination in office, control of the Republican party immediately passed to smaller men.

Hotheads and fanatics bound for vengeance against the South. The repeal of prohibition, measures against erosion, against the want and waste of fertile land, the reckless depletion of our resources by narrow interests, the introduction of new and enlightened agricultural methods. Once again, the Democratic Party, as close to earth as a Jefferson plow, gave the country a great leader. But elsewhere in the world, a quite different kind of leader, had been destroying freedoms as energetically as Franklin Roosevelt was extending them. He had allies, Mussolini and his black shirts, and the warlords of Japan. There is no

need to recite the familiar and morbid events that led up to our participation in the war. But it is important to recall where the rival parties stood on the issues of defense and preparedness. For while the Republican le isolationists were belittling the threat to our security, FDR clearly foresaw the dangers. And when bill after bill on preparedness came up in Congress, all but a few Republicans ignored the growing threat to our national security. Listen to just a small fraction of the roll call. Fortification of Guam,

majority of Republicans voted against it. Increasing airplane production, Republican majority against it. The draft, Republican majority against. Then lease Republican majority against. Draft extension Republican majority against.

Aid to Britain, Republican majority against. And so on and on. But thanks to a democratic majority in Congress and thanks to the clear mandate given to FDR by the people in three elections, all of these vital defense measures passed so that when the Japanese attacked, we were not caught with a defenseless and vulnerable mainland. We had two million men under arms. Our industry was mobilized. We were ready for total

global war. And just as FDR led us out of the worst oppression in history, so he led us to the brink of victory in history's fiercest war. And long before the end was in sight, he planned for the peace. Just as Wilson had planned ahead, he spared neither his comfort nor his health. He flew to the far corners of the earth for conferences with our fighting allies. It was

exhausting business. And when he returned from his last overseas conference, he was tired. The burden of office had taken its toll. From the robust FDR of 1932 to the warworn and travelweary commanderin-chief of 1945. And on a day in the spring of 1945 in this cottage at Warm Springs, Georgia, he died. History will never forget the

nation's mournful farewell to him, nor the moving words of the man who succeeded him, Harry S. Truman. It is with a heavy heart that I stand before you, my friends and colleagues, in the Congress of the United States. Tragic fate has thrust upon us grave responsibility. We must carry on.

With great humility, I call upon all Americans to help me keep our nation united in defense of those ideals which have been so eloquently proclaimed by Franklin Roosevelt. The nation under Harry Truman completed the victory over fascism so well begun by FDR. The Nazis were brought to their knees and also the Japanese. Later the threat of communism in Greece and Turkey was met by clear bold action by establishing the Truman Doctrine immediate help to the countries menaced by communist aggression. Then there was the Marshall Plan, strengthening the economies of nations so that they could better resist the poverty and disease upon which communism flourished.

In 1948 came a new election. The all knowing experts, the analysts, the poll takers, the prophets confidently predicted a sweeping Republican victory. If you've forgotten what happened, let Mr. Truman tell you in his own words.

I had my sandwich and glass of buttermilk and went to bed at 6:30 and along about 12:00 I happened to wake up for some reason and the radio was turned on on the National Broadcasting Company and Mr. Kelton Bourne [Applause] and Mr. Hartness were reporting this situation as it then developed and Mr. Kelton Barn was saying while the president is a million votes ahead in the popular vote we have yet to hear

And we are very sure that when the country vote comes in, Mr. Truman will be defeated by an overhanging [Applause] And then Mr. Harkness came on and he analyzed the situation as Mr. Captain Bar had reported it. And to the sorrow of myself and those who were listening with me, it looked very much as if the election would be thrown into the House of Representatives because it was not possible for me to get a majority of the electoral votes of the nation. And I went back to bed and

went to sleep. Harry Truman conceived of NATO, North Atlantic Treaty Organization, a bullwalk against red repetition of the divide and conquer tactics which are most succeeded for the Nazis. He won a showdown dispute over supplies to Berlin through the Berlin Airlift. And then most important of all, he galvanized the United States and United Nations into immediate and vigorous resistance to communist military aggression in Korea. Through all this, on the home front, benefiting from the economic laws of Wilson and Roosevelt, Truman's democratic administration headed off for the first time in history, a post-war depression.

The Fair Deal carried on where the New Deal left off. In 1953, when the Republicans took over the government after 20 years of Democratic leadership, they inherited a country healthier than it had ever been, a country that was vibrant, prosperous. Our national income was at an all-time high. So was corporate expansion. So were corporate profits. Our

international prestige was high. Our foreign policy was clear and firm. If Thomas Jefferson had come back to Washington in 53 when the Democrats relinquished the White House, he would have been dazzled by many things, astonished by many changes. But he would have recognized in the Democratic Party the same principles that he had stood for almost two centuries ago. principles that have kept the party young, vital, fit for action, not softened by stagnation, but progressive and forward-looking.

The unforgettable FDR summed it up once. I propose to sail ahead. For to reach a port, we must sail. Sail not lie at anchor. Sail not drift. and

the ports of call, the unchanging destinations of the Democratic Party, remain as always. Free enterprise, prosperity not for the few but the many, freedom of thought and conscience, freedom from fear, social progress, security, peace, and the pursuit of happiness. These are the beacons of the democratic faith. the goals we seek, the objectives we will never abandon. For the proud past of the Democratic Party is but a prelude to its future, to the leadership it offers the nation, to the faith by which we all abide

Down.