---
video_title: "\"LUNAR BRIDGEHEAD\"  1964 RANGER SPACECRAFT MISSION TO THE MOON   JET PROPULSION LAB FILM  BF10515"
video_id: 6eynGyAwybM
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6eynGyAwybM
video_date: 2026-08-03T16:29:54+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  
  This film "Lunar Bridgehead" was produced by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) to document the Ranger program. On July 31, 1964, NASA’s Ranger spacecraft successfully impacted the Moon, capturing and transmitting thousands of close-up images during its final descent. The mission, led by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, aimed to gather detailed photographs to aid in planning future manned lunar landings. After launch from Cape Kennedy and a midcourse correction, Ranger precisely targeted a smooth plain near the Copernicus crater. As it approached, all six onboard cameras functioned flawlessly, recording high-resolution images up to just seconds before impact. These images revealed unprecedented lunar surface details, including small craters, lava plains, and features critical for assessing safe landing zones. The mission was hailed as a textbook success, providing scientists with groundbreaking insights into the Moon’s geology and confirming that its surface could support future landings.
  
  0
  
  
  
  
  0:00 – Opening music and applause; setting: Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), Pasadena, California.
  
  0:45 – Ranger spacecraft is en route to the Moon on July 31, 1964.
  
  1:10 – Mission goal: capture close-up TV images of the Moon to prepare for future manned landings.
  
  1:28 – Ranger descends toward the Moon at increasing speed; altitude 1,400 meters.
  
  1:39 – Magnetic tape recorders activated; final mission stages begin.
  
  2:25 – Commands to warm up spacecraft cameras issued; backup systems on standby.
  
  3:11 – Cameras designed for wide and narrow-angle views begin warming up.
  
  4:23 – Final preparations for cameras to begin image capture.
  
  5:06 – Countdown to launch begins; Atlas D and Aena B booster stages used.
  
  6:27 – Atlas separates and Aena fires; Ranger separates and proceeds on course.
  
  7:06 – Solar panels deployed; antenna aimed at Earth; tracking stations in South Africa and Australia engage.
  
  7:49 – Midcourse correction planned for better photo targeting near Copernicus crater.
  
  8:52 – Midcourse correction executed successfully; Ranger’s flight path adjusted.
  
  9:47 – Spacecraft confirmed on target after additional tracking and orbit refinement.
  
  10:21 – Predicted impact location defined within a 300 x 50 mile ellipse.
  
  11:00 – Final review of mission status; all systems still functioning normally.
  
  12:01 – Discussion of Moon’s known facts and unknown surface characteristics; debate over crater formation.
  
  13:00 – Channel F reaches full power; TV system operational and recording.
  
  14:21 – Closest images before impact are most important; both video channels active.
  
  15:45 – All six cameras functioning; P channel goes online.
  
  16:07 – 8 minutes to impact; thousands of images expected, with varying quality.
  
  17:32 – 2 minutes to impact; spacecraft still functioning perfectly.
  
  18:07 – 1 minute to impact; all systems nominal, excellent signal.
  
  18:55 – Impact occurs at 13:25:50.2 Zulu; all video and systems worked until the end.
  
  19:23 – First humans see close-up photos of the Moon; postflight press conference held.
  
  20:06 – NASA administrator congratulates JPL; mission called a "textbook operation."
  
  21:00 – Final images will be evaluated from 35mm film, not Polaroid prints.
  
  21:46 – First Polaroids flown to JPL scientists for analysis.
  
  23:00 – Film arrives at lab for processing after calibration and transport.
  
  24:00 – Second press conference held; scientific team begins interpreting images.
  
  25:06 – Last image taken just 1,000 feet above surface shows craters as small as 3 feet.
  
  26:59 – Surface described as firm, lava-based with varied cratering; landing sites identified.
  
  27:28 – Mission success paves way for future lunar exploration and eventual manned missions.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory Auditorium, Pasadena, California. Man is inquisitive, seeks to know. He has explored, weighed, measured, and otherwise examined planet Earth. Now, his ingenuity enables him to probe into space. This is the story of one such National Aeronautics and Space Administration probe. The day was July 31st, 1964.

United States spacecraft Ranger was on its way to the moon. Impact minus 22, mark. Impact minus 22 minutes.

Ranger approaches lunar impact. Engineers in the JPL Space Flight Operations Facility command and monitor its flight. The mission, take close-up television pictures of the moon. Prepare for the day when man will land there. The Goldstone, California tracking station. Antennas track the spacecraft

as it falls toward the moon. Impact minus 21. Velocity 4,200 mph, increasing each second. Altitude above the moon only 1,400 miles. Magnetic tape recorders were started at 130700 Zulu at both Pioneer and Echo sites. We are

anticipating F channel warm-up at 130719.

Now, at last, man hopes to build his first bridge to the moon.

minus 20 Station to all stations, this is net control. Command message coming out is to for the transmission of RTC 7. And it is to be sent at A spacecraft timer should switch the cameras into warm up. However, as backup insurance, the RTC 7 command can be sent from Goldstone if required. Yes, we have it. Command message ready.

Roger. Many of the scientists who will interpret the pictures have spent a lifetime studying the moon. Today, some of their questions may be answered. Also, new ones may be posed. Coming up on impact minus 19.

Focal point of the mission is now Rangers six RCA television cameras. The picture signal will be transmitted over two communications channels. F channel for full view or wide angle lenses. P channel for partial view or narrow angle lenses. All cameras are set for various expected lighting conditions.

Stand by for P channel warm up. 60 seconds until warm up. These men in operations, every one on the Ranger project, have worked for years just for this moment. This is Goldstone TV control. At the present time, all receivers on site are go. All kinescope and magnetic

tape recorders are in go condition. Clock turned on. F channel is anticipated at 13:07:19 Zulu. Goldstone, how about Pioneer and Echo? Uh Pioneer and Echo are both in go condition.

Thank you. Mark, we have full channel warm-up indication. Roger. The RTC 7 ground command not required. TV channel F in warm-up.

In 80 seconds, cameras on channel F should go into full power, begin taking pictures. It's been a long flight, a demonstration of almost incredible precision. Three days ago, these men monitored lift-off from Cape Kennedy. The booster was an Atlas D, the second stage an Agena B. Personnel are remaining in position until completion of this launch and stand by for final station check. T

minus 60 seconds and counting. JPL ready light on. Final report, please. Final report. Atlas, go.

Agena, Go. Spacecraft, Go. Firing is authorized. Pressurization on. Stand by.

Minus 30. Start tank pressurization. Five, four, three, two, one. Ignition main stage.

All clear. Go, baby. Switch to long play. Telemetry good. Looks very good.

Real great. 90 seconds. Pearl Beach camera still tracking.

It closes just following as atmospheric pressure decreases. 130 seconds. CSO acquired. Main engine cut off.

Flight engine separated. Motors two and three were on time. Atlas pressure cut off. Vernier cut off on time. Atlas and the Agena separated on schedule.

Agena fired its engine, cut off, coasted to the injection point, fired again, and then separated from the spacecraft. All events nominal. Ranger was on its way. As programmed, the spacecraft came to life, opened its solar panels, locked onto the sun for electrical power. The next maneuver, Ranger rolled, pointed its antenna at Earth.

Then an RTC 3 command from the Johannesburg, South Africa tracking station switched communications to the long-range directional antenna. Meanwhile, the deep space instrumentation facility tracked Ranger, maintained two-way communications from Johannesburg, and from the tracking station in Woomera, Australia, processed a continuous flow of information to Pasadena. Within 90 minutes, a first rough orbit was established. Ranger would hit the moon.

By 9:00 p.m. the flight path refined, it was decided that to get the best possible pictures, a mid-course correction was required. Aiming point south of crater Copernicus, 21° west longitude, 11° south latitude. The spacecraft would cross and photograph a variety of lunar surface features, mountains, flatlands, craters of all types and sizes.

Impact would be on a seemingly smooth plane east of the Riphean Mountains. Then, as planned, engineers made calculations for the mid-course maneuver to bring Ranger down in the target area. 3:00 a.m. Wednesday morning, the Goldstone, California tracking station was locked onto Ranger. An RTC-4 command

directed the spacecraft to roll and pitch into a new heading.

Minus five, four, three, two, one, mark. On schedule, the mid-course motor was fired to change the flight path. RTC-4 initiated at 10:00 00 00. Roger. Doppler is changing rapidly.

Doppler still changing rapidly. Signal level holding very steady. Minutes later, Ranger returned to cruise mode. Mid-course maneuver executed. Doppler rate has settled down.

Not changing at this time. But more hours of tracking were needed to verify that the flight path had been successfully modified. Finally, it was early afternoon. Ranger project manager Harris Schurmeier announced the spacecraft was on target. All systems were go.

All right. We have completed the first orbit calculation which has refined the orbit only to a certain degree and as we make subsequent calculations during the next day or two days, we will refine this and pin down the uncertainty in the actual impact location.

Now, at this time we know the the impact location within ellipse whose dimensions are about 300 miles in the long direction which is vertically and about 50 miles wide in the horizontal direction. The 238,000 mile flight wore on. Camera angles and lunar lighting were carefully studied and it was decided that no terminal maneuver would be required. The cameras were already perfectly aimed.

10:00 p.m. Thursday. All aspects of the operation were reviewed. The mission still in the green.

Somehow the hours passed and it was time for the final sequence of events.

Signal level steady. Coming up on impact minus 18 minutes. Can left still in warm up.

The moon, so close, and yet so little known. Of course, most scientists do agree on a few facts. For example, the moon has no atmosphere. Midday temperature is hotter than boiling water. Night side temperature is 250° below zero.

We know other things, for example, the moon's gravity, mass, orbit, rotation. But we don't know one important thing. What the lunar surface is really like. Scientists, astronomers have argued. Theories have been devised, and still the arguments continue.

Part of the controversy relates to whether the lunar craters were caused by meteorite impacts or volcanic action. Hopefully, Ranger's pictures will be the first step toward ending such arguments, enabling the eventual selection of landing area. Now, it's only a matter of seconds. Engineers in operations wait for Goldstone to announce channel F full power and channel P warm up. We are 1 minute to full channel uh power.

All magnetic and kinescope recorders are go. A separate timer in each channel will turn the cameras on to full power. If that fails, the spacecraft's central computer and sequencer will initiate full power. This is Goldstone TV control. F channel is still in TV warm up.

We are anticipating turn on momentarily. Signal strength from spacecraft is normal. All kinescope recorders are go. The pictures will be recorded here at Goldstone on both magnetic tape and film. Polaroids will tell the engineers whether or not the TV system is working.

All recording and receiving equipment is operating at both Pioneer and Echo.

We are 5 seconds from full power. We have full power on F channel. Roger. Full power on F channel. All magnetic recorders are recording.

All magnetic tape recorders are recording. Preliminary look at video appears to be approximately normal anticipated strength. Video on both A and B receivers on the F channel are good. Video is very strong. Video is very clean. This is Goldstone TV control.

The flight continues. The most important pictures to be are the closest ones, just before impact. Now the crucial question. Will the channel F cameras continue to operate? And will channel P go into warm-up?

We are 1 minute from P channel warm-up. This is Goldstone TV control. Preliminary analysis of the video data indicates normal operation of cameras. We definitely have lunar data. F channel is operational.

Is excellent signal strength. Is excellent video level.

This is Goldstone TV control. Preliminary photographic analysis of the video indicates we have good signal strength from the moon. We definitely are able to see craters. Signal strength is very high on F channel. We have excellent video.

P channel is definitely in warm-up at this time. We are receiving good signal on the F channels. Video is excellent quality. Signal strength is nominal. We are anticipating P-channel full power momentarily.

3 2 1 Mark, we have P-channel video. We have P-channel video. Preliminary oscillograph analysis shows P-channel to be excellent signal strength. The signal-to-noise ratio is approximate. We're getting pictures from all six cameras.

Now, if they'll just keep working. This is Goldstone TV control. On my mark, it will be 8 minutes to impact. Mark. It will be hours before the actual pictures are in hand.

Even at Goldstone, no one knows how good the pictures are. We know only that they are being recorded. Several thousand should be received. The pictures containing useful information will depend on lighting, camera angle, system noise, and other factors. Mark, we are 6 minutes to impact.

We are still receiving excellent video on all channels. We have no indication of any problems from the spacecraft at this time. All video and kinescope recorders are functioning on both sites. Because of the Earth's turbulent atmosphere, our best telescopes cannot resolve lunar objects smaller than about 1/2 mile in diameter. This is Goldstone TV control.

We are anticipating 5 minutes to impact. We have indication that F channel is going up slightly in temperature, which is normal. All kinescope and magnetic recorders are functioning at this time at both Pioneer and Echo sites. All receivers are go. The lunar plains that seem to be so smooth could be littered with boulders larger than pyramids or battleships.

The last Ranger photograph, just before impact, might be as close as 1/3 of a mile. Close enough to see objects about the size of an office desk. We are anticipating impact in 2 minutes. Mark, 2 minutes to impact. This is Goldstone TV control.

The voice of Ranger is piped into the JPL auditorium. Ranger's velocity should be nearly 6,000 miles per hour. This is Goldstone TV control. We have exceptionally good pictures on peak camera at this time. All cameras are functioning from the spacecraft.

We have good signal strength from both transmitters. All recording and receiving equipment is operating at both Pioneer and Echo. We have line mark, it will be 1 minute to impact. Mark, it is 1 minute to impact. All cameras are functioning.

All video is exceptionally fine. Transmitters are still at the high level. This is Goldstone TV control. This is Goldstone TV control. We'll leave the camera the mic button open at this time.

Video is still good. We are some 30 seconds from impact. All recorders are functioning at both sites. Both sites report good data. 40 seconds to impact. All video good.

Signal normal. Stand by for impact. 10 seconds to impact. Video still good. Excellent signal strength.

3 2 1 Impact. Impact has occurred at 1325502. All video data was excellent right up to impact. All cameras were functioning. Transmitters were functioning properly.

This is Goldstone TV control. All roger.

It was July 31st, 1964. The event, now a matter of history. The quick-look Polaroid prints, even better than expected. Engineers at the Goldstone tracking station became the first human beings to see close-up photographs of the moon. 30 minutes later, NASA and JPL officials held the first post-flight press conference.

NASA's Dr. Homer Newell, Associate Administrator for Space Science and Applications, was introduced first. Mr. President, Mr. Starr, occasion.

We have just had the very exciting privilege of receiving congratulations from the President of the United States, and from a number of congressmen who have been watching these proceedings in Washington. I, however, have no intention of stealing any of Bill Pickering's thunder. This is JPL's day, and I do not intend to remain on stage here any longer than is necessary to congratulate him, the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and the members of the Ranger team, for what proved to be a textbook operation. Everything on the button. Congratulations, Bill, and the floor is yours.

Dr. Newell and Dr. W. H. Pickering, Director of JPL, the two men responsible for Ranger.

Thank you, Homer. Well, this has indeed been a very exciting day. As we all know, it's been a long road. But, uh, it looks as though this particular shot has been indeed a textbook operation. I'd also like to point out that, uh, there's some discussion here about these Polaroid prints.

The final photographs and the quality of the final photographs will be determined by 35 mm film, which will be very carefully processed, of course, and until we get that film, we we will not really know what quality we will have in our final photographs. After the press conference, the Polaroid prints were flown from Goldstone

and rushed to the experimenters in the space science analysis area.

Other prints went to groups of scientists in the JPL director's office.

So, the tedious task was started. Using the prints in hand, preparing to study and analyze the film itself. Meanwhile, equipment calibration and recordings completed, the precious film was taken from the Goldstone control room, driven to the landing strip, and flown out of the desert country.

Within minutes of landing, it arrived at a film laboratory where painstaking tests were made before it could be safely processed.

Late in the day, it finally arrived at JPL and was placed in the hands of the impatient experimenters. The second press conference was called at 9:00 p.m. Dr. Pickering made the introductory remarks, then turned the conference over to the scientists. Dr. Shoemaker,

Mr. Whitaker, Mr. Heacock, and the principal experimenter, Dr. Kuiper. Uh this is a great day for science and this is a great day for the United States.

What has been achieved today is uh truly remarkable. We have made progress in resolution of lunar detail, not by a factor 10, nor by a factor 100, but by a factor of 1,000. It would take months, even years, to study and interpret the data contained in the 4,316 photographs. Even pictures taken as far as 480 miles out from the moon revealed important new detail. There were primary craters with sharp, raised edges caused by meteorites impacting at high velocities.

And smaller, shallower craters, secondary impacts or splashes from the large craters. Down closer, 34 miles from the surface, a remarkable clustering of small craters, an area to be avoided in man landings. 2 and 3/10 seconds before impact, still smaller 30-ft diameter and 10-ft deep craters were seen. A 300-ft rock mass visible in the center of one. The last picture, only 1,000 ft above the lunar surface. Noise band on the

right shows moment of impact. The best resolution, 18 in. The smallest crater seen, only 3 ft in diameter. Already significant conclusions can be drawn. We have just looked at these pictures for 2 hours maybe.

Um but the first impression which I got is that the maria are basically lava surfaces. The craters continue to occur down to sizes of about 3 ft in diameter, about 1 ft depth. The records show a continuity of features from the large craters observable with telescopes down to smaller and smaller sizes. Uh I think that the rounded features of the large numbers of secondary craters is new. There are a lot of domes on the moon, low volcanoes as you have them as in the Hawaiian Islands.

I think that Dr. Kuiper has placed his finger on the main highlights of the results. As we went down to smaller and smaller features, the pictures no longer looked as rough as they did at intermediate scales. They started to get a little bit smoother again. Uh I still feel it's probably littered with debris. I think the layer must be

thinner than I had thought. The most significant immediate discoveries, the continuity of features, lack of furrows and cracks, absence of deep layers of dust or thick surface debris, primary craters with steep walls and secondary craters with gently sloping walls. Areas of extreme cratering to be avoided in future landing missions. A firm basic lava surface somewhat eroded. A large percentage of the impact area favorable for landing.

This was the day. Trailblazed, bridgehead achieved. Now NASA could send more instrumented probes out from Earth and down to the moon to make scientific studies, to survey the terrain, to select landing areas, to prepare for the time when man himself would walk the lunar soil.