---
video_title: "\"MAX BLUNDER, MEET YOUR CHOPPER\" 1974 AMOCO CORP. HELICOPTER PASSENGER SAFETY TRAINING FILM  GG41325"
video_id: idQQEZG_pZE
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=idQQEZG_pZE
video_date: 2026-08-12T19:29:50+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Dating to 1974 and produced by the Amoco Corp., "Max Blunder / Meet Your Chopper" presents basic helicopter safety concepts for passengers, including use of inflatable life vests, entry and exit of a helicopter, etc. 
  
  
  
  The film is a safety training guide for personnel working with helicopters in the oil industry. Viewers learn about life vests—inflatable and non-inflatable—and how to use them correctly. The film stresses keeping the landing deck clear, waiting for the pilot’s signal before boarding or exiting, approaching from the front to avoid the tail rotor, and walking instead of running. Once on board, passengers must fasten seat belts, check safety gear, and follow smoking restrictions. During flight, remain seated and secure. The film provides steps for emergency water landings, including life vest inflation procedures. It also covers safe refueling practices, warning against wearing fuel-soaked gloves and explaining grounding procedures. Finally, it advises that injured passengers should be accompanied by someone other than the pilot and reminds viewers to ask questions and understand the helicopter’s safety systems—because knowledge is key to preventing accidents. Note: the helicopter shown is in Petroleum Helicopters International (PHI) livery. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  0:00 –Main titles. Introducing helicopters, also known as choppers or egg beaters, emphasizing their widespread use in the oil industry and the importance of knowing how to work safely in and around them.
  
  0:37 – The animated character Max Blunder is introduced as a comic example of what not to do.
  
  0:50 – The narrator stresses that the helicopter pilot is always in command. The pilot determines passenger and cargo weight, authorizes emergency flights, and makes all final in-flight decisions, but safety is also the responsibility of every passenger.
  
  1:29 – The film explains two types of life vests—inflatable (May West) and non-inflatable—and demonstrates how to use the CO₂ cartridges and manual inflation tubes.
  
  2:14 – The narrator reminds viewers to always keep the landing deck clear and free of any loose objects.
  
  2:25 – Passengers must stay off the landing deck until the helicopter lands. They should never board or exit until the pilot signals it’s safe, always approach from the front, and avoid the tail rotor area.
  
  2:54 – Passengers should walk, not run, and hold onto items like jackets or briefcases to prevent them from being blown away by rotor wash.
  
  3:14 – Once aboard, passengers must fasten seat belts and life vests, check for safety gear and fire extinguishers, and follow smoking rules—never smoke during takeoff, landing, or on the deck.
  
  4:01 – Ensure doors are tightly closed before takeoff, as loose doors can be torn off by wind. Windows can be opened in flight, but nothing should be thrown out.
  
  4:46 – Passengers are told to stay seated with seat belts fastened during flight and not move around the cabin.
  
  5:00 – In case of an emergency water landing, passengers should tighten seat belts, secure vests, and remain calm. After the helicopter touches down and blades stop, they may unbuckle and exit. Inflatable vests must only be inflated after getting partially outside the aircraft.
  
  5:51 – Survivors are instructed to stay together in the water for safety and easier rescue.
  
  5:58 – When refueling, follow the pilot’s directions: remove gloves to prevent fire hazards, connect the ground cable, and refuel carefully. The pilot monitors fuel levels and signals when to stop.
  
  6:40 – After refueling, drain leftover fuel, replace the cap, disconnect cables, stow equipment, and shut off the pump.
  
  6:56 – Injured passengers should be accompanied by someone besides the pilot to allow the pilot to focus on flying.
  
  7:10 – Reminding viewers that the pilot is the expert. Passengers should ask questions and understand safety procedures, since knowing the helicopter is essential to keeping everyone safe.
  
  7:30 The End.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music] helicopters, choppers, egg beaters. The oil industry uses a lot of them these days. This film will show you what to do in them and near them. Max Blunder meet [Music] your chopper.

The first thing to remember about helicopters is that the pilot is the boss. Whatever he says goes. He'll check your weight and the weight of the cargo and decide how many people and how much cargo he can safely load and how the weight should be distributed in the helicopter. He alone can authorize emergency flights at night or in bad weather. And during flight, all his decisions are final, but most of the burden of keeping helicopters safe falls on you. You've got to know your

helicopter. You've got to know what to do and what not to do when you're in it and near it in normal and emergency situations. There are basically two types of life vests, inflatable and non-inflatable. This is the inflatable or May West type.

It's inflated by CO2 cartridges which are activated by pulling red tabs on each side of the vest.

You can also inflate the vest by blowing through these manual inflation tubes. When inflated, each side of the vest will support 400 lb. The vest is equipped with an emergency light. Make sure that the landing deck is clear at all times. Don't leave anything on it, even for a little while.

Stay off the landing deck until the helicopter lands. Max,

[Applause] don't get on or off the helicopter while the blades are still turning, unless the pilot signals you that it's safe to do so. Always approach or leave the helicopter from the front to stay as far away as possible from the dangerous tail rotor. Walk, never run. That's right, Max. And hold on tightly to carry-on articles such as jackets or briefcases.

Max.

[Applause] When you get on board, fasten your seat belt securely and make sure that your life vest is fastened properly. Then check out the cabin. You'll notice that there is additional life-saving gear behind the front passenger seat. Fire extinguishers are also easy to reach. Smoking regulations vary. Ask the pilot

about them before you light up. But one thing is certain. Don't smoke during takeoff or landing or on the landing deck. Max. Max. No, Max.

Make sure that the doors are shut tight before takeoff.

If a door is not shut tight, it can be torn off by a gust of wind.

windows may be opened during flight, but don't throw anything out a window. Max

[Applause] You'll have a great view from your flying machine, but stay in your seat with your seat belt fastened. Don't move around in the cabin while the helicopter is in flight. Max, let's say you're flying over water and something goes wrong that looks like your helicopter will have to make an emergency landing on the water. First, make sure that your seat belt is good and tight and that your life vest is fastened properly. Then, try to keep calm while you wait for the helicopter to touch down.

After touchdown, wait for the rotor blades to stop. Then, release your seat belt and open the door. If you're wearing the inflatable May West Life vest, get the upper part of your body outside and inflate the vest. Then, get into the water. If you're using a non-inflatable vest, just hop into the water.

Don't under any circumstances inflate the May West inside the helicopter. Not inside, Max.

And stick together. That's really important. That's right, Max. The pilot may ask you to help refuel the helicopter. He'll signal you when to begin. But before you do anything, take

off your gloves. Gasoline soaked gloves are a fire hazard. Turn on the fuel pump.

Connect the ground cable to the grounding pin. Squeeze the fuel control lever. It works just like the ones at the gas station. Watch for a backflow of fuel and a stop signal from the pilot. He'll be watching the fuel gauge to make sure that the tank isn't being overfilled.

When he signals you to stop, drain what fuel's left in the nozzle into the tank. Then cap the tank and disconnect the ground cable. Put the hose away and shut off the fuel pump. If an injured person is to be transported by helicopter, he or she should be accompanied by someone other than the pilot to allow the pilot to concentrate on flying the helicopter. Remember, this man, the pilot, is a helicopter expert. Part of his job is to

answer any questions you may have about helicopters and their safety equipment. So, speak up if you're not sure about something. You've got to know your helicopter to keep it safe. [Music]