---
video_title: "1930s DUDE RANCH AND HORSEBACK RIDING TRIP TO MOOSE CREEK   ALLAN RANCH   AUGUSTA, MONTANA CS10195"
video_id: 0emoWmLBizE
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0emoWmLBizE
video_date: 2026-04-16T19:29:48+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Related film: https://youtu.be/4nEczlQSoC4
  
  This well-produced silent, amateur 16mm home movie shows part of a Montana dude ranch trip made in the 1930s. The film shows a family visiting the Allan Ranch, riding horseback, camping cowboy style, and visiting the "Chinese Wall". This is a natural granite escarpment over 15 miles long and 1,000 feet tall within the Bob Marshall Wilderness, named for its resemblance to the Great Wall of China. The Allan Ranch was run by Ralph Allan, a licensed guide and packer who advertised that he could "pack you into good game country."
  
  00:00 Film starts with images of a group of trail guides and dude ranch guests on horseback crossing a river on a bridge
  1:07 Shots of Ralph Allan, who managed the dude ranch, and his helpers. Allan was a licensed guide who was based out of Augusta, Montana. He advertised his Allan Ranch as being in the Sun River Canyon of the Rocky Mountains.
  1:46 "Early morning hours" One of the family waking up in a sleeping bag, getting a cup of coffee in bed
  2:10 the group's horses are seen milling about, they are saddled up
  2:43 guides strike a canvas tent
  2:52 making sandwiches ?
  3:23 eating breakfast, cowboy style
  3:43 the tent is folded up
  3:52 the camp is packed up and horses loaded
  4:36 "on the trail again" -- the group leaves the campsite
  4:53 Arriving at the Continental Divide, 10,000 feet in altitude. Snowball fight at the top of the mountain.
  6:00 Arriving at the bottom of Moose Creek Valley, with views of the Chinese Wall. Shot of the Chinese Wall at night (not much visible).
  6:48 Explanation of Bear Grass. 
  7:08 Unpacking the horses, as performed by "the Two Peters"
  7:28 Camp at the meadows of the White River, posing with fish
  7:37 Camp at the South Fork Flathead River
  8:09 Film ends with shots of the family, with all wearing jeans and cowboy clothes, and the cameraman shown on horseback. 
  
  
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
Man parti, thunder, come you off. I'm going to make a little bit of a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole with the same thickness. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a little bit of a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole. I'm going to make a hole like this. I'm going to make a hole with one hand. Make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole. I'm going to make a hole with one hand. I'm going to make a little bit of a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole.