---
video_title: "\"THE SPORTS ALBUM\"  BASEBALL GREATS  BABE RUTH, LOU GEHRIG, JOE DIMAGGIO, WOMEN'S BASEBALL   GG41215"
video_id: a2UIpJPa98Q
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a2UIpJPa98Q
video_date: 2026-08-20
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Created by Ziv-TV, the "Sports Album" series ran on television stations around the USA in the early 1950s. Most of these segments celebrate baseball legends and its cultural impact, beginning with Lou Gehrig, highlighting his prowess, humility, and iconic partnership with Babe Ruth. Gehrig’s career milestones are shown, including his 1937 All-Star home run, defensive skill, and 1939 retirement ceremony. Key games from the 1920s and 1930s are featured, including All-Star Games, World Series matchups, and the exploits of stars like Joe DiMaggio, Dizzy Dean, Al Simmons, and Mickey Cochrane. The documentary touches on baseball’s broader influence, from women’s teams and prison games to Congressional matches with politicians. Babe Ruth’s personal life is explored, showing him as a devoted father, farmer, and public figure who also enjoys Hollywood and maintains peak physical conditioning. Highlights of the 1934 World Series and whimsical recreational scenes, such as beach activities, log rolling, combined tennis and pool, and playful bridge games, underscore baseball’s integration with leisure, culture, and lighthearted fun.
  
  
  
  
  
  0:00 Main titles – Bill Slater introduces highlights from Lou Gehrig’s career.
  0:47 – Footage shows Babe Ruth and Gehrig together as the Yankees’ power duo, with details about Gehrig’s batting technique and strength.
  1:48 – Gehrig’s background is recalled: from Columbia University to Yankees first baseman, known for his defensive skill.
  2:14 – Gehrig hits a home run in the 1937 All-Star Game against Dizzy Dean.
  2:36 – Gehrig’s 1939 retirement ceremony: teammates, fans, and dignitaries honor his endurance and humility.
  3:36 – Highlights of the 1937 All-Star Game with players like Gomez, Dean, Cronin, and Gehringer; comic narration mentions “Uncle Mike.”
  5:24 – The All-Star Game continues with stars like Joe DiMaggio, Lou Gehrig, and Babe Ruth attending; the American League wins 8–3.
  6:59 – Training camps of 1926 feature Walter Johnson, Tris Speaker, and Babe Ruth as they prepare for the season in Florida.
  10:25 – The 1936 World Series between the Yankees and Giants: Selkirk homers; Yankees win the series.
  13:45 – Focus on pitcher Dizzy Dean, his control and power, his injury in the 1934 World Series, and his comeback.
  17:10 – Congressional baseball games in Washington, D.C.: senators, pages, and even Vice Presidents Coolidge and Curtis play for fun.
  20:34 – Tribute to Babe Ruth’s early career, from pitcher with the Red Sox to Yankee legend, his illness and triumphant return, and his 60 home runs in 1927.
   23:45 – Women in baseball: All-American Girls Professional Baseball League teams like the Black Cats, Bloomer Girls. Prison baseball games.
  26:54 1935 World Series between Detroit and Chicago: Mickey Cochrane leads the Tigers to victory over Cubs. 
  30:14 – Retired baseball legends, including Tris Speaker, Eddie Collins, and Hughie Jennings, reunite for charity.
  33:39 – Profile of Al Simmons, his powerful batting, fielding skill, and acclaim as one of baseball’s all-time greats.
  37:04 – During WWII, major leaguers like Joe DiMaggio, Jerry Priddy, and others serve in the Army Air Force, playing morale-boosting games for troops.
  40:32 – More on Babe Ruth’s private life, showing tender moments with his baby daughter and a softer side of the baseball icon.
  40:37 – Babe Ruth with his 16-month-old daughter, showing his tender, private side as a father.
  41:09 – Ruth interacts with puppies, cows, rabbits, and does farm chores; the farm helps him relax and stay in condition.
  41:47 – Ruth uses an axe to chop wood and stock up for winter.
  41:59 – Transition from Ruth’s farm life to his Hollywood activities: movies, action, and romance.
  42:25 – Ruth back home focusing on gym work.
  42:58 – Ruth tries golf with Walter Hagen.
  43:16 – Ruth at Knickerbocker Hospital in 1930, bringing joy to children off the field.
  43:56 – Highlights of the 1934 World Series: Detroit Tigers vs. St. Louis Cardinals; key players and game events.
  45:28 – Payoff game: Cardinals score seven runs in one inning; Medwick’s aggressive base running causes fan backlash; Judge Landis ejects him; Cardinals win 11–0.
   47:19 – Playful aquatic activities: girls diving, swimming, and having fun at the beach.
  48:46 – Log rolling contest. 
  49:08 – Tennis combined with pool; girls play in a whimsical, unconventional way.
  49:52 – Cool-headed bridge game with ice and drinks; playful cheating noted.
   
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music]

This is Bill Slater with new shots from our sports album. New shots that show the high spots in the career of a great athlete and a great guy, the immortal Lou Garry. batting in Back to the Bay. Blue Laruped a lot out of the lot like this one. [Applause] And of course, you know who's scoring in front of Gary.

[Applause] Mr. Three and four in the Yankees box score. Ruth and Gary. Here's horse at the plate. Gary grips his war club. The

little finger of his right hand overlaps the bat, giving him greater wrist freedom. The way he stood up at the dish was a revelation in batting position. Not too far back in the box, then a step into the ball with all the power and perfection of superb muscular synchronization. The slow motion camera reveals the secret of Garage's timing. Strong, solid legs, beautifully developed back and arm muscles, a great eye, complete follow through. That was perfection. Here's

Lou giving us a look at those back muscles. What power that Garri packed. A swell shot of a swell got.

Gary went to the New York Yankees direct from Columbia University. He became the Yanks first sacker and stayed here. He holds a runner close then breaks with the pitch to fielding position. Now a close play, a low throw, a stretch by Garrick. What a stretch and that batter is out. Gar gets off the sack for

a wide one. Guys, that was really wide. A Garig highlight the 1937 All-Star game. Lou is up. That's Dizzy Dean on the hill.

Gared connects. That's all ball out of the park. Out of this world. Everybody's favorite. Here you see Lou scoring with Joe Dejo in front of him.

Gar retirement day. June of 1939. His teammates line up in honor of the man who played 2,130 consecutive games. A sad day when this combination broke up. Postmaster Farley bids farewell to the favorite.

And so does Mayor Lagardia, but it's Mr. and Mrs. Public who really lay it on. Garrick speaks and the answer is a terrific ovation.

On first base for the Yanks, in first place with the fans, Lou Garry,

Bill Slater with News shots from our sports album showing 1937's baseball greats and part of that year's all-star game. It's warm, but starting pitchers Gomez and Dean shake. Well, shake. Goofy and dizzy. The Daffiness Boys. Giants.

Carl Hubble greets Gomez. Oh, say there's my uncle Mike. Dick Bartell. The Giants famous rowdy Richard shows how he qualified for the All-Star lineup. One for four. One for four bases. That is

[Applause]

Billy Herman who'll play in the National League lineup. H missed that one. But while tuning up for the game, he topped one. He got to first when the pitcher threw the ball away.

The Chicago Cubs catcher Gabby Hartnett cuts a line single to left. He'll play for the National League. [Applause] In the American League lineup will be Joe Cronin, Senator Shortstop, and Detroit's Keystone Guardian, Charlie Garinger, shown in a little mid-season action. [Applause] [Music] The National League's Frank Dey is going to play, and here's one of the reasons. [Applause] Say there's my uncle Mike. Uh oh, too

late. That's Demory running home his home run. [Applause] See my uncle Mike? He's Oh, sorry. Here's a Joe that made the pitcher say Uncle Joe Medwick. Ducky and a specialty

of his developed while he was a member of the St. Louis Cards gas house gang. That one went all the way. And now let's get to the All-Star game. The queen of stands at Griffith Stadium, Washington includes Babe and Mrs. Ruth.

>> No, that's not my uncle Mike. It's Judge Landis. Roosevelt in the timehonored first ball toss. Dizzy Dean takes over on the firing line. Joe Dejo up. The Majo's on

first. See that, Uncle Mike? Well, you ain't seen nothing yet. Lou Gar one. What a ride the iron horse gave that ball. Keep going Lou. Uncle

Michael chase it. Gar circles the sacks. The Majjo scored ahead of him of course. Carl now pitching for the National League. [Applause] With two on base, the Yankees Red Ralph tags one for three bases. Hubble's got

troubles. [Applause] Doubles out. The Americans are in 8 to three. And I got to find my uncle Mike. Hey, there he is.

This is Bill Slater with news shots from our sports album showing American League top teams in training in 1926. Let's take a look at the Senators Walter Johnson chugging them in. The big train took it easy when warming up, but oh how he fogged them through when the season started.

The Senators Kovaleleski Johnson and Bullet Joe Bush hurling stars of the Washington Club in 26. The hitters work out in Tampa, Florida. Nick Altrock, Senator Cutup, tutored young pitchers. Hi there, Nick. Bucky Harris, youngest manager in the majors. Buckyy's dressed in queer

costume for baseball, but he's getting in shape.

Here's Harris with owner Clark Griffith. Harris team won the American League flag the year before, and he believed that golf helped his baseball timing.

But let's leave the green and get to the diamond. We're in Lakeland, Florida with the Cleveland Indians. This is Tris Speaker's team and the old master himself is banging them out to the infield.

Mainstay hurlers Denny Shot and George Ule putting a little something extra on the pill. And here's Shot and Ule in close. Catchers McCrae and Luke Su. Closeup of the men behind the Iron Mask. Now we're at Tarpon Springs, Florida to see the St. Louis Browns.

Manager George Sysler and Coach Austin. Sisler had no peer as a fielding first baseman. This is how he did it. The Browniey's pitching staff, Gerard, Zachary Robertson, and Van Gilder. Those babies could really burn him in.

A pitcher's got to know how to bunt. And when he doesn't learn too well, this is what happens. Ever hear the expression hung up? It means being trapped between bases. And this is generally the result.

It's time to leave the Browns and join the Yankees. It's St. Petersburg and that's Wait, Sam Jones, and Bob Shawy. Tony Lazari, star infielder, takes a healthy cut. And of course, there's the babe. Ruth,

often trained in heavy clothes to take off weight. Nick Cullip and the babe in closeup as we wind up.

New shots from our sports album showing the 193 36 World Series between the New York Yankees and Giants. Here are the Giants waiting for the word that starts the first game. Play ball. Yes, sir. This was an all New York series and the big town was in for a big time. Managers

Bill Terry and Joe McCarthy select Carl Hullen Red Ruffing as their starters. In the stands, Babe Ruth sits this one out. Governor Leman flips the first ball. Now we're in the game. In third inning, screw ball specialist Hubble hurling.

Selkerk connects. It's long enough. It's high enough. It's in there. It's a home run.

Sellerk replaced Ruth in right field for the Yankees. And here's Twinkletoes following in the Bambino's footsteps. Eighth inning, Bill Terry roughing rifles one in and Memphis Bill belts one to center for a clean single. Melot beats out a bunt. Manuso and Whitehead walk.

The bases are jammed with nobody out as Travis Jackson sends a sacrifice fly to Joe Dejo. A coming in after the catch.

Hubble up. Now watch this. Lazari in his haste to start a double play on Hubble's grounder. bobbles the ball and Manuso streaks to the plate. Lazari's throw to Dicki goes through the Yankee catcher and Whitehead also comes in to score as the Giants win the opener six to one [Applause] [Music] with the Yanks leading three games to two. Here's the sixth game. Freddy Fitz

Simmons pitches to Yankee Jake Pal who bangs out a single sacker bringing up Tony Lazari. Tony slams another single, moving Powell to second. [Applause] Lefty Gomez grabs hold of one and hoist it over Bartell's head. Powell scores and the Yankees lead. Ninth inning and Dick Kaufman pitching for the Giants with Deagio on third and Gary first. Bill Dicki bounces one to

Bill Terry, but Deagio scores as the throw goes through. catcher Hank Banning. [Applause] Gumber pitching for the Giants and Yankee relief hurler Johnny Murphy smacks a safety. Another run is in and the route is on. Frankie Crosetti works Gumbbert for a walk with the bases bulging with Yanks and Powell is forced home. But

Gumbbert's worries aren't over yet.

Red Roth grounds to Bartell and Crocetti Force. Two out. [Applause] The Majo single scoring Murphy. That's the game and the series.

This is Bill Slater with news shots from our sports album showing one of baseball's outstanding pitchers for nine years. The redible right-hand man of the St. Louis Cards, Dizzy Dean. Let's go, Diz. Throw, brother. How D could fog him

through. Diz might brag about his ability, but he'd go right out and prove it. A little lesson in control with Mrs. Dean, an innocent wifeander. Around goes the arm again. There it goes. Some top

flight target practice. Diz used to say that this is the way he found the strike zone. Not a hole in one, but one in a hole. Want to press your luck, D, once more. Yes, sir. It's

in there. And that, friends, is bewitching pitching. He's off. Don't go away, D. We're going to need you down in Jackson, Mississippi to give some instructions to a couple of youngsters. Hey, it's Halen Baseballs.

First, Diz shows them how to hold the ball. Grab it tight and keep the wrist loose. And here's the way to make it whiz, says Diz. Here goes the ball and there goes the boy. Only easy when D does it. Now,

let's see Dean in action. 1934 World Series. Dean's team, the Cardinals. Ready, boys? Wait for D. He's got to introduce his

brother, Dappy, to Detroit Schoolboy Row.

Now we're ready. This was Dean's best year. He won 30 and lost seven. Now, here's the dramatic climax in the fourth game. Dean hit by a thrown ball.

Roelle's throw hit D as he acted as a pinch runner. A hush settles over the crowd. His teammates carry the stricken hurler from the field, but the cards need him. And in the fifth game, he comes back to pitch. Garinger at bat. That one's going all the way in

the stands. Yes, it's a home run, but Dean stays in there. [Applause] In the seventh game, Dizzy Dean proves he's not only a pitcher, but a batter. D slams a fast ball for two bases, beginning a rally that had Detroit screaming for mercy. [Applause] Six runs later, same inning. Aer pitches

for Detroit and Dean up for the second time in the inning gets a Baltimore chop. The third baseman never even had time to make a play. Two hits in one inning for a pitcher. That's our dizz for the last pitch and the last out and the Cards win 11 to nothing. [Music] Though you struck them out or walked them or at times just plain out them, you're a better man than I am. Dizzy D.

This is Bill Slater with news shots from our sports album showing what happens when some of our congressmen stop playing politics to play baseball. It's capital sport. Washington DC senators and page boys select sides. That's Senator Pepper choosing to see which side gets last lakes.

Senators Rston, Copeland, and Harrison worked themselves into the kink of condition.

Vice President Daws, Kulage's running mate, led the Page Boys. But years later, Curtis Hoover's vice president fed them. And friends, I'm really talking turkey. Slice work if you can get it. Curtis is out after a scout. Halp.

News flash. Democrats and Republicans decide to play ball. Pennsylvania's Republican Kelly, South Carolina's Democrat McMillan. In the beginning, these contests were pretty informal, just a lot of fun for a few folks. But later on, while they Hey, duck dad, he nearly got you. That one

nearly got everybody. And what was I saying? Oh yes. Oh. Oh, just a second. Hey fellas, they went

that way. I started to tell you that in 1926, the baseball politicians moved into Griffith Stadium, fully equipped with uniforms, mascots, and a desire to mus their muscles. Every series ends up with a goat. This one starts with a donkey. A friend spies Longworth. Longworth

spies the friend. The FBI investigates this spying. Mrs. Longworth takes a long look while Longworth heaves on ball. Republicans up. It's hit out and a runs

in. Two more score. This Republican gets a head start. Didn't hurt a bit. President Kulage arrives to watch the 1928 game and is greeted by the Republican team.

The President's Party, non-politically speaking. McMillan and Kelly Longworth again. They used to call him Long for short. Nick Altrock ribs the players. Hey, don't rub it in.

Coolage contributes a curve. And the game starts. It's a hit. Hey, come here where you'll be safe. Had a boy.

Some fun. E pres. This isn't a ball game. It's a parade. There's two in another one. Still

another. Where'd you come from? Three in the first, four in the second, 13 in the third. Well, that's enough for me.

This is Bill Slater with news shots from our sports album showing high spots in the early career of the most important baseball individual of all time, the immortal Babe Ruth. One of Babe's most unusual home runs. as the Vambino slugs this one inside the park, races for the plate to beat the relay and just hits the dirt before the ball. Wow, that was close. Now, here's Ruth as a Red Sox pitcher.

He broke in as a hurler in 1914. And don't think he wasn't a great moundsman. It was because his big bat demanded everyday duty that he switched to the outfield. Here's a classic shot of the youthful Babe Ruth. Here was the idol of America, the boy from Baltimore who made baseball history.

Many honors came his way, and Babe gets a special reward from his wife. Boston fans were first to recognize his greatness. But in 1920, Ruth joined the New York Yankees. Kids were always his pride, and he'd rather make them laugh than hit a home run.

More honors this time in Baltimore. The great man was a great favorite. Yes, sir. No man in baseball had more friends, more followers, and he never let them down. A little clowning with the Yankees.

The babe gets organized. This is Yankee Stadium, built in 1923, mainly because of Ruth's popularity. Nick Altrock interviews the babe. Nick's story is definitely not for our sports album. Official opening of Yankee Stadium. The

babe bangs one into the right field stands in the very first game played at the Yankees new home grounds. Then illness caused a temporary retirement of the Sultan of SWAT, but he returned in 1925 to set his sights on Roofville, the stands in right field. Yes, sir. The Babe came back strong and met the ball even better than ever. First time at the plate after being laid up.

Babe is an easy out, but after that, well, when he swung, everybody ducked. That ball blazed like a bullet when he connected. This is the sight the fans came to see. Ruth circling the sacks after a circuit clout. Ruth hit his 60 homers in 1927. Watch

him fans as he swings around the bases. You're watching Diamond History. This was Babe Ruth, Mr. Baseball. [Music]

This is Bill Slater with new shots from our sports album showing what happens when girls will be boys, women in baseball. And we're ready after the pitcher takes the shine off the ball and the catcher the shine off her nose. The Black Cats are playing the Bulldogs in Florida. Hit the dirt. Ooh, that hurt. Dangerous

curves ahead. If at first you do succeed, now what? The pitch, the hit. There she goes. What's that? The umpire says she's

out, brother. He isn't safe. Lots of fun, eh, kids? Let's go on to Philadelphia in 1927 to see another girls team. Captains Jenny Phillips and Bill Maine.

Bill's club is in the field as one of the Philly Phillies whacks out a one baser. More power at the plate. Another gals on.

I think the first baseman is tired of the scenery. Honey, see that he takes a little trip. Hm. Nosy, isn't she? One of the misses misses. Not this time,

though. She's on first. On second, on third. She's home. Well, that's where a woman's place is, isn't it? Here's

another first lady of baseball, Josie Caruso. How about a little demonstration, Josie? Okay, says my lady. If she picks out a bat, I'll show you how to do it.

Josie wraps one out and beats one out. Josie the bag. That's it. Now you can go on to second. Is she up again? She must

own the ball. Well, let's go over to Dykeman in New York to watch the Bloomer Girls.

Rumor is that the bloomers are tops. The batters hit on the hand. Watch for a finger wave. The wind up, the pitch, the swing, the hit, the crowd, the excitement, and what happened? Nothing.

Here's something. The bloomers are blooming. Another safe rap. Talking of raps, what have we here? No, she's not a convict. She just came to play ball.

Count on the gal. Strike one. Prisoners versus police. And our girlfriend has been drafted for duty by the felons. And here's the one-way stretch.

A sweet dish at the dish. She practiced this for years on end. The end.

This is Bill Slater with news shots from our sports album showing the key plays and players in the 1935 World Series Detroit versus Chicago. Cub pitcher Lon Warick. Old Lon could really steam them in. Navenfield, Detroit, scene of the first game. Managers Mickey Cochran and Charlie Grim. That's Mickey.

Here's Detroit's Keystone Guardian, Charlie Garinger. The Cubs clouting Chuck Klein. Okay, everybody, it's game time with Detroit's school boy row pitching to Auggie Galan, Cub switch hitting outfielder who bangs a long one to left center and beats the throw to second. [Music] Plenty of action here. Billy Herman tops one down the third baseline. Row makes

the play, but his throw to first is wild and Galan scores. Herman has moved to second and Gabby Hartnett slaps a sharp single. Herman coming in to carry the second Cub run and the Cubs cup the opener three to nothing. The sixth game, Graham McName at the mic. Detroit leads in the series three games to two and Larry French deals one to Tigers Pete Fox with two on Fox doubles.

One run is in. Third inning, Cubs up. Galan on first, Billy Jurgus on third. Herman singles and the score is tied. Now the big Chicago fifth. Billy Herman,

hitting hero of the Windy City Club, gets the wood on one of Tommy Bridges's fast balls. And out of the park it goes with one of his Cub comrades making the circuit ahead of him. And Chicago leads 3-2. [Music] But Detroit isn't through yet. No sir.

Sixth inning. Billy Roguela. The Tigers have already come clawing back with one run in this inning. And Roguel smash is good for two bases. A ground rules double.

That's the tying run on second base now. And Rogel must score if Detroit's to stay in the ball game. A hit and Roguel is in. [Music] [Applause] All even now. Ninth inning. Mickey

Cochran pokes one and it's through for a base hit. [Music] A grounder to first and Cochran pulls up at second. [Music] Here comes Goose Gosling up. The goose slaps a one bagger to center. Cochran scores. Detroit wins the sixth game four

to three and snags the series four games to two. No sir, you couldn't hold those Tigers in 1935. [Music]

This is Bill Slater with new shots from our sports album showing some oldtime baseball stars in action. Los Angeles, California, and ball playing the easy way. The boys are not really this old. They're just ready and wheeling. And now a close play and some beeping around the bush. Uh-oh.

Remember Mike Donland of the Giants, Detroit Sam Crawford, and Cleveland Stoel? And Jack Ness, one-time Pacific co-star, back in action. This game's for charity, and Ness has joined a host of top stars of yesterday in a comedy diamond session. This fellow looked like Dan Beard, safe by a whisker. Okay, who's next? The throw, the blow.

Go on, go. He's over the hill and the bag. Now for Boston to watch former stars at it again. Carrian, Collins, and Barry. Sai Young and Duke Frell.

Jack Manning, Tom Bond, and Tom Smith. Nick Altrock bolsters his baton average. Fred Tenny and Jim Collins. We're in Catalina now to spot Cub manager Mitchell and Charlie Buck Herszog. Frank Schulty, former Cub batting leader, takes a couple of cuts.

This is Bill Kiliper, Cub catcher, soon to be a manager. Big Jim Vaughn, who in 1918 hurled against Babe Ruth in a World Series. Get a look at an oldtime star in action around the infield. It's the flashy fielding ground gobbling rabbit Moranville. We'll leave the Cubs to watch Tris Speaker as a Cleveland manager.

He can still show the boys how to hit. And this is Eddie Collins. Collins was with the Chicago White Socks from 198 to 1928. Another memory name, Huie Jennings. Renowned for his battlecry. Yeea

like to see an all-time great at the plate. It's Hiny Grow. Watch him. Grow's bottle bat was famous as well as his daring on the bases. We told you about Huie Jennings and his well this is how he did it. He's a coach

with the Giants here in 1922 and the Giants are in the World Series against the Yankees. Frankie FR is up and he likes that pitch. The boredom flash lices at the center, gets ambitious and almost gets nab. The flash raises some dust as we lower the curtain.

This is Bill Slater with new shots from our sports album highlighting the career of that fence busting favorite of the Philadelphia A's, outfielder Al Simmons. [Music] That's the swing that got Simmons a 381 average in 1930. Al Simmons in action. Here's a home run in 1931, the year he batted 390 and cpped the batting crown for the second successive year. The balls in the left field pavilion and Simmons is on route to the dugout after his allout clout.

[Music] Simmons at the top of his career when he received the Sporting News Award as an outstanding diamond performer.

The man credited with developing Simmons A's manager Connie Mack. A batting lesson from Al. Three bats on route to the plate so that his own will feel lighter. Dirt out of the spike so he can dig in and get a tow hole.

Then a line drawn with the bat to give him the range. And Simmons is almost set. The powerful grip and flexible wrist that lap up those long ones. You couldn't be lazy chasing a Simmons sock. A slight laps in the outfield and now picked them up and steamed down to second.

He put on a show every time. Here he is in practice pulling a line drive, putting his head down and churning around those sacks while the fielders frantically relay the ball in a feudal effort to head him off at home.

The newspapers carried his daily batting average and his fielding record.

Simmons in the field was a study and relaxed concentration. When the ball came his way, he was off with the smack. Now watch this. Here's a hit labeled two bases, but Simmons speed holds it to a single. an outfield fly and Al fades back to grab it easily.

When they come on the line, they're a little tougher, but Simmons sprints, throws up his gloved hand, and drags it down.

Even the people across the street are waiting for Simmons to slam one. And suppose we see it, too. An opening day in Shide Park, and Simmons gets ready to park one. There it goes out of the field and almost on that roof. Al Simmons who could hit run and field and who rates with the greats of all time.

[Applause] [Music]

This is Bill Slater with news shots of star baseball players who joined the armed forces in World War II. Shown in 1944 as the seventh Army Air Force team played Fort Chapter in Hawaii. Joe Dejo, Air Force veteran for three years. Dejo's baseball playing helped entertain his buddies. >> Here's Joe in an Army interview.

>> Welcome to the Pacific, Joe. Uh, how'd you like your trip over? >> Well, we had a little rough trip, but I uh rather enjoyed it. It's quite an experience. >> How do you like playing for the Army, Joe?

>> I don't mind it very much at all. As a matter of fact, I'm quite enjoying it. Although uh I'm looking forward someday to getting back with the Yankees. >> I understand you used to play with some of these men before. Uh Joe, uh how about that? You know these men?

>> Yes, I do. As a matter of fact, we have first here Jerry Pretty, formerly the New York Yankees and uh the Washington uh Senators. And we also have uh Daretta Janney, formerly of the Philadelphia Athletics, now with the White Sox, I should say, now with the seventh arm here for us. and also Mick McCormick, the Cincinnati Reds. >> Well, that's Well, Joe, uh, these boys been playing with you now or used to play against them before. Is that the

idea? >> That's right. We're all in one team now. >> I see. One great team, the Army.

>> That's it. >> Okay, Joe. >> Baseball gave a big lift to Army morale and big leaguers were anxious to play. AAF pitcher D Rose. Some of the watching GIS had never seen stars like Bob Dillinger, Jerry Pretty, and of course, Sergeant Dejo.

Demage connects. And though it's an easy fly ball, the GIS get a kick out of seeing Joe belt one. Next up is big leager Liani. He picks one he likes, swings. Play at first is close. Look out.

Next batter, the National League's Mike McCcomick. Another of the crack ball players who went from the national pastime to national defense.

Two out now and it'll take a long clout to bring Mike home. And that one just isn't long enough.

No score in the game as Jerry Pretty swings in the seventh inning and speeds to first. The star second sacker served in 44 and 45. Deagio up again. This time it's in the ninth and the game is scoreless, but Joe flies out.

It's extra innings, but the GIS don't mind. Jerry Pretty again in the 13th. He's out, but the AAF beats Fort Chapter one to nothing. You know what they say, nothing can stop the Army Airore.

This is Bill Slater with New shots from our sports album showing the private life of baseball's greatest hero, Babe Ruth. Here's the babe with his own baby. She's 16 months old and her daddy's real proud of her. This is a side of the great bambino the public never saw.

The babe liked only one thing better than playing ball, and that was playing with his daughter. A typical father with time out for his tot.

Puppies too came in for inspection and affection. Love him, don't you, honey? Everybody did. Babe's farm in Sudbury, Massachusetts, saw the bambino doing the chores. A little cowtowing with Bossy.

Won't the little girl have fun with these pups? Chicks, cows, dogs, rabbits. Ruth had them all. Ruth and the rabbit habit. The farm served a two-fold purpose. It

helped the bambino relax and also keep in condition. Here, Ruth gets ready for a look at the lake from this canoe. He wielded almost as potent an axe as a bat. And after the chopping session, he stocks up for the winter. Let's leave the babe in his farm with this shot and follow him to Hollywood.

Here's

the Sultan of SWAT in the movie capital, camera, action, drama, and of course, romance. Nice work if you can get it. And he got it. Back home for some serious conditioning. getting a little waste off that waistline.

The babe spent a lot of time doing gym work

and didn't neglect his legs of ball players best asset with Trainyard McGovern in a different kind of swatty.

Leaving the gym, Ruth tried golf. Here he is with Walter Hagen.

He misses a putt even as you and I. Let's look at Babe Ruth in 1930. The scene is Nickerbacher Hospital and the bambino is making a lot of kids a lot happier. On the diamond or off it, he still held on to your heart. This was Babe Ruth.

This is Bill Slater with news shots from our sports album showing highlights of the 1934 World Series between the Detroit Tigers and the St. Louis Cards. Cardinal aces Rip Collins, Pepper Martin, Johnny Rothrock. Its opening game Navenfield Detroit. manager talk.

>> Congratulations on the great fight you made in this uh past season. >> Best of luck. >> The same to you. Lots of luck to you. You're a great fellow and a great man.

Well, lots of luck. >> Dizzy Dean predicts the outcome. >> I think at the St. Louis Cardinal of 1934 will win the World Series with this great pitching as we have. And we, I will say, went down the fighting stretch of this year. And I say that we're going

right on through the World Series the same way. I thank you. Dean starts for the Cards. Crowder for Detroit. No score yet. Dizzy's up.

He's out, but Rothrock's hit scores Orai from third with the first run of the ball game. Detroit's half of the third. Two on. Dean's in his first jam. Garinger tags one and speeds down to first.

Ernie Orsotti fumbles the ball. White scores and Garinger gallops into second. No more scoring in that half and now it's the Cards turn. Medwick blasts a bullet into the left field stands and goes all the way. Ducky's home run is the big blow as the Tigers blow the opener 8 to three.

With the series tied, three games each. Here's the payoff game. Third inning, Dizzy Dean up. A solid smash and D starts off the inning steaming into second safely. [Music] Pepper Martin slams a single. Dean

holding at third. [Music] Martin steals and Rothrock walks. With the bases bulging, Frankie Fr whacks a double and Dean Martin and Rothrock paddle over to Demp the Dishes. The Cards fly in to high. Seven runs in this inning, but St. Lou isn't through.

[Music] Sixth inning, Medwick up. Now watch a typical gas house base runner in action. Medwick's hit is an ordinary twoagger, but Ducky legs it for third under full steam and hits the dirt with his spikes high. [Music] [Applause] [Music] The crowd is down on Medwick and when he gets back in the outfield, they let him know it. Medwick clears away the grandstand barrage, but because of the fans attitude, Judge Landis sees fit to oust Medwick. And the

game goes on. Team pitching for the final out. And there it is. A simple ground ball. The game's over. The series is over.

The Cards win 11 to 0. Oh.

This is Bill Slater with news shots from our sports album showing the unusual and girl aquatic activities. H that girl certainly has the weight of the world on her shoulders, hasn't she? Well, we straightened her out. Just a few things to pacify the Pacific. Apparently bathing suits them.

How does the ocean feel? Swell. Help wanted a male. The winner. A cup for her sorcery.

The laugh rose of summer. Early birds come down at dawn to dunk. [Music] Hey, you want to get those suits wet? A bit of a takeoff on a takeoff. Z sounds. We've been found.

Here's something new. A gal on a diving trapeze. Exhale. [Music] Inhale. She went for a trout and got a perch.

Let's try that again. Ready, steady, go. Ah, come on back again. This is fun. Let's try it once more.

Gosh, doesn't that girl ever miss? Oh well, let's watch Lotty the log roller. She's going to fall for that guy. See? But she can get over a guy like him.

You know why they do this? Uh, just for a log. This is a contest now and it ends in a very wet tie. One down now 29. Skoo, we will now have tennis as it should never be played. Oh,

the shoe offs. The girls are about to combine two sports, tennis and pool. The game continues indefinitely or until a man appears. Just a couple of racket deers. The atmosphere is fine. The food is

good, but the service is bad. Well, here's one way to keep cool. Playing bridge requires a cool head. Pretty hard to hold a hot hand here. The winners have the game on ice.

Wait, there's cheating going on. Go on, get off. Slide. Okay, Maisie, at least you didn't have an ace up your sleeve.

Nothing like a cool pool. Nothing to produce it like some nice ice. Nothing more enjoyable than not going in. This is real Steven Foster inspiration. Ice are coming and eyes are going.