---
video_title: "1930s DUDE RANCH TRIP, RODEO AND NATIVE AMERICANS AT THE ALLAN RANCH   AUGUSTA, MONTANA CS10245"
video_id: 4nEczlQSoC4
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4nEczlQSoC4
video_date: 2026-04-17T19:29:48+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Related film: https://youtu.be/0emoWmLBizE
  
  This well-produced silent, amateur 16mm home movie shows part of a Montana dude ranch trip made in the 1930s. The film shows a family visiting what we believe to be the Allan Ranch near Augusta, which was run by Ralph Allan, a licensed guide and packer who advertised that he could "pack you into good game country." It also shows a visit to a local church, beautiful images of Native Americans including both men and women, a baseball game, and a rodeo with bucking broncos. 
  
  0:00 views of the ranch including the stockade and cowboys on horseback
  0:54 a handsome Native American is seen walking by. He reappears in a moment.
  1:02 ranch buildings
  1:08 shots of a teepee and the Native American poses for the camera. (Note: Montana is home to several federally recognized Native American tribes, including the Assiniboine, Blackfeet, Chippewa, Crow, Gros Ventre, Kootenai, Nez Perce, Northern Cheyenne, Pend d'Oreille, Salish, and Sioux.)
  1:16 another Native American mocks the cameraman,holding his hands to his face. Shots of the interior (?) of the teepee. 
  1:42 a guest / tourist shakes the hand of the Indian
  1:55 the guests take a horseback ride
  2:05 demonstration of steer roping by a cowboy
  2:12 Native American women watch the roping
  2:27 tourist boys get a chance at herding and roping steers
  3:00 a miniature rodeo is put on for guests, with cowboys throwing roping and throwing steers
  4:20 shots outside a local church, probably attending Sunday services. 
  4:46 Native American cowboys ride past the camera. A horse drawn buckboard wagon is also on the road.
  5:28 Chow line 
  5:33 Mothers, tourists, and guests idle on a stockade fence
  6:07 Baseball game on the fields of Montana
  7:30 Bronco riding, rodeo exhibition
  8:12 Native American squaws look back on the camera
  8:40 the rodeo continues into the dusk...
  
  
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
I'm going to make a little bit of a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole here. I'm going to make a little bit of a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. I'm going to make a hole in the middle of the hole. You You