---
video_title: "\" VIEW OF THE SOVIET WORLD / REPORT FROM MOSCOW \"  1942 WWII NEWSREEL W/ ERSKINE CALDWELL GG32595"
video_id: BiWl2E3lfo8
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BiWl2E3lfo8
video_date: 2026-08-06T16:29:50+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Dating to summer of 1942, "A View of the Soviet World" presents an interview with American novelist and reporter  Erskine Caldwell. he briefly tells of the civilian defense work he witnessed during a trip to Moscow. The film shows hows the Russians are carrying out their pledge of "All for Victory!" including efforts in huge metallurgical plants, the oil industry, the rapid harvest, nurses drilling, and Red Cross work. Caldwell was an American novelist and short story writer.  His writings about poverty, racism and social problems in his native Southern United States, in novels such as Tobacco Road and God's Little Acre, won him critical acclaim. In 1941, Caldwell reported from the USSR for Life magazine, CBS radio and the newspaper PM.
  
  00:00 Opens with music setting a somber tone before transitioning into a firsthand account of the bombing of Moscow  0:42 Caldwell vividly describes the night skies lit by anti-aircraft fire—an eerie, almost theatrical display of pyrotechnics aimed at German planes. The sounds of shrapnel and falling bombs create a tense atmosphere. Among the chaos, brave citizens known as roof watchers work tirelessly to extinguish incendiary bombs dropped by the Germans, often from dangerous rooftop positions. Their efforts are portrayed as the most crucial work taking place in the city during this time.
  
  As the bombing continues, the resilience of Moscow’s population becomes evident 2:16: Rather than breaking their spirit, the attacks have strengthened their determination to resist the invaders. The entire population appears mobilized, with people performing various defense-related tasks, from filling sandbags to engaging in construction—anything to contribute to the war effort. This communal dedication reflects an unwavering commitment to achieving victory.
  
  Attention then shifts to the broader military front 3:36: The Red Army is said to have upended Hitler’s expectations. The Blitzkrieg aimed at the Soviet Union has failed, transforming into a long and bloody conflict. This is followed by a critical mention of Nazi propaganda 5:27: questioning how Goebbels might spin the narrative to hide the extensive losses suffered by the German military in terms of planes, tanks, and entire divisions shattered by Soviet forces.
  
  The video emphasizes the total war effort by the Soviet people 6:35:No sacrifice is too great; citizens are fully committed to victory. Industry plays a central role, with metallurgists increasing steel and iron output to supply tanks, planes, and artillery. Simultaneously, oil production continues around the clock. 7:13: New drilling regions ensure that fuel supplies remain abundant, guaranteeing the military will never face shortages.
  
  Agricultural productivity is also highlighted. 8:34: From the steppes of the Don to the fields of Kazakhstan, Soviet citizens harvest food and materials to support the army. Bread, oil, and metal are provided in abundance to sustain both military and civilian needs. This unity and productivity reflect the people's complete dedication to defending their homeland.
  
  The theme of personal sacrifice deepens with the mention of mass blood donations 9:02: Hundreds of thousands of citizens give blood for wounded soldiers, exemplifying the selflessness pervading the country. Soviet women and girls also step up 10:20: training as Red Cross workers and serving bravely at the front lines, often under fire. Their heroism has saved countless lives.
  
  The film closes with a reaffirmation that all citizens of the Soviet Union—men and women, young and old—are united in a selfless struggle for victory over fascism 11:42: A note of patriotic resolve. The End.
  
  
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
What have you seen during the night of bombing in Moscow? I've seen many things during the bombing of Moscow. Perhaps the strangest thing is the night sights of pyrotechnics in the air. The many different types and kinds of fire that goes into the air of German planes is perhaps a show in one sense of the word because it is about the greatest demonstration of air defense I have ever seen anywhere. While this firing is going on in multi-colored form also in multi-shaped form there are all kinds of sounds that fall about you.

Sometimes it's the sound of falling shrapnel. Sometimes it is the sound of a demolition bomb that might be coming too close to you. Other things I have seen during the bombing have been people. These people are the roof watches, the people who put out the fires from the fire bombs that the Germans dropped. I have seen these people scamper across precarious positions, sharp roofs dropping these bombs to the ground where they smothered in sand. I have seen

these people work like Trojans to keep these bombs from setting fire to the city and I think they have succeeded. I don't believe there's any other work going on in Moscow at the present time that compares with the activity that the people engage in during the night on rooftops. How is Moscow's population affected by bombing? I think the bombing of Moscow has filled its population with determination to see that the city is never conquered by the invaders. I don't believe that any city has ever started out to win a war with such determination. I have seen people

working on the streets filling sandbags. I have seen them doing every kind of imaginable work. The whole object seems to be not to have a job during these times but to contribute something to the defense of the country. I believe the whole population has mobilized itself just for that one purpose to achieve victory in this war.

The Red Army has upset all the calculations of Hitler. The Blitzkrieg against the Soviet Union has turned into a prolonged and bloody war.

What lies can Goebbels invent to cover the fascist losses in planes and tanks captured and divisions shattered by the Red Army?

How little these Hitlerite cutthroats resemble an unconquerable army.

For their country, for victory over the hated enemy, no sacrifices are too dear for the Russian people.

Metallurgists increase the output of iron and steel. The army is amply supplied with tanks, artillery, planes, and shells.

Day and night, an army of oil workers drill the rich fields in the oil regions. New regions turn out hundreds of thousands of tons of oil.

Tanks and planes experience no lack of fuel, nor will they lack fuel.

In the South steps of the Don, in the fertile fields of Kazakhstan, everywhere over the vast land, the Soviet people gather the fruits of their free labor.

Bread, as well as iron and oil, is amply supplied to the great army and country risen in defense of honor and freedom. To this, the peoples of the Soviet Union devote everything. Their labor, all their energy, their very blood.

Hundreds of thousands of donors present their blood to the country for their wounded brothers fighting at the front.

Throughout the country, Soviet women and girls are ready for Red Cross work at the front.

How many of these girls work at the front under enemy fire? How many the men they have saved from death by their heroism?

All the people of the Soviet Union are selflessly at work for victory over bloody fascism.