---
video_title: "\" HARRY S. TRUMAN THE PRESIDENCY \"   1961 PRESIDENT TRUMAN BIOGRAPHY TV SHOW    GG47565"
video_id: KJs4F61Vf0I
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KJs4F61Vf0I
video_date: 2026-08-21
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films! Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This film, "Harry S. Truman: The Presidency" (1961) is one of the series of "Biography" TV shows created by David Wolper and hosted by Mike Wallace.  This film centers on Harry Truman's unlikely victory in the 1948 presidential election. It recounts his campaign, the predictions of his defeat, and his ultimate triumph. The script also touches on other significant events during his presidency, including his foreign policy initiatives and the Korean War.
  
  00:00 The film opens with a recollection of election night, where a broadcaster predicted Truman's defeat.1:18 - Introduction to Harry Truman's biography.2:06 - In 1948, despite predictions of defeat, Truman decides to run for president.2:26 - Truman begins a 30,000-mile whistle-stop tour.3:46 - Reporters view his speeches as uninspiring, and polls show him far behind.4:04 - In Detroit, Truman starts to criticize the Republican-controlled 80th Congress.4:41 - Truman leads a divided Democratic Party, facing opposition from Southern Democrats (Dixiecrats) and Henry Wallace's Progressive Party.5:17 - Republican candidate Thomas Dewey is favored to win.5:34 - Truman campaigns energetically.6:21 - Truman attacks Republicans during his campaign stops.6:38 - The contrast between Dewey's campaign train and Truman's is highlighted.6:54 - Dewey expresses confidence in his victory.7:32 - Truman campaigns in Dewey's home state of New York.8:12 - Election day arrives, with Dewey confident of winning.8:26 - Truman returns home to Independence, Missouri, to vote.8:43 - The nation awaits the election results.8:55 - Initial returns favor Truman, but Republicans remain unworried.9:21 - A Republican campaign manager declares Dewey the winner in New York.9:37 - The race remains close, with surprising Democratic Senate victories.10:06 - Dewey acknowledges the Democratic gains in Congress but still expects to win the presidency.10:15 - Democratic leaders are surprised by Truman's strong showing.10:38 - Truman wins Ohio, securing the election.10:51 - Dewey concedes the election to Truman.11:24 - Truman describes his reaction to winning the election.12:41 - Truman and Vice President Alben Barkley return to Washington.12:48 - Newspapers acknowledge their mistaken predictions.12:56 - Truman comments on his unexpected victory.14:02 - Truman relaxes after the campaign.14:16 - January 22, 1949: Truman is inaugurated.14:30 - Truman outlines his foreign policy program, including extending the Truman Doctrine and the Marshall Plan, and establishing NATO.15:40 - Truman's daughter, Margaret, becomes a public figure.16:58 - A music critic gives Margaret a negative review, leading to a threat from Truman.17:51 - A congressional committee investigates Truman's military advisor, General Harry Vaughn.18:48 - Senator Joseph McCarthy accuses the Truman administration of being soft on communism.19:14 - In June 1950, North Korea invades South Korea.19:22 - Truman decides to intervene in Korea.19:52 - General Douglas MacArthur is appointed commander of UN forces.20:05 - Truman meets with MacArthur.20:35 - Chinese communist troops attack in Korea.20:46 - MacArthur advocates attacking communist bases in China, but Truman refuses.21:17 - Truman relieves MacArthur of his command, leading to controversy.22:46 - Truman nears the end of his term and announces he will not seek reelection.23:31 - In 1953, Truman escorts Dwight Eisenhower to his inauguration.23:56 - Truman returns to his hometown of Independence, Missouri.24:28 - Truman is described as an average man.24:58 - Truman reflects on his unexpected political career.
  
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music]

I had my sandwich and glass of buttermilk and went to bed at 6:30 and along about 12:00 I happened to wake up for some reason and the radio was turned on on the National Broadcasting Company and Mr. Kelton Barn was saying, "While the president is a million votes ahead in the popular vote, we have yet to hear [Applause] from and we are very sure that when the country vote comes in, Mr. Truman will be defeated by an overwhelming majority. [Applause] and I went back to bed and went to sleep. [Applause] His name is Harry Truman and this is his biography.

[Applause]

Heat. Heat.

I'm Mike Wallace. This is our story. Harry Truman. In 1948, when he announced his decision to run for the presidency, polltakers, party leaders, and virtually every newspaper in the country flatly declared that Harry Truman could not be elected. But Truman had other ideas. I'm

going to make a common sense campaign. He said it will be a novelty and it will win. Late in the summer of 1948, President Harry Truman sets out on a 30,000mi whistle stop tour of the United States. He doesn't stand a chance, say Democratic Party leaders. And this trip is going to be heartbreaking for him and for us.

He starts a gruelling tour that will take him from coast to

coast. I want to talk to the people, says Harry Truman, about their jobs, their homes, their needs, and their fears. Get every vote out on election day and make it count. You can't afford to waste your votes this year. I'm not asking you just to vote for me. Vote for yourselves. Vote for

your farm. Vote for the standard of living that you've won under a Democratic administration. Get out there on election day and vote for your future. [Music] Reporters label most of his speeches tired, hackne, and they write that the crowds are curious. One national poll says Truman is so far behind that it's foolish to continue sampling opinion. But then in

Detroit, Harry Truman begins hammering away at the Republican controlled 80th Congress. If the congressional elements that made the taft Hartley law are allowed to remain in power and if these elements are further encouraged by the election of a Republican president, you men of labor can expect to be hit by a steady barrage of body blows. And if you stay at home as you did in 1946 and keep these reactionaries in power, you'll deserve every blow you get. Truman is hitting his stride, but he leads a badly split Democratic party. He has enraged the South with his liberal civil rights platform, and some southern Democrats have organized their own party. They are called the

Dixierats. South Carolina's Governor STM Thurman is their candidate for president. Thurman can't win, but he can take votes away from Truman. A one-time Democratic vice president, Henry Wallace, now heads the progressive party, and he expects to draw liberal Democratic support away from Truman in this election. The Republican candidate, Thomas Dwey, is delighted by the three-way Democratic split. He is the overwhelming favorite,

and his campaign is a study in confidence and complacency.

But Harry Truman refuses to believe he's beaten. He loves to campaign, writes one reporter. Truman's swing around the nation closely resembles a one-man circus.

Truman thrives on the grinding schedule. His exhausted staff find it hard to keep up with him. But I like it, says the 64year-old Truman. I even gained weight on the [Music] trip. Even at tiny railroad junctions, he goes all out. He slashes away at the

Republicans and their candidate. They're glutton of privilege, he declares. They're cunning men with a dangerous lust for power. The plush victory special carrying Tom Dwey makes the Truman train look like a Tunerville trolley. And wherever he stops, Dwey draws large crowds.

I pledge to you that on next January 20, there will begin in Washington the biggest unraveling, unsnaraling, untangling operation in our nation's history. The decisive battle has arrived. The people are going to have to choose one side or the other. The Democratic Party and I have nothing to conceal. We are proud of our record.

All right, I'm doing [Applause] it. Near the end of the campaign, Truman invades Dwy's own backyard in upstate New York. Even the weather turns against Truman. It's typical Democratic weather, he says. But he's heartened by the large crowds that show up despite the [Music] rain. Pollsters and reporters are still

unimpressed. Truman has traveled 31,000 miles and talked to 12 million people. But say most observers, it isn't enough. Truman's party is too weak. They say the Republicans will sweep everything. Election day 1948.

[Music] In New York, the confident Republican candidate arrives at the

polls. Harry Truman returns to his home at Independence, Missouri to cast his

vote. Now he says there's nothing to do but wait. The decision rests with 45 million [Music] Americans. New York's Time Square, traditionally jammed with people on election night, is almost deserted. The allei is a foregone conclusion. At Dwy's headquarters in New

York, champagne flows freely. Victory is in the air. The first returns put Truman in the lead, but the Republicans aren't worried. And then Republican campaign manager Herbert. We now know that Governor Dwey will carry New York State by at least 50,000 votes and that he will be the next president of the United States.

But the race between Truman and Dwey remains close. And in surprising upsets, a number of Democratic senatorial candidates are being swept into office. Hubert Humphrey, the mayor of Minneapolis, wins a Senate seat in normally Republican Minnesota. Paul Douglas, a former college professor, becomes the Democratic senator from Illinois. Estus Keover, a political unknown, chalks up a Senate victory for the Democrats in Tennessee. Tom Dwey realizes that

control of Congress is swinging to the Democrats, but he still expects to win the presidential race. At Democratic headquarters, party leaders who had given up on Truman now find it hard to believe that he is still very much in the running. He still has to win Ohio if he's to be elected. If he doesn't, the election will have to be decided by the House of Representatives, controlled at this moment by the Republicans. In the early hours of the morning, by less than 8,000 votes, Truman carries Ohio and the [Music] election. Later in the morning, Thomas

Dwey makes it official. I've sent the following wire to President Truman. My heartiest congratulations to you on your election and every good wish for a successful administration. I urge all Americans to unite behind you in support of every effort to keep our nation strong and free and to establish peace in the world. Harry Truman has won the greatest political upset in the nation's history.

[Music] At a victory dinner, he describes how he spent the momentous night on which he was elected president of the United States. And I went back to bed and went to

sleep. At about 4:00 in the morning, the chief of the Secret Service came in and said, "Mr. President, I think you better get up and listen to the the broadcast. We've been listening all night." And I said, "All right." I

turned the darn thing on and there was Mr. Kelton born [Applause] again. And then Mr. Harkness came on and analyzed the situation. I called the Secret Service men and I said, "We better go back to Kansas City. Looks as

if I'm elected." Around about 10:00, I got a telegram which said that the the uh election was over and that uh I should be congratulated on the fact that I had won the election. And apparently it was too bad, but it had [Applause] [Music] happened. Harry Truman, the newly elected president, and his vice president, Alvin Barkley, returned to Washington, says one newspaper that didn't give him a chance to win. We are ready to eat crow whenever you're ready to serve it, Mr. President. I don't want

anyone to eat crow, Truman says, but he cannot resist the temptation to make one last comment about his remarkable election upset. I'm happy to be here talking to you once more from the same old stand. [Applause] This right where I expected to be.

I don't know whether you remember it or not, but I told you on the 19th of February February last year, you were looking at the next president, and you [Applause]

are. There were a lot of people at that time who disagreed with me. I'm sorry to have disappointed them. [Applause] Harry Truman relaxes after the long grind of the campaign. He doesn't mind being seen in public looking very much like the average American on a [Music] vacation. January 22nd,

1949, President Harry Truman takes the oath of office.

The coming years, our program for peace and freedom will emphasize four major courses of action. On this Chile inauguration day, Harry Truman immediately outlines his four-point program for guiding the nation's foreign policy. The Truman Doctrine and the Marshall Plan will be extended to help nations now threatened by communist aggression. One of the key provisions of Truman's program is the establishment of the first peacetime military treaty in the history of the United States. We will strengthen freedom loving nations against the dangers of aggression. We are working out with a

number of countries a joint agreement designed to strengthen the security of the North Atlantic area. The primary purpose of these agreements is to provide unmistakable proof of the joint determination of the free countries to resist armed attack from any corner. Harry Truman calls the founding of NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, one of his proudest achievements.

Margaret Truman, because she is the president's daughter, has become something of a national celebrity. She must even hold an occasional press conference to satisfy the public's curiosity about her. After 25 concerts, Miss Margaret, could you summarize for us what you've learned about singing and about people? I've learned a great deal about singing, getting audience reactions to various songs that I sing on my program. I always did think people were nice, but after I've been on this tour, I know they are. Have the Secret

Service men bothered you much on tour? Well, they follow me on tour, but I they don't go with me on my dates. Do you want to take a bet on that? Oh, I'm positive they don't. I put my foot down on that in the beginning. Margaret

Truman's intention not to marry until she's found the right man gets as much attention as her budding singing career. Margaret, how about this famous crack of your father's I'd rather have children than a primadana grandchildren. [Music] Start over. Start over.

[Music] stand.

A Washington music critic gives Margaret an unfavorable review and the next day he receives a note from her enraged father threatening to punch the critic in the nose. to the

wide [Music] bless my home sweet home. Wonderful. Margaret Truman unwittingly becomes the center of controversy because of her father's remarks. I've been accused, says Truman, of putting the apple of my eye in a bad position. I don't think I have, he adds. And neither does she,

thank the Almighty. In the summer of 1949, a congressional committee investigates the activities of General Harry Vaughn, a military adviser to the president. He's part of what the press calls the kitchen cabinet. Some of them Truman's hometown friends who have been given jobs in Washington. At the hearing, Harry Vaughn answers charges that he has misused White House influence. My association

with President Truman covers a period of some 30 years. increase from persons having business with various government agencies come to my attention in my capacity as a member of the White House staff. At no time have I taken action as a member of the White House staff in exchange for a gift or other favor. But the charges and the sensational headlines created by the Senate hearings cast a shadow of doubt over the Truman administration. Then on the heels of this incident from United States Senator Joseph McCarthy come charges that the Truman administration is coddling communists. The controversy stirred up

by the Senate hearings brings a bitter counterattack from the president. Demagogues, crackpots, and professional patriots, he says, are pumping fear into the American people.

On June 25th, 1950, the Republic of South Korea reels under an invasion by North Korean communists. President Truman faces a critical decision. Is Korea the place to draw a hard line against communist aggression? If the United Nations yields to the forces of aggression, no nation will be safe or secure. If aggression is successful in Korea, we can expect it to spread throughout Asia and Europe and to this hemisphere. We are fighting in Korea for

our own national security and survival. Within two weeks, General Douglas MacArthur is named commander of United Nations forces fighting in Korea. The UN armies retake South Korea and push deep into North Korea, almost to the Manurion border. Harry Truman decides to meet with Douglas MacArthur. I want to have a personal talk with the general, says Truman. I want to get to know

him. On October 15th, 1950, Truman and MacArthur come face to face for the first time. We talked for more than an hour, says Truman. MacArthur assured me that all resistance would end in Korea by Thanksgiving Day. It was, he adds, a most satisfactory conference.

December 1950, unexpectedly, Chinese communist troops launch an attack into Korea from their strongholds along the Manurion border. General MacArthur strongly advocates attacking the communist bases across the Chinese border. But Truman fears this will start a third world war. Permission, he says, is denied. Ordered by Washington to say nothing further on the issue, MacArthur nonetheless continues to agitate for an attack on the red Chinese bases. Dean Aerson, the Secretary of

State, warns Truman, "If you relieve MacArthur, you will have the biggest fight of your administration." But Truman declares, "I have therefore considered it essential to relieve General MacArthur so that there would be no doubt or confusion as to the real purpose and aim of our policy. It is with the deepest personal regret that I found myself compelled to take this action. General MacArthur is one of our greatest military commanders. But the cause of world peace is much more important than any individual."

Within hours, Truman is involved in the greatest controversy of his career. Removing MacArthur from his command stirs a national debate. I think it's very unjust taking MacArthur off as the chief of staff. Feel General MacArthur should have been called home and that President Truman was right. Hey, tell him something. He's a great general,

that General MacArthur. I'm sorry to see him go. The president's action shows that he is resolved to stay out of a terrible allout war in China. General's going to be a hard man to replace. I think he got a dirty deal. I hardily

approve of what the president has done. It's a darn good move. We do not know where we're going in Korea. We do not know where we're going in China. MacArthur knows and he's been fired. But

to Harry Truman, there was no alternative, says the president. I could no longer tolerate MacArthur's

insubordination. Harry Truman is nearing the end of his term. For 7 years, he shouldered the enormous responsibilities of the presidency. He has proven to be a tough, independent, courageous leader. Early in the spring of 1952, Harry Truman finally answers a question everyone has been asking. I

shall not be a candidate for reelection. I have served my country long and I think efficiently and honestly. I shall not accept a renomination. I do not feel that it is my duty to spend another four years in the White House.

On inauguration day 1953, Harry Truman escorts Dwight Eisenhower to the official ceremonies that marked the beginning of a new administration. He writes, "I have the troubled feeling that General Eisenhower had not grasped the immense job ahead of him. But there is little Truman can do at this moment. Mr. President has become Mr. Citizen.

Independence, Missouri. This is where he grew up, where he spent the first 50 years of his life. And now Harry Truman comes [Music] home. Truman's father climbed to the top of this house and proudly hung out the American flag when a Democrat was elected president in 1892. But John Truman never dreamed his son would become president. Few people

did. They called Harry Truman the average man. A Missouri newspaper man once wrote, "Truman is the average man. He understands the needs, the hopes, and the dreams of the average man, and that is his greatest asset.

Harry Truman often said that he had never wanted to be president, that he would have been happier as a senator from Missouri, a county administrator, or even as a musician. But he also said, "When you can't do exactly what you want, take the next best thing and make the most of it. You can never tell." He speculated what might happen. Mike Wallace for biography.

Heat. Heat.