---
video_title: "\"BASEBALL VS. DRUGS\"  1972 MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL CAMPAIGN AGAINST ILLEGAL DRUG USE & ABUSE GG48555"
video_id: Ajy5JZGCGYs
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ajy5JZGCGYs
video_date: 2026-08-28
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  
  This film "Baseball vs. Drugs" (1972) presents Major League Baseball’s campaign against drug abuse, launched in 1970 under Commissioner Bowie Kuhn. Featuring players like Reggie Smith and Wes Parker alongside medical experts, the film promotes dialogue about the dangers of drugs such as marijuana, amphetamines, barbiturates, and LSD. Here, athletes explain how addiction destroys health, focus, and self-control, countering the myth that drugs can enhance performance. True athletic success comes from discipline and hard work, not chemical shortcuts. The film concludes by reaffirming baseball’s zero-tolerance stance and its role as a national leader in promoting a drug-free lifestyle.
  
  
  
  
  
  0:00 – Commissioner Bowie Kuhn explains MLB’s 1970 investigation into drug abuse and the creation of a prevention and education program to keep the sport drug-free, protect players, and uphold integrity.
  1:10 – Kuhn outlines the program’s four purposes: preventing drug issues, protecting health, preserving baseball’s reputation, and involving all levels of professional baseball in community education.
  2:09 – Prominent figures like Reggie Smith, Wes Parker, and experts in drug abuse join the effort; the Baseball vs. Drugs booklet is distributed to all players.
  4:08 – A speaker warns about the dangers of drugs through vivid analogies, emphasizing self-awareness and responsibility among athletes.
  4:26 – Athletes discuss their role in speaking to youth about drugs, stressing the need for proper education before engaging with students.
  5:07 – Players answer kids’ questions about marijuana, heroin, and addiction, explaining the physical and psychological effects of drug use.
  6:03 – Discussion highlights the stronger potency of marijuana in Vietnam and how returning soldiers may turn to harder drugs when domestic versions seem weaker.
  7:13 – The speakers stress the importance of research and understanding drugs before speaking publicly about them.
  8:08 – Students ask about drug risks like missed injections, air bubbles, and pregnancy.
  9:06 – LSD’s hallucinatory effects are described, including a story of someone injured due to delusions .
  10:09 – Experts discuss stress as a key factor in drug abuse.
  11:36 – The narrator explains how addiction dominates a person’s life, leading to criminal acts to avoid withdrawal.
  12:36 – The film warns about the growing narcotics problem and outlines baseball’s strict anti-drug policy and legal consequences.
  13:08 – Discussion turns to the physical health risks, including hepatitis, brain damage, and the long-term harm of sniffing glue.
  14:03 – Amphetamines and barbiturates are described as dangerous stimulants and depressants that cause dependency.
  14:35 – The issue of drug use among professional players is addressed; amphetamines are said to shorten careers and harm performance.
  15:17 – Players emphasize that no pill can improve athletic ability better than health, discipline, and hard work.
  16:01 – Experts explain how amphetamines create false confidence while reducing coordination and focus.
  17:55 – Coaches reaffirm that baseball has no place for drugs, stressing professional integrity and skill over chemical enhancement.
  18:05 – A manager recalls great players like Bob Gibson who succeeded without drugs, reinforcing the message of natural ability.
  19:12 – The importance of focus and mental clarity in baseball.
  20:22 – A metaphor about addicts trying to go through a keyhole illustrates the irrationality caused by drugs. 
  20:46 – Speakers stress that the only real solution to poor performance is hard work, not pills or stimulants.
  21:00 – Experts discuss peer pressure as a major entry point into drug use. 22:00 – Those at risk should seek help from physicians, coaches, or family before addiction takes hold.
  22:38 – Kuhn closes by mandating that all clubs report drug use to his office. Reaffirming baseball’s commitment to remain drug-free and set a national example.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music]

This is Buie Cun, the commissioner of baseball. In 1970, we decided we had better take a very careful look at the situation in baseball. At that time, there was increasing concern in our country about drug abuse. So, we asked our clubs and our club physicians to examine the situation in our game. And we found that there was not a serious drug abuse problem in baseball. However,

it was the very strong recommendation of our baseball positions that we have this drug education and prevention program. Our program has been widely praised by the president of the United States, senators, congressmen, civic leaders at all levels. There are four basic and important purposes to this program. The first of these is to keep baseball free from any drug problem. I think the importance of that is obvious.

Secondly, we want to protect the health and safety of our players. Obviously, a player who might be involved in drug abuse is a danger not only to his own health but to the health of the players against whom he competes. Thirdly, we are determined to preserve the honesty, integrity, and good name of our game. Fourthly, this program, which is going to be a continuing program, covers all of professional baseball, major league, minor league, players, other personnel, everyone. The program will involve our people in a very large way in community action programs. We

have outstanding players like Reggie Smith, Wes Parker, Pete Rickert, and professional people like Dr. Garrett O'Conor, an outstanding expert in the field of drug abuse. Dr. Peter Lamont, president of the Major League Team Physicians Association. Bob Bowman, veteran trainer for the St. Louis

Cardinals. Dave Hull, popular disc jockey with station KGBS in Los Angeles, and Henry Fitzgibbon, director of security for the commissioner's office. We have prepared and have distributed to all of you, or if you have not received it, you will a booklet called Baseball versus Drugs. I urge you to read this booklet and to thoroughly understand it. The story is here.

Hit this booklet taken together with what you can learn from your club and from your physician and from your trainer will give you what you need to help keep the problem of drugs out of our game.

Heat.

[Music]

[Applause] Heat. [Applause]

[Applause] You don't have to go to the bottom of the ocean to know that it's steep. You don't have to go up and jump off the top of a tall building to know that when you hit the ground, you're going to be dead. And you don't have to put a gun up to your head and pull the trigger to know that when that bullet comes out the other side, your lights are out for good. >> Well, how do you feel about um professional athletes? Do you think they should become involved in a program like this? And how does a professional

athlete become involved in a serious problem? >> Kids are just crying for somebody right now to come out and talk to them. And they look up to professional athletes. What about later? Does he have to educate himself?

>> Oh yeah. They appreciate you're being there, but you better know what you're talking about. And if you as an athlete go in to talk to young people about drugs, you have to educate yourself. >> Good afternoon. My name is Pete Rickard.

The gentleman with me is Jonathan Edges. >> Hi. >> We'd like to talk to you a little bit about drugs. If you do have any questions, we would like to get into it as quickly as possible. Now, are there any questions? Yes, Mike.

>> If you take marijuana and then fire heroin, what will effects be? Well, actually, when you shoot heroin, if if you're getting a good dosage of heroin, you don't really care too much for the marijuana. And most of the time when you hear about addicts doubling up uh with their drugs is because he doesn't have a good shot of heroin. And the followup marijuana will just carry him a little higher and help him to get higher. >> How is marijuana used?

>> They call it smoke. They call it pot, weed, grass, reefers, all sorts of names. But it is basically used as smoke. Marijuana is a weed that will grow almost anywhere and is one of the few drugs on the market that is not addictive. Addictive as far as the want of it physically, but uh when you can get high enough and use it enough, you can create a mental want for it or a mental addiction. We've heard two

different sides. We've heard the side where if you smoke pocket, you won't go on to harder drugs. Then you've heard the people that have said if you do, you will. Now we're finding that the pot grown in Vietnam is 200 to 400 times stronger than anything grown in the rest of the world. So now what we've got is a problem of bringing home tens of thousands of boys and a percentage of which have tried pot there who are returning to the United States that are trying pot that is being grown either in the United States or in Mexico and they're not getting high now.

Consequently, they are going on to harder drugs. >> It's like uh we've all had a toothache, right? and you take one aspirin today and the pain goes away and now the next day the toothach's still there and you take the one aspirin and it doesn't go away. You need two aspirin. Well, this is the same as with drugs. You have to

go to a college or an S like SC medical center or UCLA which is a research center for marijuana and you have to make appointments and see doctors and sit down and talk to these people and take notes until you know exactly what you're talking about what the drugs are, what they can do to you, why you shouldn't take them, who's taking them, how much they cost. You should prepare yourself so that you can answer any question that one of those youngsters wants to ask you when you go out and talk at their school. What would happen if you take whiskey and then take dope? >> If you was really drunk or really high off alcohol and take a shot of narcotics, you will go out of it. I can recall one incident where one man, you know, he died because of this and I had to leave him in the alley because nothing I could do. It wasn't until

abuse of drugs moved out into the suburbs, into the white areas of the country, into the rich people's homes, the middle and upper middle class people, the politician sons, the judges sons, doctor's sons and daughters, that people began to get worried and concerned. And it's just the same kinds of attitudes that parents have now about drugs as they used to have about sex. And they're so uptight that they won't talk to you about it. And you've got to keep it secret as a kid because it's illegal. There is no communication. The

parents are afraid. The kids are frightened. And when they're frightened and isolated, there's more drugs. >> If you shoot dope and miss your vein, what will happen? >> If you miss your vein, your arm have a tendency to swole up. How many of you

seen the big swollen hands on the street? >> Okay, this is what it come. >> What would happen if air got into the needle? >> If air gets into the needle, then once again, you've got a chance of of killing yourself. Air in the needle will definitely kill you. If a lady that is

pregnant take drugs and then she take methodon to get off the drugs, would would the baby be addicted to the drugs? >> A woman who is pregnant and is a heroin addict. Most of the time when the baby is born, the baby will be born a heroin addict and immediately start through withdrawal. Uh the methodon for detoxification is used to cushion the shock of withdrawal and uh the addict that's pregnant uh by time she's been fully detoxified then the baby is completely cured. Also >> what drug is it that make you fly?

>> Most of your other drugs is heroin and and your pills will leave the system within 24 to 48 hours. You'll pass them through your body. But acid LSD will not pass through the body. And this is a great danger of it. But LSD is probably the one that would give you the effect of thinking you can fly most because you hallucinate and don't see things correctly and you see colors and all sorts of crazy things look different.

Uh, for example, Pete Rickard, who's been working with me in Baltimore this year, met a fellow just the other day whose brother had jumped out the second story window of his apartment thinking that he was on the diving board of the swimming pool and it was in mid- winter. he's very seriously injured and he may die and that is purely as an effect of LSD. >> It is very harmful in the fact that it will make you hallucinate and it will make you uh you could lose your mind in it very easily. Many many people have been put in a sane asylums and asylums for the mentally ill because of LSD. I spent quite a long time during the summer talking to the major league teams to very many of them and I learned a great deal from those talks and one of the principal things that I learned was the stresses and strains and difficulties of being a professional athlete.

[Music] It is absolutely certain that people get involved in drugs because of stress of one kind or another. And certainly professional athletes are under stress and young people are under stress. And so therefore, you're vulnerable. Many doctors think of drug abuse as an illness. I tend to think of it as a more as a career. And an addict or somebody

who is dependent on a drug lives only for that drug. He can't do without it. If he doesn't get his drug, he goes into withdrawal. Pains that go on for days and days, screaming, agonies, hallucinations, horrors, delusions. It really is a frightening thing. And so

the addict will do anything at all to prevent himself from going into withdrawal. anything, rob from his family, mug, steal, burglarize, sometimes even murder. But it's because he's got that in his guts that he has to do it. >> There are an estimated 1 half million narcotics addups in the country today. Millions of people regularly or occasionally illegally use the pep pills such as the Greenies, the yellow jackets who use LSD, marijuana, hash hish, and other drugs of abuse. The majority of

these users are in the 15 to 20 year old age group. This traffic in narcotics and dangerous drugs has become the number one law enforcement problem in the country today. I know a dealer who's in the jail in Baltimore at the moment. And he told me that he has dreams, marvelous dreams of having every in every club, in every major league club and every football club and every basketball club and every hockey club. Just one guy who's addicted to drugs. Just one guy in

each club. He says none of the dealers around the country would ever have to work again because they could control all of gambling, all of the sports through one guy in each club. Users who volunteer for treatment can expect leniency. If they uh can kick the drug, they are returned cured to society. The sellers or the pushers as they are called can expect severe penalties from the prosecutive authorities. Now,

professional baseball has a strict rule against the illegal use of drugs. And as I've told you, it's also a criminal offense. Don't jeopardize your future on this stuff. The consequences of taking drugs, mind-altering drugs, are much more serious than those of alcoholism because of the legal penalties involved. >> Can people get very sick by taking drugs?

>> Yes, people can take drugs and and become very sick. Uh, in the top half of the line, if you go to heroin, of course, with a dirty needle, you have the chance of getting hepatitis. And passing the dirty needle from one person or the other, you can pass on the disease. You can also get a maybe a small piece of cotton caught on the end of that needle and it'll go through your bloodstream. That can hurt you also.

>> And it's incredible that the damage we see in the hospital that comes from blue sniffing. Brain damaged children ruined at the age of 11 or 12 or even younger ruined for life unable to do anything or to be anything that they want. Give them the facts and then let them make up their own minds. Now, we we've done that also by um perhaps advising, but we always let them know. We say, "If you want my advice, I wouldn't do this or I wouldn't do that."

>> Why do drugs mess up your mind? >> By using amphetamines, you speed up the process of the brain. You make it work overwork. You make it work too fast. You speed up the blood flow of the body. So,

you have more chances of hurting yourself that way. >> In 1969, there were 381 tons of barbaturates manufactured in this country. They calm you down, calm your nerves. They also dull your brain and slow your movements. They're called downers on the streets.

And barbbiteroids can eventually cause dependency and addiction of the worst possible type. >> What is the story about professional baseball players? And and the kids ask this, they want to know what is the real truth behind the professional baseball player drug taking today. >> Well, Dave, uh it happens. It does occur and we know this. But these players in

my opinion and doctor's opinions are only hurting themselves. And a player who goes the amphetamine route and who grows to rely on amphetamines in order to play is shortening his career. And this is a fact because amphetamines will burn out your system early. Dave, and this is just something that athletes are going to have to realize. There is no such thing as a pill that can make any athlete perform any better than he could by staying healthy. One of the main

copouts that seem to be used by a lot of youngsters is in saying that how can you knock it if you haven't tried it? Well, I have tried Greenies and my own personal physician told me this is the quickest way for me to kill myself because I have a history of high blood pressure and uh there are people that I'm responsible for, not only myself, but my family and I'm very concerned about them. to because I know that they rely upon me to provide for them and I want to make my career last as long as possible. >> They're the ones that change the way you feel, change the way you see, change the way you move, change the way you perform, change the way you perceive the whole world around you. They also, every one of them, have the effect of making the person who uses them dependent on them and eventually addicted. A pitcher may be able to throw

the ball maybe two miles an hour faster with amphetamines, but he's going to throw more wild pitches. An outfielder may be able to throw it 20 feet, but he's going to miss the plate more often. Amphetamines have the effect of increasing the rate of your heart. They make your pulse speed faster. And mentally speaking, they make you feel uh stimulated. They give you a high.

They make you feel that you're doing better than you are. But like all of these drugs, the effect they give has a price to be paid for it. And while amphetamines may make you feel stronger, may make you feel good, may make you feel confident, they reduce your performance in many different ways. >> There any problems that you have or difficulties that you have, they have people that you can go to to help you get your problems straightened out. So far as hitting is concerned, if you feel that you have to take drugs because of this, this is why they provide hitting instructors and managers and coaches and so forth. We have taken a stand in

professional athletics that drugs do not help in any way a professional athlete perform his sport. By drugs, I am talking about hard drugs and primarily amphetamines, the bennies, the greenies, the uppers, the speed. And it's quite pathetic to see a fellow who's been involved with a drug of this kind. And the effect of the drug is to make him think that there's no harm being done, that he's better than he ever was before, while everybody around him can quite clearly see that the guy is hooked, that he's failing, that he's on his way out. >> Has there ever been a place in your organization to use stimulants? Did you

use diet pills in the old days, amphetamines, and did you find it was helpful? >> We never knew what they were and never cared to know about them. I've been very fortunate to have such great ball players. Bob Gibson, who's one of the greatest that ever put on a uniform, made all these accomplishments without the use of drugs. >> I really didn't have the concentration.

And it is known that the you definitely lose your concentration, especially when you're at the plate and in the field because there are too many other things on your mind to allow you to uh have total concentration. And you can begin to imagine what will happen when a pitcher is throwing the ball at an average of about 85 miles an hour while you're at the plate and you have less than a second to make up your mind as to where the pitch is going to be. [Music] [Applause] [Music] You can pretty much uh say that if you're not together, you're going to be in trouble.

Baseball is tough enough to play under normal conditions. as you can see. [Music] >> Well, they they tell a story of three addicts who go to a place that has a very large door and they can't get in. And the one addict is an alcoholic and his answer to getting in is, "Let's beat the door down because he's got a little alcohol in him and he thinks that he's strong enough." The other is a heroin addict. The way his mind works when he's

high and feeling good is that he says, "Oh, let's go to sleep. They'll open the door in the morning." That's his mind. But the guy who's on infetamines or pep pills, his mind is so small that his word is, "Let's go through the keyhole," which is silly. Now, you are normal. You

are not high. Can you really imagine yourselves going through a keyhole? >> No. Right. But this is what pills can do to you. This is where they can take you

to to thinking you could go through a keyhole. And that is that is not where it's at. That can't be where it's at. >> Because I think it's very important in baseball to be well conditioned. He has to have uh uh good good reflexes, good coordination and strength. And he would

just be normal. Uh his ability will carry him through. It has in the past and it will in the future. >> If you're not playing the type of baseball that you think you should be, a pill is not the answer. The answer is to work harder and there's just no substitute for that.

>> What would happen if you take speed every two hours? >> If you took speed every two hours for about 8 hours, I don't think you'd go to sleep for about 3 days. First of all, uh you'd be that hept up. Second of all, I think if you took speed every two hours, you'd have a very good chance of killing yourself. >> Why do people abuse drugs?

>> In working in the clinic, we get reasons like I'm oppressed. Uh the government doesn't like me. the state doesn't like me. Uh, you got to use drugs because this is an evil world. Well, I don't agree with that. I think and and in

talking with John that if you go into drugs, you choose to go into drugs. You have to choose to go in. You have to choose to start on drugs. And also, the number one place that you will be introduced to drugs is through friends. friends who are a little bit older maybe and have drugs and they'll say to you, "Come on, be part of the group. Be part

of the crowd." And if you don't, you're a chicken, right? Well, if the same guy took you to the top of this school building and said, "Jump off, would you jump?" >> No. >> No. You'd rather be chicken. So, maybe

we can coin a phrase here today. Maybe we can say it's better to be a live chicken than a hooked hero on drugs. There may be many of you who are afraid of getting into or getting becoming involved in drugs. Afraid of perhaps getting hooked and you don't want to talk to anyone about it. You may have friends who are going down the road of drug abuse and they don't know what to do and you don't know what to do. Well, there are things

you can do. You can talk to your team physician, talk to the trainer, even talk to a friend or a relative about what you think may be a problem. And perhaps in that way you'll be able to get out of the scene before you get into it. Because believe me, once you're in it, it is almost impossible to get out. You have heard about the dangers of drugs from the physicians.

You have heard about the work that can be done by all of us to prevent the problem in baseball and help prevent it outside of baseball. To make our program effective, I have directed that all clubs in the major leagues and all clubs in the minor leagues will report any instance of illegal drug use or involvement to my office or to the office of the president of the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues. We must insist that all baseball personnel obey federal and state laws dealing with drugs. Where we find violation of these laws, we will consider what disciplinary step should be taken. We all know that drug abuse is a dead end.

Nowhere is this more dramatically so than in athletics. Let's all first to continue baseball's fine record of freedom from drug abuse problems and secondly to give our time, our efforts and our good names to help the fight against this dread social disease at our local community levels. [Music] [Applause] [Music]