---
video_title: "\"NARCOTICS FILE: THE CONNECTION\"  1974 HEROIN DRUG TRADE & NEW YORK POLICE DEPT.  GG47395"
video_id: e0ePAH0YJ5g
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e0ePAH0YJ5g
video_date: 2026-08-07T16:29:55+00:00
video_description: |
  Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  "Narcotics File: The Connection" (1974) details efforts being made throughout the world to stem the criminal flow of drugs, including the global heroin trade. Heroin's path from opium fields in Southeast Asia’s Golden Triangle to the streets of New York City is traced, along with efforts to combat the scourge of addiction. 
  
  
  
  00:00 Drug use—marijuana and pills contrasted with the soul-killing power of heroin. Narrator mourns the numbness and indifference seen in addicts, many of whom seem like walking dead with "tombstones in their eyes."
  
   1:03:The scene shifts to New York City, where law enforcement struggles to arrest and convict heroin dealers. Undercover officers are critical in making drug buys since addicts cannot testify without implicating themselves. A “nickel bag” of heroin—a $5 dose—illustrates the street-level scale of the trade.
  
   2:00: With over 300,000 heroin addicts in NYC alone, the illegal drug economy flourishes, generating at least $1 billion annually. Addicts turn to crime to fund their habits, contributing to nearly 40% of property crimes in the city.
  
   3:43: The documentary then explores the source: opium poppies cultivated in Northern Thailand’s Golden Triangle. Poor hill tribes engage in labor-intensive farming for minimal pay. Efforts by the Thai government and UN aim to provide alternative livelihoods, but enforcement is inconsistent.
  
   5:06: Opium is smuggled out via airports, tourists, diplomats, and military personnel. Some local authorities profit from the trade, fighting not to eradicate it but to control it. The opium trafficked via boats, mules, and couriers to places like Hong Kong and Saigon.
  
   6:30: Interpol collects and shares intelligence. Opium is transported via clandestine networks, involving fishing boats and uninspected sea routes.
  
   9:05: A major bust in Hong Kong nets 24 pounds of morphine base.  Only a fraction is seized; the rest is processed into heroin locally. Hong Kong's 80,000–100,000 heroin addicts often use by “chasing the dragon”—inhaling vapors from heated heroin.
  
  11:03: Most users are unskilled laborers, living in slums, socially abandoned and severely addicted. Their crimes stem from a need to support their habit. Many die anonymously, with no one to claim their bodies.
  
   12:18: While many addicts are imprisoned, high-level distributors—particularly the Chow Chu syndicates—continue their trade. This “Mafia of Southeast Asia,”  controls heroin distribution.
  
  13:36: In contrast, the People’s Republic of China claims to have eradicated addiction through rigorous state control since the early 1950s. Iran also claims progress, cutting its addict population from 1.5 million to under 400,000 through harsh enforcement, including the death penalty for traffickers.
  
  14:37: Iran’s border with Afghanistan is a key smuggling route for opium, which arrives in caravans. Meanwhile, Turkey—historically a major supplier—officially ceased legal production in 1972, though stockpiles and black-market trade continue.
  
  17:01: Much of Turkish morphine base is refined into heroin and trafficked through France, especially via hidden compartments in vehicles. Sealed cargo trucks often evade inspection due to international customs agreements, enabling heroin to reach labs in southern France.
  
   19:01:This region marks the “French Connection,” where morphine is processed and trafficking routes decided. French police ramp up enforcement, with undercover agents monitoring addicts and pushers. Despite long, unproductive hours, major busts have occurred.
  
   20:54: A fishing trawler caught carrying nearly half a ton of heroin hidden in a false bottom. 22:50: Officials admit 80% of heroin entering the U.S. still comes via France. Guarded optimism. Authorities acknowledge complete eradication is unrealistic, but reduction is possible.
  
  24:00: United Nations global strategy targeting drug supply, demand, and trafficking routes. The heroin trade remains deeply entrenched.
   25:40: Summation underscores the brutal efficiency of the system, where only a small fraction of users ever recover.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music] I smoke a lot of grass. Oh Lord, I popped a lot of

pills. But I've never touched nothing that my spirit could kill. You know, I've seen a lot of people walking around with tombstones in their

eyes. But the don't [Music] care if you live or if you [Music] die. God damn. Go [Music] pusher looking for somebody. [Music] The New York narcotic squad has discovered yet another pusher. He's the

final connection between the poppy fields of the Middle East or the Orient and the heroin addict on the streets. To put the pusher in jail and keep him there, he must not only be arrested, he must also be convicted. But the addict is also violating the law. And he can't testify against the pusher without incriminating himself. Huh. So someone

who will, a police undercover agent, is set up to make the buy. All right. Yeah. A nickel bag. Nickel bag is New York's slang for a $5 glassine envelope of heroin. As much as 90% adulterated with

powdered milk or sugar. I can't afford a pound. What am I going to get? Two to five nickel bags, $10 to $25, is the average daily dose and cost for an addict with an average habit. What's the dude say?

I don't know the guy. And at least 300,000 local heroin addicts guarantee that narcotics crime does pay and very well. Reportedly to the tune of a minimum of $1 billion a year in New York City alone. And most of that, according to police experts, is pure profit. They say that for each dollar the narcotics dealer invests in wholesale heroin, he gets back 10 in retail sales to his sadly steady customers who are physically unable to do without the drug. All you got to do is worry about

the clothing. The arrest is about to take place. This police woman takes off her t-shirt, a signal that the buy has been made, and the undercover agent takes off himself. altogether. He'll be used again for other arrests and his identity must be protected.

Stay right here. Stay right here. Keep going. There goes the other one. You got him. There goes the third. They could do

that again. You know, you can get him. We have to understand uh that uh the uh addict himself uh needs uh quite a lot of money in order to sustain his habit. uh the addict because he is an addict uh it's very difficult for him to maintain any uh any employment he then resorts to uh criminal activities in order to uh gain the sufficient monies that he needs in order to sustain his habit. Now uh in New York City we antic we uh approximate about 40% of our crimes against property are attributable to the narcotic addict.

Strange but true that some 40% of all the crimes against property in New York City are generated by pretty little poppies grown in the Middle East or Southeast Asia. This field is in the northern Thailand, part of an area called the Golden Triangle. [Music] Such poppies yield raw opium, a harmless looking gummy pasty substance. 10 kilos of this plus some ordinary lime make 1 kilo, a little more than 2 lb of morphine base, which can then be chemically processed into 2 lb of heroin. One family of these hill tribes people can only produce about 6 kilos of raw opium a year from the acre or so they can cultivate. For the physically hard work

of frequently thinning, hoing, and weeding the poppies, they'll only realize about $150 when they sell their 6 kilos of raw opium. Since this is the only cash income for these hill people, countries like Thailand, which have outlawed opium production, have a large problem in enforcing the law. With United Nations help, Thailand is seeking new sources of income for the Hill tribes. The major markets for Thailand's opium and morphine outside Thailand itself are Saigon, Hong Kong, and the United States, the world's largest consumer of heroin. That's one major reason the United States government is vitally interested in what Thailand is doing to get out of the opium business. The ties

have undertaken a uh what we regard as an effective program in this field and uh our objective is to work with them as closely as possible and to support those efforts. The ties do what they can. Outgoing air freight is checked at Bangkok airport, but there are too many ways to smuggle the stuff out. Too many tourists, too many envoys with diplomatic immunity, too much military personnel going from country to country. It's just too easy for a plane to fly undetected from a small jungle airirstrip to a rendevous with a fishing boat at sea. And not

everyone in the Golden Triangle area is equally concerned about stopping opium production. Some local politicians and military men carry on a secret war of their own. Not to eliminate the pretty poppies, but for control of the extremely profitable traffic in this borderland of Burma, China, Laos, and Thailand. Just what can be done to stop the illicit flow of drugs? Only a partial answer is to be found in Paris at the headquarters of Interpol, the International Police Organization, for its role is pretty much limited to the collection and distribution of criminal intelligence. It can also give advice,

but must first be asked to do so by an individual member nation or its police force. The problem ideally should be attacked in the country of production. There should be a a strict limitation on on the quantity of drugs produced and furthermore there should be strict controls to ensure that there is no leakage from legal production to the illicit uh drug traffic. But we accept we accept that this is an ideal and we accept also that this question of production is is in a sense a political problem and one which we as policemen can't attack. What happens for instance to opium that is grown let's say on the high plateaus of the golden triangle?

Well, uh, it it travels by various means, by boat, by mule, by even on the backs of of individuals down through the archipelago, the Malayan archipelago normally or to the Gulf of Sam here from where it uh travels by boat, samp or ship occasionally from Malaya to Hong Kong. On this day, Interpol in Paris has been tipped off about a large shipment of morphine due in Hong Kong. In a matter of minutes, the information is on its

way. Heat. Heat.

[Music]

[Music]

There were 24 lbs of morphine base in this seizure. Only rarely does the Hong Kong Preventive Service get such hot tips on a silver platter. It has only six harbor launches to keep watch over this international seapport. Some 14,000 fishing boats are based here. Many large freighers and passenger liners call here from all over the world each year. And several hundred local coasters

regularly sail in from the Philippines, Taiwan, and Thailand. Hong Kong and Thailand both know that some fishing trollers from Thailand are running illegal narcotics and that this illicit cargo is transferred in international waters to Hong Kong boats which bring it into the crown colony. The ties catch some, Hong Kong authorities catch others, but they also both know they're barely skimming the surface. That for each kilo of opium or morphine base they seize, at least 10 more are successfully smuggled in. and that most of it is secretly processed into heroin in Hong Kong and that most of that is consumed right here. In the

early 50s, the fashionable drug in the Far East was opium. Pipe smokers used to look down on heroin users as degenerates. Now, most of the younger addicts are on heroin, much easier to use and much more potent in its effects. But the prevailing habit in Hong Kong isn't mainlining. Direct injection into the bloodstream by hypodermic needle.

These addicts place their heroin on a little piece of aluminum foil, heat it with a match, and inhale the vapors through a paper straw. It's called chasing the dragon. The number of addicts in Hong Kong has been conservatively estimated at 80 to 100,000 out of a population of 4 million, a slightly smaller percentage than New York. But as in New York, most are found in the slums. They're really the dregs of humanity. They've been

taken heroin for some time and now they're so badly addicted they cannot do without it. They come here because, as you see, it's not well populated. It's dirty. it's filthy and they can get out of the way to consume their drug. I feel sorry for them. The they're committing a crime

through no real fault of their own, except that's original stupidity and starting to smoke the stuff. Once they once they're hooked, of course, they got to keep on and on and on and eventually they they die. We had one drop dead in the road just down here um last week. He was found dead in the morning. and uh no family. We're unable to trace him

and we can't even say who he is. We don't even know his name. Nobody's come forward yet to identify him. [Music] [Applause] [Music] The typical Hong Kong addict is an unskilled laborer who smokes for relaxation, pleasure, or for the relief of pain or fatigue. In 1971, Hong Kong judges convicted and sent to prison some 12,000 persons.

78% of them had been arrested for drug possession or a related criminal activity such as robbery to get money to buy narcotics. But the big distributors, the vice rings of the Chow Chu community, for the most part, managed to stay in their very lucrative business. Chowo Chu is a coastal region of China from which millions have migrated during the past century to nearly every country in this part of the world. Because of their clanishness and their criminal activities throughout the area, they are known as the mafia of Southeast Asia. In Hong Kong, they import opium, process it into grade three heroin for chasing the dragon locally and in Macau and Manila, and more recently into grade four, the white stuff for the veins of American addicts in Los Angeles and New York. It

wasn't until the early 50s that heroin became a problem in Hong Kong when refugees from Shanghai first brought the habit into the city. As for the People's Republic of China itself, it no longer has such problems. In February 1950, less than 6 months after it was established, the People's Republic adopted very strict controls over the production of the opium poppy and the use of its narcotics derivatives. Other measures were taken at the same time to identify and rehabilitate opium users. These measures were rigorously and effectively enforced. By rigorous and effective

enforcement, Iran, some 3,000 miles to the west, has not altogether eliminated its addiction problem. But since 1949, it has at least cut its addict population from a million and a half to less than 400,000. Here, rigorous enforcement means swift justice and the death penalty for the drug smuggler convicted under due process of law.

There is a 500-mile border with Afghanistan. Illegal opium grown on both sides of this border and in Pakistan comes by camel caravan to the outskirts of Tehran. And these caravans are relentlessly pursued by the Iranian Jarn Armory. [Applause]

[Music]

You don't have to

Just as opium produced in the Golden Triangle is funneled into what is called the Southeast Asia network, so the opium coming into Iran is said to originate with the Middle East network. And a subsection of this across the Iranian western border operates from Turkey.

But Turkey itself is much more noted as a starting point for the European opium network, even though it has now gone out of the business of opium production. This harvest of 1972 was the last legal one. But it will probably take some time to dry up the supply. Turkish opium farmers traditionally have not sold all their crop the same year it was grown. They traditionally have kept small quantities of opium gum to be used as the equivalent of cash for such things as dowies. And the farmer knows that as the

supply of the preferred Turkish opium dries up. It has a high morphine content ranging from 9 to 14%. So too will the prices go up. At any rate, as we were preparing this file, Turkey remained a major source of opium for the European traffickers whose single largest market by far is the United States. Since the mid60s, most elicit Turkish opium has been converted to morphine in secret laboratories within the country. The bulk of the item is

thus reduced to a tenth the size, making it easier to handle, easier to hide, easier to smuggle. There are a few minor variations, but most of the Turkish morphine base next goes directly to France. And at the time of this report, the most popular smuggling method was the use of specially constructed traps or compartments built into cars, trucks, and tourist buses. French customs, as here at the town of Montton on the Italian border, managed to seize a good percentage of the morphine smuggled in by car. Another

[Music]

[Music]

[Music] But trucks carrying bonded consignments of legitimate cargo sealed with a customs band are another matter. These sealed trucks operate under international customs agreements and are usually allowed to cross international frontiers with a minimum of inspection.

The mountains, rolling hills, and piny countryside of southern France provide a lot of cover. This is the last major stopover on the heroine route from Turkey to the US. This is the French connection. Here is where the morphine base comes to be processed into heroin. Here and in Marseilles, the big deals are made and the international traffic routings decided.

[Music] In recent years, as their own addict population has grown, so has the French government's concern over the problem. Since 1969, the number of agents assigned to narcotics duty has been greatly increased. These two are typical. Their job is to lose themselves in the crowd, to see and not be seen. Theirs, as with most undercover narcotics agents around the world, is a watching brief. Walk around, ride

around, look, listen, spot the addict, follow him to his pusher, arrest the pusher. And much more frequently than not, it's a business of wasting hours at a time, following the mindless wanderings of someone so stoned, he really doesn't know or care where he's going, ending up with nothing more than the normal occupational disease of the detective, sore feet. But the French police, just as their American or Hong Kong or Thai colleagues or the Iranian Jandarmie, have also had their share of major busts. This was a large heroin lab operation discovered early in 1972. As a measure of increased French police activity in this field, it should be noted that in the 10 years prior to 1971, only three others had been discovered, but this was one of five more discovered in the vicinity of Marseilles in just the following year.

The public tends to believe that herin laboratories are big, impressive pharmaceutical looking ones, requiring chemists in white smokes, even with a parking lot in front of the door. and wonders why we can't close them all. It is not all the case around here. Anyway, the labs we've discovered were all set up in modest looking farms in the countryside or even in villas in the suburbs. The equipment required to make herin isn't very special. Most of it

could be purchased from hardware supply firms. And the basic products needed except for the morphine of course could be used for any number of legitimate purposes and therefore can be secured without arousing suspicions.

The French Customs Service has also been considerably beefed up, especially in the Mediterranean area. They identify and keep track of everything that moves. Suspicious vessels, one that changes course for no apparent reason, or a yacht going far from the coast where it could be attempting to meet with a freighter, are kept under surveillance and sometimes challenged. And these patrols do pay off. The most spectacular example of this, in fact, the single largest hall intercepted by law enforcement agencies anywhere was this innocent looking 60-foot troller, the Caprice Dayton. It

was no fluke or whim of time that caused the French customs service to suspect there was something fishy about the boat. It was simply the lack of a fishy odor. In fact, the lack of any fish at all after the boat had crossed the Atlantic twice, ostensibly to catch fish. The careful search that followed over a 4-day period revealed a false concrete bottom containing almost half a ton of pure heroin worth more than $400 million when cut and packed into nickel bags for sale on the streets of New York City. The traffic does go on even after the seizure of the Caprice Deto. The US

State Department estimated that 80% of the heroin reaching the United States still came by way of France. But there are reasons for some guarded optimism that something can and is being done. The indications to us are that the number of seizures for example of drugs has increased. But we feel that this indicates more uh the effectiveness of the preventive measures being taken rather than an increase in in drug traffic as it were. I feel that the problem can be reduced.

I I feel that we uh in New York City uh in cooperation with the other law enforcement agencies in the country uh are doing uh a better job now than we have been doing in the past. I don't think that uh we will ever succeed in completely eradicating drug abuse. And when I say abuse, I mean use for other than legitimate medicinal purposes. I think this will rem always always remain and it was therefore felt that it would be necessary for the United Nations to take more direct action to reduce the problem to dimensions where it is not such a threat as it is at the moment. That direct United Nations action has been to come up with the first worldwide plan to attack the problem on its three main levels, supply and demand, and the connections between the two. Until and

unless this plan becomes effective, the threat remains what it has been since shortly after the end of World War II. Its ghastly dimensions are best described by what we might call the code of the connection. Push it on the streets in the schools. Tell them it's heavy or it's cool or whatever they want to be told to get them to make their first score. Make it easy for them to shoot up a second or third time and get them thoroughly hooked. Keep your cash flow

up and your income high by showing them how easy it is to steal. What little effort is required to mug an old man or grab a handbag from a woman? Protect your source of supply and your organization by never letting your pusher in the streets know when, where, or how the heroine's coming in. And constantly expand your market because many of your best customers are going to get caught and go to jail. And the very few lucky ones, no more than 10%, no matter what rehabilitation program is involved, will actually survive to kick the habit and return to straight society.

Our concluding report in this United Nations file on narcotics will consider rehabilitation efforts and their effectiveness or lack of it in Asia, Europe, and the United States. You know, I've seen a lot of people walking around with tombstones in their [Music] [Applause] eyes. But the puss don't [Music] care if you live or if you [Music] die. God damn. Go push [Music] [Applause] her. God

damn. Hey [Applause] pusher. I said godamn god damn the pushing man. [Applause]