---
video_title: "\"THE CHANNEL ISLANDS 1940-45\"  WWII GERMAN ARMY OCCUPATION OF CHANNEL ISLANDS DOCUMENTARY GG41225"
video_id: 7PLygHK3tEc
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7PLygHK3tEc
video_date: 2026-08-10T19:29:54+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  During WWII, the Channel Islands were invaded and occupied by Germany. This short 1945 documentary,"The Channel Islands 1940-1945" uses re-enactments to depict the German occupation of the Channel Islands during WWII. The film shows islanders coping with shortages, engaging in resistance activities, and eventually celebrating their liberation. It opens with a secret boat trip to England, sets the theme of hardship and defiance, and concludes with the islands' liberation and the Germans clearing mines. Directed by Gerard Bryant. 
  
  
  
  0:00 Main titles. The film opens with a wartime message to the people of Britain, assuring them the islanders are struggling under occupation but the "Germans can't get us down," and that they are managing to hear the BBC. The narrator contrasts the pre-war "sandy beaches, cheap drinks" with the lack of a holiday atmosphere for five years. When the Germans arrived in 1940, their discipline was initially good, but they soon began seizing property.
  
  2:43: The Germans started taking radios, then the best horses, and then cars at their own price. Old cars were sent to the scrap heap, forcing islanders to rely on ancient horse-drawn buses and bicycles. When bicycle tires wore out, they were improvised from old garden hoses.
  
  3:32: Worst of all, the Germans "stole the truth" and filled newspapers with propaganda. The remedy was running an underground paper with the help of the BBC. A junior reporter named Nick Robins played a large part in distribution. The originator from the Guernsey Star was eventually caught and died in Germany; others were imprisoned.
  
   5:31: Substitutes were used for basic goods: tobacco was grown, tea was made from bramble leaves, and sugar was replaced by treacle from beets, pressed using improvised equipment. Clothes were constantly mended. The Germans fortified the islands with   barbed wire, mines, and fortifications, using imported slave labor (Russians, Poles, Czechs).
  
  6:12: When the electric supply was cut, islanders began making   crystal radio sets to listen to the news. Mr. Taylor (a butcher) and his daughter, and Andre (a hairdresser), are typical examples of people who turned out hundreds of sets, often under the noses of German soldiers.
  
  6:46: On June 6th, the islanders knew "something big was on" and soon realized it was D-Day. They realized they would have to stick it out longer. Many slave workers died. As the Allies liberated cities (Caen, Paris, Brussels, Warsaw), the islands entered a state of   siege  . Food and fuel ran short, and German rations were cut to the bare minimum.
  
  7:38: The Red Cross ship SS Vega arrived, bringing Canadian and New Zealand parcels, which lifted spirits and made islanders listen almost openly to the news. Andre the hairdresser ran a "luxury listening service" for customers until an informer gave his name to the Gestapo; Andre received six months in jail. The narrator expresses shame for the "traitors" who split on neighbors for a handful of marks. Post office workers intercepted anonymous letters to the Gestapo.
  
  9:31: The food situation was desperate; livestock was thin, and shops had nothing but a ration of one ounce of breakfast meal per head per day. The black market was unaffordable for most. Families like Jack and Florrie Steele were forced to feed their children day after day on carrots and potatoes. Islanders collected carrageen moss (seaweed) from the beach to wash, dry, and cook for vitamins. Children received priority, but their clothes and shoes were threadbare.
  
  11:12: SS Vega returned in March, but the Germans were now as hungry as the islanders and stole Red Cross supplies. The end came with Victory in Europe (VE) Day.
  
  12: The islanders celebrated their freedom. Food started arriving immediately, with double rations for everyone. Younger children, who had never seen one, had to be shown how to peel an orange. There was a free issue of cigarettes. Shops closed for a week to sort out incoming clothing, and upon reopening, the sight of full shelves was surreal.
  
  13:58: Families like the Steeles had their first normal British meal: a cut off the joint and two veg, with second helpings. Copies of Pravda were issued to the Russian slave workers sheltered by farmers. Radios were returned. The final task of the war was left to the Germans: removing the 200,000 mines and barbed wire they had laid, so the islanders could return to a "normal civilized existence."
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Hurry [Music] up. [Music] Heat. [Music] Heat.

[Music] Good luck. When you get to England, tell them how we're getting on over here. Tell them we're having a tough time, but the Germans can't get us down. And tell them that more of us will be following you. And tell them that in spite of everything, we're managing to hear the BBC >> to make the declaration.

But can you doubt what our policy will be? Any man or state who fights against Nazism will have our aid. >> A bit melodramatic for the British crawling about in atticss, but Germans and melodrama go together. There must be thousands of you over in Britain who spent holidays in our islands before the war. Do you remember them? The sandy

beaches, the cheap drinks and cigarettes, and that crossing from Weimoth or Southampton. Well, there hasn't been much of a holiday atmosphere over here for the last 5 years. When the Germans arrived in 1940, our first reactions to them were probably the same as yours would have been

to give the devils their due. Their discipline was good. But they soon started taking things away from us. First it was our radios. And then they had a look around and picked out our best horses.

They were short of transport. So they took our cars at their own price.

Anything over 2 or 3 years old went on the scrap heap. The result was that we went back 30 years and trundled about in ancient horsedrawn buses. When our bicycle tires wore out, we rode about on the rims for a bit. And then we started making tires out of old garden hoses and odds and ends. But worst of all, they stole the truth and filled our newspapers with gerbles and The remedy was simple but dangerous. the

remnants. >> We ran our own with the help of the BBC into Libya. It's doubtful whether any formed body of enemy troops remains on Egyptian. >> One of our papers was called Guns Gernzi Underground News Service. Mick Robbins, who was then a junior reporter, played a large part in the distribution of guns.

The originator, Mashon of the Gernzi Star, was eventually caught and sent to Germany where he died. Poor chap. Feller and Dukeman also went to prison.

[Music] That's one of the ways the news got round. When things began to get short, some of us took to growing our own tobacco. And when tea stopped coming in, we made it from bramble leaves. The most successful substitute for sugar was a sort of treatle which could be got out of beat. We rigged up our own presses for this and the result wasn't too bad. It was

sweet anyway. And as for clothes, well, it was a case of mending your mending. As time went on, we rapidly found out for ourselves the full meaning of German occupied territory. They made a horrible mess of the islands with barbed wire, mines, and fortifications. Most of the work was done by imported slave labor, Russians, Poles, and checks.

When they cut off our electric supply, we started to make crystal sets. Mr. Taylor, a butcher in St. Helier's, and his daughter Peggy are typical of Islanders who turned out hundreds of them. So is Andre, a St. Helia's hairdresser.

He made over 500 in the little room over his shop, while the Germans strutted about in the street below.

We didn't need our crystal sets on June the 6th of last year to tell us that something big was on. We thought at first we were going to be liberated. But we soon realized that this was D-Day, the great day we'd all been waiting for. We'd only to stick it out a little longer and our turn would come. But for many of the slave workers, it would come too late. We were sorry for those slave

workers. We'd seen the way they were treated. As the months went by, we followed the course of the war. >> This is London calling in the European service of the BBC. Here is >> Montgomery has announced this evening that the British second army has liberated >> calling Europe with great news. Paris

has been liberated by the French. >> Commun announced Brussels has been liberated. >> Allied troops days of the war. >> Warsaw has been captured by the Russians. >> We were now in a state of siege. Food

and fuel were getting shorter every day. The Germans cut our rations down to the bare minimum. And as for clothes and shoes, well, there just weren't any new ones to be had.

Then one week, a week we'll never forget, the Red Cross ship Vega put in at St. Peter Port and then at St. Helier's. She brought us everything we'd been without for years. There was a Canadian and a New Zealand Red Cross parcel for everyone.

It was probably the Red Cross parcels and the way the war was going that made us start to listen almost openly to the news. Andre the hairdresser set an example and ran a sort of luxury listening service for his customers. But it didn't last for long. An informer gave his name to the Gustapo and he got 6 months in Jersey jail. Well, incidentally, he still went on making crystal sets and listened to the news with the warders.

>> We were very ashamed of our traitors, >> people who'd split on you for a handful of dirty marks, many of them. But we shan forget them. They used to write anonymous letters to the Gustapo, telling them where they could find hidden radios. But the post office workers had a way of dealing with these letters. The great many of them never reached the Gustapo.

The food situation was now getting desperate and the livestock was in a very bad way. Actually, of course, it was as broad as it was long because if they'd been fat, the Germans would have had them. There was absolutely nothing in the shops apart from the ration of 1 oz of breakfast meal per head per day. There was the black market if you could afford it, but for ordinary decent people, it was always the same. No, I'm sorry. Nothing. So, we had to make the

best of a bad job and struggle through on what vegetables we could get.

Jack and Flory Steel, they'll do to represent us, were forced to feed their two children day after day on carrots and potatoes.

Like everyone else, they went down to the beach to collect carrage moss. And that's a sort of seaweed. It had to be washed and dried and cooked, but it gave us some of the vitamins we needed to keep going.

We did everything we possibly could for the children. They had fresh milk every day and a cup of soup at school. But we couldn't do anything about their clothes or their shoes.

Then in March, the VGA came again. But this time, the Germans were as hungry as we were, and troops who had been fairly well disciplined up to now went haywire. They stole all the Red Cross stuff they could lay their hands on. [Music] But the news was getting better and better. >> Over a quarter of an hour ago, the Germans northwest Germany, Holland, and Denmark that tomorrow will be celebrated as victory in Europe today.

>> And then at last it came the end.

[Applause] [Music] We forgot we were hungry. We forgot everything except that we were free. Then the food started coming in. Masses of it. The army was in charge for 90 days and their first job was to supervise the unloading. There were

double rations for everyone.

Most of your children know what an orange looks like, but our younger ones didn't. They had to be shown how to peel them.

There was a free issue of cigarettes. The old boys would have preferred a pipe, but it was real tobacco, not a horrible mixture of herbs. [Music] The shops closed for a week and the assistants went to a central depot where they sorted out the clothing that had come in.

We could scarcely believe it at first, seeing the shops full of things. We went about in a sort of days, hardly daring to touch anything in case we'd wake up and find it wasn't real. But there it all was. Clothes, food, shoes, any amount of it. And plenty more to come when they'd sold out, which was pretty soon.

Jack and Flory Steel, and that means all of us, had their first normal British meal, a cut off the joint and two veg. The sort of meal you've been having once a week ever since 1939. There were second helpings if they wanted them, and they did, and so did we. There were copies of Pravda for the Russian slave workers who had found shelter with our farmers.

We got our radios back. Some of them will minus a valve or two, but we'll soon get them going again. Give us time to sort ourselves out, and we won't let you down with our exports.

We're starting to enjoy ourselves again. Now there are family reunions to be celebrated and over and above everything else that wonderful feeling of being free. Free to do what we like when we like. Meanwhile, the Germans have the thoroughly unpleasant job of removing the 200,000 mines they laid in the four islands. That goes for the barbed wire, too. No one has suggested giving them

gloves. Their last job over here is really very simple. They've got to clear up all the mess they've made so that we can return to a normal civilized existence.

[Music]