---
video_title: "6.4% SPACE SHUTTLE SCALE MODEL ACOUSTIC TESTS   NASA SOUND SUPPRESSION WATER SYSTEM GG50125"
video_id: g2pW6P2Rgqs
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g2pW6P2Rgqs
video_date: 2026-03-25T16:33:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: https://PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This silent film shows acoustic tests performed on a 6.4% scale model of the Space Shuttle Vehicle (SSV), made sometime between the first (STS-1) and second (STS-2) Space Shuttle flights, or sometime between 12 April to 12 November 1981. The tests also featured a scale vehicle launch pad equipped with an exhaust deflector and simulated duct.
  
  The background on this footage is this: the first launch of the Space Shuttle (STS-1) utilized what was known as the Sound Suppression Water System. This deluged the flame trench on the launch pad, in order to dampen the acoustics of the rocket engines firing. It was believed this would prevent damage to the Orbiter, External Tank (ET) and Solid Rocket Boosters (SRBs) during the first few seconds of lift-off. Data gathered from this first launch however, indicated that the acoustics were much worse than expected. Even with the water deluge, the sound waves literally bounced off the bottom of the flame trench and hit the rear end of the Shuttle stack. The resulting energy could have torn the whole assembly asunder.
  
  To address this critical problem before STS-2, NASA performed tests to determine a method of dampening acoustic effects to a safe level during the first few critical seconds of launch. The film shows one of these dampening tests. Engineers came up with the idea of a series of water-filled bladders across the openings to the flame trench. These would absorb the sound waves from the initial ignition of the engines, that would then be further dampened by the water being pumped into the trench itself. The end result was that sound effects to the stack were reduced, so that the stack could withstand for the first seconds and get pad separation.  
  
  An article summary found online described the tests this way: "The SSV's engine‐generated acoustics and ignition overpressure environments have been long considered as severe dynamic inputs to a reusable aero‐frame structure with a payload located in close proximity to the propulsion systems. The definition of these environments and the noise suppression techniques that are required for SSV launch have been provided from a dynamically scaled hot propulsion model. The scale factor is 6.4% of the Shuttle with the vehicle launch facility with exhaust deflector and duct geometry being simulated. Water injection into the hot exhausts is also scaled for sound suppression for both on‐pad and liftoff cases. The environments measured on model are then scaled to provide launch vehicle environments for vehicle, launch facility, and farfield areas. Overpressure environments from SRB ignition are also acquired from over 100 measurements on the vehicle and launch facility. Suppression techniques are being investigated for Western Test Range (WTR) launchers and for thrust augmented configurations of the Shuttle."
  
  Thanks to Michelle Evans for donating this film to us and for helping write this description.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit https://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you