---
video_title: "\"DRIVIN' & DRINKIN'\"  1969 CHEVROLET ANTI-DUI DRINKING AND DRIVING FILM  DRIVER'S EDUCATION GG47345"
video_id: uohWOoZEPts
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uohWOoZEPts
video_date: 2026-08-04T16:29:48+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  
  Created by GM Photographic on behalf of Chevrolet and targeted at teenage drivers, "Drivin' & Drinkin'" (1969) explores the serious consequences of drinking and driving. It begins by emphasizing the importance and responsibility of driving, highlighting it as a symbol of growing up. The discussion then shifts to alcohol use among high school students, noting that a majority have tried it, often in social situations that involve driving. It explains how even in small amounts, alcohol quickly enters the bloodstream and impairs brain function. It debunks common myths about sobering up and outlines how alcohol affects individuals differently based on factors like weight, mood, and food intake. Even drivers below the legal limit exhibited dangerously poor performance after drinking. Statistics from various states underline the strong link between alcohol and fatal car accidents, especially among young drivers. It also warns of long-term risks like alcoholism and how alcohol contributes to criminal behavior. It closes with a clear message: driving and drinking must be kept separate.
  
  
  
  
  
  0:00 The dangers of drinking and driving.
  
   0:37: 
  Driving is portrayed as a key part of growing up—a symbol of independence and maturity. Young drivers often feel a sense of pride and responsibility when they start driving, and it's emphasized how critical it is to take that responsibility seriously.
  
  1:29:Driving marks a shift into adulthood and should be treated with respect due to the responsibility it entails.
  
  1:47:
  Most high school students have been exposed to drinking at least once, with exposure rates varying from 50% to 90%. 
  
  2:18:
  Drinking often occurs in social settings where driving is also involved making the potential for danger even greater.
  
  2:30: 
  Alcohol is quickly absorbed into the bloodstream and affects the brain directly. It’s a depressant, not a stimulant, impairing judgment, memory, and coordination even at low levels.
  
  3:22:Alcohol is primarily broken down by the liver at a constant rate, regardless of efforts like drinking coffee, taking cold showers, or exercising. There’s no shortcut to sobering up.
  
  4:04:
  Individual reactions to alcohol vary based on physical size, mood, health, and food intake. For smaller or emotionally unstable individuals, alcohol can have more severe effects more quickly, even if food slightly slows absorption.
  
   5:00:
  If alcohol consumption is spread out, the body can manage it, but consuming a lot in a short time leads to significant impairment. A person can be severely drunk after just a few shots if taken rapidly.
  
  5:49: 
  Mixing alcohol with medications—even simple ones like aspirin or cold tablets—can be dangerous.  
  
  6:17: 
  A GM experiment tested how alcohol affected driving skills. Volunteers performed well sober but showed impaired coordination and judgment after just one drink. After three or four drinks, they could no longer complete basic driving tasks safely.
  
  7:30:Drivers missed turns, hit obstacles, and could not properly navigate courses—even if their blood alcohol levels were below the legal limit.
  
  8:53:
  Alcohol is involved in a significant percentage of fatal accidents, particularly among young drivers aged 15 to 20, with some studies showing 65% of them had been drinking.
  
  9:10:Even minor accidents can lead to financial burdens, strained family relationships, and possible legal trouble. Teenagers are often grounded or punished severely for drinking-related incidents.
  
  10:06:
  Teen drivers are subject to heightened scrutiny by law enforcement. Even if they aren’t at fault, the presence of alcohol can bias a situation against them.
  
  10:27: Alcoholism and its severe long-term health consequences. Alcoholism can affect anyone. 11:19: Alcohol also plays a major role in crime.
  
  11:33:
  Taking responsibility and thinking ahead is essential—it can happen to anyone.
  
  12:13: Conclusion: if you're going to drink and drive, do them at different times. Keep them separate. It can save lives.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music] at the same time. Drink and drive.

[Music] If we are going to drive, and some of us are going to drink occasionally, we ought to recognize some facts about both things so we can make intelligent decisions. Take driving first. Quicker to emergencies, have a better chance to avoid an accident. Of course, older people do have more experience behind the wheel, and that helps them out some, but we are basically even more skillful drivers. Those reflexes make up for the And what does driving a car mean? Well, you know

as well as I do, you're just not with it if you can't get some wheels once in a while, or at least have a friend you can ride with. Just stop and think about it. [Music] to driving. You know the accepting the responsibility message our parents and teachers and everybody are always telling us about. They say driving is a symbol of growing up. Well, they've got

a good point there. I guess when you start driving, you're not a kid anymore. That's for sure. We know a lot about driving, but what do we know about drinking? I mean, what do we really know? Well, consider this.

Most studies show that a majority of high school students have been exposed to alcoholic beverages. Now, that means trying it out at least once. Some statistics, usually in big cities, go as high as 90%. On the other hand, in some places, it's as low as 50%. Why do we do it? One reason is that it's something

new. [Music] Okay, some of us do drink sometimes, but look at where we have a beer. School dance, picnic, somebody's party. Just about everywhere involves driving or riding in a car. And that's where the whole thing gets dangerous. Anybody who

drinks ought to know the effects of alcohol. When alcohol, the amount depending on the kind of drink, hits your stomach, it doesn't just sit there to be digested like other foods. Uh-uh. It gets absorbed directly into the blood vessels of the stomach full strength and moves in the bloodstream throughout the body including the brain. That's why you can feel it so fast. Alcohol is a

depressant, not a stimulant. It acts on the brain like an anesthetic. Steadily puts it to sleep. First thing that happens is loss of judgment, memory, and your inhibitions. A little more alcohol and there's loss of coordination, slurred speech, and you can't see as well. And finally, you can't walk very

well and you go into a coma, otherwise known as passing out, stoned or what have you. Okay, what happens to that alcohol in the bloodstream? Well, about 5% is disposed through elimination and the other 95% by oxidation. The oxidation takes place in the liver where the alcohol is changed through a chemical process into harmless water and carbon dioxide. Now, the big thing to remember here is that this occurs at a constant rate and cannot be speeded up in any way. Nothing you can do can get rid of

that alcohol any faster. Physical exercise won't help. All the black coffee in the world doesn't do any good. Nor will a freezing shower. You can stand under there until you turn blue, but the blood will still be pumping alcohol to the brain.

There are several other things we ought to know if we're going to make sense about all this. First off, we're all different physically. So, how fast our blood absorbs alcohol and how fast our liver gets rid of it will be different. Going even further, we're different at different times. The reaction to alcohol may depend on our physical health, how we feel mentally, what the mood is, up or down. The point here is that you

really can't depend on what will happen. Now, weight has a lot to do with alcohol concentration in the blood. The more you weigh, the less the concentration. The smaller you are, the higher the concentration. If you're a lightweight, alcohol will affect you more seriously. The rate of absorption

is influenced by how much and what kind of foods are in your stomach, with carbohydrates and proteins being a little more effective than fats. But don't pin any hopes on this. that alcohol is going to get into the bloodstream. It'll just take a little longer. Okay, the more alcohol taken in, the more the effect. That's obvious. But

consider the time element. That's just as important. You could sit down and drink a 3/4 ouncez shot of 80 proof whiskey every hour until at the end of 24 hours, you would have consumed a pint. Now, nobody in their right mind would want to pull such a stunt, but it'll make a point. and that is no alcohol would accumulate in the body and no effect on the brain. Space drinks far enough apart

and you're safe. On the other hand, a 150lb guy who drinks a half a pint of 86 proof liquor in an hour or so is just plain drunk and is 10 hours away from that alcohol getting out of his system. Drive. He can hardly walk. Now, here's a little information your parents may not even know. And that's

what happens when alcohol is combined with many types of medicines. You know, the normal pills. Give you an idea of just how important this is. Consider the airline pilot who takes medicine. He must wait 12 hours after taking two simple aspirins before he can fly. 24

hours after taking a cold tablet. So, you can imagine how these drugs would affect you along with alcohol. Okay, we've taken a look at driving and drinking separately. Now, let's see what happens when they get together. Just how much alcohol does it take to impair driving ability, and what happens when a driver isn't up to par? General Motors conducted a

controlled study of the effect of alcohol on driving ability at its proving grounds. Engineers set up two test courses. One was much like the open highway with a traffic light changing from green to red to trigger a driver's reaction. He had a split second to make an emergency turn from one lane to another without hitting an obstacle. The other course, marked out by cones, required a driver to follow a path, including three curves and one straightaway. Seven drivers were

selected from a group of volunteers and allowed to practice until they were familiar with both courses. A professional proving ground driver was a front seat passenger on each run as a safeguard. Before the first drink, each driver made eight trips through the courses to establish a normal performance. Every driver recorded almost perfect scores at speeds as high as 40 mph. Then the volunteer drivers were given whatever drinks they preferred and sent back out on the course for another eight trips. After as little as one

drink, the drivers were affected. And after three or four drinks, they just couldn't make it. This driver has good hand coordination and chooses the right turn, but he's late. He hits the sponge rubber barrel and goes off the road. In the cone course, he just about knocks them all [Music] down. on another rushes and to another

driver after the car back and forth across the 10- foot wide lane. A number of failures resulted from the driver's inability to coordinate his hand movements with a steering wheel rotation. Until another test, the driver's blood alcohol level was below the point he would be judged legally drunk. Yet, look at his performance. He can't even find the 30-foot wide entrance to the cone course and fails the evasive maneuver seven out of eight tries.

On the cone course, he abandons his hand overhand steering technique and spins the wheel wildly. The more the volunteers drank, the worse it [Music] became. Doesn't leave much question about it, right? Alcohol, and it doesn't take too much, will make even a pro more liable for an accident. I know it can't happen to you, but it does happen to somebody, and drinking is involved in many cases. In a Wisconsin study of

fatal accidents, two out of three drivers were drinking. California, 53%, Illinois, 44%. Let me get a little closer to home. In a Wisconsin study of 15 to 20year-old drivers, guys like you and me, 65% had been drinking. Go a little further. Stop

and think now if you haven't known somebody that died in an automobile accident in the last year or so. Was drinking involved? Okay. Okay. So, it won't happen to you, but there are other things, too. There's more chance of a minor

accident when you've had a couple. And if you have an accident, it puts a dent in your pocketbook or your father's, which could even be worse. No question, but what you are going to get chewed out. Relations will be pretty strained around your house for a long time. And there's a good chance of being [Music] grounded. We get stopped more than

adults. And beer on our breath can influence an opinion even when the person drinking is not to blame. And if you lose your license, that's worse yet. It's not hard to do either because let's face it, the police give us teenagers special attention. Okay, having a car means a whole lot to us and having a drink may be part of our life, too. But one

thing's for sure, they just don't go together. One more consideration, the effects of excessive drinking. There are over 5 million American alcoholics and the number increases by about 200,000 a year. Over 25 million alcoholics around the rest of the world. These people are addicted to alcohol, need it as much as the heroin addict needs his injection.

And they are not all lying in the alley. You can find them behind any door. The prolonged use of large amounts of alcohol can cause irreversible damage to the brain, the nervous system, and the liver. The long-term damage is greater than any other known pleasure-giving drug. Withdrawal symptoms for an alcoholic deprived of his drink are more severe than those of a heroin addict without his drug. Acute symptoms include

hallucinations. Alcohol's effect on moral values and judgments. Every other man now in prison committed his crime after drinking alcohol in some form. It can't happen to me. Well, just stop and remember how many of us or our friends have done something while tight that we would never have done ordinarily. It can't happen to me. Well,

he probably said the same thing when he was our age. Driving a car is a big part of our life. Seems to go along with just about everything we do. It doesn't make a lot of sense to take a chance on wrecking the whole deal, does it? Of course, some of us may drink at times, too. But it's up to us, nobody else. the

way I see it. So if we are going to do both, the thing to do is drive and drink at different times. Keep them separate. It can be done. [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music]