---
video_title: "\"FOLLOWING TOO CLOSE\"  1950 DRIVER'S EDUCATION FILM   DEFENSIVE DRIVING  GG47495b"
video_id: 6GOZDd0WWEc
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6GOZDd0WWEc
video_date: 2026-08-29
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  One of a series of films produced in 1950 for Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Company by Traffic Safety Films, Inc. in cooperation with the Los Angeles Police Department, "Following Too Close" is about defensive driving. It emphasizes the importance of safe driving practices, including maintaining a safe following distance, being aware of reaction times, and controlling emotions while driving to prevent accidents.
  
  00:00 Sergeant Bruce of the LAPD speaks from his desk at Parker Center 0:35: The film introduces the concept of avoiding accidents by not running into others, highlighting driver responsibility.0:46: The film uses the example of a driver, Frank, to illustrate the consequences of not keeping a safe distance.1:40: The film explains the two components of stopping a car: reaction time and the car's reaction.1:57: The film details the process of reaction time, involving the eyes, brain, and foot.2:19: The film provides an example of calculating stopping distance at 35 mph, including both reaction time and braking distance.3:02: The film uses a model to demonstrate the importance of following distance to avoid rear-end collisions.3:31: The film emphasizes that reaction time is crucial in preventing accidents.3:43: The film notes that in the example, Frank was lucky to avoid serious injury, but his car was damaged.3:51: The film warns that the danger of rear-end collisions increases at higher speeds and with closer following distances.3:58: The film states that many accidents are caused by "chasing bumpers" and advises against reacting angrily to careless drivers.4:38: The film stresses the importance of common sense and maintaining a safe following distance, using the "one car length for each 10 mph" rule.5:10: The film advises drivers to regularly check their brakes and to pay close attention to the car ahead for sudden stops.5:25: The film reiterates that in rear-end collisions, the driver who strikes the car ahead is usually at fault.5:32: The film concludes by emphasizing the importance of reaction time in preventing fatal accidents.6:09: Sergeant Bruce reports.6:33: The film shifts to the topic of driver behavior and its effect on safety during daily commutes.6:38: The film describes the typical morning rush, with drivers in a hurry to get to work.6:54: The film introduces a driver, Mac, who is taking the morning off and is determined to remain calm and avoid getting angry.7:49: The film shows Mac resisting the urge to react angrily to another driver's actions.8:31: The film depicts Mac encountering heavy traffic and the temptation to become impatient.9:15: The film portrays the stress of commuting in heavy traffic and the importance of staying relaxed.9:46: The film shows Mac experiencing a frustrating situation with another driver.10:12: The film reminds Mac of the importance of staying calm for his health and safety.10:26: The film shows another driver being courteous, highlighting the positive impact of such behavior.10:52: The film criticizes drivers who inconvenience others and advises against reacting with anger.11:20: The film depicts Mac facing more traffic congestion and the urge to react angrily.11:56: The film describes a driver who lost his temper and caused an accident, resulting in injuries.12:17: The film summarizes the message: drivers should maintain their composure to avoid accidents.12:39: The film emphasizes that hospitals are full of people injured due to road rage and advises drivers to manage their emotions.12:58: The film concludes by stating that courteous driving can prevent accidents and make the roads safer for everyone.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
Sergeant Bruce reporting.

Many centuries ago, Confucius uttered a wise saying that went something like this. One easy way to avoid an accident is not to run into somebody. The driver of this car, who we shall call Frank, because that's his name, has never read Confucius. Even so, you'd think common sense would tell him that running into someone is bad. And a good way to avoid that is to keep your distance from the car ahead of you.

Anyone but Frank could have told you this was bound to happen. But then, as you've already observed, Frank is not too long on brains. And he has the damage to prove it.

In order to avoid trouble with the sensor, let's leave Frank's unfriendly little argument and look at some basic facts that everyone should know. To stop a car involves two things. First, you react. Then the car reacts. This is what I mean.

Your reaction time involves your eyes, brain, and foot all working together. The interval from the time you see something that's cause for a sudden stop until your foot jams down on the brake will vary. But, it will average about 3/4 of a second. For a concrete example, let's assume that your reaction time is normal. At 35 mph, you will travel 39 ft from the time you want to stop until the time you apply your foot to the brake.

Now, your car must react. If it's in good shape, good brakes, good tires, and on a road of average surface, it will stop in 63 ft. That means that during the total reaction time and braking distance, you will have traveled 102 ft. Now, let's go to the models.

Let's assume that these two cars are traveling at about 30 mph. The second car following about two car lengths behind. If the car ahead has to stop suddenly, the driver of the second car following two car lengths behind is too close to react and stop in time. Nothing in the world will prevent an accident. So, you see, the important part of this problem is reaction time or thinking distance.

In this case, Frank was lucky. He wasn't injured seriously, but the damage to his car is no small item. At higher speeds and closer following, the danger is increased many times. A large percentage of wrecks like this is caused by the tragic mistake of chasing bumpers. Frequently, this happens to the most careful driver.

A careless driver in a big rush will cut in ahead of you. First thing you do is to get sore and show your annoyance by honking the horn at him. This is human, but not particularly safe. This driver considers his safety more important than telling the other driver off. He is annoyed, but he knows that 2 weeks in the hospital is a big price to pay for the privilege of blowing his top at another driver.

So, he drops back to a safe distance. Like nearly everything else, plain common sense is the most important factor when following another car. The faster you're going, the longer it will take your car to stop. Therefore, keep that car up ahead of you at a safe distance. One car length for each 10 miles on your speedometer.

Two at 20, three at 30, and so forth. It's a good rule. Try it, and you'll find it works. Be sure to check your brakes regularly. The fellow up ahead may have good brakes, and if yours don't hold, nothing you can do will avert an accident.

Keep your eyes on the car ahead and watch it closely for sudden stops. In most rear-end collisions, the driver who strikes the car ahead is held to be at fault. So, don't forget. Reaction time can be the most important time of your life. It can decide whether you live or die.

Sergeant Bruce reporting.

This is a story that takes place in your town on many days of the year. Inside these nice pleasant homes, the man of the house is cramming his breakfast, sipping scalding coffee, and trying to put his hat and coat on at the same time. In other words, they're going to work. And as usual, they're a little late. That is all but one.

This is Mac Donigan, and he's taking the morning off. He's going to the doctor's for a physical examination, and he never has felt better in his life. Six months ago, the insurance company told him he'd have to get that blood pressure down before he could buy any more life insurance. So, he watched his diet, cut out smoking, and got plenty of sleep. He feels great.

It's a beautiful morning. It's good to be alive and at peace with the world.

Temper Mac. Right now he's fighting a primitive urge to chase after that driver and tell him off. But it wouldn't be a good idea. It would only make him mad and this morning he isn't going to get mad.

This intersection gives him trouble every morning. Well, there's no rush this morning, so he'll just wait for some kind driver to give him a break. There's a chance.

It's a plot, that's what it is. He's only going to block and twice his patience has worn thin.

Look up. Each mind with but a single thought to get to work on time. In a mob like that, there's not much you can do about it. Just relax and accept the situation. Think of something nice. Listen to the

radio. You're just about on time anyway and you haven't insulted a single driver. It's not too bad if you just take it easy.

Now what? Everything was going fine. He was just driving along minding his own business and this happens.

He would have to pick the wrong lane of traffic on a morning like this.

Hey Mack, remember your appointment. Remember that life insurance policy. Your family needs it. Come on, let him in somebody. Now there's somebody with a heart. He's

probably in a bigger hurry than Mack, but he's willing to give him a break. That should make you feel better, Mack. Maybe next time you'll do the same for somebody else. It works both ways, you know. Keeps everybody happier and safer.

Drivers will do things like this. They'll hold up a whole line of traffic in order to serve their own convenience. It annoys you, Mack, but don't honk the horn. The noise will just irritate you more.

Here we go. There are times when Mack wishes he were driving a tank. This is one of those times. Is everyone crazy? What's happening this morning, anyway?

But this is ridiculous. By now, Mack realizes that it's all just a plot to make him mad and get his blood pressure up. But it won't work. He has control of himself.

Something wrong, Mack? Over there, somebody lost his temper on the road and became a dangerous driver. Now he, too, has a date with the doctor. But it's a sad one, maybe tragic. It's the kind that any driver can expect who gets upset by traffic irritations.

What I've been getting at is really pretty simple. Just common horse sense. Take a fighter. The minute he gets mad, he gets wild and is likely to get hurt. It's the same way with a driver.

Allow your temper to rule your good judgment and you're lost. The hospitals are full of people who were either angry when they got into their cars or who let traffic irritations get the best of them. Keep your blood pressure down, your hands on the wheel, and your wits in the car with you. Just as Mack will do now that he's learned it pays off. Maybe it's a plot, maybe it isn't.

But of one thing you can be sure. The discourteous and irritating actions of others can cause a driver to do things which lead to accidents. You can't always avoid these traffic irritations, but you can be a better driver when you learn to take them in your stride.

Oh.