---
video_title: "\" FOREWARD ON LIBERTY'S TEAM \" WWII ERA PATRIOTIC BOY SCOUT FILM   VERDUGO HILLS, CALIFORNIA SM11065"
video_id: 32hOXQcwiAA
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=32hOXQcwiAA
video_date: 2026-07-04T16:29:50+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films! Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  
  Made by an unknown filmmaker during WWII "Foreward (sic) On Liberty's Team" was probably made for the Verdugo Hills, California Boy Scouts. It begins with a prayer by a priest or rabbi asking for divine guidance to inspire the youth toward peace, harmony, and freedom, and to eliminate violence and suffering from the world. The film reflects on America’s history, emphasizing the nation’s commitment to justice, liberty, and equality, and acknowledges the struggles between cruelty and benevolence. The speaker asserts that the United States is not a warlike nation but has fought for security, progress, and peace, not only for itself but for all mankind. The film also highlights the importance of youth in shaping the future and calls for them to stand for liberty and justice, carrying forward the ideals of freedom. It concludes with a prayer for youth to be led in the right direction, filled with the fervor to uphold the values of a free society.
  
  
  
  
  
  00:00 - 1:41: A conductor conducts and orchestra playing in a band shell. A cross, the holy bible, and a Jewish star are shown as a religious man speaks. A prayer is offered to God, asking for help in guiding the youth towards ideals of peace, harmony, and freedom, with the hope that they will help eliminate violence, suffering, and destruction from the world.
  
  1:41: The prayer continues, asking for the youth to bring joy and harmony into the world, replacing the sounds of terror and discord with a glorious symphony representing peace and freedom for all mankind.
  
  2:43: Boy Scouts sing the National Anthem and flags are seen waving. 4:00: The tone shifts with mentions of a sports context, referencing men in Vermont who fought and scrimmaged, guided by their head coach, George Washington, reflecting a spirit of freedom and unity reminiscent of the American Revolution in 1776.
  
   3:27: The film continues with a message about freedom for some and slavery for others being unjust. It reflects on America's struggle through a history of cruelty and benevolence, emphasizing the values of justice, liberty, and peace, which are foundational to the nation.
  
  4:40: A female violinist plays a solo while Scouts watch. Shot of an aircraft carrier at sea as patriotic music plays. At 5:40, troops march past the camera as the Army Air Force song plays. 6:28: Boy Scouts stand in front of a replica of the Liberty Bell. Narration on America's non-aggressive nature, stating that the country has fought for peace and security, not just for itself but for all people across generations. The speech emphasizes the doctrine of equality and the nation's hope for the future in its youth.
  
  6:28 - 8:08: The prayer ends by asking God to lead the youth, ignite their passion, and prepare them to stand for freedom, carrying forward the values of liberty and justice.
  
  8:08: Orchestra gives way to a bugler playing taps. A closing word or prayer.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
e

[Música]

la

[Música] Deus Todo-Poderoso, autor de toda a criação e Pai de todos os homens, em um mundo dilacerado por conflitos e violência, nos voltamos para Ti para dedicar nossos corações e esforços nesta noite aos ideais e valores que levam a realizações criativas e construtivas. Ajuda-nos a perceber que nas mãos desta nossa juventude repousa o destino de nossa nação e de toda a humanidade. Oramos para que sejam inspirados a obliterar do mundo todo som de violência, horror e destruição, para que substituam o grito da humanidade sofredora por uma voz de canto alegre, para que a cacofonia dissonante e estridente do terror seja substituída por uma sinfonia gloriosa que reflita um mundo de concórdia e harmonia, paz e liberdade para todos os homens. Amém. d d

[Música]

os

[Música] de Vermont, estes homens treinaram e passaram para a linha, os treinadores Lafayette, Kusco, Decal e Stuan, eles lutaram e venceram. Sob a mão guia de seu invencível treinador George Washington, eles lutaram com um espírito, o espírito de 1776 Proclamai ao mundo inteiro, então e para sempre [Música]

liberdade para alguns, escravidão para outros é uma farsa da justiça e da América, fundada na Justiça, Liberdade e paz a todo custo, enfrentou uma era terrível em sua história, um povo simples trazido para o novo mundo não por sua própria escolha, vivendo em um meio mundo de benevolência e crueldade desumana, um povo simples de uma origem simples, mas

feliz [Música]

você

[Música]

não somos um povo belicoso, não estamos interessados ​​em agressão, lutamos por segurança, por progresso, por paz, não apenas por nós mesmos, mas por todos os homens, não por uma geração, mas por todas as gerações, lutamos como nossos pais lutaram para defender a doutrina de que todos os homens são criados iguais perante Deus. Nossa esperança para o amanhã está na juventude de hoje e nossa oração vai para o céu, grande mestre de todos os Escoteiros, guie-nos pela trilha da Vida, acenda o fervor de toda a juventude para estar pronta para se levantar como homens livres para seguir em frente na equipe da Liberdade [Música] Senhor [Música] de [Música]

[Música]