---
video_title: "1960s GARY INDIANA & CHICAGO   LABOR STRIKES AND PROTESTS   NAT'L ASSOC. OF WHITE PEOPLE GG33515"
video_id: gdxpa6vr0Nw
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gdxpa6vr0Nw
video_date: 2026-07-15T16:29:47+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Here is a reel of silent news footage shot by Jack Hemstock / Solar, Inc. who was apparently a stringer for local TV stations in Illinois and Indiana. This footage consists of various protests in and around Gary, Indiana including:
  
  00:00  May, 1963 anti-sales tax increase protest march. This was apparently triggered by the fact that in 1963, Indiana introduced a state sales tax. At the time, Gary did not have its own local sales tax. The initial sales tax rate was 2%, which became effective on July 1, 1963.  The picketers include Blacks and whites. At :59, the Gary Superior Courthouse / Lake Superior Courthouse is shown, followed by shots of protestors delivering petitions to government workers and the clerk of the Lake Superior Court. 
  
  3:00 shows a group of women and their children picketing in East Gary (date unknown), near what appears to be a construction site for a highway. Signs say "Help for Our Help / Fire Dept. / School". Bulldozers are shown moving earth, while another sign reads "2000 cars travel this road daily" (5:10). At (5:31) the women pose around a woman carrying a sign that reads "Save Our State Street".  
  
  6:40, views of the St. Mary's Mercy Hospital at the corner of 6th Ave and Tyler Street, and then scenes of the July 1963 protest put on by the NAAWP, or National Association of American White People. Leaflets are handed to Black and white nurses and hospital staff, and at 7:43 protestors walk with signs that read "NAAWP The American Way". At 8:02 a press photographer snaps the group with a Speed Graphic camera. At 8:16 a protestor's sign says "Equal rights for Whites." At 8:21, a Black girl watches the protest with some amusement. 
  
  The backstory on this is interesting: the NAAWP was picketing the hospital, apparently as a counter protest against civil rights organizations which were protesting racial injustices in the providing of care at the hospital.  In November of 1963, Methodists in Gary were urged to write their Bishop, Richard C. Raines, about mistreatment of Blacks in the hospital including but not limited to being assigned to segregated rooms. A large protest occurred at the Gary Methodist Church, because its pastor, the Rev. Richard Thistle, was the chairman of the Methodist Hospital Human Relations Committee. The pickets walked around the church for nearly two hours and distributed leaflets, some of the picketers receiving insults and gestures of disgust from white persons. Two of the women picketers were spat upon. 
  
  Note: The National Association for the Advancement of White People (NAAWP) was a white supremacist organization that operated under Bryant Bowles from 1953 to 1955. It's not clear who was running the group in 1963. While identical in name, it is distinct from the current NAAWP founded in 1979 by David Duke.While leading the NAAWP, Bowles described himself as "not anti-Negro but just pro-white" and campaigned heavily for segregation. 
  
  8:56: August 1963 wildcat strike at Ford's Chicago Heights Stamping Plant. Union members are shown with signs reading "Unsafe conditions exist No Work" and "Unsafe Conditions Chicago Stamping Plant".  The Chicago Stamping Plant was essential to the production of Mercury cars. Union members described working conditions there as deplorable.
  
  11:43: "We want safe jobs not phoney safety plaques" sign.
  
  12:08: August 1967, Gary Steel Strike in color
  . At 12:18, a protestor carries a sign that says "This Plant on Strike USA Member Suspended For  Phoning Grievance Committeeman". 12:35 sign reads "Strike Now You Maybe Next Under Hitlerism". At 12:46, strikers eat watermelon and throw a football while blocking the road. 
  
  14:41: November 1966 Bethlehem Steel strike at the Burns Harbor facility. This was the world's first 160-inch Plate Mill, located at Burns Harbor, Indiana, on Lake Michigan in Northwest Indiana. At 15:29 strikers keep warm over a log fire. At 16:15 hot coffee is served to strikers. 
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you