---
video_title: "1933 PALEONTOLOGICAL EXPEDITION TO GOBI DESERT    DR. ROY CHAPMAN ANDREWS  DINOSAUR EGGS  SM11605g"
video_id: MzcrKmGn1mc
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MzcrKmGn1mc
video_date: 2026-08-24
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: https://PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This short "Dr. Roy Chapman Andrews / World Famouos Explorer of the Gobi Desert" (1933) ecounts the dramatic discovery of dinosaur eggs in Mongolia's Gobi Desert,. During an expedition near the Flaming Cliffs, the explorers accidentally discover a dinosaur egg while attempting to reach an eagle's nest. Careful excavation reveals an unhatched dinosaur skeleton inside one egg and a nearby fossilized clutch containing 18 eggs, providing unusually direct evidence of dinosaur reproduction approximately 95 million years ago.
  
  The Flaming Cliffs, also known as Bayanzag, became internationally famous for dinosaur fossils and eggs following the Central Asiatic Expeditions led by the American Museum of Natural History in the 1920s. The expedition's discoveries helped establish Mongolia's Gobi Desert as one of the world's most important dinosaur fossil regions and dramatically expanded scientific knowledge of dinosaur nesting and reproduction.
  
  
  0:00 -Dr. Roy Chapman Andrews introduces his paleontological expedition into Mongolia's Gobi Desert and the search for evidence of prehistoric dinosaur life.
  
  0:48 - Approximately 95 million years ago, dinosaurs living in Mongolia gave rise to numerous species that spread into other parts of the world. Some evolved from relatively small animals into enormous horned dinosaurs, while thousands of fossil remains have subsequently been discovered.
  
  1:09 - A remarkably well-preserved dinosaur skeleton is presented, but Andrews notes that despite numerous fossil discoveries, scientists still lacked a complete understanding of dinosaur life histories.
  
  1:27 - The expedition establishes camp near the Flaming Cliffs of the Gobi Desert, a famous fossil-producing region. After finding several dinosaur specimens, the explorers prepare for one final search before leaving the area.
  
  1:35 - An eagle's nest high on the sandstone cliffs catches the attention of the expedition. One of the engineers, described as having a particular talent for taming wild birds, becomes determined to reach it despite the dangerous 200-foot cliffs and unstable sandstone.
  
  2:11 - The attempt to reach the eagle's nest proves unsuccessful because the nest is empty. However, while reaching toward it, the explorer scratches his hand on a fragment of material exposed in the rock.
  
  2:18 - The fragment immediately attracts his attention. The expedition realizes that it may represent something far more significant than the eagle's nest, despite the precarious sandstone cliffs beneath them.
  
  2:34 - The fragment is identified as a dinosaur egg, presented as the first dinosaur egg ever discovered by humans. The expedition carefully excavates the fossil using delicate brushes to avoid damaging it.
  
  2:51 - The scientists confirm the discovery by finding the tiny skeleton of an unhatched dinosaur preserved inside one of the eggs, providing rare evidence of dinosaur reproduction and development.
  
  3:04 - Nearby, the expedition discovers a large concentration of fossilized eggs embedded within a solid block of stone.
  
  3:14 - The block is carefully excavated, revealing 18 dinosaur eggs preserved together in their original arrangement. The narrator dates the eggs to approximately 95 million years ago.
  
  3:28 - The discovery, along with other fossils recovered during the expedition, is presented as evidence supporting the idea that Central Asia was an important evolutionary center from which animal life spread into other regions.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit https://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[music]

[music]

[music]

[music]

[music]

>> 95 millions of years ago, the dinosaurs of Mongolia fathered various species that continued through thousands of generations and spread into many other parts of the world. Some of them developed from quaint beasts only a few feet long into horned monsters of enormous size. The fossilized remains of thousands of these reptiles have been unearthed from time to time, including this skeleton, which we found in almost perfect condition. Notwithstanding all these finds, the life history of these dinosaurs was never known until the discovery about which I am going to tell you. We had established camp near the Flaming Cliffs of the Gobi Desert, where we had previously unearthed a number of dinosaur fossils, and were making one last search for more specimens before moving on.

I was about to call it quits when I spied an eagle's nest high above our heads. Lovel, one of our engineers, was with me, and as he had a positive gift for taming wild birds, I knew that he'd break his neck to get a baby eagle. It was in a dangerous spot, for these cliffs were 200 ft high and all sandstone and had a habit of breaking off at the least provocation and crashing to the bottom. But, nothing like that ever stopped Level when there was a chance of adding to his collection of pets. The eagle hunt proved a wild goose chase for the nest was empty. But, as Level

leaned out, he scratched his hand. One glance at that fragment and he was convinced that he had stumbled upon something important. And we knew by his frantic yell that he wasn't referring to eagles. Not a thought did anyone give to the danger of the crumbling sandstone cliff beneath our feet. The object in Level's hand was an egg. A

dinosaur egg. Purely by chance, we had discovered the first dinosaur egg ever seen by a human being. To scientists, it is inexcusable to injure a fossil. They use delicate brushes and it is fascinating to watch with what infinite patience and tenderness they extract the specimen. We knew they were dinosaur eggs because in this one we later found a nice little skeleton of an unhatched dinosaur.

Right nearby we found an outcropping of shells from a solid block of stone. Hoping this contained a second nest, we dug it out. And here it is. This block of stone contains 18 eggs just as they were laid by a dinosaur 95 million years ago. This discovery and others gave us additional proof that Central Asia was the incubating center where much of the animal life of the world originated.