---
video_title: "\"FLAT OUT\" 1970 FORD MOTORSPORTS PROMO  UNITED STATES AUTO CLUB CHAMPIONSHIP  NASCAR GG41315"
video_id: Oa3b5GyuvNk
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oa3b5GyuvNk
video_date: 2026-08-16T19:30:00+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Presented by Ford and the American Hot Rod Assoc. and National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing, and released by Allegro Film Productions, "Flat Out" (1970) promotes motorsports. 
  
  0:00 Voices: A race car driver reflects on the qualities that make a good racer: confidence, drive, and desire. Racing, like life, is about competition and challenge.
  
  1:01 – A driver recalls his early passion for racing. Success comes from pushing personal limits.
  
  1:24 Many races are won in the pits—through preparation, teamwork, and hard work rather than luck.
  
  2:09 – Culture of auto racing described 3:04 – Cars have become so technically advanced that machines now exceed human reaction time.  3:47 – The  United States Auto Club (USAC) Championship circuit runs nationwide, culminating each May in the Indianapolis 500—the biggest and most prestigious race of all.
  
  4:40 – Ford’s Jack Passino discusses the mystique and tension of Indianapolis, where the world’s best gather. 
  
  5:22 – Mario Andretti, still chasing his first Indy 500 victory, faces off against champion A.J. Foyt, who earns pole position. Andretti crashes in qualifying but competes in a backup car.
  
  6:53 – The race begins, with Andretti, Foyt, and McCluskey in close competition. Foyt’s car troubles remove him from contention, and Andretti dominates to take victory.
  
  8:20 – Andretti describes the overwhelming joy of winning. He later captures his third national championship, major prize money, and multiple victories in 1969, reflecting on constantly testing limits.
  
  10:01 – The scene shifts to drag racing. Danny Ongais’s funny car dominates the American Hot Rod Association season, powered by a supercharged Ford engine producing 1,500 horsepower.
  
  11:26 – Ongais explains drag racing technique—spinning tires for traction, timing reactions to the start light, etc.
  
  13:17 – In a close final, Ongais wins the Spring Nationals. He envisions 5-second quarter-mile runs over 300 mph in the future.
  
  14:42 – NASCAR’s Grand National Series begins, with top names like Foyt and Petty. Richard Petty wins at Riverside, launching Ford’s seventh consecutive victory there.
  
  15:19 – Ford dominates the Super Speedways; Leroy Yarborough and Cale Yarborough claim major wins, securing Ford’s seventh straight manufacturers’ championship.
  
  16:10 – Leroy Yarborough earns six major wins and the title of Ford’s Motorsports Man of the Year. Meanwhile, the driver’s championship becomes a duel between Richard Petty and David Pearson.
  
  17:01 – At Rockingham, the final race will decide the 1969 championship. Both Petty and Pearson aim to match a record of three titles, as track conditions and tire wear raise tension.
  
  18:00 – Drivers push the limits, knowing their edge can lead to triumph or disaster. Crashes during qualifying show how thin that line is.
  
  19:03 – Engines start for the American 500. As the green flag waves, the 40-car field roars to life. Petty and Pearson battle from mid-pack.
  
  21:13 – Tire wear becomes an issue. Kale and Leroy Yarborough take turns leading.
  
  22:26 – After contact with the wall, Petty’s car is damaged beyond repair, leaving Pearson and Leroy to fight for the lead.
  
  23:14 – Pearson leads, but attrition thins the field. Crashes and fatigue make survival the key. Kale Yarborough leads before more breakdowns reshuffle positions.
  
  24:06 – In the final laps, Pearson and Leroy duel fiercely. Pearson pushes hard, but Leroy passes him and takes the checkered flag, winning his seventh major race of the season.
  
  25:24 – In victory lane, Leroy celebrates a record-breaking season. Reporters also honor David Pearson, who secures the Grand National Championship title for 1969.
  
   26:01 – Narration reflects on the deeper meaning of competition. Drivers seek not just victory, but self-mastery—testing their limits every Sunday in pursuit of greatness.
  
  27:14 – Summary: the passion, danger, and endurance that define the world of racing. The End.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music] Racer in them. >> I think the difference between being a good race car driver and and a not so good race car driver is is not being afraid of what's going on, but just having confidence in what he can do or what his equipment can do. It >> all boils down to drive and desire. I think every man, no matter who he is or what he is, has got some kind of challenge in life to just to keep him going. Everybody's got his own kick going and racing just seems to be mine.

>> We're all competitors. You compete for your job with other people and once you get the job, you compete for a raise from your boss or a promotion. And it's a it's an own little kids know who the strongest in the block, who's got the fastest bike or the fastest sled. The driver is just the superior being in this thing. He has demonstrated that among all the people, he is the king Kong kind of guy.

>> I know that I wanted to race and even when I was running the short dirt tracks, I would listen to the big races and all and they say guys running 150 to 130 mph running close to the walls and stuff like that and I say, "Man, that was crazy run that fast." I really wanted to race and I think that's the biggest thing. I think if you really want to do something bad enough, you can do it. They're so aware and such competitors and and they know where this edge is and they will try it just to see and once in a while it gets to them and they they fail. They they go beyond their own edge.

>> I'd say 75% of the races are won in a pits and not on a track. >> I would say 50% of the races is one in a bit. >> You can more or less win or lose a race at least 80% of it before you even leave the shop. We have one slogan in our shop is that the harder we work, the luckier we get. >> There's really no magic involved.

>> There is no magic in racing. That's right. It's a good hard work and well thoughtout plans and programs. [Music] >> There is a place in a 100 cities where men gather on Sundays with brightly painted cars to see which of them is fastest. The sport of auto racing has many shapes and sounds, many colors and smells, and its rhythms beat faster than the human heart. For the people who pay

to see this spectacle in its many forms, for each in his own way, it is a serious ritual played on a summer afternoon filled with thunder and grace. [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music]

Technically, the car is so sophisticated today. It used to be in a day five, six years ago. the human being could find the limit of the machine quicker. Now today things have progressed so much the human body can only react so quickly.

[Music] They are quick, agile, exotic and very expensive. [Music] an exclusive fraternity of guided missiles on wall-to-wall rubber. [Music] They are USACK championship cars, and they follow a trail that winds from California to New Jersey and back again in a 9-month series of races that will determine the United States Auto Club Championship. But in the month of May, these men come together with others from all over the globe to produce a spectacle unique in racing. [Music] It is the Super Bowl, the Fourth of July, and a widescreen Hollywood epic all rolled into one.

275,000 people come to watch it. [Applause] It is the Indianapolis 500. Actually, [Applause] when you get right down to it, all cars kind of started with open wheels. The ones we sold and the ones we raced. >> Jack Passeno directs Ford Motor Company's racing operations. He has seen

every conceivable kind of automobile race all over the world. And as such, there's a mysticism about the Indianapolis race, which is the biggest single spectator event probably in the United States and maybe in the world from the standpoint of public awareness. I think that the the tension at Indianapolis by virtue of that 30-day carnival they have down there is unbelievable. I think that the tension at Indianapolis is so thick that on race you could cut it. Perhaps no one feels that tension more than Mario Andretti, rookie of the year at Indie in 1965 and twice national champion. Andy has yet to finish first

in the big one. As usual, the man to beat is Anthony Joseph Fo. Five times national champion, three times a winner at Indie. AJ earns the pole position in his Coyote Ford with a speed of 170.568 mph.

Andretti demolishes his Lotus Ford in a qualifying accident and will drive his backup car, a Hawk powered by a turbocharged Ford engine.

[Music]

Heat.

[Music]

Heat.

[Music] From the fall of the green flag, it is Andretti and Fit for the big prize. The battle is joined by Roger McCcluskey. [Music]

Then Foy has mechanical problems. They cost him 23 laps. [Music] [Applause] [Music] The lead is shared by Dalbeck. then Ruby. [Music] >> But the race is dominated by Andretti.

To me, it's a tremendous feeling of satisfaction. Although speed alone just doesn't impress me anymore. To me, it's a competition that's the real thrill. It's a thrill that never wears off. [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause]

When you win it, you just don't know who to thank. Everyone has done something for you. You don't know just what to do first. It's a very, very joyful, confused feeling. >> Mario Andretti will go on to his third national championship. He will collect

$345,000 in prize money and will score nine victories in 24 starts, including the Indianapolis 500. >> You never really know your limitations. You're constantly trying new things. By trying new things, by trying to search a limit of the machine, you're going to new limits. You're at the same time measuring yourself.

[Applause]

[Applause]

Heat. Heat.

Here

we go. There we go. [Applause] And if you watch some of these people, Danny Angas in particular runs a car and it looks as though the car is out of control for 1320 ft, but he runs that thing faster than anybody else has been able to run a funny car. This year, the American Hot Rod Association Spring Nationals at Bristol, Tennessee brings together 51,000 fans for whom the greatest sight in the world is a blown funny car or double A fueler going through the lights with everything wound up tight. During 1969, the quickest funny car in the business was driven by Danny Angias.

His Mustang is built and maintained by the legendary Mickey Thompson. The heart of this torpedo is a Ford 427 cubic inch single overhead cam V8. Supercharged and burning nitromethane fuel. The engine develops 1,500 horsepower. Anya's funny car record is 6.96 seconds and 207 m an hour for the

1/4 mile. >> Uh it's been an unreal season for us. We've uh won over 90% of the races that we participated in and one out of the 12 national events that we were very interested in. We've won 11 of the 12 so far. Well, I think it takes it takes three main things. It takes a very good

piece of equipment. When I say equipment, that's the chassis, engine, mechanical features. It takes a excellent mechanic, and it takes a good driver. [Music]

[Music]

When you spin the tires, it lays rubber in the ground. We usually try and back right over the same marks. And the combination of the traction compound and a rubber laying on the ground will usually drop you about 1500s of a second if you can stay right on the same marks. You are [Music]

here. Heat.

[Music] Heat. [Music]

[Applause] By late afternoon, drag racing's process of elimination has weeded out all but Angus and Leonard Hughes. 1/100th of a second separates their best times. Now they will face each other for the funny car title.

You figure that the normal reaction time for a person is about 1500s of a second. It takes about another tenth of a second to get the tires all wound up and the drive shaft all wound up and everything. So you working with 2500s of a second and if you can split the difference between a light going on and off.

It takes a half a second for the light to go on and off and it takes you 2500s of a second to get moving. It's all something that's laid out before you and you leave when the light's halfway off. I don't think there's anything magic but it's really anticipation.

Time comes to lead. [Music] You leave. [Applause] When the time came for Danny Angus to leave, he left. And he left in time to take the AH Spring Nationals funny car title with him. >> I made a prediction one time that a drag racing car run 150 mph and a quarter of a mile. Some of the famous magazine

writers of that time poked fun at me and I actually believe that we will see someday a 5-second quarter of a mile run in over 300 miles an hour. NASCAR's Grand National Championship Series begins in January at Riverside, California. The opener draws the top names in racing. Indie winners like AJ Fit and Pelli Jones, road racer Dan Gurnie, and the full NASCAR fraternity. But when the dust settles after the 1969 race, the man in victory lane is Richard Penny, giving Ford a seventh consecutive Riverside victory.

[Music] The series then returns to the Ovals for a 12-month 54 race seessaw battle on everything from halfmile dirt tracks to 2 and 1/2 mile Super Speedways. On the big tracks, the Fords and Mercuries dominate, taking 13 of 15 super speedway clashes. At Daytona in February, Charlie Glattsbach leads going into the final lap. He is followed by Leroy Yarro in the white number 98 Ford. 100,000 people come to their feet as the cars enter the last turn.

Leroy Yarborough wins the Daytona 500 by inches and begins a string of major victories unparalleled in the history of the sport. Kale Yarborough's Mercury Cyclone is first at Atlanta. Then it's Leroy again with back-to-back victories at Darlington and at Charlotte. Kale edges him on the last lap at Michigan International Speedway, but Leroy returns to make it two in a row at Daytona, and Donnie Allison on October 12th at Charlotte clinches the seventh consecutive manufacturers championship for Ford. As the season draws to a close, Leroy has captured an unprecedented six Super Speedway victories. He will go on to be

named Ford's motorsports man of the year, an honor shared in past seasons by drivers such as AJ Fit, Mario Andretti, and Kale Yarra. But while Leroy's number 98 Ford was the car most often in victory lane on the big tracks, the drivers championship was being contested between Richard Penny and defending Grand National Champion David Pearson. For these two men, the season is still very much alive. [Music] far as pressure on me, uh, these last few races, I feel like they more pressure on me than normally. If I was to fall out real early, I could lose the championship, but I could also sew the championship up here at this race.

>> On October 26th in Rockingham, North Carolina, David Pearson and Richard Penny will settle their long conflict of 1969. >> Well, the championship is pretty important really. I've won it two years in ' 64 and ' 67 and there was four or five of us I think that's won the championship twice and my father is the only one so far that won it three times and David Pearson myself is the only ones that have a chance right now being the second one to run it three times Betty is one of the toughest drivers running on the tracks today he's good on the short tracks dirt tracks super speedways and one of the tops >> well I would say that David Pearson is probably one of the best Grand National driver we have that he's won enough races on all kinds of tracks. >> The speedway is a question mark. It has been remodeled into the fastest onem circuit in the world, but during practice, several drivers have crashed, most of them in turn, too. The effect on

tires of 500 blistering miles remains an unknown factor. But the tire companies are mounting 20 right side tires and 10 left side tires for the faster cars, and they are offering no guarantees. They're on the edge all the time, really. They're beyond my edge, maybe beyond your edge. And they know where this edge is and they'll try it just to see. And once in a while, it gets to

them and they they fail. They go beyond their own edge. >> Yarro is among those who crash during qualifying. Yet, even in his backup car, he sets a world's record for the mile oval. He remains the man to beat.

>> I've never been a loser in automobile racing. Since I first started, the main objective that I had, regardless of what kind of racing I was doing, was to win. and wanting to beat the other guy is just the biggest thing imaginable in your mind. >> Starting in seventh position in a 1969 Ford from Randleman, North Carolina, car number 43, Richard Penny.

Starting in the second row in both positions, car number 17, a young man who is the reigning Grand National Champion driving a 69 Ford from South Carolina. [Applause] All race car drivers tune and in their cars immediately, please. All race car drivers tune and in their cars immediately, please. Well, you get tensed a little bit when they say, "Gentlemen, crank your engine." There's the biggest thing is just waiting around, waiting, getting ready to start.

Of course, while I'm racing, I chew gum to keep my mouth moist. >> Driver Crystal Engine.

[Music]

[Music] Now ladies and gentlemen with the row of the 40 of the greatest race cars in the world by 40 of the world drivers. This is the 12:00 noon start of the fifth annual edition of the American 500. Here's the speed of South Carolina Motor Speedway truck. Here he comes in the deep part of the fourth turn now Jun. He looks to be over and there goes the green flag that is [Music] everyone now.

[Music]

Petty and Pearson are running seventh and ninth, watching each other and both watching the rough pavement on turn two. With the leaders turning laps of 137 mph, how long will their tires take the punishment? The answer comes on lap 20. America

goes down. What happened ladies and gentlemen? John Kennedy on 29 and Bobby Allison on the Daytona 500 charger number 22. Mike Fi by one of the cars as it came down off the back and it doesn't look good. Bill Yama out pitting as is Leroy Yo, Richard Petty, David Gear, Fabia and they must be having some tremendous power wear out there when these top come in from James. David

Gear, Richard Petty down the pit road. Tremendous power wear on the track in the early corner. >> Hale Yarborough is leading now, but Leroy is pressing. >> Then Leroy makes his move. He is the leader on lap 62 on the wheels into the third turn.

[Music] takes the lead. Do hit that wall there on coming in to tell him they're going to win any damage the right side of the car quite extensively and immediately the Junior Johnson crew just jump right in there and straighten the sheet metal out and got some new tires back on it and got me able to run again and I don't think I lost but maybe one lap. >> 100 miles into the race, the Dodgers of Bobby Isaac and Buddy Baker are running one two but Richard and David have begun their charge. Now there is no holding back, no watching each other. Now they are flat out. By lap 110 they are

running one two for the championship. [Music]

>> Petty has left a wheel and tire embedded in the wall at turn two as the Petty crew works frantically to straighten the twisted sheet metal. David Pearson moves into the lead. [Music] >> But the impact was too great. The repairs will not hold. >> A real tough fight for Riv.

[Music] >> Pearson leaves now. He no longer must beat Petty. Now he must beat the track.

Is he going down trying to hold it from going slide? They are trying to get down now. >> Allison has the wind knocked out of him but is unheard. In an hour, he will return to the pits as a spectator. On lap 168, Kale Yarbor is leading.

[Music] Dragon again the 4100. >> It becomes a matter of survival now. James Hilton, Bobby Isaac, Bobby John's and Buddy Young, Charlie Gladbach. Now David Pearson and Leroy Yarborough, the leading money winners of the 69 season have at each other. With Petty out, Pearson doesn't need to win this race to remain champion. But as long as

the race is there to be won, he will try to win it. David wanted to win the race and I wanted to win the race. And the way that we go about doing this, I guess, is just run one another hard enough to break. It was pretty evident we weren't going to slow down regardless of what we got on our pit boards and all. >> Now Leroy Yo to the inside of David Pearson. He tried to get around him.

They got some traffic in the first turn. He back in a while. Leroy Yo and David Pearson side by side. Let me see that Leroy Yo is going to have it in the flight. But Pearson's engine has developed a misfire.

It is over. Yaro takes the checkered flag. Pearson is second on seven cylinders. 17 of 40 cars finish the race. Your winner, ladies and gentlemen, Jarbo for a sensational sudden wins this year on the Super Speedway track. the best time that has

ever happened in the history of basketball. >> To the photographers in Victory Lane and to the surrounding fans, the center of attention is Leroy Yarborough, whose seven major victories nearly double the previous record. >> When you're out there alone at 175 or 200 mph, it just goes without words. If you think enough of it to do it, then you should think enough of it to be the best. But in the press tower, the reporters who cover United States Auto Racing also await the arrival of NASCAR's grand national champion.

>> Well, when I first started, I didn't think I would ever become a champion. Of course, I always wanted to. This time, winning a championship, it means quite a bit to me because when I first started, I knew it was a hard road to travel. And in fact, my first race, I think I won about $13 in it. And so, I feel like if I won a championship against the guys I'm running against now, I've done a good job.

A season closes, but they will be back next year. Those who watch, those who drive. There is a unique bond among people who are drawn to the staccato violence of an open exhaust. It is an understanding that the spectacle framed by green and checkered flags is more than a contest of men and machines. To drive very fast and to win challenges a man to seek his own limitations, his own edge as well as those of his opponents. In reaching for those

limitations, it has been said that if you have the time, the talent, and the inclination, every Sunday you can live for a 100red years.

Oh,

[Music]

[Applause]

heat, heat. [Music]

Heat [Music] up

here. [Music]