---
video_title: "\"ARREST AND SEARCH OF PERSONS\"  1958 U.S. ARMY MILITARY POLICE (MP) TRAINING FILM  GG47465"
video_id: _1ORz9zSL7E
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_1ORz9zSL7E
video_date: 2026-08-13T16:29:49+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This U.S. Army film "Arrest and Search of Persons" (1958) offers a comprehensive training guide on military police (MP) procedures for arresting and processing suspects, emphasizing caution, control, and thoroughness. It begins with a robbery, and shows how MPs identify and arrest a suspect. It then shows how to safely detain suspects and perform a “wall search” to uncover weapons or hidden items.It details how prisoners should be restrained and seated in transport vehicles to prevent resistance or escape. It underscores the need for measured but firm use of force. Later segments cover arrests in private spaces. It shows coordinated raids on high-risk suspects and concludes by reinforcing fundamental arrest principles.
  
  00:00 A robbery in a store, introducing a suspect known for pulling on his left earlobe—a habit that becomes a key identifier.
   1:10:Military police (MPs) spot a man matching the suspect’s description and discuss tactics for making safe arrests away from busy intersections.
  2:30:The arrest is carried out quietly and methodically; the suspect is frisked using the “wall search” method, considered safest for uncovering hidden weapons.
  4:00:Instructions emphasize not patting down suspects but rather sliding hands over their body to detect thin or flat objects.
  5:30: The prisoner is carefully restrained and transported, seated in a way that minimizes his ability to resist or access weapons.
  [7:00:MPs are reminded that arrests involve depriving someone of their freedom and should be conducted with enough force to ensure compliance but not escalate resistance.
  8:30:Upon arrival at headquarters, all property is logged and signed for. If the prisoner is charged with a serious crime, a complete strip search is conducted in a secure room.
  10:00:Checking body crevices and clothing for hidden weapons, narcotics, or tools for escape or suicide.
  12:00: A dramatized reenactment shows the fatal consequence of an officer granting a prisoner a favor before a full search—highlighting the importance of strict procedure.
  14:30:Another suspect is tracked to a hotel and arrested in his room with extreme caution, ensuring all avenues of escape are covered and the room is cleared of danger.
  17:00: The prisoner is dressed only after his clothes are searched. Proper posture and weapon handling are stressed to maintain control during the arrest.
  19:30: Female military offenders are handled differently; MPs do not search their persons but may check bags and must rely on civilian matrons for detention.
  21:00:Drunk and disorderly soldiers are arrested for their own protection. Excessive force is discouraged unless absolutely necessary.
  22:30: Armed AWOL soldiers are pursued after robbing filling stations. Vehicle pursuit tactics are shown, emphasizing safety and coordinated apprehension.
  24:30:Once stopped, suspects are searched and handcuffed with their own belts to prevent escape. The search of the stolen vehicle follows.
  26:00: If only one MP is present, he must wait for backup before transporting prisoners. Proper prisoner control procedures are reiterated.
   27:30: A major raid is prepared to capture a deserter and black-market leader. Surveillance precedes a coordinated early-morning civilian police-led arrest.
   30:00:he suspect surrenders and is arrested outside to avoid access to weapons inside. A female accomplice is detained and questioned. [33:00:In Germany, MPs lead raids with local police when civilians are involved. Detailed assignments, weapon choices, and positions are reviewed in a pre-raid briefing.
  36:00:The raid is executed with precision; the suspect surrenders and is secured, highlighting the need for coordination and awareness of weapon safety.
  38:00: Summarizing key arrest principles: use at least two officers, maintain control, search thoroughly, deny pre-processing favors, and take full responsibility for the prisoner’s custody.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
Heat. Heat.

[Music]

Yeah.

[Music]

This is 122nd insurance, soldier. That'll be 65 cents. This is a stick up. Give me a door and make it quick. Oh, now wait a minute.

Quick, give me a door. I'll

shoot. Okay. Give me a watch, too. All right. Now, when I get out of this cat, you get a move on and don't look back if you know what's good for

you. Here's a new one. has a low voice, shifty eyes, has a habit of pulling or holding his left ear low by thinking. Well, that ear pulling habit might cost him plenty. Sometimes it's those odd habits that give him

away. A few days later at downtown intersections, Corporal Harris spotted a soldier who answered Black's description. He even had Black's habit of pulling the left earlobe. Clark and Harris waited for Black to move away from the intersection. To attempt an arrest at an intersection gives the subject the advantage of three or more possible avenues of escape. The subject should be

followed or kept in sight until he has moved away from the intersection, preferably down a side street. Here, the arrest can be made with less danger to the public and with less opportunity for escape. Black, you're under arrest. Keep moving. If possible, the arrest should be made in a quiet manner and without attracting attention.

Put your hands up. Face the wall. Put them higher. Put your hands against the wall. Back up. Spread your legs

farther. Head down. Don't give the crowd a chance to feel sorry for the offender and come to his assistance. The arresting individual should be firm but not belligerent. When a person is arrested for a serious offense, armed robbery in Black's case, he should always be given a preliminary search at the scene of the arrest as soon as possible. Experience has shown the wall

method of search to be the safest and most efficient. It should be used whenever an upright surface is available. This search is given to determine whether the prisoner has any concealed weapons, escape tools, or hidden evidence on his person. By placing the prisoner in this offbalance position, it makes it extremely difficult for him to attack the searcher. Should he try, a slight push by the searcher's foot would pull the support from under him and he would fall flat on his face. The searcher must be careful not

to get in line of possible fire from his partner's weapon.

When searching a prisoner, don't pat. Thin, flat objects will be missed if this is done. The hand should slide over the prisoner's entire body. A weapon may be concealed anywhere.

Give me your right hand. Walk up and put your head against the wall. Give me your left hand. Walk up and face the wall. Keep them covered, Gene. I'll go

call headquarters. If a pistol is used during an arrest and search, the hammer should be cocked in its rearmost position. The safety should be on to avoid accidental discharge with the thumb resting on the safety. Should it be necessary to discharge the weapon, this can be done by pressing down on the safety and pulling the trigger. How long are you going to keep me standing here? I'm tired. Let me sit

on. Huh? Stay where you are. Truck's on its way. Okay.

Any vehicle used to transport prisoners should have the tool and glove compartments locked. No loose tools or boards that could be used as weapons by the prisoner should be present in the vehicle.

The prisoner should never be handcuffed to any part of a transporting vehicle and he should be seated where he can best be controlled. If the vehicle is a quarterton truck, as in this case, the prisoner should be placed in the right rear seat. The guard sits in the left rear seat at an angle to the prisoner with his pistol out of the prisoner's reach. Had there been two prisoners, the second prisoner would have been placed in the right front seat. To arrest a person is to deprive him of his freedom of action. No one gives up his freedom of

action willingly. The person who is being arrested must be convinced in his own mind that the person making the arrest is backed up by the power of the government and can use enough physical force if need be to compel him to submit. That does not mean excessive force, but only such force as is necessary. Excessive use of force will place the offender in a position where he feels that he must fight his way out and try to avoid the arrest at all costs. Unnecessary use of force will also make the person who makes the arrest liable to civil or military punishment. Any person making an arrest

will do well to imagine himself in the offender's place and try to see the situation from the offender's point of view. When he understands how the offender's mind works, the arresting individual will be on the alert, able to anticipate the actions of the offender and be master of the situation at all times. No two situations are ever alike. But then a person making an arrest is not dealing primarily with situations but with human beings. Because human nature is never completely predictable. One rule to

follow when making an arrest and a search is this. Don't take unnecessary chances. Many persons who have attempted to make an arrest have been killed or injured because they were careless or did not use proper methods. In the desk sergeant's record of arrests is recorded in brief phrases the circumstances of an arrest and the nature of the offense. What these pages do not record is the manner in which the arrests were accomplished. When the offender is

booked at headquarters, all personal property is taken away from him and a receipt for it is made out. [Music]

The prisoner is required to sign the receipt after he has made sure that it is

correct. To verify the prisoner's signature, the MPs who had him in custody each signs as a witness. [Music] The prisoner is then given a copy of the receipt. Before the prisoner is taken to the search room, the men who are to search him leave their weapons with the desk sergeant. Only the MP acting as guard is fully armed. Minor offenders

are not usually given a complete strip search. But if the prisoner is suspected of a serious crime, he should always be subjected to such a search. This search is given in a closed room. Only one prisoner at a time is searched with a searcher, an assistant searcher, and a guard present. The prisoner is made to remove all clothing.

[Music]

[Music] His body should be searched carefully. Be sure that body crevices are not used by the prisoner as hiding places for concealed objects. [Music] Flesh colored adhesive tape is used by experienced criminals to hide objects in various places about the body. Narcotics are often hidden in this manner. [Music]

[Music]

After his body is searched, the prisoner is given a set of coveralls and a pair of shoes without shoelaces. He must have no items with him in the cell that could be used to commit suicide. Prisoner is now ready to be locked up. Next, the prisoner's clothing is carefully searched for concealed articles. Just patting the clothing when searching is not enough. All clothing

must be rolled and crushed between the fingers. Everything found in the prisoner's clothing is removed. Look for hidden evidence, stolen property, concealed weapons, escape tools, narcotics, and anything that could be used to commit suicide. James McFarland was AW and wanted for stealing government property. A city detective in his hometown had recognized him from a wanted circular and arrested him in his room in a cheap rooming house.

Are you McFarland? Yeah, I'm Mcfallen. So what? All right, McFarland. I'm Detective Walters. You're

under arrest. I got a warrant for you. Come on, let's go. Yeah. I don't know what you're arresting me for, [ __ ] but I'll come downtown with you.

Well, do me a favor, will you? Let me shave so I can look presentable when you introduce me to his honor. Well, go ahead, but make it snappy. I haven't got all day. Thanks. I'll only be a

minute. Make yourself

comfortable. Maybe need a rest.

This kind-hearted man, experienced in police work, found his rest sooner than he expected because on this one occasion he carelessly granted his prisoner a seemingly innocent request. A request is always a stall. Don't let your daily routine of petty offenders dull your sense of caution. No requests or favors should be granted until after the search at headquarters. Don't end up like this.

[Music] Two months later, Agent Morrison of the Army Criminal Investigation Division found out from a confidential informant that McFarland had registered at a downtown hotel. By keeping the hotel under surveillance, it was found that the information was correct.

I'm to meet a James McFarland here. Oh, that was the man that just left. That's a man. What's his room number? 612. 612.

That's right. I'm Agent Morrison, Criminal Investigation Division. I'd like to see the manager. Please come

in. The hotel management was informed about the situation. The manager agreed to cooperate with the military police and the house detective was assigned to work with the investigators. It was decided to arrest McFarland in his hotel room in the early morning hours. The arresting party went up to McFarland's room in a service elevator. Extreme caution must be used

when a person is arrested in bed. Most likely, he has one or more guns in bed with him. Before he is awakened, he should be covered from such a position that the person making the arrest is not in the line of possible fire. It is well to station a man at each avenue of escape. The agents take their positions at each side of the door in order to have the protection of the wall should the man inside fire through the door. They enter the

room as quickly and as quietly as possible if the man is asleep. Had he been awake, they would have rushed the door and fanned out to opposite sides of the room. Wake up, McFarland. This is C. You're under arrest. Pull your hand out from

underneath that pillar. Slowly. Slowly. Now, sit up in bed. Put your hands up.

Get those hands in the air. Get out of that bed. Get out of that bed on this side. Put your hands in the air. Face that direction. Hold it.

Go and sit down in that chair. Watching, Bill. Keep your hands up. The room in which the offender is arrested should always be searched.

When a revolver is drawn during an arrest, the hammer should always be forward. If it is necessary to fire the revolver, it should be fired double action. The thumb should never be placed over the hammer as that would prevent firing double action. Hey, don't you want me to get dressed before we get on to headquarters? Sit still. You'll get your clothes after

they're searched.

[Music]

Hurry up. Get them on.

[Music] Come on, hurry up with those clothes. Turn around and face the wall. Give me that left hand. Give me that right hand.

[Music]

You say, "Can I go to the bathroom?" You can sit down and you can wait. By his actions, tone of voice, and the proper use of his weapon, the arresting individual must keep the upper hand at all times. Any sign of nervousness or hesitation on his part will be taken for weakness and may encourage the prisoner to resist or attempt to escape. When the room has been searched, the prisoner can be taken to headquarters.

White private Alice Ludenorf decided to take some time off without a pass and had gone a W. Although military police are authorized to arrest female members of the armed forces, they are not authorized to search their persons or to confine them in guardouses, brrigs, and other similar places of detention for men. However, their handbags, baggage, parcels, and similar articles may be searched by military police. Where necessary, the offender should be turned over to the civilian police matron for search and detention in the women's section of the city

[Music] jail. At the earliest opportunity, the offender should be returned to the nearest women's organization. Private Elmer S. Jones made a habit of losing weekends and had frequently been picked up on charges of being drunk and disorderly. When military personnel in an intoxicated condition are causing a disturbance, they should be taken into custody for their own protection and removed from public view.

[Music] During an arrest, the MP is justified in using such force as necessary to secure and detain the offender, overcome his resistance, prevent his escape, and recapture him if he escapes. The MP is never justified in using unnecessary force or violence or resorting to dangerous means when the arrest could be made otherwise. When the arrest is made for a relatively minor offense, such as drunkenness or disorderliness, and where there is no previous information to indicate that the offender is a criminal, a frisk is usually sufficient. Military police are authorized to enforce compliance with regulations and rules of good conduct by officers as well as by enlisted men. If an officer must be arrested, he should be taken into custody by another officer. If no other

officer is available, an MP may make the arrest. The MP will observe the rules of military courtesy, but if necessary, force may be used to accomplish the arrest. Private Henderson and Private Wilson had stolen the staff car, a service pistol, and had gone AW. In the course of events, they held up several filling station operators.

Urgent.

Oo King 7, this is Nan Rogers 3. Over. Man Roger 3, this is Obo King 7. Over. Obo King 7, this is Nan Roger 3. Be on

the lookout for two soldiers in the stolen staff car. Army Department registration number 146793. They just held up a filling station at 36th Street and Maple Avenue. They are armed and believed to be heading east out of town on Highway 31. Over, man.

Roger 3. This is Obo King 7. Wilco [Music]

out. During the pursuit of a vehicle, the motor patrol must avoid endangering other traffic, but must keep the pursuit vehicle in sight all the [Music] time. In order to prevent unnecessary exposure of the occupants of the MP vehicle to direct fire or to being forced into oncoming traffic, the MP driver should not advance beyond a point where he is in line with the rear wheels of the pursued car. When the offender's vehicle has been stopped, the patrol vehicle remains behind. To arrest the occupants, one member of patrol approaches their vehicle from the rear and flank. The

other member of the patrol dismounts and takes a position where he can best observe and protect his partner and himself. You're under arrest. Get out of that car on this side. Bend over against the car. Now, spread your feet apart.

[Music] After the preliminary search is completed, the prisoners should be handcuffed together unless the transporting vehicle is a jeep. In that case, the prisoners are handcuffed individually with their hands in front of them for the convenience of transportation over longer distances. [Music] The handcuffs are secured with the prisoner's own belts with the belt buckles in the back. [Music] The prisoner's car is searched and locked and will be picked up later. [Music] If only one MP had made the arrest, the prisoners would have been handcuffed together. For his own protection, the

single MP would not attempt to transport the prisoners by himself. He would guard them until assistance arrived, and not until then would the prisoners be taken to headquarters. [Music]

[Music] Burton P. Stevens had been arrested and convicted as a deserter and leader of a black market ring in ETO. He was given a long-term sentence at hard labor and was returned to the states for confinement in an army disciplinary barracks. After serving 8 months of the sentence, he escaped.

[Music] C office agent Dell. Is Chuck there? This is Chuck. You know who this is? Yes. Listen, Chuck, this is a buzz. You

want a guy by the name of Burton P. Stevens? Stevens? Yes. What about him?

He's in town. Only his name ain't Stevens now. It's Paul R. Thomas. He's a snow broker. Coke.

Bridge with a skirt in the house on Perkins Road 2947. Be careful, Chuck. He don't like guys. Always has a ride. Steven's residence was put under surveillance 24 hours a day by the criminal investigation division to make sure that the information received was correct and also to reconort the house in the neighborhood.

[Music] Note was made of all exits, telephone wires, automobiles available to the occupants and the best way of approaching the house. Particular note was made of any dogs or other animals that might raise an alarm in case of a raid.

[Music]

after the surveillance. Agent Dill reported his findings to the chief agent. Stevens is there all right, but we only saw him come out once. He left the house and went to the garage. He stayed in the garage for 11 minutes and then went back into the house. What

about the woman? She's a blonde about 28. She lives with him and runs his errands. Anybody else in the house? Nobody else entered or left the house.

We'll notify the civilian police and ask him to raid the place. Raids are made after careful investigations. And when other methods of accomplishing the arrest are not suitable in occupied territories under American military jurisdiction, the military police make the raid.

However, in the United States, its possessions and territories and in friendly foreign countries, whenever a raid is to be carried out, which may involve civilians and civilian property, the civil police are requested to execute the raid. In preparation for the raid, all participants are briefed on their assignments at a roundt conference held before the raid is to be carried out. Members of the military police should be present during the raid, but the raid as such is carried out by the civil authorities. The military members of the party are not scheduled to take active part in the raid, but go along as observers and for the purpose of taking Stevens into

custody. Clarity, you will stay here and call the Stevens telephone at exactly 4:00 a.m. Yes, sir. Raids are preferably carried out in the early morning hours when the subject can be expected to be soundly asleep.

What do you want? Is this Paul Honor Thomas? 2947 Perkins Road. Yeah. This is Thomas. Thomas, this is the police.

They've got your house surrounded. Come out the side door with your hands up. You understand? Okay, I understand.

Who is it? Paul, the cops. Stay where you are and keep your trap shut. [Music]

[Music]

Once the subject of the raid has surrendered and has come out, keep him outside. If he is allowed back in the house, he might try to reach whatever weapons he has hidden and attempt an escape by violent means.

[Music]

Okay, soldier. There's your man. He's yours. Stevens, you're under arrest. Go up and face the [Music] wall. Put your hands against the wall.

Move back. Spread your feet out more. Put your head down more. [Music]

[Music] Leave me alone. Rowski, did you search those clothes before you let her put them on? I did, sir. What are you taking me in for anyway? I only kept house for him. Yeah. Well, come on. We'll find out

about that.

If the raid is carried out in an occupied country like Germany, the military police will have complete jurisdiction over the raid. If German civilians may be involved, German civil police are taken along for the purpose of handling the civilians. The raid commander will explain the mission to all members of the raiding party before the raid is to be carried out. The raiding party should always be as small as possible. In this case, it consists of agents of the CD, military police, and German civil police. Each member must not only know

his own instructions, but also those of every other member of the party. Roberts is a dangerous man and he's armed, so we'll have to be careful. As you see from the sketch, the house is located pretty much by itself. There's a shed in the yard. It has only one entrance facing the yard. Smith, you take a submachine gun

and station yourself by this tree by the driveway here. You'll cover the south and west side of the house. You remain here during the raid. Peters, you take a riot type shotgun and station yourself behind this tree by the wall here. How you'll take a carbine and place yourself behind this tree here. Harrison, your post will be behind

this corner of the shed with your revolver drawn. The two civil policemen and myself will take our positions here. Only Powell, the two civil policemen, and myself will enter the house. Harrison and Peters will search Roberts after we enter the house. All of you take your positions under cover. In your

assigned positions, you will not be in each other's line of fire. We will take three sedans. The vehicles will be parked on this street along the hedge, out of sight from the house. Paxton, you stay with the vehicles during the raid. Take the keys out of the switch on all of them. We

will leave from this office at 03:15 hours tomorrow morning. At exactly 0400 hours, I'll call the Roberts and order him to come out. Complete coordination is necessary for a successful raid, and the signals used must be understood by all the participants. Are there any questions? Does everyone here understand his mission? Do you, Smith? You, Peters?

What does your job, Powell? I take a carbine and station myself behind that tree up there. The choice of weapons for a raid depends on the situation. Raiders are always armed with their own sidearms. In addition, they may have shoulder arms. Riot type shotguns and submachine

guns are especially effective for raids. Gas riot guns, if they're available, are useful. [Music] In the suburbs or in open country, a rifle or carbine may be carried by the party. In a heavily populated area, however, the rifle or carbine is too dangerous because of its range. Innocent people might get hurt.

[Music]

Robert. Robert, Robert, you are surrounded by the military police. We have you covered from all angles. Come out with your hands in the air and unarmed.

[Music]

[Music]

Harrison and Peters, take over.

[Music]

You have seen some of the more common situations which may be encountered in making rests. Each situation must be decided on its own merits keeping in mind the following principles. An arrest should whenever possible be made by at least two men. This practice furnishes mutual protection and it provides a witness to any occurrence which might develop. An investigator working in civilian clothes should identify himself when he's making an arrest and thereby leave no doubt in the subject's mind. The arresting

individual must above all completely control the situation at all times. Immediately after the arrest, the prisoner should be searched for weapons and possible evidence. No request from a person taken into custody should be granted until he has been taken to headquarters. The prisoner must never be fastened to any part of the transporting vehicle. After the booking at headquarters, a prisoner arrested for a serious offense should immediately be given a complete strip search of both his person and his clothing.

The person making the arrest is solely responsible for his prisoner while he has him in custody. It is up to him to see that the prisoner does not escape, destroy evidence, or harm himself or others. [Music]