---
video_title: "\"NOTCH NUMBER ONE\" 1924 BEN WILSON   ANTI-MARIJUANA SILENT WESTERN FILM   GG47425"
video_id: gi3auuAaXd8
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gi3auuAaXd8
video_date: 2026-04-20T16:29:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films! Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Produced in 1924 by Ben WIlson Productions, "Notch Number One" is a silent Western with one notable twist: it features a character who smokes marijuana — and goes crazy as a result — in the plot. Here, a cowboy (Ben F. Wilson) sets out to prevent a rancher's beautiful daughter (Marjorie Daw) from marrying a villain (Merrill McCormick) and losing the ranch. This cautionary tale was written by Daniel F. Whitcomb and directed by Ben F. Wilson.   
  
  Synopsis: Tom Watson, foreman of the Moore Ranch, is in love with Dorothy, the owner's daughter, who is engaged to Dave Leonard. One night Dave becomes violent after smoking "a new kind of cigarette" -- some marijuana (loco weed) given him by Pete, a ranch hand recently fired by Tom. Moore tries to restrain Dave. Pete, seeking revenge, shoots Moore. Tom, believing Dave guilty, takes the blame and becomes a fugitive. He is captured after rescuing 6-year-old Dickie Moore, who had become lost on the desert. Pete is found dead, but with a confession that frees Tom.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
Written and directed by Munga Now K买 double promise song ain't you dead? are Huh-oh?door. Oh Oh No That's a doggy Oh Hey, get in the dog Oh, doggy Oh Hi, Joe, come here I'm talking Oh Oh Come on, come on Come on Oh Oh Sorry Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Hey, what's that? Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Hey, it's a shot Hey, we're in the way Hey, we're in the way Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh son. Amen stinks basket, What are you doing? Oh, no. Oh Devilda Yes, yellow, yellow, though