---
video_title: "\"EXPEDITION! / OPERATION NOAH'S ARK\"  1960 EFFORT TO RESCUE DISPLACED ANIMALS IN ZIMBABWE GG36435"
video_id: s0vMXoGwt9c
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s0vMXoGwt9c
video_date: 2026-08-11T19:29:47+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This episode of "Expedition!" is entitled “Operation Noah’s Ark”, and documents a remarkable wildlife rescue operation in Africa during the late 1950s. "Expedition!" was a groundbreaking documentary series hosted by adventurer John D. Craig. This episode aired on September 27, 1960. 
  
  “Operation Noah’s Ark” chronicles the efforts to save thousands of animals from the rising waters caused by the construction of the Kariba Dam on the Zambezi River in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), which created one of the world's largest man-made lakes. As the dam's reservoir filled, vast areas of the Zambezi Valley were submerged, threatening the lives of countless animals. The film captures the daring and innovative rescue missions undertaken to relocate these animals to safer grounds, highlighting the challenges faced by conservationists in preserving wildlife amidst rapid environmental changes.
  
   The episode closes by reflecting on the dual nature of human progress—how industrial advancement and ecological devastation often go hand in hand, leaving both triumph and tragedy in their wake. Note: This episode is based on the book of the same name by Charles Lagus. The film provides an authentic glimpse into mid-20th-century conservation efforts, and the burgeoning environmental awareness and conservation movements which gained broad public support by the end of the decade.
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  0:00 The program Expedition introduces “Operation Noah’s Ark,” a true story of a British team’s mission to rescue wild animals endangered by the creation of the Kariba Dam in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe).
  1:00 Host Colonel John D. Craig explains that the dam’s construction flooded vast lands, trapping thousands of animals on shrinking islands.
  2:03 The Kariba Dam, an immense engineering project on the Zambezi River, symbolizes Africa’s modernization, but also triggers an ecological crisis as land and wildlife are submerged.
  3:51 Hundreds of villages and over 50,000 people are evacuated, losing ancestral homes but gaining new opportunities, such as access to clean water and fishing.
  6:06 Bulldozers and massive steel balls clear forests for fishing grounds, showcasing industrial progress amid environmental destruction.
  7:57 At dawn, rescue teams—volunteers and game wardens—plan daily operations to save animals stranded by rising waters.
  9:03 Despite debates over their mission’s importance, rescuers persist, motivated by compassion and the horror of watching animals die from hunger or drowning.
  10:13 The team rescues a green mamba and a cobra, then captures a terrified genet cat, showing their determination to save even small creatures.
  12:00 They next free an aardvark from a flooded burrow, demonstrating the challenges and risks of handling powerful, frightened animals.
  14:09 Antelopes and other species are carefully caught in nets and relocated to safety, though many die from shock or exhaustion.
  17:01 As water levels rise, rescuers turn their attention to elephants, setting up nets and beaters to guide smaller animals while preparing for larger rescues.
  19:28 The team locates a stranded young elephant and struggles to rope and calm her, hoping the noise and her distress will draw her herd to safety.
  22:27 Eventually, both the calf and her herd survive, symbolizing the mission’s success and dedication.
  22:50 The narration closes reflecting on progress and its cost—while humans gain electricity and development, animals pay the price.
  23:15 Colonel Craig concludes by praising the expedition’s bravery and compassion, noting that Operation Noah’s Ark preserved much of Africa’s wildlife in the face of unstoppable change.
  
  John D. Craig was a businessman, writer, soldier, diver, Hollywood stuntman, film producer, and tv host. He worked in the diving industry from the 1930s on, and filmed aerial combat over Europe during WWII. He is best known for using film and television to show the  public the beauties and dangers of Earth's underwater worlds.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music] Expedition. True stories of man's quest for the unknown. Through the jungles, across the burning desert, to the depths of treacherous seas, and to the highest mountains of the world. Expedition. Actual films of the great expeditions of our time recorded as they happen. Your

host is the famous deep sea diver, author, and explorer, Colonel John D. Craig. And here is Colonel Drake. Our program tonight is about a fight for life, animal life. We join a British expedition in the most dramatic story of animal rescue of all time. We call it

Operation Noah's Arc. >> Animals are particular friends of mine. I can do without sharks, but I have a soft spot for most other animals, particularly those in Africa. One of the last strongholds of the animal kingdom has always been Rodicia. And then man had to come along and change it all. It

was for a good cause. They built a great dam on the Sandesy River. But as the waters backed up, they created a gigantic man-made lake. And thousands of helpless wild animals were marooned on tiny, evershrinking islands. And there they face starvation and drowning. But

thank God there were some men who cared enough to risk their own lives to try and save them. We call our film Operation Noah's Arc. And if you think Noah had his problems, wait until you see these modern-day rescuers at work. They tackled everything from snakes to elephants. Here is the story of this British expedition from the beginning.

>> All over Africa today, the word is change. New freedom with new problems, new power, with new responsibilities, but always change. A hill here in Rhodesia on the banks of the Great Zambesi River, the new Africa rushes at you with a shock. The sounds of the new Africa shake the earth. The harsh staccato of power drills has replaced the roar of the lion and the beat of tribal drums. The earsplitting den of

the machine age has drowned out the voices of the old Africa. It's a new world and this new Kariba dam is part of it. A mighty structure 420 ft high and almost 2,000 ft long. [Music] It will be an achievement even in an advanced industrial country. But it is even more remarkable here in one of the wildest and least accessible parts of Africa.

[Music] 12 gigantic turbines, each capable of producing 140,000 horsepower in one giant step. Technically, Central Africa has moved into the 20th century.

[Music] But there is another side of the story. The story of Operation Noah's Ark, the rescue of Africa's animals. Above the dam, the wild, untamed land is slowly being transformed into the world's largest man-made lake, 175 mi long. Every day, the lake gets bigger, swallowing the land and the villages, and starving and drowning the wild animals faster than we can rescue them. Soon all of this vast region will be underwater.

[Music] Already hundreds of villages are submerged. More than 50,000 people have been evacuated. And now it's this family's turn. Everyone has been told that when the Kariba Dam is finished, it'll bring prosperity. But that's a dream for the future. While today is

harsh reality, leaving a home where your people have lived for centuries. This is an organized evacuation with government help and compensation. District officer Forest has moved dozens of primitive villages and for him this operation is routine. >> There is one lorry for each family and all of its simple belongings. The average family is one father, a couple of mothers, and at least five or six children, plus dogs and chickens.

Although there are a few visible regrets, there is plenty of worry. The new dam has not only meant losing traditional homes, but worse, it has meant defying the ancient and terrible god of the river. And the people's fears have only been confirmed by several disastrous floods since construction began.

The grown-ups may have their guards, but for the youngsters, this is all a great adventure. The distance between the old village and a new one is usually short, just far enough to get away from the ever rising water. All these roads are new. Not very long ago, it was impossible to get into this valley with any sort of motor vehicle.

It doesn't take long to unload the few belongings of a family and set up housekeeping in a new village. [Music] >> One blessing at least. For the first time in their lives, they have clear water from deep wells. The new lake will abound with fish. And these people who were once primitive hunters are being turned into fishermen.

After learning the art of making and mending nets, they must also master the difficult business of using them. [Music] Plans also call for trollers on a commercial basis. Hundreds of thousands of acres of wild and unruly bush are being cleared to prevent the nets from pouling at the bottom. Looking like sinister machines from outer space, gigantic steel balls 8 ft high and weighing 11 tons each are dragged between teams of bulldozers through the bush.

[Music]

Shining bright as silver through the choking dust, the monstrous steel balls move relentlessly through the forest. Crubbery and trees, big and small, are literally shaved off clean at the woods. [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] Heat. Heat.

[Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] This terrifying array of mechanical power plunges back and forth through the brush until in the end not a stump is left. Soon this will all be underwater and troller nets can skim the bottom of the new lake without difficulty.

Dawn at our command post set up on one of the new islands formed by the lake. We are not working on bush clearance. Our concern is solely with the animals. We, like a few other volunteer groups, meet every morning with our chief Tadelman of the Northern Rhdesian Game Department to plan our campaign. We work like a commando unit in the middle of enemy territory. And the enemy is the

rising water. Here on the northern side of the lake, thousands of animals are trapped on hundreds of new islands. And every day, the water rises, the islands shrink, more animals die. We have two fast boats to reach island after island and try and save what we can. Snakes, cats, antelopes, even elephants.

Number one. Number two. Number one. >> It's a big job for our handful of people. Apart from native helpers and four men from the game department, all the rest of us are volunteers.

There's been fierce argument here in Rhodesia and abroad about the value of our work. Some people don't think it's really necessary to save animals. Well, they're entitled to their opinion, but they probably have never seen a wild animal die of hunger or drowning or heard a baby elephant scream all night in terror as we did last night. We simply have a job of work to do, and we have no doubts about its importance or necessity. Today is going to be especially tough.

The possibility of meeting elephant on a small island is an alarming thought. Hard to believe that once this was a graceful antelope. When construction of the dam began, it was hoped that the animals might just run or swim to safety as the waters rose. But this happened only rarely. Most of them stay where they are until all the grass and the vegetation are gone. And then when they

do try to escape, they're too weak. But that's why we're here. All that's left of an island teeming with life only a week ago. We are too late here.

Even a poisonous green mambber has a place in nature and a right to live. We watch her circling our boat hopefully, but there's no sense risking our lives to save hers. She is obviously a fine swimmer and no doubt she'll reach dry land safely. Thick water cabbage slows us down a bit at the edge of the first sizable island. And then suddenly, right beside us, another snake. A magnificent cobra.

Weakened, frightened, and clearly in danger of drowning. But not even she deserves to die. How do you get a 6ft cobra out of the water? [Music] Nick Link solves the problem. He has the nerve to scoop her up with his bare hand.

cuz she'll make a fine present for the London Zoo. [Music]

Above our heads, a Jennet cat has fled to temporary safety. We try to shake her off so that we can catch her, but the terrified little creature holds on for dear life. At last, she lets go and dives into the water where we can pick her up. [Music] The genet is an attractive little animal to look at, but extremely fierce to encounter. >> And now terror adds to its natural ferocity.

[Music] After the genet had been safely bagged, two of our men had to have bites and scratches attended to, which seemed a bit ungrateful of the little creature. But then, how do you tell a wild genet that you're only trying to save its life? Then on a patch of high ground only a few feet square, a Delman spots the burrow of an arvark, a big African anteater. He listens for signs of occupation within while one of our volunteers left water into the burrow to scare him out. If he's still in there, more water is let in so he'll come out into the open where we can catch him.

And this turns out to be more of a job than we'd bargain for. Hardvarks live only on apps, but they're powerful creatures with strong claws used for digging and tearing into even the hardest of anthill. This one is weakened by hunger, but fear makes him a formidable problem. [Music] >> Safely roped, he's pulled into the book. [Music] Even here, it takes most of the team to hold him down. And we waste no time to

take the ungrateful Arbach to the nearest dry land.

Oh, you go. And now suddenly the arvark seems reluctant to part company with us. But a little urging with the paddle sets him off in the right direction. Dry land and new handills. [Music] [Applause] [Music]

And there goes one

[Music] and another. It's a fearful experience for these beautiful creatures. On one side, the terror of the rising water, and on the other side, man, the traditional enemy whom they have never known as anything but a hunter and a killer. [Music] [Applause] [Music]

Bleeding pitibily like a baby lamb, the little antelope is carefully carried to safety. Now the beers are nearing the net. They move even more cautiously. For if a big antelope comes bouncing out of the net at 45 mph and collides with a man, it could easily kill him. [Music] We free the animals from the net with the greatest care. Their delicate legs

are fragile and they break easily. Even worse, many of them are so weakened by hunger and so frightened that fully a quarter of them die of shock before we can get them to safety. [Music] >> It takes two, sometimes three men to handle a nervous antelope. Those sharp horns and hoofs can make a nasty wound. This DA ram proves quite a handful for Dick Link, but we agreed it's preferable to a cobra any day.

[Music] >> Eyes wide with fright. A pretty little steam book. [Music] Not knowing what this is all about, the steambox jumps from the helper's arms and makes for the water. It's Tad Adelman himself who retrieves it. Adelman, by the way, is a much decorated XR air officer.

[Music]

[Music] This has been a terrible experience for the antelopes. The quicker we can get them to the mainland, the more likely their survival. But it has to be the right place with plenty of easy food and nothing to scare them for a while until they become used to their new surroundings. [Music] [Applause] For us, the search goes on. And then suddenly, quite close, a scream of elephants.

Two impala break out of the flooded bush, dashing into the thicket, seeking safety where there is none. There's still life here to be saved, and there's no time to be lost.

Elephants are our biggest worry. But meanwhile, the presence of impala presents a new emergency. Impala are delicate creatures, but they're incredibly agile, and they can be formidable fighters. Nets are the safest way to catch them. Safest both for us and for the animals.

Under Adelman's directions, double rows of nets are put up as quickly as possible, stretching all the way across the narrowest parts of the fast shrinking island. They are secured and then camouflaged with bits of grass and brush. They're all very tense now. Then the team forms a line of beaters to drive the animals into the nets. And this can be risky. You never know what we might

accidentally flush out. [Music]

>> This seems a safe enough spot. [Music] And so over they go. [Music] There gently one after another away into the city of the trees and the tall grass and high dry ground where the flood will not reach. [Music] [Applause]

In this job, you can't be afraid of getting a bit wet. [Music] [Applause] [Music] That makes 22 antelopees saved today. That's a fair afternoon's work. But uppermost in our minds are the elephants. From past experience being good swimmers, they should long ago have made it to safety by themselves. But

their screams last night indicate that they did not. We land at the little island where a few days before Tad had found fresh elephant tracks. The men are jittery and with good reason. Forming a line, we will move slowly inland through the thick brush. Everyone is very much aware that at any moment we might be charged by elephants in a panic.

We brought fireworks which are thunder flashes hoping that the noise will scare them into the water in the opposite direction from us.

[Music] Then immediately ahead, crashing through the brush, angry, frightened, and screaming, is a young elephant. [Music] She's about 2 and 1/2 years old, and already she is a formidable opponent. One of our men gets too close, and she takes off our [Music] It's unlikely that the adult elephants would have left her behind. Chances are they aren't far away. We have to work fast. Already parts of the island are

flooded.

[Music] >> Since you cannot reason with wild animals, we try an experiment. We will attempt to rope the elephant and take her with us, hoping that parental love will lure the adult elephants off the fast shrinking island. Fear gives the baby the strength of a giant. And it takes practically the whole crew to control her, and even then it's a tough job.

Getting the baby safely roped is difficult enough, but all the time we keep wondering about the big elephants who may be lurking somewhere in the bush. >> What if an enraged mother elephant should suddenly decide to charge to rescue her baby?

[Music] By the time we got ropes fastened around the little elephant's neck and legs, we're all completely exhausted. The baby, too, has become more and more tired of the struggle.

Fortunately, we never did see any of the adults, but we all breathed a lot easier when our big baby finally decided there were just too many of us and came along more or less peaceibly.

And I'm glad to say that not long afterwards, the rest of the herd did leave the island by itself and reached safety.

[Music]

And so day after day, a race ends death as the waters rise and more animals are trapped. So many animals and so few men. But as long as there's life to be saved, Operation Noah's Ark will go on.

Well, tonight you saw our 20th century version of Noah's arc. Not exactly the way it reads in the Bible, but who could improve on that? But we did have action and pthos and more important, an expedition to record it. The people got their dam and their electricity, and most of the animals were rescued. For progress, of course, there has to be a price. But it's awfully hard for me to

think that wild animals anywhere should have to be a part of that price, whether that's in Africa or our own country. I hope you won't miss next week's expedition to a little known region of the world. It's really a fascinating. Until then, this is John Craig saying thank you and good night.

[Music]

[Music]

[Music]

[Music]