---
video_title: "20th CENTURY NEWSREELS COMPILATION   DIXIECRATS CONVENTION 1948   CHINESE CIVIL WAR 1949    GG48675"
video_id: nS7RtA4s59Q
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nS7RtA4s59Q
video_date: 2026-05-03T19:29:53+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  These silent newsreels were created by Off Network Productions, a New York company created by producer and media magnate Gerald Bartell, using an archive compiled by Merton Koplin. The company distributed these films to TV stations around the United States, where they were used as fillers, and to present historical events and personalities to the public. Bartell referred to the films as a "visual encyclopedia". 
  
  0:00 Film 0600:  Thor Heyerdahl KStJ, Norwegian adventurer and ethnographer, embarks on the Kon-Tiki expedition in 1947, in which he drifted 8,000 km (5,000 mi) across the Pacific Ocean in a primitive hand-built raft from South America to the Tuamotu Islands. The expedition was supposed to demonstrate that the legendary sun-worshiping red-haired, bearded, and white-skinned "Tiki people" from South America drifted and colonized Polynesia first, before actual Polynesian peoples. 
  1:14 Film 0608 French fashions circa 1950. The Vendome Column aka Colonne Vendome at Place Vendome in Paris is shown and then a dressmaker fitting a high fashion gown. 
  2:00 Film 0616: Prince Charles' christening at Buckingham Palace in 1948. Shots include family members and sponsors, and a serene sleeping baby.
  2:57 Film 0617: Walter Reuther assassination attempt ---  In 1948, Walter Reuther, president of the United Auto Workers (UAW), survived an assassination attempt at his Detroit home on April 20th, when a shotgun blast shattered his right arm and hit his chest. The attack severely injured his arm, leaving it crippled for life. Exterior of Grace Hospital is shown.
  4:11 Film 0632: States Rights --- Boutwell Memorial Auditorium in Birmingham, Alabama is shown as the States Rights Democrats gather for a convention. Supporters carry Confederate flags aka "stars and bars" as they march. The Boutwell Memorial Auditorium was the location of the States' Rights Democratic Party's national convention on July 17, 1948. The party, also known as the Dixiecrats, was formed by conservative Southern Democrats in opposition to the national Democratic Party's stance on civil rights. 
  5:17 Film 0631 --- late 1940s women's winter and summer fashions, including fur coats and ear muffs, and bikini swimsuits. 
  7:09 Film 0633: Eiffel Tower, Paris, France, including photos of construction, its use as a telegraph station, and general views. 
  8:15 Film 0636: James Forrestal is shown. Forrestal was the last cabinet-level United States secretary of the Navy and the first United States secretary of defense. Forrestal was a supporter of naval battle groups centered on aircraft carriers. He tried to weaken the proposed Department of Defense for the Navy's benefit, but was hard-pressed to run it from 1947 to 1949 after Truman named him Secretary of Defense. The two men were often at odds, and Truman forced Forrestal's resignation.
  9:12 Film 0639: Execution of suspected Communist agents in Shanghai, China, 1949. In the spring of 1949, during the final days of the Chinese Civil War, the Kuomintang (KMT) authorities in Shanghai executed suspected Communist agents and other dissidents as the People's Liberation Army (PLA) closed in on the city. The KMT staged public, often brutal, executions in an effort to maintain control and intimidate the populace.
  10:06 Film 0657: The recapture of an escaped Snow Leopard from the Oakland Zoo in the early 1950s. 
  11:24 Film 0666: 1951 show trial of Robert A. Vogeler. Vogeler was a ITT corporation executive who was falsely accused of espionage by Hungarian authorities in 1949. He confessed under duress. He is shown speaking about his experience after his release.
  14:50 Film 0672: Joe DiMaggio retired from baseball on December 11, 1951. His decision marked the end of a legendary 13-season career with the New York Yankees.
  16:05 Film 0679: Swimmer Florence Chadwick, first woman to swim across the English Channel in both directions. On August 8, 1950, she crossed the English Channel from France to England in 13 hours and 23 minutes.
  17:00 Film 0686: King Farouk Out As King --- Farouk I was the tenth ruler of Egypt from the Muhammad Ali dynasty and the penultimate King of Egypt and the Sudan, succeeding his father, Fuad I, in 1936 and reigning until his overthrow in a military coup in 1952.
  18:21 Film 0694: 1952 Republican National Convention, nominee Dwight D. Eisenhower speaks to the press after calling his defeated opponent, Senator Robert A. Taft. 
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
you I was just trying to demonstrate a certain kind of step that they need to be doing. And as I took two steps to pass the picture, I had this terrific explosion in turn. It saw the slight on the window, which was how it really looked like going off. But that was the way it meant. I mean, I didn't know what it meant, but it was the way it meant. I didn't know what it meant, but I got a sign with no idea of anything. Because I saw water going back and forth. I didn't know what it meant. I didn't know what it meant. I didn't know what it meant. I didn't know what it meant. I didn't know what it meant. I didn't know what it meant. I didn't know what it meant. I didn't know what it meant. I didn't know what it meant. I didn't know what it meant. I didn't know what it meant. I didn't know what it meant. I didn't know what it meant. I didn't know what it meant. Then the penalty for not changing my story fell upon. I was let across a court yard throw grim cell carters and down under the building. Again I was stripped and my clothes thoroughly examined. Only my suit and shoes were left to me. When I was shown into a six feet by nine feet cell, which I wouldn't bed, wouldn't pull off one blanket and the inevitable storm-claoring light. The walls were spry and the floor was wet and the cold was unbearable. Heavy steel door, clang shut and unforgettable memory. For the next ten days I was not allowed to wash and my menu was fried black bread and water three times a day. The worst of it, however, was the endless blue team repeated every six minutes of the steel people being open and clang shut and it implicated me in sabakash and espionage of not complying with demands. He believes that he is abandoned, that he will be killed in any case and that in the next confession will appear anyway. And so the science of rubbish placed before him. That eighty people had been arrested, founded and excruciating experience to adjust myself to freedom. The nightmare of interrogators and prison cuts a deep wound into the human spirit. However, as I grow stronger, I realize more and more that the important thing to be learned from my experience is that it can happen to anyone. It can happen to you. I wish everyone could understand this. No price is too dear to pay for our way of life. I am sorry. I am sorry. I am sorry. It is completed a call on Senator Tach. I went over to him in order to extend to him my invitation to cooperate with me from now. And he agreed to do so very heartily and in a warm-hearted situation. That please be a minister. Thank you. You have summoned me on behalf of me, of your fellow Americans to lead a great forsaken. I am grateful to you for your freedom in America and freedom in the world. I know something of the solemn responsibility of leading a crusade. I have read one. My Jacobson staff therefore in the spirit of this obligation. My soul of this burden and of this society of importance, I accept your son. I will lead this crusade. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear friends, that have he come to join me. I accept today's invitation. It is a dedication to the shining promise of tomorrow. As together we face, back tomorrow, I beseech the prayers of all our people and the blessings and guidance of Almighty God. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.