---
video_title: "\"ARMED FORCES SCREEN MAGAZINE\"  1954 NEWSREEL  M103 TANK   STEAM CATAPULT  B-52 BOMBER GG57515"
video_id: 0CWXkUtfhvg
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0CWXkUtfhvg
video_date: 2026-08-14T16:29:59+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: https://PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This 1954 U.S. Armed Forces "Screen News Magazine" shows off new military technologies, demonstrates readiness and promotes the idea that military developments benefit American civilians. It begins with the Army’s M103 heavy tank / T-43 heavy gun tank and an airborne bridge-building exercise in Japan, then shifts into a “Power for Peace” message showing how defense research contributes to clothing, food preservation, aviation, medicine, waterways, disaster relief, ship design, and atomic power. The final section highlights major new developments such as the USS Hancock’s steam catapult, the Viking X rocket, Lockheed's airborne radar Super Constellations, and the Boeing B-52 Stratofortress.
  
  
  
  
  0:19 - At Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland, the new heavy gun tank, the T43, is introduced.
  
  0:27 - The massive tank moves across the proving ground.
  
  0:41 - The T43 climbs a steep incline while the narration highlights its one-piece cast hull, elliptical shape, and low silhouette designed to reduce vulnerable flat surfaces.
  
  0:50 - The tank’s large 120 mm high-velocity gun is featured as the largest gun yet mounted on a U.S. tank .
  
  1:25 - Oita, Japan, where paratroopers and engineers prepare to build a footbridge using equipment dropped from the air.
  
  1:35 - C-119 aircraft from Ashiya Air Base and the 315th Troop Carrier Wing fly over the exercise area.
  
  1:42 - Pathfinders jump first.
  
  1:55 - On the ground, pathfinders quickly lay out large T-panels to guide the following aircraft and equipment drops.
  
   2:11  187th Airborne and the 882nd Army Unit paratroopers secure the beach 
  
  2:34 - Bridge sections and construction equipment descend by parachute.
  
  2:48 - Engineers begin assembling the bridge 3:07 - The completed bridge span.
  
  3:39 - The need to maintain military strength for peace.
  
  4:00 - Research centers of the defense establishment are shown. Military research also produces civilian benefits.
  
  4:14 - Clothing experiments for Arctic and tropical environments influencing civilian materials.
  
  4:38 - Advances in canned and dehydrated foods that later become available on civilian grocery shelves.
  
  4:49 - Commercial airliners are descendants of military aircraft.
  
  5:29 - At Boeing's factory, a commercial 707 jet under assembly 6:22 - Medical advances developed through military.
  
  6:40 - Military labs are credited with tropical disease research and effective malaria treatments 7:03 - The Army Corps of Engineers role in improving waterways .
  
  7:26 - Scale models of waterways.
  
  8:12 - Military disaster relief.
  
  8:29 - At the Taylor Model Basin a submarine model undergoes submerged testing.
  
  9:12 - The SS United States was tested in miniature before becoming an Atlantic speed record holder.
  
  9:20 - The Navy's USS Nautilus, the world’s first nuclear submarine.
  
  9:44 - At West Milton, New York, the Navy tests a second submarine nuclear power plant for the Seawolf.
  
  10:05  It's a possible prototype for future industrial atomic power plants.
  
  11:08 - Aboard USS Hancock in the Pacific, testing a new steam-powered catapult. that launches heavy carrier-based aircraft rapidly.
  
  
  
  11:45 - At White Sands, New Mexico, the Viking X rocket.
  
  12:01 - The rocket lifts off and climbs more than 136 miles above Earth at over 4,000 mph.
  
  12:43 - At McClellan Air Force Base, the USAF introduces a flying radar station for coastal defense.
  
   13:20 - The Lockheed Super Constellation, fitted with more than five and a half tons of radar, communications, and navigation equipment.
  
  14:01 - The aircraft is capable of guiding fighter planes to intercept enemy aircraft 
  
  14:19 - XB-52 Stratofortress prototype. This is Boeing’s new global bomber.
  
  14:32 - The 300,000-pound bomber is shown during testing and is described as soon entering quantity production for heavy bomber groups.
  
  15:01 - The B-52’s eight jet engines and secret performance data are emphasized as the aircraft is presented as a major first-line defense weapon.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit https://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[bell]

>> At Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland, the Army's new heavy gun tank, the T43, is ready to go through its paces. With many of its improvements still secret, [music] this mightiest of our armored vehicles demonstrates its mobility in spite of its great size and weight. A vertical obstacle is negotiated with ease. Next, a steep incline. A big feature of the T43 is the one-piece cast hull with elliptical shape and low silhouette, presenting no flat surfaces to enemy shells. The 120-mm high-velocity gun is

the largest ever mounted on a US tank.

Power steering gives constant ease of operation when the going is rough or on the straightaway. All weapons are loaded, armed, and fired from inside. No exposure for any members of the crew.

During an exercise at Oita, Japan, paratroopers and Army engineers team up to erect a footbridge dropped from the air. The planes are from Ashiya Air Base. They're C-119s of the 315th Troop Carrier Wing. The operation begins with a pathfinders jump. These first 10 men to hit the silk will lay paths for the rest of the airborne.

Oops, this is going to be a rough one. On the ground, the pathfinders move fast to reach the designated drop area. Here, they lay T panels marking the front of the zone. These strips will guide the drop of the rest of the men and material. At the same time, a radio direction beam is set up for the planes.

The T marking is readily seen from the air. Now, the jumps by the engineers and paratroopers. All of these men are members of the 187th Airborne or the 82nd Army unit. The paratroopers are going to secure the beach and prepare for the bridge drop. The jump has been made at 1,000 ft and there are no casualties.

Here comes the bridge and falling with it are various pieces of equipment to be used in the construction. Right into the target area and an easy landing that does no damage. As the engineers take over, pontoons go into the water first. Treadways are interlocking with the pontoons and with each other. Men in the water are holding the bridge so it won't float away. The job has been

well rehearsed. Precision fit of the various parts speeds the advance across the river. And here it is, approximately 500 ft of water span and our troops are on their way to the other side. Time required, about 30 minutes after the drop was made. >> [music]

[music]

>> War, today's version. The destruction in lives and property almost too horrible to contemplate even in make-believe. It's to prevent scenes like this from becoming [music] real, that we must keep strong, keep our power for peace.

Working to produce this military power, our research centers of our defense establishment. Combat, of course, is the objective here, but many discoveries have resulted in civil benefits. For instance, to meet extreme weather conditions, the military constantly experiments with [music] new types of uniforms for the Arctic and the tropical zones.

Out of this developing and testing, often come new and better materials for civilian clothes. The armed services have pioneered in canning and dehydrating foods to retain [music] their wholesomeness for long periods.

Many of these items are now available on civilian grocery shelves. Our commercial airlines maintain flight schedules the envy of every other nation. We hold a world safety record. Most of these reliable planes are direct descendants of military aircraft.

Every engine in use was developed for the armed forces.

When new planes pass the kind of testing they get from the Air Force, it's obvious why they keep [music] flying under the most rugged conditions. Symbol of the best in aircraft [music] are our latest jet bombers, a commercial version of which is already in operation. Seen here under assembly, this commercial jet is to carry from 80 to 150 passengers in high-speed comfort with a coast-to-coast [music] schedule of less than 5 hours. Between New York and London, the time is less than 7 [music] hours.

But for day-to-day service, the family bus is still mighty reliable. One reason is the top performance fuel and motor saving lubricants we're using. That's right. They were needed first for combat [music] engines. About the military's connection with industrial products, we could go on indefinitely.

But what's more important than our very lives? Plasma, a vital emergency item, saved many battle casualties. The setting up of blood and blood derivative banks is for [music] the most part a military medical achievement. Also, many surgical techniques first used in combat, such as preservation of blood vessels and bones. [music] Your armed services have led the way in studying various tropical diseases.

Out of their medical laboratories have come the most effective treatment for malaria, now practically eliminated among [music] troops on tropical duty.

Since 1824, Congress has relied on the military for counsel on improvement of the nation's waterways, for construction of the improvements, such as navigation channels and structures, [music] and for their maintenance.

With this program, flood control has been integrated. On elaborate scale models, your armed services produce the actual conditions found in our various types of waterways. Studying the effect of currents and tides, they also learn the best locations for dams and hydroelectric plants.

Similar experiments provide answers to the problem of erosion. The improving of our waterways and ports benefits not only industry and commerce, it's vital in developing our nation's fullest power. Our security is enhanced.

Whether it be a flood or a hurricane, wherever disaster strikes, the military is ready to take on [music] relief and reconstruction with the ability and skills to get the job done.

At the Taylor Model Basin, your Navy does research on ship design. Models are towed at speeds corresponding to scale. They ride artificial waves approximating ocean conditions.

The model of a new type submarine gets a submerged testing. Results compiled are improving the designs of ships before their keels are laid. This is one of the ways the services are helping to keep us out front in maritime performance, both military and civilian. The SS United States, holder of the Atlantic speed record, was first tested here in miniature. Moving to another field, that of energy and its new sources, the military has [music] been active in promoting atomic power plants.

The Nautilus, built under Navy supervision, is the world's first nuclear submarine. On just a few pounds of uranium, it will run for months, and it could go around the world without rising to the surface.

At West Milton, New York, your Navy experiments with a second power plant for the submarine Sea Wolf. The engine is to be tested inside this steel sphere, which is 18 stories high and will protect the countryside from dangerous radiation.

Another 40 ft of the sphere is underground. Such submarine engines are possible prototypes of the first industrial atomic power plants to come. Other benefits to our national welfare lie ahead in the further development of that powerful peace. Benefits symbolizing the greater service performed by your armed forces.

Power for peace. 160 million Americans hold stock in that vast enterprise.

Aboard the aircraft carrier USS Hancock, somewhere in the Pacific, the Navy tests its new steam-powered catapult under sea-going conditions. Operators find the new steam slingshot capable of launching the Navy's heaviest carrier-based planes. Invented by the British, it can launch 32 planes within 4 minutes. With US modifications, it really works.

Hydraulic catapults on other carriers will soon be replaced with a new steam mechanism. In another Navy test at White Sands, New Mexico, we see the new Viking X rocket. Out on the launching pad, civilian and military scientists make last-minute preparations before firing. Finally, X hour arrives. Electronic circuits are closed.

And the big rocket is off.

Soaring into space at more than 4,000 mph, the Viking X carries a cargo of delicate radio instruments 136 miles above the earth, recording the effects of the ionosphere on long-distance radio communications. Another successful rocket test by the Office of Naval Research.

The Air Force 2 has come up with something new at McClellan Air Force Base. An element of the First Airborne Early Warning and Control Division prepares to take off on a practice mission in the Air Force's new flying radar station. Operating 24 hours a day, the division will soon provide the Air Defense Command with additional early warning of approaching unidentified aircraft, allowing increased warning time to populated areas. The division will soon be composed of squadrons strategically located on both the East and West Coasts. The new aircraft, specially modified versions of the Lockheed Super Constellations, contain up-to-date radar, communications, and navigational equipment weighing more than 5 and 1/2 tons.

Once airborne, the radar operator goes to work. This odd-looking aerial giant carrying more than 25,000 radio tubes is capable of guiding our fighter planes to intercept any enemy aircraft approaching our coastal boundaries. The eyes and ears of the Air Force on duty around the clock. The biggest thing in Air Force news, however, is the B-52 Stratofortress. Built by Boeing, the big global bomber is soon to be produced in quantity.

Extensively tested by the Air Force, the 300,000-lb behemoth will be used to equip more than seven heavy bomber groups.

Now considered our first line of defense, the giant Stratofortresses are propelled by eight jet engines. Their performance data, however, remains secret as these monster warbirds spread their protecting wings over the nation.

>> [music]

>> Oh.