---
video_title: "1970s FOOTAGE  SCUBA DIVERS IN SUPPORT OF ALUMINAUT SUBMERSIBLE TESTS   VIEQUES, PUERTO RICO XD78565"
video_id: zCxQvzyS-Hs
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zCxQvzyS-Hs
video_date: 2026-06-10T16:29:57+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films! Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This reel of silent SCUBA footage likely dates to 1970, when the submersible Aluminaut was used for various scientific experiments off the coast of Vieques, Puerto Rico. This included a series of tests measuring the reflectivity of the seabed to acoustic waves. It's not clear what this footage documents but it does show SCUBA divers, including one with a still camera, placing an experimental package on the seafloor at (4:57) and using a dye market a (9:17). At (9:45) another dye marker is shown in use. At (12:05) what might be a sonobuoy is shown descending in the ocean. At (12:54) the experimental package is shown again.  
  
  The Aluminaut was the world's first aluminum submarine, an experimental deep-ocean research vessel built by Reynolds Metals Company in 1964. It was designed to operate at depths of up to 15,000 feet and was known for its unique specifications, including a 51-foot hull and a high strength-to-weight ratio. Aluminaut is best known for helping recover a lost unarmed U.S. hydrogen bomb in 1966 and recovering its smaller fellow deep-submergence vehicle, DSV Alvin in 1969, after Alvin had been lost and sank in the Atlantic Ocean the previous year. After retirement, Aluminaut was donated to the Science Museum of Virginia in Richmond, where it is on permanent display.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you