---
video_title: "\"MINUS ONE\"  1960s NEW YORK DEPT. OF HEALTH  RAT CONTROL IN URBAN SLUMS  EDUCATIONAL FILM GG47375"
video_id: tHgrJiZHdEk
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tHgrJiZHdEk
video_date: 2026-08-09T16:29:47+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films! Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Presented by the New York City Department of Health, Bureau of Pest Control this film, believed to be titled "Minus One: Rat Control" (circa late 1960s; main title missing) compares the situation with rat infestations in an inner city slum, to a village in Africa that is afflicted by a wild and dangerous lion.  Most of the dialogue in the film centers on a group of young Black men living in a rundown, rat-infested neighborhood or ghetto in New York City. Tensions rise when one of them, Ben, reveals that his baby brother was severely bitten by a rat. This sparks a passionate conversation about the deplorable living conditions they face daily. A health inspector, who grew up in the same area, arrives and explains how the city handles rat infestations, emphasizing the importance of community involvement in prevention. Though initially skeptical and frustrated by ineffective efforts and indifferent landlords, Ben decides to take action and clean up the neighborhood himself, eventually inspiring at least one friend to join him. The film ends on a hopeful note, suggesting that change is possible through personal responsibility and collective effort.
  
  
  
  
  
  0:00: Set up: intercutting between a child in a crib in an urban slum who is threatened by a hungry rat, and villagers in Africa whose children are threatened by a big cat. .
  
  2:12–5:38 – A group of boys discuss rats in their deteriorating neighborhood. Tension rises when Ben reveals his baby brother was bitten by a rat, highlighting the dangerous conditions they live in. The conversation shifts from casual to serious, underscoring the frustration and helplessness of their environment.
  
  6:06–8:21 – Ben confronts his friends about the dire state of their neighborhood, expressing his anger and despair. A health inspector (sanitarian) arrives, revealing his role is to prevent incidents like the rat attack. He explains he grew up in the same area, establishing empathy with the group.
  
  8:21: – The sanitarian explains how the Health Department handles rat infestations: identifying signs like droppings and rub marks, then notifying landlords to act. If they fail, the city intervenes. The boys express skepticism, believing the efforts are temporary and ineffective.
  
  10:06–: The discussion deepens: the inspector emphasizes community responsibility in controlling rat problems, like garbage management, covering over holes and entry points in buildings, and so on. The boys resist the idea at first, feeling it's not their job.
  
  11:01: Ben challenges the others to take responsibility and start cleaning up. He declares he’s staying to make a difference, inspiring at least one friend to support his effort.
  
  12:00: Long ending montage, showing how the big cat is killed by hunters, eliminating the threat, and the rats are likewise exterminated. 
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music]

[Music]

[Music]

[Music]

[Music] What happened?

[Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] Ow! Ow!

[Music]

[Music] [Applause]

[Music]

Heat. Heat. [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music]

Oh. [Music]

[Music]

Heat. Heat.

[Music]

Oh my god. You [Applause]

[Applause] [Music] Man, you seen the rats around this neighborhood since they started tearing this old place down? Yeah, man. I tried to catch one this morning. You crazy, man. You could get hurt bad. What do you

want to do something crazy like that for? Well, I was going to give it to Ben for his birthday. Look, I got a punch in your mouth. Man, I was only kidding. You think I'm crazy?

Man, I live with rats, but that don't mean I'm going to play with him, man. Ain't he uptight? Hey, now cool, Ben. What's wrong with you? What' I say?

My baby brother got bit by a rat this morning. It's bad, man. It's real bad. You know, I look at this place and all I see is rats and garbage, and you guys standing around flapping your lips, making wise remarks. You ever took a look at the stinking hole we're living in? You sound like there's something we

can do about it now. We both lived here long enough to know that ain't so. What you want, man? Anyhow, what? What? I I don't know what I want, but

I'll tell you one thing I don't want. I'll tell you one thing I never want. I don't want no rat feeding off my baby brother.

[Music]

Look, man. I'm sorry about Ralphie, but there's nothing I can do about it. Yeah. Yeah. Like, why get mad at us? We invite

you, brother. Just screw it, man. Like, learn to roll with the punches, cuz there's nothing that any of us can do. There's got to be. There must be some way to fight. Say, can any of you guys

tell me where I can find a Mrs. Barnes? I don't have the exact address. Maybe. What you want? I want to talk with her.

Baby was bitten by a rat this morning. I'm Ben Barnes. What you want my mama anyway? Besides, she's at the hospital. I'm a sanitarian. Man, I thought that's

a place where they keep crazy people. That'd be funny at any other time, but now there's a baby lying in a hospital bed, badly injured because of rats. Sanitarian is a health inspector. Funny man. I'm here to make sure that kind of thing doesn't happen again. Do

you know what it's like living your life, sharing elbow room with a rat? Oh, no. I wouldn't have any idea, man. You see, I was born in the mansion. See that heap that's coming down behind you? That

heap that's so full of rats? Well, I was raised right up there with the great great great grandpappy of those rats, you know. So, not only was I raised in this neighborhood, but I was born in that very building. So, don't talk to me about rats. So, now you're with the health department. What you going to do,

man? Hand out a couple of those pamphlets. You know, you should spend a day with me sometime and find out what I really do. Man, there'll always be rats in these buildings. Always have been.

What are we supposed to do about it? And for that matter, what can the health department do? Ben, did you see any rats in that building before the baby was bitten? You kidding? Of course. Well, if you had

called us, we would have sent a man out to inspect the building. Now, even if he didn't see any rats, he could tell from the signs whether they're there or not. Greasy rub marks along the wall.

rat

dropping normarks and so [Music]

forth. Now, if he believes that your building has rats, the health department sends your landlord notice that he has 5 days to get that building treated by an exterminator and put into shape. Man, that's a joke. you know any landlords around here. Okay, so that's beside the point because if he doesn't do it, then he's really in trouble because if he doesn't do it, the city does it. We send

in an exterminator ourselves. Man, that's really a laugh. Sure, you'll knock off a few rats. But you know, and I know won't be but a couple of weeks before things are back to normal. When the kids wake up at night because they felt the scamp of little feet across their covers. Man, let me tell you, why

does it ever have to get back to normal? What you mean? Well, you know, normal is whatever you make it. Listen, Ben, don't you go making out we don't try to get rid of rats. Nobody loves living with them, you know. Sure. We set out traps

and poison. We do it all the time. That's right. And it don't work. Nothing works, man. Okay. You see that pile of

garbage over there? Now, that nasty old lady's always throwing it out there on the street. But I bet you she sets rat traps every night. You fellas get the point he's making? I mean, like, maybe she kills one rat every night, but baby, she is feeding a dozen every day. So,

what you want us to do? You want me to walk around the streets picking up garbage? Oh, man. You want me to go around the neighborhoods to buildings? That's right. Unless you like living

this way, unless you like slipping on rotten food in the street, worrying about a rat crawling into your bed at night. Not me. I see what needs being done, and I'm going to do it. Yeah. Well, you're going to need a whole lot of bread to clean up this place. A Duke,

I said I was doing it myself. I didn't say I was going to pay nobody. [Music]

[Music] Come on, Ben. What's so important about this place? Yeah, the only important thing is to find a way to get out of here. Okay, Juan, you go right on dreaming about leaving. And maybe you will, and maybe you won't. But right now, you're living

here, and you got to keep on pretending that you don't see this fil me. I'm going to stay here and try to get this place clean. That's right. I'm going to help you put it together, baby. I'm going to be right there with you.

[Music]

Heat. Heat.

[Applause]

[Applause] Heat. Heat.

Heat.

Heat. Heat. [Applause] [Music]

Heat.

Heat.

[Applause] Heat. Heat. Heat.

Heat. Heat. [Music]

Meow.

[Music]