---
video_title: "1939-1960 NEWSREEL FOOTAGE  J. EDGAR HOOVER   ELEANOR ROOSEVELT   POPE INNOCENT XI  ALY KHAN GG38555"
video_id: 43-l3PzPkVM
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=43-l3PzPkVM
video_date: 2026-03-03T20:29:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Here is a roll of miscellaneous newsreel footage. Segments include:
  
  0:00 1939  
  FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover fingerprints
   the Vice President John Nance Garner III  while the Director's friend and publicist Walter Winchell watches. 
  
  
  01:00 1949 
  Young Kathy Fiscus is trapped in a well. Kathryn was a three-year-old girl who died after falling into a well in San Marino, California. The attempted rescue, broadcast live on KTLA, was a landmark event in American television history.
  
  
  02:52 1943
   First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt gives speeches at the Cecil Club, 
  Red Cross Hospital and the White House
  
  
  
  05:11 1956
   Pope Innocent XI beatified by Pope Pius XII on October 7, 1956. The ceremony took place in St. Peter's Basilica in Rome, with Pope Pius XII presiding
  
  
  06:32 1960 Aly Khan dead at 48. Khan served as Pakistan's ambassador to the United Nations and was the second and third husband of Rita Hayworth. Khan sustained catastrophic head injuries in an automobile accident in Suresnes, France, a suburb of Paris, when the car he was driving collided with another vehicle 
  
  
  07:35 1944
   Allied bombing of Monte Cassino, 
  Italy at the end of WWII
  
  
  10:20 1947 
  Texas City Disaster and Fire. The Texas City disaster was an industrial accident that occurred on April 16, 1947, in the port of Texas City, located in Galveston Bay. It was the deadliest industrial accident in U.S. history and one of history's largest non-nuclear explosions.
  
  11:22 1946
   Opening meeting of the United Nations
   in London
  
  . The United Nations' first General Assembly session convened on January 10, 1946, in London at the Methodist Central Hall. This historic event marked the formal beginning of the UN, with 51 nations represented. Delegates gathered to define the scope and purpose of the newly formed international organization. 
  
  13:27 1933
   FDR Assassination Attempt. On February 15, 1933, President-elect Franklin D. Roosevelt survived an assassination attempt in Miami, Florida. Giuseppe Zangara, an Italian immigrant, fired five shots at Roosevelt from close range while the President-elect was giving a speech. While Roosevelt escaped injury, Chicago Mayor Anton Cermak, who was standing nearby, was fatally shot. 
  
  14:50 1959
   Communists threaten to take over Cuba. In 1959, the rise of Fidel Castro and the Cuban Revolution created significant concern in the United States, as some viewed it as a communist threat and a potential gateway for Soviet influence in the Western Hemisphere. 
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
Put-altra japanese music Well, though these prints will go in the collection of civil fingerprints, of which the over one million prints are on file now. I'm glad we finally got your record. Well, I'm very happy, Mr. G-Man, I have my fingerprints in your files, but I think you've made a big mistake. I think you should get them burning. We'll put the G-Man on him right away. Please do that. Mr. G-Man. Yes, and the reading board is really wild without an outstanding appearance. Yes, and for the reason for all this leave for our channel, and also found a target, feeling very sad, looking very depressed, and he said, fuck, I'm out of the juice. And he said, oh, I just can't. Well, my hands sharpened jack. The officer said, well listen, I'll tell you what to do. You go up to that wind, Chilka. Chilka, go up to the front and say, the hell was going to get you? Now, go up on the people all around, and if you should say, two get a jack. Go out on the road. So he said, my iron, my lady, I'm still looking very beautiful. And he said, did you do what I told you to do? And did you get her? Yes, I ran up there, and I just, just come to do, and I said, the hell was going to go, and then just, just you come in there, but the law shined as the hell was going to go. Oh, oh! Oh, oh! Oh, oh! Oh, oh! Oh, oh! Oh, oh! Oh! Oh, oh! Oh, oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! In a nation such as ours, every man who fights for us is in some way our man. His parents may be of any race or religion, but if death man dies he dies side-by-side with all of his buddies, and if your heart is with any man, in some way it must be with all. All the men are our men, part of our United States, which they have saved, so that we can still call it the land of the free and the home of the brain. So, all the men are our men, part of our United States, part of our United States. All the men in the free and free, part of our United States, part of our United States, We realize, as perhaps never before, a choice is offered to mankind. Twice in my lifetime, a war has brought untold sorrows to mankind. Should there be a third world war, the long upward progress toward civilization, and may be halted for generations, and the work of many of men and men in the centuries they brought to naught? I welcome therefore the decision to remit the whole problem of the control of atomic energy through a commission of the United Nations organization. When this discovery looks, we can see, set fairly before us, in tangible problems, the question of the past, the modern world. We must, we will succeed. Go along your bar that's gone, how many days? What's the rest? You'll get answer tonight, you will shoot the truck tonight? I can't shoot no more. If you give it a chance. I can't give it a chance, I sure am. Would you shoot me? You will shoot me? What should you shoot me? We'll watch you man, we'll watch you sit to breath. We'll have to go, would you shoot now? Yeah, you'll let me go. I'm going to shoot you. I'm going to shoot you. I'm going to shoot you. I'm going to shoot you. I'm going to shoot you. I'm going to shoot you.