---
video_title: "\"THE BIG DINNER TABLE\"  1978 CALIFORNIA DAIRY COUNCIL NUTRITION FILM  GG47535"
video_id: lKZw8b3m6BA
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lKZw8b3m6BA
video_date: 2026-09-02
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Sponsored by the Dairy Council of California and produced in 1978, "The Big Dinner Table" explores the importance of nutrition by promoting the concept that a "dinner table"  connects people around the world through the shared need for food. It explains that food is essential not only for enjoyment but also for providing energy and materials our bodies need to grow and function. The film describes how energy from the sun is stored in food, and how our bodies use this energy and nutrients—like proteins, vitamins, and calcium—to build cells and maintain health. It introduces the four main food groups: milk (which provides calcium), meat (a source of protein), vegetables and fruits (rich in vitamins), and bread and cereals (high in energy). The film emphasizes the value of balanced meals, showing how including at least one item from each food group in every meal helps ensure the body receives all necessary nutrients. Through relatable examples and visuals, it encourages thoughtful eating habits and highlights that healthy meals can be both nutritious and enjoyable.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  0:00: The narrator invites viewers to imagine eating at a "big dinner table" that spans the entire world. It’s a metaphor illustrating how eating connects people globally, whether in one’s neighborhood or across continents. Eating is not only enjoyable but also essential, as food provides the energy and nutrients our bodies need to grow and function.
  
  1:50:The concept of food as energy is introduced. Peanuts, for instance, can release energy when burned—enough to power a boat. This energy originally comes from the sun and is stored in food. When we consume food, our bodies convert this stored energy for movement and activity.
  
  2:39: Just like a building needs materials to grow, our bodies need building blocks—cells—which multiply to enable growth. The materials for creating new cells come from the food we eat, making nutrition vital for development.
  
  3:24–: The film emphasizes that different foods provide different nutrients and energy levels. It introduces the four major food groups: milk, meat, vegetables/fruits, and bread/cereals, which form the foundation of a balanced diet.
  
  4:04: The milk group is explored. Around the world, people milk various animals like cows, sheep, goats, camels, and even water buffalo. Foods such as milk, cheese, yogurt, and ice cream belong to this group. These foods are rich in calcium, which helps build strong bones.
  
  6:06: The bread and cereal group is next. Grains are processed into flour to make bread, cereal, and pasta. In many cultures, rice is a staple food. Since grains are seeds, they are packed with energy, making them a key source of fuel for the body.
  
  7:52: The meat group includes not only meat but also eggs, fish, nuts, and legumes like beans and peas. These foods are high in protein, an essential material for building muscles, skin, blood, and cells. Protein plays a major role in the body’s structural development.
  
  9:08: The vegetable and fruit group includes all plant parts—roots, leaves, stems, flowers, and fruits. These foods are packed with vitamins A and C, crucial for proper bodily function. The film uses visual metaphors (like red wheels representing vitamins) to show how small amounts are needed, but their absence causes health issues.
  
  10:32: The importance of balanced meals is emphasized. A balanced meal includes at least one item from each of the four food groups. Examples of such meals are provided using combinations like beef (meat), rice (grain), tomato (vegetable), and milk. Multiple meal examples reinforce how easy it is to achieve nutritional balance.
  
  11:47: Further examples are given with variations like baked beans, cornbread, ice cream, and strawberries—all fitting within the food group model. The film concludes with the message that by choosing a variety of foods from all four groups, people can ensure their bodies receive the necessary nutrients—and enjoy what they eat at the same time.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music] is provided to permit the projectionist to complete adjustments before the film begins. The volume and tone are identical with the soundtrack which follows.

Did you ever stop to think when you sit down to eat that you're eating at a big dinner table that stretches all the way around the world? Of course, you only see a little bit of it, but there's more. In the house across the street, and at the house across town, in the next city, and in the next

state, across the country, and across the oceans.

It's good to get together at a meal with family or friends. It's good that there's such a variety of delicious things to eat. It's good that eating is fun because even if it weren't, we'd still have to do it. That's because food supplies us with energy and with things our bodies must have for growing and for living. [Music] Everybody needs

energy. And there's energy stored in food. There's energy stored in these peanuts. When the peanuts are burned, they release enough energy to make steam, to turn a wheel, to make a boat go.

Energy from the sun is needed to make food grow. And some of the sun's energy is stored in the food as it grows. When we eat the food, part of the energy stored in it can be released in our bodies and we use it. How does a building grow? A building grows by having new materials added to

it. How do we grow? Our bodies are made out of tiny building blocks that are called cells. This human cell is splitting in two to make two cells. That's how we grow, by building new cells for our bodies. And the materials to build these

cells are supplied by the food we eat. Bricks are one material for building a

house. Food is the material for building a body.

Almost all the foods we eat supply materials for growing. But they don't all supply the same materials. Almost all the foods we eat supply energy, but some supply more energy than others. What are the different kinds of foods that are eaten at the big dinner table? We'll break them down into four groups.

The milk group, the meat group, the vegetable fruit group, and the bread and cereal

group. In Lapland, people milk reindeer. Spaniards milk sheep. People in Tibet milk yaks. Greeks milk goats. People in India milk water

buffalo. Arabians milk camels. And other people milk cows. All around the big dinner table, people drink milk and eat foods made from milk. Ice cream is made out of milk and so is yogurt and cheese. Cheesees and yogurt and ice

cream and milk are included in the milk group of foods. Energy from the sun is stored in growing grass. Cows and camels and yaks and sheep eat the grass. And some of the energy stored in the grass ends up in the milk they make and we

drink. Calcium is a very important building material which helps to make our bones

hard. Foods in the milk group provide very good supplies of calcium.

All around the world, people are pounding grain and grinding grain into flour.

Dough is made from

flour and bread is made from dough. There are many kinds of bread served at the big dinner table. Not all grain is made into bread. For many people at the big dinner table, rice is the main course at every meal.

Breakfast cereals are made out of grain and so is spaghetti. Foods made with grain belong to the bread and cereal group. Grains are seeds. Lots of energy is stored in seeds like these wheat seeds in order to give the sprouting plants a good start. That's why the foods in the bread and cereal group give good supplies of energy.

In many parts of the world, grain is fed to animals.

And when the animals are fat enough, people eat

them. We also eat eggs. And many people find fish delicious. Nuts and dried peas and beans supply our bodies with many of the same things that meats do. So they are included in the meat group of foods, too.

Proteins are important building materials in every part of your body. There are proteins in your muscles, in your skin, in your hair, your blood, your cells. Foods from the meat group give good supplies of proteins.

How do you describe a vegetable? Is it a root or a leaf or a stalk or a flower or a fruit? There are all kinds of foods in the vegetable fruit group, and they're eaten in many ways around the big dinner

table. This is a year's supply of vitamin A. And this is all the vitamin C you need to eat in a year if you get it day by day in different vegetables and fruits. Imagine that the red wheels represent vitamins. You don't need many of

them. But if any of them are

missing, your body won't work properly.

Foods in the vegetable fruit group give good supplies of vitamins's A and

C. There are so many good things served at the big dinner table. Which foods do you choose to give your body the energy and materials it needs? Eat the food you like. But try at each meal to eat one food from each of the four food groups.

That makes a balanced meal. Not every meal is going to be balanced, but you should try for a balanced meal whenever you can. Beef from the meat group, tomato from the vegetable fruit group. rice from the bread and cereal group and milk from the milk group. That meal is

balanced. Chicken from the meat group, toast from the bread and cereal group, orange juice from the vegetable fruit group, and yogurt from the milk group. That meal is balanced

too. Baked beans from the meat group, cornbread from the bread and cereal group, ice cream from the milk group, and strawberries from the vegetable fruit group. It's easy to balance a meal.

bread from the bread and cereal group. Ham from the meat group. Cheese from the milk group.

and an apple from the vegetable fruit group. If you include a food from each of the four food groups in each of your meals, they'll add up to supply the things your body needs to get from the food you

eat. And all of it can taste good.