---
video_title: "\"NARCOTICS FILE: THE VICTIMS\"  1974 U.N. INTERNATIONAL DRUG TRADE & HEROIN ABUSE DOCUMENTARY GG47445"
video_id: mAb18G-x1OU
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mAb18G-x1OU
video_date: 2026-08-10T16:29:48+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Support our ongoing work via Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Dating to 1974, "Narcotics File: The Victims" is one of a series of films produced for the United Nations to showcase the effects of the international drug trade and promote ongoing drug interdiction efforts. The film explores the complex and multifaceted global struggle against drug addiction, primarily focusing on heroin use. It begins with personal testimonies from addicts, detailing the destructive cycle of dependency, criminal behavior, and institutionalization. The program delves into various treatment models, including methadone maintenance, therapeutic communities, and drug-free communes, emphasizing the critical role of psychological support and social reintegration. While methadone shows promise in stabilizing addicts, it is not without risks and remains controversial. Other global approaches, such as Britain’s legal heroin prescriptions and strict enforcement in Japan, are examined, highlighting varying degrees of success. Ultimately, the documentary underscores that no single method has proven wholly effective; the path to recovery requires a combination of medical treatment, societal support, personal effort, and a fundamental reduction in the demand for drugs. It was produced by Pierre Desbonnet, edited by Annabel Compton, with camerawork by Joseph Cabibbo. It was narrated by Peter Thomas.
  
  00:00 A personal account of drug addiction, highlighting the chaos and criminal behavior associated with substance dependence. A narrator introduces the focus: not just the drugs themselves, but the underlying demand and personal struggles of addicts.
  
  1:03–2:32: The program shifts to institutional responses, particularly methadone detoxification and maintenance, illustrating how this treatment offers a more humane alternative to traditional cold-turkey withdrawal. Medical professionals explain that addiction is a medical—not criminal—issue.
  
  2:33–5:15: Methadone treatment is explained in detail: patients are supervised, dosage is carefully managed, and the goal is long-term rehabilitation through comprehensive support including healthcare, education, and employment services.
  
  5:16–6:40: The drawbacks of methadone are addressed—its addictive potential, health risks to infants, and the emergence of street methadone abuse. Still, it is seen as a lesser evil compared to heroin, helping many lead stable lives.
  
  6:41–9:15: Former addicts speak about finding purpose through work and community, despite facing stigma. Programs that employ former addicts in supportive environments have shown success, though societal acceptance remains a barrier.
  
  9:16–11:18: Experts argue that the root of addiction is not the drug itself but unresolved emotional pain—loneliness, anxiety, or trauma. Drug-free communities aim to heal by fostering openness, emotional confrontation, and communal accountability.
  
  11:19–14:24: Though some therapeutic communities show promise, critics warn of their limited success. International approaches vary: the UK provides legal heroin to registered users, Sweden and Japan emphasize psychological analysis and harsh law enforcement, respectively, with Japan seeing notable declines after mass arrests and strict policies.
  
  14:25–20:05: Hong Kong’s Tyram Center represents a compulsory, low-cost rehabilitation model integrated with prison systems. It emphasizes inmate self-responsibility, community labor, and education, claiming relatively high success rates due to structure and follow-up.
  
  20:06–22:25: Despite claims of success, most global programs achieve only modest results. China's strict population control is cited as an exception. Long-term drug-free recovery remains elusive for the majority, but programs continue to evolve.
  
  22:26–26:13: The film closes with adolescents reflecting on their paths to recovery through self-awareness, guidance, and peer support. Rebuilding trust, finding hope, and receiving care are essential. The narrator urges community action and empathy to address the root causes and save lives.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music] I was on drugs for five years and I tried I tried just about everything. Oh, I used I used to have big $160 a day, $170 a day. I sold drugs. I did all of this, you know, sell marijuana, heroin, cocaine, steel cars. Before when I was using drugs, like I didn't have any kind of direction. All I had was, you know,

where I was going to get high next time shot since I was 17 and uh, you know, just to I'm tired of doing it. You know, I'm tired of going down and regressing because I'm tired of going to jails, hospitals, you know, it's the whole routine. What I want you to realize that dope ain't your problem, man. Dope is not your problem. That's why your problem is you.

How to cope with that problem. The demand problem of people who become addicted for reasons often unknown to themselves is the subject of this narcotics file. Mr. Springer, how many men in the back searching? No one yet.

This report deals mainly with the opium heroin chain and the search for a way to eliminate the demand to help the victims break out of their own private hell in New York, London, Stockholm, Tokyo, and Hong Kong. Some of these attempts are new, others experimental. None so far is conclusive, including jail. Let's go, young man. I'll put your shirt off.

[Music] What drug you on? Heroin. When's the last time you took a shot? I don't know. This morning. How long you

been on heroin? uh 5 years before that. My own personal opinion is drug addicts should not be put into any type of correctional facility. It's a medical problem and this problem should be answered by the medical world and not the prison or the police world. Now during the year 1971 in this facility across the street here which I'm attached to, we detoxified approximately 10,000 addicts. Our intake

for that year was around 23,000 it with methadone detoxification. A man is detoxified much more humanely. He feels like a human being after 2 hours. Previously to methadone detoxification. A man was admitted to an institution and say 10 years ago he withdrew cold turkey. He went through excruciating

pains. His bladder was wide open. His bowels were wide open. He was throwing up continually and it took him around 72 hours to detoxify. And then we went into the symptomatic detoxification where uh we would give men light tranquilizers.

We would treat them for their headaches. We would treat them for their stomach pains. Through the efforts of Dr. Vincent Dole of the Rockefeller University, we implemented through a federal grant uh methadone detoxification. The biggest part of the program is the effort to enable an addict to become a normal citizen. So, uh the services that we

give to our patients which include uh medical services, job placement, help with education, help with housing and family problems, legal help, counseling, encouragement. These are the really important parts of our program. We're talking about the methodone maintenance treatment. We're not now talking about the detoxification program in prison. Giving a methodone is the simple part.

Let's look at the beginning when we see a man coming off the street, an addict, unreliable, maybe with very doubtful motives. Maybe he thinks that this is going to make him high. He very soon finds that we're not giving him any drug experience by giving him methadone. At that stage, he must be under the tightest possible supervision. And we require him to come every day to the clinic and take his medicine under observation.

In the standard methadone treatment, an addict starts on a moderate size doses of methadone and gradually over a 3 to six or 8 week period is built up to the steady maintenance dose. The buildup is so slow that he does not feel narcotic effects because the tolerance that his body develops to the medication keeps ahead of the dose. Each morning before breakfast, he takes this one dose of medicine and that constitutes the total medical treatment for this man. However, the point I think you see is that we're striving toward his rehabilitation. How we set rules for him is governed by how far he is responsible his conduct.

[Music] At the time this narcotics file was prepared, 60,000 American addicts were on methadone maintenance. Another 30,000 were on waiting lists and an estimated half a million more were still supporting their habits. But as its use increases, the problems multiply. And critics point out that heroin itself was once praised as an alternative to morphine. Complaints. No problems with

your medication. It's all right. Very good. You got your ID card with you? Yeah.

Item. Babies born of mothers on methadone are methadone addicts and have a much higher death rate than those born of mothers on heroin. Item. Methadone is now being pushed on the streets. Its injection rather than oral use can cause an orgasmic reaction almost as intense as the heroin rush item. Almost as many

Washington addicts died of methadone overdoses in a recent 6-month period as did of heroin overdoses. Okay. Thank you. Would you like to chase it? No.

[Music] Okay. Thank you. Goodbye. See you tomorrow. All righty. Many agree that

methadone is no panacea, but urge its legal administration to any drug abuser who asks for it. While addictive, it does get the far worse heroin monkey off the back of the addict. Most can return to straight society, even get a job if anyone will hire an ex addict. We find that former drug addicts do a lot better when they're working together in jobs where they support each other in groups where we're able to lower the amount of stress on them as they begin a job and where the job has some meaning. We now have a group of 20 former addicts water blasting all the buildings of New York City. We have 20 exaddicts working on

the Upper West Side helping to clean up the environment. We will be putting another group to work in a restaurant. What we find is they do much better in units where they help to support each other where you have onsite supervision counseling and you set up a kind of a group environment. And this is the kind of approach that we hope to do in a very large scale in New York City. I was an addict for 15 years on and off the last 15 years. Why did you break the habit or

why? I'm on methadon right now. I've been on methadon for 2 years. But I can say now I'm off methadon now. Um I'm clear drugs and you know it's a wonderful thing to say. Uh if it wasn't

for the methodon, I'd probably be hooked all over again. Take a little longer. You know, I would give myself more of a break, but eventually I'd probably get hooked all over again. How many shots a day did you used to take? Well, at various various times it could be uh from two shots to 20 shots. Now

with this methodon, I could work a normal life just like uh anybody else. I want to make a new life for myself and family. New York's offtrack bedding. Daily handle $2 million. Tellers responsible for thousands in cash transactions. Two

offices staffed with former addicts. not a single problem in two years. I I was just, you know, tired of the whole hassle and uh I had had a bad overdose about two years ago and almost lost my life. And the beginning it was like something like a toy, you know, you play with it and before you realize it, you're like uh you were hooked and uh you couldn't do anything about it. And after a while, you get older and older, you're getting tired with yourself. And

uh you want to stop, but you don't know how. You don't find what to do. But I think you got to go through hell first. You got to be down in the gutter in the bottom. These are extremely lucky. They have

jobs. How would you answer the question? Would you hire a former addict? It's a boss. You can't get the job. I had a job

for a month. I was supposed to be doing fairly well, doing good. They had taught me it was a manageable type of job. And when they found out that I was on methadon, they cut me out. I lost the job. And it

was strictly because I was on methodon. It's more of like instead of giving credit that you're trying to, you know, straighten out, you wind up, you know, uh, you paid for it. What we do feel is that addicts need a chance to live with free men and get supports in their struggles for jobs and housing. Now you say how important is methadone? Without methadone the majority of these people would very soon relapse to heroin and when on heroin then all chances for further rehabilitative work are gone. So I would say that for the

majority of these patients, methadone is essential as a first step. Methadon is being um oversold and overbought both as a solution to the drug problem. I am a proponent of uh either methadone maintenance or a a drug-free community type of life. We don't think that a desire for drugs is a primary phenomena. We think that a desire for drugs is a secondary phenomena and that what comes before that is some kind of psychic pain. Whether it's anxiety or

fear or loneliness that there's some discomfort that is gnawing at somebody that then leads them to want to use drugs to get relief from that tension and from that pain. No, you don't have to be afraid of anything here, you know, but for some reason which is eating, you know, you up. You can't make it, you know, you're not going to be able to hold on to it. Drug-free communes try to relieve the tension and pain by getting it all out in the open. Finally, you're going to explode or split, you know, shoot some dope or something. You know,

you're not going to be able to hold it in too much longer. Yeah. But, you know, it's like I I don't know why. Just don't let it out or go ahead and talk. You know, it's like every time I purpose of encounters is to give a person some information back about the way they're operating in the world. When you live

intimately with 70 or 80 people and 15 of those people sit down with you to tell you about how you're behaving or not behaving, they can give you a great deal of information about yourself. And then you're in a position sometimes to make some changes and to modify your behavior if you want to. Take your time. You can always go out there and shoot a little more dope, you know, and come back and go again, you know, come back for, you know, till you get yourself in shape and go back out and shoot a little more and come go ahead. Take your time.

Okay. Okay. I'm trying. Okay. I'm not as far opening up to people completely. No.

Okay. But it's still taking time for me to just keep just open up to somebody as far as that start, sweetheart. We're waiting for you to start. What do you think about what when you get ready to open up and talk to people? What do you think about what goes through your head?

I know. I just it just automatically Well, what cuts you off from talking? You must think about something to stop you from talking. Something has to go through your head. What is it? What is it? No, Carol. I

just stop. It's just automatic. Okay. If I say something, I'll not automatic. You can think about something. I don't know

what to stop me thinking. You can't anything. You want to care everything in your mind from stopping you from opening up in this encounter. So why don't you talk about that one? We try to show them that people care about them, that they can care about themselves and they are worth something. I think the attraction

of the illegal drug still remains and I think drugs have been with us since the beginning of life on earth. So I don't have much hope that suddenly we'll be living in a utopia where everybody will be happy and nobody will be using drugs. Some other way of escape, some other way of instant gratification would be found. One respected critic says that drug-free communities represent a major disaster, for they have helped persuade the public that heroin addiction is curable. But no therapeutic community has yet managed to graduate more than a tiny fraction of those who entered.

England uses a different approach, registers addicts, and makes heroin legally available. A similar American experiment in the 20s was a disaster. Some attribute British respect for the law to the program's partial success. Little drug connected crime, but the addict population, though still under 10,000, has more than doubled in the last few years. It really upset me, so I went out and scored again. What' you

score then? Scored is slang for mainlining. Chinese is what you score with. Heroin. So, how long is it now that you've been scoring a packet of Chinese day? Well, the last one was

yesterday. New. There we are then. Is that to to put into um the boots at war way? Yes, you can do that. Uh could I have can I have

a prescription to get one tonight? That's it for tonight. Sweden, another country, another problem. The local habit injecting amphetamines. One local attempt to eliminate the demand. The use

of socio medical and socio psychological methods to find out how drug abuse spreads in society. Does psychological need come before or after physical dependency? Do you? Is it as simple as peer group contact? One youngster bragging to another about the trip he's just had, how great it feels.

Peer group contagion was a key factor in the Japanese epidemic of 1954. An estimated 2 million on amphetamines, a third of them with heavy habits. Only a series of senseless deaths aroused public opinion sufficiently to press the government for much strengthened laws. Stiff sentences with no parole. There were more than 55,000 arrests the first year. Such law

enforcement measures combined with intensive treatment and rehabilitation effectively stopped this type of addiction in 1958. But per capita, Hong Kong makes even more drug connected arrests and its addict population continues to grow. Here too, the search continues for a rehabilitation program that will work.

Well, now you are coming up to your nine month within this center. You yourself must realize that you have a very very big problem and that to overcome this problem requires from you 100% cooperation with the staff. This is the second treatment you've received for your problem. Or should I say the third as you are the subject of recall. You had relapsed, hadn't you?

[Music] You see, this is what I'm talking about. If you try and deceive yourself, there can be no hope. You have to be truthful to yourself. You have to recognize your problem before you can overcome it. Is this white powder stronger than you?

[Music]

Do you have anything to say? While we here at Tyram expect the addict to respond and respond to our treatment program, we do not say that you are a patient here. We call you an inmate. We do not say that you are sick. We say you have a psychological problem of dependence which we will try and help you overcome. Putting the emphasis on

the effort that he must make rather than the effort that we must make. After all, 80% of the effort in treatment comes from the addict himself. [Music] Once he's arrested, he goes before the court and if he is found guilty, he is then remanded in our custody providing the magistrate or judge considers that drug dependence or drug addiction is his problem. First of all, he will have been treated for his physical dependence on drugs. After all, he'll be suffering from withdrawal symptoms. So therefore

during the period on remand but is spent at the Victoria reception center he will be treated for the people who are sent to here by the courts although convicted are treated as inmates and not prisoners. This is a treatment center and not a prison.

It's the staff who in fact create the atmosphere and the environment in which the inmate will respond, bearing in mind that this is a compulsory program. Anyway, first of all, we've got to remember that we treat from an open environment. The inmates work within the community. They go out, they leave the center every day to work within the community. [Music] Thailand is an open institution, not closed. So straight away the cost of the

institution is not high. The upkeep is done by the inmates. I would say that at the present time, current costs run roughly $2 US ahead for each inmate. That is 12 Hong Kong dollars a day which by any standard is not [Applause] expensive. Educational facilities. This is governed by the

education department and the uh students who attend educational classes do so only in the evenings and the teachers come in of an evening.

[Music]

[Music] foreign.

[Music] [Applause] [Music]

under you. [Applause] A psychological bill of health has already determined their fitness for parole. Before and after photos, the best proof of physical improvement. We already know at this stage that after one year's supervision we will have a 66% success rate. After 3 years we anticipate we shall have a 40%. So I think we do stand

out as having a more successful program than most other countries have at the present time.

[Music] Except for China's well disciplined population which claims a 100% recovery rate. No program anywhere has been able to return more than 5 to 10% of its heroin addicts to drug-free society.

Some say the Thailand C Center's effectiveness is due to compulsion. It is part of the prison system. And the habit is smoking heroin, not injecting it. Careful followup is also a part of it. An ex addict who can make it in one 10x10 room with four other people is certainly proof that it can work.

[Music] I do not believe that the drug problem will be solved unless the demand can be reduced. Various attempts to cope with it by means of treatment and rehabilitation have been shown here. Even if results thus far have only been modest, there are clear indications that drug addicts can in fact be freed from the drug. One thing is absolutely sure though, and that is that wholehearted efforts by the addicts themselves, society, and the United Nations are necessary in order to achieve it. The United Nations has a division in Geneva which is entrusted with the coordination of the worldwide war on elicit drugs. The laboratory of this

division is a focal point for narcotics research. In the Geneva office, information on drug abuse from all member nations is received and analyzed. As the global search continues, several conclusions seem inescapable. Methadone can allow the addict to stabilize himself and his habit, but is dangerous and addictive in its own right. Heroin maintenance has proved even less effective. Therapeutic communities show

only minimal recovery rates. Abstinence remains the only known answer to a problem for which as yet there is no cure. And youth is still the largest and most susceptible victim of the drug plague. But it could also be the best hope for its eradication. I'm learning a lot about myself, you know, cuz before I thought I knew everything. I thought I was grown, you

know, an adult, and now I'm learning that I'm not as grown up as I thought I was, you know, but I'm learning how to become a responsible adult. I was in I was in high school and I was shooting drugs, and I was escaping from a lot of the problems and stuff like that I had. And drugs was my escape, you know? I I like the problems or feelings that I couldn't handle and the hurt and stuff like that. I would just use drugs and I wouldn't care about nothing no more. I

was involved with shooting narcotics, you know, killing myself, doing things that were negative, you know, and now that I'm having some people to guide me on a pattern which is correct, a positive pattern so that more or less when I grow up, I can be, you know, responsible, make commitments to build a strong foundation for myself. They have that common bond to fall back onto. They all came in here with an original problem. you've hit the bottom or you you're on the way and that in itself is enough to make anyone reach out you know and want something or someone because you you need it in order to survive. You need the companionship you need the friendship of other people. If one can

help the adolescent to reestablish some trust in the adult people if he can be given some goals, some hope and some love you can do a lot. How much is each community going to sweep the problem under the carpet? How much uh is each community willing to work on it? I don't

know. Do something about the drug problem, man. Save a life. [Music] How about you? Thank you.

[Music] Thank you very much. [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause]

[Music]