---
video_title: "1963 STATE VISIT OF CZECH PRESIDENT ANTONIN NOVOTNY TO INDONESIA   SUKARNO   GG47715d"
video_id: wb8UHUxxlbI
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wb8UHUxxlbI
video_date: 2026-06-06T16:24:53+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  This fascinating 8mm home movie shows images from a diplomatic visit to Asia by Czechoslovakian President Antonin Novotny. At the time his official designation was the First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Czechoslovak Communist Party. It's not exactly clear what year these images were captured, but we believe it is almost certainly 1963 as he is known to have visited Cambodia and North Vietnam in January of that year. Apparently in North Vietnam he met with Hồ Chí Minh. (Note: we do not know who shot the film, but whoever they were was probably in the entourage of the President, and might have been a Western journalist as the film originated from an American collection.) 
  
  The film begins with shots taken from a moving vehicle, followed at 0:23 with the state welcome of Novotny by President Sukarno, who is seen at his side. (Sukarno was the first president of Indonesia and served from 1949 until 1967.)  At 0:42, Sukarno and Novotny get into a car together. The scene shifts to another location at 1:04, with a convoy of cars in the Presidential motorcade shown; the motorcade includes Jeeps and what appears to be a Buick Special Sedan, Model 41. At 1:20, a banner welcomes Novotny to Indonesia. After a lot of POV driving shots, the film shows groups of performers in traditional dress parading past camera. 
  
  Website: https://PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit https://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
you you you you you you you you you