---
video_title: "1920s / 30s TRIP TO GLACIER NATIONAL PARK   HORSEBACK RIDE TO PIEGAN PASS, ICEBERG LAKE  CS10175"
video_id: GijRIj5xZcM
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GijRIj5xZcM
video_date: 2026-05-19T19:29:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films on Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Website: www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Dating to the late 1920s or early 1930s, this silent home movie shows a guided horseback trip made by Eastern tourists in Glacier National Park, Montana. At :26 it shows a trip to Iceberg Lake made on horseback. At :52, the Many Glaciers Hotel at Lake McDermott. At 2:02, images of Iceberg Lake, at 2:31 the Moraine on the Glacier. At 3:19, shot of cowboy guide Chet Nixon. At 3:33, a trip over Piegan Pass took all day. At 4:16, Melvin Petersen is mentioned as a guide. At 5:05, Petersen shows off on a horse, standing on the saddle, and showing how he can lie down across the saddle to go to sleep. At 5:46, a shelter where the group stopped to sleep. At 5:56, the top of the Piegan Pass, 7200 feet. At 6:34, "Winter Sports in Summer", include body surfing on the snow. At 7:57, another group of tourists on horseback are shown in the pass. At 8:19, Going to the Sun Mountain and St. Mary's Lake. At 8:36, passing Virginia Falls. At 9:37, a chipmunk poses for the camera, at 10:23 the porch of the Going to the Sun Chalet. At 11;48, an automobile is used to ferry the tourists back to Glacier Park Hotel.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
can story Ieu I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough. I'm going to make a little bit of the dough.