---
video_title: "1950s AMATEUR FILM  VOYAGER BOY SCOUT TRAINING AT WISCONSIN NATIONAL CANOE BASE (SILENT)  XD97325a"
video_id: exTXRSgCzg0
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=exTXRSgCzg0
video_date: 2026-04-18T19:29:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films! Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  Shot in the late 1940s or early 1950s, this silent, amateur produced movie shows the training of Voyageur Scouts.  The Scouts shown are from Region 7 which is Northern Wisconsin, and based on research this is likely the Northern Wisconsin National Canoe Base. This base opened in 1940 and closed in 1983. It was located on the site of a former Civilian Conservation Corps camp on the south end of the east shore of White Sand Lake in northern Wisconsin. The closest town to that site is Boulder Junction, Wisconsin.
  
  
  00:00 Patches and sign for the Canoe Base  
  :35 Scouts pose in front of Region Seven Scout Landing sign
  : Learning the Ropes. Scouts learn to make various kinds of knots with hemp type ropes.
  2:20  Learning basics of canoe paddles. 
  3:32 Basic stroke is practiced without the canoe.
  3:50 The Beach is Buddy Board. Each Scout leaves a stick with his name on it, on the beach, so a count can be made later in the day and see if anyone's missing.
  4:40 Correct launching form for the canoe is demonstrated.
  6:20 How to change positions in the canoe is demonstrated
  6:53 How to land or beach a canoe is demonstrated
  8:00 Technique shown how to right a capsized canoe from another canoe
  9:07 Preparing portage of the canoe is demonstrated
  
  Located near Boulder Jct., Wisconsin on White Sand Lake at an old CCC camp, the canoe base had about 43 years of good service to youth.  Dwindling numbers of Scouts brought on its demise. The primary program was wilderness canoe trips, through the lakes and rivers of northern Wisconsin and the southern edge of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. The base provided training, outfitting, and guiding for these trips as well as sleeping and meal facilities for groups of 6-12 crew members, including an adult leader, as they prepared to start or end canoe trips. They also provided transportation to and from starting and ending points. Training included an intensive Voyageur course for the youth leader of a group during the week prior to the group's trip. Additional programs for Scouts included whitewater trips on the lower Flambeau Flowage, swimming at the White Sand Lake beach, informal sandlot football and softball games between staff members and Scouts at the base, and winter camping in the cabins left by the CCC.
  
  
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction.
  
  If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you