---
video_title: "\" TESTING TIRES \"  1950s UNITED STATES RUBBER CO.    US ROYAL MASTER TIRE PROMO FILM  SM11055"
video_id: BWIZ8LI_Oxc
channel_name: "PeriscopeFilm"
channel_id: UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BWIZ8LI_Oxc
video_date: 2026-09-03
video_description: |
  Join this channel to get access to perks:
  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCddem5RlB3bQe99wyY49g0g/join
  
  Help us preserve, scan and post more rare and endangered films! Join us on Patreon. Visit https://www.patreon.com/PeriscopeFilm
  Visit our website www.PeriscopeFilm.com
  
  This film, possibly titled "Testing Tires" (1950s) discusses the importance of tire safety, highlighting that tires are critical for steering, stopping, and overall vehicle control. United States Rubber Company introduces the US Royal Master tire, claiming it is the safest and most durable tire ever built. Extensive tests are performed on worn tires, including torture tests with railroad spikes, axe heads, and high-speed trials, demonstrating the tire's invulnerability to blowouts due to its innovative safety crown composed of steel threads cushioned in rubber. The tests reveal that even after the tread is worn down to one-sixteenth of an inch, the tire maintains performance equivalent to its first mile, running cooler and resisting damage. The Royal Master offers improved ride quality, traction, and stopping power, with unique features such as skid prevention, patented curb guards, and increased mileage. The design also incorporates modern aesthetics, promising safety, durability, and comfort at minimal yearly costs. This tire represents a significant advancement in automotive safety technology.
  
  00:00: Tires play a critical role in vehicle safety, as they are responsible for turning and stopping the car. A few square inches of tire surface can be crucial for safety. 0:41-1:00: The United States Rubber Company introduces the US Royal Master, a tire described as the safest and most durable ever built, capable of withstanding extreme tests. 1:14-2:17: Extensive torture tests, including spikes and axe heads, demonstrate the Royal Master's invulnerability. The safety crown, made of steel threads cushioned in rubber, provides blowout protection and a smooth ride. 2:20-3:02: Comparative testing shows that while ordinary tires fail under stress, the Royal Master remains unaffected, even with minimal tread left, showcasing its strength and innovation. 3:46-4:17: High-speed tests prove the Royal Master's durability, maintaining performance equivalent to new tires even after extensive wear. 5:04-7:12: Laboratory tests highlight the Royal Master's ability to resist heat and distortion that typically destroy ordinary tires, ensuring safety at high speeds. 7:25-8:22: The Royal Master offers unmatched ride quality, traction, and stopping power, with exclusive features like skid prevention and patented curb guards for sidewall protection. 8:33-9:06: Its design prevents skids, ensures secure handling, and offers modern aesthetics with lasting beauty, making it safe and reliable for years. 9:19-10:15: The Royal Master provides 40% more mileage, making it cost-effective while delivering safety, comfort, and performance as part of the new Safety Age.
  
  Motion picture films don't last forever; many have already been lost or destroyed. For almost two decades, we've worked to collect, scan and preserve the world as it was captured on 35mm, 16mm and 8mm movies -- including home movies, industrial films, and other non-fiction. If you have endangered films you'd like to have scanned, or wish to donate celluloid to Periscope Film so that we can share them with the world, we'd love to hear from you. Contact us via the weblink below.
  
  This film is part of the Periscope Film LLC archive, one of the largest historic military, transportation, and aviation stock footage collections in the USA. Entirely film backed, this material is available for licensing in 24p HD, 2k and 4k. For more information visit http://www.PeriscopeFilm.com
---
[Music]

A car is only as safe as its tires. Although power steering turns your wheels, it's your tires that turn your car. Although power brakes stop your wheels, it's your tires that stop your car. Not all of your tires, either. just a few vital square inches on which your very life may depend. You can't

blame the tires for this or can you? Is there any such thing as positive protection against blowouts? Yes, today there is. For today we enter a new age. United States Rubber Company proudly presents

The beautiful new safety age US Royal Master. The safest tire ever built. The tire that defies comparison with any tire you've ever known. The tire that defies destruction. This is the tire we could not kill. And we

tried. And just to make it tougher, we didn't use new tires, but took a set that had been really worn down. Just a 16th of an inch of rubber left. And we began with the ordinary torture test. Railroad spikes.

[Music] Still not enough. Now axe [Music] heads. How is it possible for a tire to stand such torture? How was it made possible? After 60 years of safety engineering, United States Rubber Company developed an entirely new concept of blowout safety. A safety crown of steel threads

almost as fine as human hair, is cushioned in soft, flexible rubber to give the smoothest of rides. This safety crown is invulnerable to any known road hazard and is positively blowoutp proof. Compare the inner construction of an ordinary tubeless tire and a US Royal Master. A spike that would murder an ordinary tire leaves the Royal Master unharmed. Obviously, the ordinary torture tests couldn't begin to prove the strength of this great new US royal master. US engineers had to devise

completely new and much tougher test procedures like

[Music]

this. But let's try again in slow motion.

and the ordinary tire. Well, just what you'd expect. Next, the new concept of high-speed testing. Remember, torture has ground this tire's tread down to 116th of an inch, the equivalent of 50,000 mi of normal driving. Although 90% of tire failure occurs in the last 10% of tread wear, a Royal Master's last mile is as good as its first.

[Applause] [Music] 100 mph on a tire that should already be dead. Not an ordinary 100 mph, but 100 miles in an hour, every hour, hour after hour. And when it's finally over, this US Royal Master is still ready for thousands of miles more. Why? Let's go back to the laboratory for the answer.

This is a super speed test wheel. This is an ordinary tire. Watch.

Centrifugal force is building up heat and distortion that will literally tear this tire to pieces.

Dynamite couldn't have done it better. Let's watch that explosion again in slow motion.

[Music] But now let's watch our US royal master under exactly the same [Music] conditions. This US Royal Master rolls on. tread anchored in the safety crown that keeps distortion waves from forming. Running 30° cooler than the ordinary tire. The Safety Age US Royal Master. The tire that couldn't be

killed. But what about ride, traction, stopping power? On Safety Age US Royal Masters, you ride a magic carpet of relaxed steel that floats the bumps away, giving you the softest of rides. All this safety and comfort, plus stopping power when you need it. Exclusive Royal Master Tread. Thousands

of gripping fingers claw through the slippery road film that makes ordinary tires skid. Stopping power when you need it. Sharp biting edges emerge instantly at the touch of your brakes to give you stopping power when you need it. And traction when you need it, too. With traction like this, all your horsepower is ready to leap into action in an emergency to get you out of [Music] danger. With ordinary tires, your

high-powered car can get away from you. But royal masters hold the road. Bank every turn you make. The difference between an incident and an accident. Here's why.

The seven basic tread ribs become thousands of gripping surfaces. Stop skids before they start. There's color styling, a streak of glamour on the go. Royal Master's beauty is permanent, too. Among its many features, the patented curb guard safeguards the beauty of your tires, prevents dangerous sidewall damage. No

more worry when you scrape the curb with new Royal Masters. But when ordinary tires hit the curb, no protection. You have complete security against driving hazards. Safety and protection measured in years instead of miles. at least 40% more mileage. So

much more mileage that all this extra safety and comfort costs you only pennies per year. Skidproof tread, straight line stop, the fastest stopping tires in history. Fast no spin getaway. Safety with the smoothest of rides. And available to you here and now. The Safety Age US Royal Master. The

safest tire ever built.