---
video_title: "¡GROK 4 lo da TODO GRATIS y está a punto de cambiar la IA! 🚀🔥"
video_id: Zh7crPbnvZU
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zh7crPbnvZU
video_date: 2025-08-25T17:00:44+00:00
video_description: |
  💥 Elon Musk lo ha vuelto a hacer…
  Ha lanzado GROK 4, la nueva inteligencia artificial que promete revolucionar la forma en la que trabajamos, aprendemos y creamos.
  
  En este vídeo te enseño qué es, cómo usarlo y por qué puede convertirse en una de las herramientas más potentes de 2025.
  Lo mejor: es totalmente GRATIS y casi nadie la está aprovechando todavía.
  
  ⏩ No dejes pasar esta oportunidad y descubre todo el potencial de GROK 4.
  
  ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: 💼 optimizacion.empresas@gmail.com
  
  🔔 Suscríbete y activa la campanita para no perderte más vídeos sobre Inteligencia Artificial.
  
  🔗 Enlaces:
  Grok: https://grok.com/
  
  🔗 Prompts utilizados: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdoDZKFJ5EpunSr-9BemXBQXb9IGfZN2M-0bGrNIWvBKkTYUg/viewform?usp=header
  
  👇 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:40 Caso Crear una App
  04:40 Caso Archivos 
  06:05 Caso Programar Tareas
  07:05 Caso Proyectos
  08:53 Reflexión
  
  #grok #grok4 #elonmusk #ia
---
Elon Musk doesn't just want to compete in the world of artificial intelligence; he wants to change the rules of the game, and with Grock, his AI model, he's achieving just that. What until recently seemed exclusive to large companies or the most expensive plans is now within everyone's reach. And I'm not talking about simple answers to questions, but about tools that can help you create, automate, and transform your daily life. In this video, I'm going to show you real-life use cases with Grock that you probably didn't know existed and that you can start testing today. I'll link all the prongs used in the description. Let's get started. Let's start by testing his Grock 4 model and

ask him to create an application for us. To do this, the first thing we have to do here, where it says "auto," is to change it and select "expert," since with this we're forcing him to use Grock 4's reasoning mode. And we pass him the following prong. It's a long prompt that I'll leave in the description in case you want to copy and paste. The goal is that I'm asking you to create an application for me so I can track my monthly expenses.

In the application, we'll be able to set a monthly or weekly limit and say, "This week I have a maximum spending limit of €100. When I'm 80% done, let me know that I 'm getting close to my weekly limit." It's a very useful application that we can use in our daily lives, and we'll run it. Right now, the model would be reasoning out the most important points it needs to create said application. In just 3 minutes, we'd have our application created. Simply by clicking on preview here, this would be the

application. The weekly budget is €200, and the monthly budget is €800. This can be modified and the budget saved. Add an expense. Here we have the option to write or speak. A series of filters. We have a summary section, the list of expenses, which can be

edited. Views by category, the graph looks a bit irregular, and we can transfer this to CSV and copy the weekly summary. From the preview within the app, it doesn't let me speak because if I click speak, I get the microphone paused message below. What have I done to fix this? I went to my desktop, opened a notepad, pasted the HTML code that was created, clicked file, save, type app1.html, HTML. I click save

to desktop. Once I've saved it here, we open it, and it's exactly the same. But now if we click speak, if the browser recognizes the microphone. And what we're going to do is select allow €12 for gas. And we click add. And down here, it correctly shows

€12 for transportation and gas. Since the weekly limit is €200, we're going to tell it a clothing price that exceeds that weekly budget so that the alert pops up. We select allow €180 for clothing and click add. And here I get the alert in red showing that the weekly total is now €247. If, for example, we delete expenses until it's exactly €200, and here it's already yellow, it means we're on alert for reaching our weekly limit. If we copy

the weekly summary here and paste it into a notepad, this would be what appears. A total of €192, which, if we compare it with the one above, is correct: zero in the supermarket, €12 in transportation, and €180 in others, which was the clothing issue here. Finally, if we export CSV, our expense .csv file would be there. Let's open it. We have €12 in transportation, which is

gas, and €180 in clothing. Tell me what you think of this app. Although it looks a bit silly, it can be very helpful in everyday life. If, for example, we have this app on our phone, since it's local, it doesn't need to be connected to a database or anything. Simply by opening it every time we go shopping, whether it's at the supermarket, a €2 breakfast, then gas, or all our expenses, so to speak, we have a more exhaustive control of what we spend weekly and monthly, and you're going to use this app. Another feature we have here at Grock is the files section.

Here we can upload a PDF file, whether it's a manual, a series of instructions, or content from a syllabus we need, such as for police or firefighter exams, or college exams. If we click "Add File" here and upload files, I just uploaded a PDF file about marketing trends and artificial intelligence in 2025. Once the file is uploaded, we can ask it anything related to the file. Here, always remember to select the expert option and ask it, "What are the trends in 2025?" It explains that it's coming in 2025, and in a matter of seconds, we'll have the answer.

It details the key marketing and sales trends in 2025, according to the document it has compiled. What are the trends? For example, once we've read the entire topic, we can ask it, "Can you generate a multiple-choice test from that PDF in a visually interactive HTML5?" And if we click run, we'd have the EA Marketing Trend T-Type Exam in 2025, and we could select each question. What do you think about having a file assistant where we can pass in any file we want and ask questions based on that PDF file, so we don't have to search for anything at all? Another

feature Grock has here is the tasks section. We also have it in CH GPT, but it's paid. Here we can schedule up to two tasks for free. If we go to tasks and click add a new task, we can choose the frequency at which we want the task to be scheduled. In my case, I'm going to choose daily and set the time to 6 p.m. every day.

We send it the following: highlight the most important economic news in the world for today only. And we click create task. The task would be scheduled in a matter of seconds. And if we want to run the test mode, we click here, and in a matter of seconds we'd have a summary of the most important economic news. Here are the expectations for the Federal Reserve minutes , the anomaly in Spanish public debt, stable inflation in the Eurozone and Japan, and the fuel price update in the European Union. And what task are you

going to schedule? Another of the new features available to Grock is the project section . If we click on project here, we can click add and go to instructions. And we send it the following. I'll also include that in the description.

You are a digital marketing expert at my company, which is a potato chip company. Any ideas you share should be shared with me in a single HTML file. We click save and send it the following: Create a page for a new launch of Manchego cheese-flavored chips. The goal of this is to have an entire team of people, be it a marketing expert, an SEO expert, or a programming expert, available for you absolutely free and available 24/7. If we click send, in a matter of seconds we would have a design for the new launch of Manchego cheese-flavored chips. We can attach our brand image to this,

that is, a PDF in which we provide the colors used on our website, so the result is much more refined. In the end, since what I just sent you is generic, you have no concept of associated brand colors and have chosen this orange with this white. Here we have a unique flavor section inspired by Manchego cheese from Castilla la Mancha— natural ingredients, a crunchy texture, and premium quality—and a "try it" button. Now, if we send you an image to create this new package of chips, all without having the associated brand image, in a matter of seconds, as you can see, we already have the two images you created for us. The one I like the most is this one for premium Manchego, but the package design is quite good, and you're going to use it for your business. Reflection: what's most surprising about Grock 4 is not only

that it's free, but what it represents. Until recently, the most powerful AI models seemed like a luxury: paying a subscription to access higher limits, better answers, or even Extra features. With Grock 4, that barrier is beginning to disappear. This means that artificial intelligence is ceasing to be a privilege and becoming a tool accessible to everyone. And when the most advanced technology reaches everyone, it doesn't just change the way we work; it changes the way we think and create. And this has been one of

Grock's most surprising use cases. But the interesting thing is that this is just the beginning. New features and ways to leverage this tool are appearing every week. Now I want to know your opinion. Which of the use cases did you find most impressive or useful? What would you like me to try in the next videos? Leave it in the comments because

I'll be reading and answering them all. And if you're interested in artificial intelligence, subscribe to my channel and hit the bell. This is just the beginning, and the best is yet to come.