---
video_title: "Adiós VEO 3 … Estas 4 IAs GRATIS crean vídeos con AUDIO y SIN CENSURA"
video_id: WXoLjqyaF3Q
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WXoLjqyaF3Q
video_date: 2025-11-10T18:00:45+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScuV3jcVfK26p7GjI2IxFBeRijiCusIju-EFDnPh5mt0_sipw/viewform?usp=sharing&ouid=117813617178051035877
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  ¿Sabías que ya existen inteligencias artificiales capaces de crear vídeos completos con voz, movimiento y calidad cinematográfica… sin que grabes ni un solo segundo? 🎬
  
  Google, Meta, Grok y hasta TikTok están lanzando modelos de IA que están cambiando por completo la forma de crear contenido.
  
  Y lo mejor de todo: puedes usarlas gratis y sin saber programar.
  
  En este vídeo te enseño las 4 IAs más potentes del momento para generar vídeos con audio real y resultados profesionales:
  
  🎥 VEO 3.1 (Google) – la evolución que lleva la generación de vídeo al siguiente nivel.
  🧠 Meta AI – crea escenas completas con solo texto y controla cada detalle.
  ⚡ Grok Video – convierte imágenes e ideas en animaciones fluidas.
  🎭 Symphony (TikTok) – genera avatares, voces y vídeos listos para redes.
  
  
  🚀 SUSCRÍBETE y activa la campanita si quieres más tutoriales reales, herramientas nuevas y automatizaciones con IA.
  
  Cada semana te enseño cómo aplicar la inteligencia artificial de forma práctica para crear, escalar y monetizar tus ideas.
  
  🔗 Enlaces: 
  👉 Google Flow: https://labs.google/fx/es/tools/flow
  👉 Meta AI: https://www.meta.ai/media
  👉 Grok: https://grok.com/imagine
  👉Symphony: https://ads.tiktok.com/creative/creativestudio/create?isTTOauth=true
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:46 Google Veo 3.1
  04:41 Grok
  06:18 Meta AI
  08:06 Symphony
  11:18 Reflexión
  
  #InteligenciaArtificial #VEO3 #IA #VideosConIA #JoseAngelAI #GoogleAIStudio #MetaAI #GrokVideo #TikTokSymphony #AIVideoGenerator
---
Did you know that there are already artificial intelligence tools capable of generating entire videos without you recording a single second? What once seemed impossible—creating scenes, characters, and movement based solely on context—is now a reality. But here's the problem: most people have no idea which models actually work and are missing the opportunity to stay ahead of the curve. In this video, I'm going to show you the four most powerful artificial intelligence tools currently available, from the Google BO3.1 model to Meta, and even tools capable of creating hyper-realistic avatars and videos entirely from images or prompts. You'll understand

which one to use depending on your specific needs. Let's get started. The first tool we 'll discuss is Google BO3.1. We can finally access it through the Flow tool, which I'll link to in the description below. And we can use this video generator

. It's true that we have a credit limit; we have a total of 180 credits, and with this, we could create up to nine videos per month using Google's BO3.1 tool, which is currently the most powerful video generator. If we go to the new project and select the option to convert from text to video, and check the box here, as we can see, we can choose the format we want: horizontal or vertical, and the 3.1 Fast model.

It's also available in the 3.1 Quality option. If we leave the default 3.1 fast and send it the following promo, which I'll also include in the description below, a talking cat in a sage's robe sitting on a floating rock in space, saying: "I thought humans ruled creation until I met José Ángel Al," and then we hit send, we'd have the result here. I thought humans ruled creation until I met José Ángel Al. Absolutely amazing. And now I'm going to show you the novelty of

this new function: if we click the edit button here and select the hand, we can tell it the following: Make it hold a sardine with its hand and hit send. This will simply create a new video, modifying only the exact part we select. It only modified the part I asked for, and here it is holding the sardine. They ruled creation until I met José Ángel Al. Hopefully, in the not-too-distant future, when there's more competition in the video generation sector... Videos,

put tools like this completely free. We just saw how to transform text into a video. Now let's move on to how to transform an image into a video from a marketing perspective. If we go here to video ingredients, we can add three elements. In my case, we're going to click on generate an image. We're going to add a blonde model. We already have the model here

. It generates three different options. And in my case, we're going to stick with the first one and click download. We would upload the photo of the item we want to promote. In my case, I've uploaded a mug with my profile icon, and we send our model the following promo. Have the model appear promoting this mug and end up drinking from

it after saying the following phrase: "If you drink from this mug like I do, you will have the wisdom of José Ángel." And we click create. And we already have the result here. If we click play, if you drink from this mug like I do, you will have the wisdom of José Ángel.

I find it incredible that simply by combining different elements we can create an ad completely free and in a matter of seconds that We can implement this on our social media if we have a business or need to promote something. The conclusion I draw from this aspect of BO3 is the ability to edit specific parts of the generated video, as we saw in the example of the cat with the sardine. Although I've already mentioned that we can only generate nine videos per month with one account, if we have 10 Google accounts, we can generate 90 videos per month. That's the only little trick to having more monthly video generation. And what do you think of this evolution from BO3.1?

In which we can edit specific parts of the video it generates. I'll read your comments. The next video generation application we're going to look at is Grock. Here, if we go to its Imagine section, we see that we can animate different photos by default, that is, convert them into videos. In my case, we're going to combine a photo. Once I have the combined photo, it will automatically

generate it as a video. I just sent it a photo of Doraemon, and this is the result. There's even a button to download the video, and it also includes a background melody like the one playing now. Important details to note: as we can see, the giant, that is, the orange character, is getting down from the pipes and starting to walk on the grass, which looks quite realistic and well done. And the rest of the characters seem to be walking on the grass as well. Tell me, what do you think of this video generation?

I've just selected another image, and we're going to apply the three different video modes we can create: normal mode, fun mode, and spicy mode. If we click " generate normal mode," here's the result of the three generated modules.

The next tool we'll look at is the Meta tool. If we go to its left menu and click the "create" button, we can create both images and videos. In my case, we're going to create the following video. We'll pass it the promo, which I'll also include in the description below. It creates a dog fishing with a fishing rod in the middle of a lake, making it as realistic as possible. We click "create," and here are the

four different variations it created. First, we have this one, which looks more like a dog from a video game. Second, we have this one. The fishing rod is visible, and it doesn't look realistic because it jerks on its own, but the image itself looks quite realistic. Third, we have this one of a German Shepherd. It looks like it's grabbing the rod with its mouth, but it doesn't

quite grasp it. And finally, we have this result showing a Labrador fishing. This one looks even more realistic, and one of Meta's standout features is the ability to extend the animation. If you click this button, the current animation is about 5 seconds long, but once you click "extend," the duration increases to 9 seconds. Negative points I see with Meta are that it doesn't apply background sound, like Grock, nor can it generate a voice, like Google BO3. If we play the extended version now,

it lasts 9 seconds, a bit longer, and the sun even shines on the dog's face. Personally , I think it's another AI-generative video tool that works, but it doesn't work as well as Grock. Which do you prefer? Grock or Meta? Let me know in the comments. The

next tool we're going to look at is Symphony, which is from the same company as TikTok. Let's begin. How do you transform an image into a video? If we click here— I'll also leave the link to this page below in the description—and click "Find inspiration," we'll see the pre-selected designs. If we upload an image of our product, in my case, I'm going to upload one of the mug with my cone, we'll already have the pre-selected designs here. If we select this one

and click "Generate," we'll have the video generated. If we click the download button here, this is the video it generated. As you can see, it's a moving image of what our mug would look like. Here, if we select "Motion presets," there are already some pre-selected effects, such as product rotation, zoom in, zoom out, and camera rotation. Let's swipe left and click "Generate."

And here we have our generated video. If we click "Play," it applies the zoom effect to the left that we selected, without losing any quality in the image we uploaded. We can also choose the video's duration. It gives us the option of 5 or 10 seconds. Finally, if you click the "Convert Text to Image" button here, we'll send you the following promo, which I'll also leave in the description below. Create a kangaroo

Training with weights in a gym. It even gives us the option to improve our profile, and we click " improve." And there we have our generated profile. Now we click "generate video," and there we have our kangaroo. It's actually quite good, respecting the movement of the dumbbells, and in a gym that could be the one in our city. And we can

add a voiceover, add music, and even apply lip movements to match what it's saying. Where I truly find the potential in this application is in creating our own avatars. And for that, we're going to go back to generating image to video. We're going to upload a photo of ourselves; in this case, I've uploaded a thumbnail of myself, and I'm editing it so that it accepts the TikTok format. Once I have it and click "confirm," we're going to apply a background. In my case, I'm going to

apply this blue background, and in the motion settings, we're going to select "model pose" and send the next profile. Have the model speak and wave, then click "generate." And there you have it, the result. I just set it to 5 seconds, since at 10 seconds it takes quite a while to generate. It does give me teeth like a captor.

It fulfills its function of creating our own avatar and respects my instruction to show the hands. Let me know what you think about being able to create our own avatar this way. I'll leave my comments. If this video has been helpful, please click the "hype" button, subscribe, and turn on notifications so you don't miss the next AI updates. And remember this: in this new digital age, it's not just about watching AI-generated videos, but about understanding that you can be the one creating them.