---
video_title: "La IA China que CREA TODO en SEGUNDOS"
video_id: ALTTMJsV3r0
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ALTTMJsV3r0
video_date: 2025-09-08T17:00:13+00:00
video_description: |
  ¿Imaginas una inteligencia artificial capaz de crear marcas, logos, páginas web, aplicaciones y hasta vídeos completos en segundos? 🚀
  Hoy te muestro RoboNeo, la nueva IA de origen chino que está dando mucho que hablar. Con ella podrás:
  
  ✅ Crear marcas desde cero (con nombre, logo e identidad visual).
  ✅ Integrar tus productos en modelos realistas con un solo prompt.
  ✅ Diseñar páginas web completas en cuestión de segundos.
  ✅ Generar imágenes y vídeos creativos de forma automática.
  
  En este vídeo verás ejemplos prácticos y reales que te demostrarán hasta dónde puede llegar esta IA.
  
  ⚡ ¿Crees que estas IAs reemplazarán a diseñadores, programadores y creadores de contenido? Déjamelo en los comentarios.
  
  ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: 💼 optimizacion.empresas@gmail.com
  
  🔗 Enlaces:
  👉 RoboNeo: https://www.roboneo.com/home
  👉 Prompts: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfAo_g-FTKBuUapWCoyWojtuWT_NFLqI-3ux7zUT0OYDwNHVw/viewform?usp=sharing&ouid=117813617178051035877
  
  🔔 Suscríbete y activa la campanita para no perderte las próximas novedades sobre inteligencia artificial.
  
  👇 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:40 Caso Crear una Marca
  02:26 Caso Integrar tus productos en modelos realistas
  03:25 Caso Crear vídeo Publicitario de nuestro Producto
  04:55 Caso Crear Páginas Web
  06:40 Caso Crear una App
  08:42 Caso Crear imágenes y vídeos creativos
  10:02 Reflexión
  
  #roboneo #ia #alibaba #iachina
---
You know that feeling of having a video or image that's impossible to create with 100,000 tools? Well, imagine having all that done with just one, and for free. That's Roboneo, a Chinese-born artificial intelligence creature launched with the backing of Alibaba. In just a few sentences, it generates images and videos, adjusts your photos, defines brands, and can even create a website for you. I've been testing it for two weeks, and it does things I've never seen before. You can't imagine what's

coming. So, if you want to see how powerful Roboneo is, let's get started. Once inside the Roboneo interface, which I'll link to below in the description, let's create a backpack brand. What's the goal? To promote our product. In my case, I'm going to send the

following prompt: Create a brand of futuristic urban backpacks. You can apply this to any product you sell, whether it's, for example, a clothing brand, whatever you need. Hit send, and it asks me a series of questions. What's the brand name? What industry does your brand belong to? Do you have a favorite color or style for the brand? And what logo do I want?

And we'll answer the following: I want the brand to be called Josebach, which belongs to the textile industry. The colors are blue and lilac. And create both logos for me. And we'll click send. And here we'll have everything you just created for us. First, we have the

logo design with the name, respecting the colors I mentioned, both blue and lilac. Then we have the text-only logo, as well as the color palette you used in case we're going to create a website in line with our brand and our colors in the future. You've also designed the typography we should use based on a number of aspects. And here we have the four images that these images generated for us. If we click on them , we can edit them, but the most interesting thing would be to download them. So, let's

download them. Once we have a base for our brand, the next step is to design a mockup with models using our backpacks. We'll send the following: Create a mockup with models using these backpacks in schools, companies, and parks, and hit send. And we'll have what they generated, the three models we requested. Here, it clearly indicates that the first model is a school setting. It shows a student walking down a modern hallway, and this would be the first image

they generated. If we continue forward, we have an office environment, which, as you can see here, the details, in which our name is embedded on the backpack, and the backpack and the photo itself seem quite realistic. And the last setting is in a park, where they created two different models for me. I'm not sure what the first photo corresponds to, or which park this person saw because parks tend to be more on the right, but it fulfills its promise of highlighting the product, which is our backpack. We're going to go one step further and send him the next one soon. I'll leave all the prompts below

in the description so you can copy them. The goal of the next PROM is to generate a promotional video of the models wearing our backpack. Previously, we would have needed a large team of designers, and today, in just three sentences, we've created a brand of models wearing our object, which is the case of the backpacks, and a promotional video for said object. The truth is, the progress we're making is crazy. I'm already generating the script for the promotional video, and he asks me if there are any improvements. I told him to try it, I don't know

if he'll do it, and I told him to use the script template in Spanish. And here we have the results of the videos he created for us. First, we have this one, which, if you press play, shows a person walking with our rather futuristic backpack. The second is this one, which shows three different designs with some pretty dynamic and cool perspectives. And the last one shows different designs again, even on the back of the backpack, that is, Where we carry our back, what would it look like? As we can see in this rose, it shows what

the back would look like. Tell me what you think about being able to create your product from scratch, and even develop promotional videos, all completely free. Once we've done what we have, we'll now move on to creating our website in accordance with our brand colors and what reflects our backpack brand. And we'll send you the next one soon, which I 'll leave below in the description. We have to attach the two images I downloaded earlier, which would be the backpack and the colors the brand would use, and we click send.

First, what it does is analyze the images I sent it with the goal of extracting the color palette and what the brand itself encompasses. It also gathers information on the internet about the design of similar sites that have already been successful, so to speak, and right now it would be generating the React code for the website. After about 10 minutes, we would have our website up and running. As you can see, it says here, "I generated a realistic, high-quality backpack mockup to display in the product section, which are the ones generated for us here. If we scroll down a little further, we have to update the product section to show the backpack mockup. And here it says that

I was going to refine the color palette a bit to make the website perfect. And here we would have the website. If we preview it, this is the page that was created for us in a matter of 10 minutes, respecting the color palettes of our store. Here it tells us the free shipping, lifetime warranty, 30-day returns, the theme of the professional travel backpack, tech traveler, urban explorer, different categories of backpacks, an about us section, and a contact us section. It works quite well and simply. Tell me what you think of

the website that was created for us in a matter of 10 minutes. Let's see how it behaves if we ask it to create an app for us. It's an exercise routine with tables. preloaded, quite simple. And we hit send. We would have the application created. It tells us the

following. I have successfully created the exercise routine application with preloaded tables. The application includes an exercise category organized with custom icons, detailed routine tables, a built-in timer with interval settings, comprehensive process tracking, a clean and modern interface optimized for use during training, and the design is responsive and intuitive. If we click here on the HTML preview, this would be the great application in Chinese that has been created for us. Of course, we click on translate to Spanish and we would have it here.

Sorry for the joke. Here we would have the progress of the week. 1 2 3. Well, the days have defined it like this. Upper body strength. If we click here and it tells us

upper body strength, arm curl. If we click here, I understand that it will be a countdown for me to do a curl during this time. Here in settings, you can adjust the time in seconds and the rest times. The next exercise would be a dumbbell curl and the next a press down Triceps. Let's let this time expire to see how the progress progresses. It would have already

ended and it tells us to rest. If we close this and go now to cardiopulmonary training, it tells us a leg lift, burpees, and mountain run. And the same, we have the time to start and we can again edit the rest time and the duration of the exercise. This is designed more than anything for a mobile application, and the newly arrived achievement system completed the first workout: perseverance and full-body stretch, shoulder stretch, leg stretch, and back stretch. Tell me what you think of this very complex application that just created for us in just 5 minutes.

Let's put it to the test now to see how it performs with image generation, and we'll send it the following: Create an image of a robot drinking coffee on a terrace in Paris and hit send. And here we would have the images it generated. We see four different ones. Let's go. Let's zoom in a little bit here. A first one, which honestly, of all the ones there is, is the one I like the most

, as it shows the croissant and the torrifel in the background. Well, they all show the torrifel . And these would be the four images it generated for us. And now we're going to ask it the following: Make a video of the robot lifting the coffee cup, and we'll indicate the first image and hit send. I'll leave all the prompts below in the description, as I mentioned at the beginning of the video. And here we'd have the video created in just a minute. It's incredible

that it doesn't lose any detail. It's true that the duration is 5 seconds or less, but we can ask it for countless different scenes with the same robot, and we can even generate a video as long as we want. But look at the level of detail, how it saves the coffee cup. It's incredible; I'm honestly surprised. And are you as surprised as I am with the result of transforming an image into motion without losing any detail?

Reflection. This isn't rocket science anymore. Having an AI help you create ads, apps, and images without any design knowledge, just playing with phrases on the screen. It's like having a 247-hour creative assistant for you, and on top of that, it's free . It's a complete game-changer. Close your eyes for a moment and imagine: would you use this to

launch your store, promote your products, or just have fun creating without limits? Tell me in the comments. I want to know what you're going to create first with Roboneo.