---
video_title: "Google lanzó una IA autónoma y nadie habla de esto 🤯"
video_id: WbGqH4oKM18
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WbGqH4oKM18
video_date: 2025-07-28
video_description: |
  👉 https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-Y_kDqB3oz8Zj0oc9xjqEPxjiPtwggb2YhPq5mAAH0o/edit?usp=sharing
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  ¿Te imaginas una inteligencia artificial que puedas controlar desde tu ordenador como si fuera un agente secreto?
  
  Google acaba de lanzar Google CLI, una herramienta que lleva Gemini 2.5 Pro bajo el capó y que puedes usar desde el terminal, ¡totalmente gratis!
  
  En este vídeo te enseño:
  ✅ Qué es Google CLI y por qué es tan potente
  ✅ Cómo instalarlo paso a paso
  ✅ Casos reales donde lo pongo a prueba: desde leer archivos hasta crear una app
  
  Todo explicado de forma sencilla, aunque no seas programador.
  
  💡 Esto no es un chatbot, es una IA autónoma. Y lo mejor: aún casi nadie la está usando.
  
  
  🔗 Enlaces:
  👉https://nodejs.org/es/download
  
  📺 No olvides suscribirte para no perderte la próxima revolución de la IA.
  
  👇 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:55 Instalar Gemini CLI
  02:04 Caso Búsqueda en Página Web
  02:38 Caso Auditoría de Página Web
  04:30 Como Crear Asistente Personalizado  
  05:34 Caso Reorganizar Carpetas
  06:24 Caso Crear Chatbot
  07:27 Caso Crear Dashboard de Ventas
  08:15 Reflexión
---
What if I told you that Google just launched an artificial intelligence that not only thinks, but also acts for you. And the best part is, it's totally free? Google has done it again. It's just released Gemini Celei, its first open-source artificial intelligence agent, which you can control from your computer and that doesn't require any cards, payments, or tricks. When I heard this, I thought it was only for programmers, but after testing it thoroughly, I realized it's made for everyone. In this video, I'm going to show you how to install it,

what makes it so special, and how it can automate tasks, create applications, or analyze files with an ease that will surprise you. And yes, it's not just another chatbot; it's a real agent that executes actions for you from the terminal or even from Visual Studio Code. And if you've ever dreamed of having a digital assistant like in the movies, stick around because this is real and is already in your hands. Let's get started. First, let's start with the installation. We have to access this

page, which I'll leave the link in the description, and we'll click net nodejs. Once we've selected our operating system, which in my case is Windows, we'll click "I want to download the installer here." Once we've downloaded the installer, all we have to do is click Next, Next, Next. Once we've installed it, we have to press Windows + R and type CMD and click OK. We can also open it here using the Windows icon and type Terminal, which is exactly the same.

And here we send the following command, which is this one, and press Enter. I'll leave that command in the description below. Once it's downloaded and installed, we just have to type Gemini and it'll be installed. Here, very importantly, we have to select the theme we want. In my case, I'm going to choose this theme. Here we have to select Login with

Google to register with our Google username. We'll press Enter, allow access , and it tells us that we now have authorization to access your account. The first case we're going to test is to search a web page for a series of things I need, such as the phone number and email address of the following website. We'll press Enter. We confirm. And in a matter of seconds, it tells us the phone number would be such and such and the email address would be

such and such. With this, we would have an agent that would execute the task for us; that is, we would pass it the URL of a web page and ask it to extract the information we need without us having to navigate through said web page. Tell me what you think of this practical case. We've already seen that it navigates a web page quite well and quite quickly. Now we're going to ask it something more complex related to the same web page and we'll send it the following: Review the content of said web page. Evaluate whether it is clear, useful, and

persuasive for visitors. Analyze the tone, spelling, structure, and whether it is geared toward a defined target audience. Suggest writing improvements or more effective approaches and we'll press Enter. We confirm that it's the website and in a matter of seconds we would have the analysis. On the one hand, we have the detailed analysis, which addresses topics such as clarity and usefulness.

Clarity: the message is very clear. Persuasion: the content is informative, but could be much more persuasive. The tone is professional in terms of spelling and style. The spelling and extracted text are error-free. The style is descriptive and direct. The website

simultaneously addresses two very different audiences: the end consumer and businesses. Suggestions for improvement would be to show, not just tell, but to humanize the tradition. Tell a micro-story. We are a family business with 50 years of history. Suggestion: Our history begins in 1971.

Strategic focus improvements. Segment the audience. Clearer calls to action. User guide for the next step. At the end, it leaves you with a summary, as is the case with the website. It has an excellent foundation by refining the language to make it more sensorial and, above all,

by clearly separating the communication so that consumers and professionals have a powerful connection. Marketing and sales tool. A while ago, we needed to hire someone to audit our website to see how we could improve it. And with this, today we can do it for free and it doesn't require anyone to help us. Let me know in the comments if you're going to use this prompt for your company. Another very important point we have within

the Gemini CLI tool would be this creatgemeni.md point, which is a custom file. This file is similar to the GPTs within GPT chat or the gems within the Gemini tool itself. And here we'll pass it the following prompt. Create a gemini.md file on my

desktop, which always responds by my name, José Ángel, and in Spanish . Another similar prompt idea you can send would be this one I'm sharing here. If, for example, we want to create a GPT that's an expert in website optimization, as is the case we saw in the previous case study, the task is an in-depth analysis of the website. I'll also leave this video prompt and run the prompt. We say yes, and our gemini.md file would be created on the desktop. Here we would have our

gemini.md file. If we open a new terminal and type Gemini, we ask it what the weather will be like tonight in Seville. It starts by saying "Hello José Ángel" and completely in Spanish. Let's now ask it to reorganize a folder I have on my computer and we'll send it the following prompt.

I have a folder on my desktop called "Jose" that contains different files. Organize it by creating folders for each file type. If you see an MP4 file, create a folder called "video," and so on for the rest of the formats. The folder would be this one, containing a doc file, a jpg file, a PDF file, and an mp file. And we'll run the prompt, and it would be finished.

It had a problem with the PDF that wouldn't let it create the folder. If we open the folder again, we would have documents, images, and videos. If we access the document, it's inserted the PDF here, which would be quite correct. In Images, we have the image, in Videos, we have the video, but here the PDF is a bit stuck, but oh well, it's not bad at all. Now let's create a chatbot-type application, where the user can ask for a restaurant recommendation.

The chatbot must use or simulate an API like Google Play and respond with the restaurant name, type of food, rating, address, and a map link. The modern BCD interface with chat bubbles, and we'll run it to see the application it creates for us. In a matter of seconds, we'll have the chatbot. Here it tells us, I've created the HTML file chatbot.html on your desktop. Open it

with your browser to test it, and we'll send it the following: I want to eat tapas in Madrid, and it recommends Casa Labra, a traditional tapas restaurant specializing in cod. The address and a link to Google Maps. And indeed, Casa Labra is here with a rating of 4.4, and it does correspond to what it sent us. In a matter of seconds, we can create a chatbot or any application we need, such as a financial application for weight loss or bulking up. What do you think about having a

customized application on our desktop in a matter of seconds? We have a sales file for a store that sells supplements. We're going to ask it to generate an interactive dashboard from said CSV sales file . The dashboard must be modern and in Spanish. We'll click run.

In a matter of minutes, we'll have the dashboard on our desktop. We go to the desktop and open it. And here it is. Supplement sales dashboard. Here are the sales by category. As you can see, dynamic. Sales by payment method, with the top sales being credit card,

PayPal, and bank transfers. If we scroll down a little further, we have the top five best-selling products, such as multivitamins, and monthly sales. As you can see, dynamic. Tell me what you think about being able to generate an executive chart in a matter of seconds. What you just saw is not just another AI assistant, it's the beginning A new era in which we can automate tasks, accelerate projects, and free up time without paying a single euro. Gemini CLI represents what's to come: agents who not only respond

but also solve real-life cases from your own computer. Now it's your turn. Tell me in the comments what use case you'd like to try with your Gemini CLI. And if you want more videos like this, subscribe and hit the bell so you don't miss what's coming next, because this is just the beginning.