---
video_title: "Así está cambiando Google cómo estudias (y no lo sabías)"
video_id: HHAMAVUlR-0
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HHAMAVUlR-0
video_date: 2025-09-15T17:00:32+00:00
video_description: |
  ¿Quieres estudiar más rápido, preparar tus oposiciones con ventaja o enseñar de forma más clara?
  En este vídeo te muestro las 5 nuevas funciones de Google Notebook LM que están revolucionando la forma en que estudiantes y profesores trabajan con la información.
  
  Con estas novedades podrás:
  ✅ Generar podcasts interactivos y hasta interrumpirlos para hacer preguntas en tiempo real.
  ✅ Resumir documentos extensos en segundos y obtener solo lo más importante.
  ✅ Crear cuestionarios  a partir de tus apuntes.
  ✅ Generar vídeos resúmenes en español (¡por fin disponible en nuestro idioma!).
  ✅ Organizar cronologías, mapas conceptuales en un clic.
  
  Todo esto pensado para que aproveches tu tiempo al máximo y conviertas tu estudio o enseñanza en algo mucho más ágil y efectivo.
  
  ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: 💼optimizacion.empresas@gmail.com
  
  🔔 Suscríbete y activa la campanita para no perderte más vídeos sobre Inteligencia Artificial.
  
  🔗 Enlaces:
  NotebookLM: https://notebooklm.google.com/
  
  💡 Si eres estudiante, profesor o simplemente alguien curioso que quiere aprovechar la IA de Google para aprender mejor, este vídeo te va a encantar.
  
  ✍️ Déjame en comentarios: ¿Qué función de Notebook LM te parece más útil para ti?
  
  👇 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:54 Función Resumen de audio
  07:14 Función Resumen de Vídeo
  08:56 Función Mapa Conceptual
  09:27 Función Informes
  11:46 Función Interactuar en Podcast
  13:25 Función Compartir Cuadernos
  13:56 Reflexión
---
Notebook LM has just launched five new features that make it a super creative assistant. In this video, I'll show you step-by-step how to use them and how you can get the most out of them starting today. From podcasts that you can pause and ask your questions to generating videos, summaries in Spanish, and timelines in just one click—straightforward, straightforward, and useful. Before we start, if you haven't tried it yet, I'll leave the link in the Notebook LM description. Connect your documents and start experimenting. By the way, if you're not familiar with it yet, Notebook LM is

a Google research assistant powered by Gemini using its Gemini 2.5 Flat version. It lets you upload PDFs, websites, and even YouTube videos. It's becoming a true Swiss Army knife of productivity. Once inside Notebook LM, click on "Create a Notebook," and then it tells you to upload any font you want. In my case, I'm going to upload,

as you can see here, this 60-page PDF that talks about your money and your financial future, a guide to saving. We can upload the PDF of the topic we're going to take if we're a student. We have a history exam, and the PDF is 20 pages long. So, we upload that PDF and click "Upload Source" here. Once I have the source uploaded, the notebook will automatically update on the topic. If we need to add more PDFs or add a YouTube video

, simply by clicking "Add Source" here. We can upload a Google Drive document, a Google presentation, or a link to a website to tell them, "Hey, I have the content I'm interested in here. I'll send you the URL, and you don't have to download any PDFs, just like you would with a YouTube video." There's also the option to upload your video, but if we already have one, if our video is on YouTube, simply by passing the URL here on YouTube, it will extract it. Once the source we're going to use is selected, here are the new features they've introduced, such as the audio summary. This was certainly present in the previous version; before,

it only allowed English, but now it has more options. If we click on audio summary here and tap the pencil, it first gives us four different podcast options. One would be detailed information, in which a lively conversation between two people wants to share between two presenters who analyze and connect the topic. It will always be based on the documentation you have attached. Let's start with detailed information. Here in

languages, as I mentioned before, it only allowed English, but now we have more than 80 languages. In my case, I'm going to select Spanish. And I always recommend leaving the duration at the default setting, since our goal is to learn. I'd leave the short duration more for the brief. And what else does it offer? A box in which we can add a summary. If, for

example, our topic is savings, as is our case, we can tell them to focus primarily on the savings aspect, in my case, for young people. If you're an adult, say, "I want you to focus the savings aspect on a parent, depending on your situation. In my case, I'm going to leave it as is, unedited." And we'll click generate. We'll now have the audio with detailed information. If we click play, welcome

to this post, we'll see that it lasts 30 minutes. Historically, they calculate around 3% annually, more or less. This must be taken into account, no matter what. And as we can see, it's a conversation between two people discussing the PDF we've attached. I would use this for an exam. I would attach the

PDF of the topic I'm taking the exam on, tell them to generate this detailed information, this audio, and before the exam, while I'm on public transport, or the day before, or the week before, I would listen to the podcast. Because in the end, whether you like it or not, after studying and having this extra help from listening to an audio, it seems that the information will stick with you more. And do you find this interesting for studying? The next type of audio summary we can generate would be this brief one, which, as it says, is a brief summary that serves to that you quickly grasp the main ideas of your source. Once we've selected the language and the desired length, we click "Generate." The result will already be here.

If we click "Play," we'll see a summary. This summary would be 1 minute and 15 seconds long, unlike the previous one, which lasted half an hour. That's why I recommend using the other one for an exam. Why? Because it's a more complete summary of the PDF we provide. This one, so to speak,

is a very quick review of the content. I'm going to play it for a few seconds. It's designed to help you plan for your future, especially retirement. And be careful, with a focus on the Hispanic community, which faces challenges such as lower Social Security benefits. I would use this as a kind of trailer to understand a little about what the PDF is about. The third type of audio we can generate would be a critique, which is an expert review

of your sources with constructive comments to help improve your material. Again, we select our language and the desired length. I recommend leaving it as default and clicking "generate." And we'll have the generated audio here. If we click "play," for example, you mention the average age, 32, that's fine, but how does a young Hispanic worker in the US experience that reality? Of course, what does that imply? It's a slightly more critical version than

the previous ones. Finally, we have the debate, in which a thoughtful debate between two presenters sheds light on different perspectives from your sources. We'll click "generate ." And we'll have the result here, and it lasts 7 minutes. Today, we're going to analyze the guides on your money and economic future, and business plans. Urgency

isn't an opinion; it's pure financial mathematics. Yes, but financial mathematics also says they paid 18. As we can see, it has more of a television debate tone, and we would close the audio generation section here . I would use the brief mode to generate a brief introduction about what the PDF will be about. Then, if I want to study, I would take the issue of detailed information and the predetermined or longest duration very seriously . Why? Because in the end, I'll

understand the content of the PDF much better, and if I have time left before my exam, I might recommend a critical and debate-based version that generates other perspectives, because in the end, we have different points of view on the same topic, so when it comes to an exam, it does n't matter how the question is phrased, we'll know how to answer it. Tell me what you think about this audio generation. Another new feature is this video summary section. It 's true that it already existed, but it was only in English. If we click on the pencil here, we see that we can select more than 80 different languages. In my case, we'll leave Spanish.

It also has a small box in which we can adjust what we need from said video. If we want a generic video of the PDF, simply clicking "generate" right now would no longer generate it. But if we want to focus on how a young person can save for retirement, there's going to be more emphasis on what we've attached here in this editable table, which we'll click on "generate." We'd already have the video summary here. If we hit play and put it in full screen, today we're going to dive right into a guide. Come on, let's get down to business. We'll start with the first point, the savings challenge. Because

of course, before starting to build, you have to know the lay of the land, right? Look at the gap: only 34% of Hispanic workers. It's a video based on fairly interactive slides, which includes images, graphics, and everything in a Spanish language. And the video is six minutes long. Tell me, what do you think about being able to generate these types of videos in a matter of minutes? On the one hand, we have the issue of podcast generation, and on the other

hand, we have just seen that we can generate summary videos from said PDF, which means that all the things are coming together so that it is easier for us to acquire knowledge about a topic. specific section. Another of this tool's powerful features is the mind map section. If you click on "generate," the generated conceptual map would be this one. It 's quite interactive, and we can tap the arrow. For example, inflation. If we click on it,

it has an increased cost of living of an average of three per year. Reduce costs. We have coupons, offers, buying insurance. And we can't download this in case we want to print it for even better clarity. If we click on "download" here, it would download in a PNG.

If we now go to the reports section, what's new is the chronology section. If we click on "chronology," this would be created as a fairly executive and compact summary of the entire PDF content, ordered mainly by date. List of personalities, institutes, and organizations ordered by date. As you can see, this summary doesn't take up more than two pages , and it's actually quite good, so if we have to give a very long PDF presentation, we can use the timeline to get a basic idea of ​​what the PDF will cover. And the report section doesn't end there either.

If we now click on the study guide button, this is what it generates: a detailed study guide with a questionnaire, essay questions, and a glossary based on the provided material. I actually skimmed through it, and it's quite good and compact. A cost-saving guide, an overview of the material, key topics and fundamental concepts, worksheets, and here we have the short Q&A questionnaire. What's the purpose? To self-assess. That is, we can answer these 10 questions

the AI ​​asks us and then compare them with the answer. We have associated answer keys for the questionnaire and essay questions, followed by a glossary of key terms, such as assets, which are annuities, balance sheets, etc. What do you think about this study guide, in which I create a questionnaire, the answer key, and a glossary? Honestly, I'm amazed at how this is progressing for students. Why?

Because with this, we have a very powerful tool that helps us generate concept maps, summaries, podcasts, video summaries, and now study guides. It really never ceases to amaze. Now let's test how they generate the summaries. If we click on the summary, which I also just skimmed, it's quite good and doesn't delete parts that I consider important within the PDF. And this would be the summary, which we also can't download. And the latest new feature that surprised me the most was this one.

We can click on "Generate Audio" here, select detailed information, and select English, since what I'm going to show you isn't yet available in Spanish. If we select the English version and click "Generate," we'd have the detailed information generated in English. What's the purpose? As you can see, the interactive mode icon of a little hand appears here . And you'll say, "What's this for?" so we can ask

the person speaking on the podcast a question we have. In my case, I'm going to do it even though I don't speak much English. I've prepared a little cheat sheet here, and I'm going to say it that way. Let's now select interactive mode. What is compound interest?

[Music] It honestly leaves me speechless. First, because I don't know how well I understood my English, and second , because we might have a question and have to ask someone, "Hey, look, you're explaining this section and I don't really know what it is, and you can answer us based on the document we gave you. It's like having a tutor and we can interrupt them many times without them complaining, and above all, they can answer our questions." Honestly, this is what I liked the most. It's true that I'm waiting for it to arrive in Spanish because I don't know a word in English. And you know more English than I do? The last feature that

What they've introduced is the ability to share our notebooks. That is, here on the share button, we can copy the link and pass it on to a coworker, a friend, or anyone else, about the summaries or audio files we've generated so they can play them without having to upload the PDF. Simply click on "generate" here. Since you've already generated it, you share it and that's it, as if you were sharing a Spotify playlist. Reflection. The interesting thing about all this is not only that Notebook LM

helps you study faster, but it also allows you to better understand what you're learning. For teachers, it's a way to innovate in teaching, and for students, it's a way to transform their study time into something much more productive. Now I'd love to hear your opinion. How do you think this tool can help you the most? As a student or as a teacher? Leave it in

the comments because I want to hear what you think. And if you liked this video, subscribe and activate the bell so you don't miss the next AI news. Because in education, just like in life, true change begins when we dare to learn differently.