---
video_title: "De una FOTO a un VÍDEO con IA 🎥 | Nano Banana lo hace posible"
video_id: LCHBbTmJLVY
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LCHBbTmJLVY
video_date: 2025-09-22T17:00:25+00:00
video_description: |
  ¿Te imaginas poder transformar una simple imagen en un vídeo animado en cuestión de segundos? 🤯  
  Con Google Nano Banana 🍌🚀 esto ya es posible: edita imágenes, bórrales lo que quieras, crea animaciones fluidas e incluso genera vídeos completos en segundos gracias a la inteligencia artificial.  
  
  En este video te enseño casos reales de uso:  
  ✅ Modificaciones rápidas en imágenes  
  ✅ Animaciones desde cero  
  ✅ Vídeos publicitarios profesionales  
  ✅ Animación de gráficos de barras y datos  
  ✅ Explicación de procesos paso a paso  
  
  Una herramienta gratuita que puede multiplicar tu productividad y creatividad.  
  
  ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: 💼optimizacion.empresas@gmail.com
  
  🔔 Suscríbete y activa la campanita para no perderte más vídeos sobre Inteligencia Artificial.
  
  👉 Prompts: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfPJ_jBjcFYWuokz6qIVQlQnSn-a4ZalxJjQ6FW3KFcqlmKuA/viewform?usp=dialog
  
  🔗 Enlaces:
  Gemini: https://gemini.google.com/app?hl=es-ES
  Google AI Stuio: https://aistudio.google.com/prompts/new_chat
  Dreamina IA: https://dreamina.capcut.com/ai-tool/home/
  
  ✍️ Déjame en comentarios: ¿cómo la usarías tú?  
  
  👇 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:47 Modificaciones Rápidas en imágenes 
  02:50 Crear Animaciones desde cero
  05:13 Crear Vídeos publicitarios
  08:18 Crear Animación de gráficos de barras
  09:45 Crear Animación de procesos
  11:29 Reflexión
  
  #GoogleNanoBanana #IA #Tecnología #Productividad
---
Can you imagine being able to take a simple image and transform it into an animated video in a matter of seconds? What until recently seemed like rocket science is now possible thanks to Nano Banana, the Google tool that's revolutionizing the way we create and edit content with artificial intelligence. The most incredible thing isn't just that it generates images. Now you can modify them, delete anything you want, maintain the context, and with that material, you can create ads, animations, or even entire videos with an impressive level of precision. And best of all, you can apply all of this to your daily life, whether studying, teaching, making work presentations, or even creating professional content without spending a single euro. Let's get started. To use Google Nano Banana, we need to access Gemini,

which I'll leave the link for in the description. Select the generate image button, which features a banana. Let's start by making some quick, small edits to an image. Click on plus and then upload file. Once we've uploaded our photo, as you can see, I'm holding a pack of gum. We'll ask it

to replace the pack with a light bulb and hit send. It's removed the box, and above all, what's most surprising about Google Nanobanana is the fact that it doesn't modify the other aspects of the image, unlike other tools that do modify, for example, the face and hands. As we can see here, it's exactly the same, respecting the rest of the image. Let's go a step further and ask it to replace the light bulb with the following: We hit add file and attach a box of Wonka chocolate. It replaces the light bulb with this chocolate bar. And

we hit send. And here we have the great result it generated. It modified our fingers as if we were holding the bar. Above all, what's most valued with Google Nanobanana is the fact that it perfectly respects and integrates the images without modifying the other elements. Let's imagine a little more and ask him to make this boy appear inside Willy Wonka's chocolate factory. This would be the result with the

chocolate factory background. Tell me what you think. Since it didn't turn out entirely realistic with the Willy Wonka factory background , let's ask him to make it look like we were in a city. Change the background to the center of Seville, and this would be the result without specifying too much. The prons are quite simple. I'm in the center of Seville with Willy Wonka's chocolate bar, and

as we can see from the beginning, my face remains unchanged. What do you think about being able to make these small modifications in just two or three sentences? Another tool we can use to use Google Nanobanana is this one from Google Studio, which I'll leave the link to in the description. And we have to select try nanobanana or, if not, select nanobanana here on the right . Once we've selected it, we'll send it the following pron, which I'll also leave below in the description. It generates eight sequential scenes of one of

my characters, Pizzar-style. We'll then be able to make a movie about our character, and we'll attach a photo of ourselves. Ideally, it would be a photo in which we appear full-length and standing, but this is the one I have on hand. And we hit run. We'd now have the eight scenes created. Now, it's simply a matter of downloading the eight images. And here, above

the images, we have a download button. Once we've downloaded all the images, we'll use another tool called Dream Mina. I'll also leave this in the description, and there we have to select the AI ​​video option. Here we should select the first photo generated for us, and as the last frame, we have to select the second photo generated for us. Simply by clicking generate, we would have generated the first result of the combination of scene one and two. The truth is that it's

really cool, and the goal here is, yes, it's true that this tool is paid and has a series of credits. If we have several Google accounts and we generate videos with each one Of these, this 5-second generation can be linked to the generation of scene two with scene 3, then scene 3 with scene four, and so on until reaching eight scenes. Then, in a tool like Cap Cap or any video editor, simply by joining scenes with scenes of these 5 seconds and applying a series of soundtracks and sound effects, we would have impressive videos like this, and this would be the result of combining scene 6 with scene seven. The truth is that the topic of animations and how they change and what AI generates is mind-blowing, and the only thing that has a watermark is here in the lower corner. If we crop the video directly, this watermark wouldn't even be seen, and it's all completely free. And are you going to generate

your animation? Use case three that we're going to look at is key if you're an entrepreneur or a freelancer. We're going to learn how to create advertisements using Google Nanobanana, relying on the previous Dream Mina tool to generate moving images. Let's transform what amounts to an ad for an English academy in a town in Seville into an ad that will be displayed on the screens in Times Square. Let's go back to Google i Studio, select nanobanana, and send them the following message, which I'll leave below in the description. We also attach the flyer with the information about the English academy and

hit run. And here we have the great result he created for us. One very important thing I liked is that here on the screen, on this side, he's placed the Mr. Language company logo, respecting absolutely all the information from the flyer he gathered from that website. He's also added the cars I requested, the people, even people taking a photo of the screen. Based on personal taste, I think it's absolutely perfect.

I don't know if you would change anything about this image. And to generate the sequence, we need the image with nothing on the screen. We run the following: From this image, turn off the LED screen so it doesn't show anything and hit run. And we'd have it here, respecting absolutely everything in the image and the blacked-out screen. We download it, go back to Dream Mina, and click on AI video. As the first frame, we have to select the one with the blacked-out screen

, and as the last frame, we select the one with the blacked-out screen and click run. Here we would have the result. If we play it, we even see this person moving . It's true that this person acts a bit like a ghost now that they're disappearing, and more people appear in the background here, but it's actually quite good. The blacked-out screen appears, and suddenly, boom, it transforms. If we apply a little soundtrack to this

, I searched here on pichav for Time Square sound effects, and the result would be this. What do you think about being able to create ads absolutely free? Because this is true: if we remove the watermark, we would already have a perfectly generated ad. And if we combine several scenes, as I showed you in the previous use case, we can easily have a 20-second ad and be able to charge companies for it. Say, "Hey, look, I offer you the service of creating a personalized ad for you."

Honestly, if I were an English academy in this case and had the opportunity to create this small ad that wouldn't take more than 5 minutes for my company, I would do it perfectly and I would advertise it on Instagram, TikTok, or any other social network. The fourth use case we're going to look at is very useful for work and educational environments. Let's move on from creating a simple, static graphic to a dynamic animation. To do this, we have to go back to Yemini and select Google Nanobanana. Once selected, we send her the following prom, which I'll also leave below in the description, with the aim of creating said bar graph of the evolution of AI in recent years. We hit send and this would be the graph she created for us.

It's quite dynamic and explosive. Now the goal is to ask for said image, but without the graphics, and we have to send her the next one soon. I'll also leave it below. in the description and we'll have it here. Once we have the two images, we have to download it. Once downloaded, we go back to Dream Mina and click on AI video.

As the first frame, we have to show the empty graph, and as the second, the filled graph, and click on generate video. And this would be the result of the graph's evolution. Honestly, it's quite good if we want to present it in a presentation. Visually, it's much more attractive than a simple graph. Even if it were this same graph in a plane, it's not the same as seeing the evolution of the bars on video. And are you going to use this

specific use case in your daily work? I'll read you in the comments. The last practical case we're going to look at is how to create process and step animations, such as what I 'm going to use in this video, that is, the steps I followed to get here. To do this, we're going to send the following prom, which I'll leave below in the description. So to speak, it's a workflow that we can also use for a presentation or even for your YouTube videos or other social media, and we hit send.

We'd then have the result of the workflow here. Here we have case one we created, which would be image changes. Case two, AI animations. Case three, advertising video. Case four, animated graphics. And this case, which would be the process and steps. Now, what we're going to do is

remove all the elements and leave only the arrows. And to do that, we send the following prompt and hit send. We'd then have the image generated, and simply by downloading this one and the previous one, we'd have the first and last frames. We go back to Dream Mina and hit generate video. Once we've selected the first and last frames, we hit generate. We'd then have the result here. If we put it in

a larger format, honestly, it's very visual and very attractive to present for a project or even in this video itself. What used to take us several minutes or even hours in Aster FS, now we have our custom animation created in just two clicks. We get the most out of nanobanana and Dream Mina to transform from a first frame to a final frame, and the result is actually quite good. Reflection: Nanobanana isn't just a technological curiosity; it's a tool that can boost your productivity and creativity at the same time. The question is, how are you going to use it? Do you

really think the work of a graphic designer has been eliminated with this AI, or does it simply help increase the productivity of graphic designers? I'll read your comments. Subscribe and hit the bell so you don't miss anything new, because the best is yet to come.