---
video_title: "¡GOOGLE FUSIONA sus IA! Y el resultado es INSANO 🚀"
video_id: N2uLSST_2pk
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N2uLSST_2pk
video_date: 2025-11-03T18:00:23+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdpv0naNB0mLK7_dH12pdsD2Xf5K5bmwyy8CD25NBRZhv167g/viewform?usp=dialog
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  👉¿Te imaginas crear tu propia aplicación con Inteligencia Artificial… sin escribir una sola línea de código? 😱
  
  Google acaba de actualizar AI Studio, y ahora puedes combinar todas sus IA en una sola app: Gemini, NanoBanana, Veo 3, Google Maps, Flash y muchas más.
  
  En este vídeo te enseño 5 ejemplos reales y prácticos de aplicaciones que puedes construir tú mismo dentro de Google AI Studio paso a paso.
  
  Nada de teoría, solo práctica para que empieces hoy mismo a aplicar la IA de forma útil en tu día a día 💪
  
  Descubre cómo crear apps que generan imágenes, hablan por voz, analizan datos, usan mapas en tiempo real y hasta resumen documentos automáticamente 🤯
  
  💡 Si este vídeo te ha servido, no olvides:
  
  👉 Hypear el vídeo ❤️ (¡me ayuda muchísimo a seguir creando contenido como este!)
  
  👉 Suscribirte y activar la campanita 🔔
  
  👉 Unirte a esta comunidad que está aprendiendo a usar la IA de forma inteligente y práctica
  
  
  📩 ¿Quieres aprender a aplicar la IA en tu trabajo o negocio?
  
  Pronto abriré plazas limitadas para asesorías personalizadas.
  
  Estate atento a la comunidad del canal 👀
  
  🔗 Enlaces: 
  👉 Google AI Studio: https://aistudio.google.com/
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:48 Novedad en Google AI Studio
  01:31 Caso de Uso 1
  05:00 Caso de Uso 2
  09:41 Caso de Uso 3
  13:28 Caso de Uso 4
  16:35 Caso de Uso 5
  18:58 Reflexión
  
  #GoogleAIStudio #Gemini #InteligenciaArtificial #GoogleIA #AI #GoogleGemini #Nanobanana #Veo3 #AIApps #IAGratis #AItools #ProductividadIA #IAparaTodos #ChatGPT #automatización #tutorialIA #GoogleIA2025
---
Can you imagine creating your own AI application without knowing how to program, and completely free? Well, Google has just done something amazing. iStudio has been updated. And now you can combine several AI tools in a single application using only prompts and not a single line of code. This means that in minutes you can create applications that summarize content, analyze documents, generate images, provide voice responses, connect external apps, and even work with real-time information. All within an application created for you. In this video,

I'm going to show you five real-world examples that you can apply starting today, and best of all, as Google has accustomed us, it's completely free. Let's get started. We're already inside Google iStudio with the new interface. We're going to focus on the application building section. If we click this "Build" button here, we see that we can now integrate different types of AI offered by Google into our own applications, such as implementing Google Nanobanana, an image analyzer, Google Maps, or even Gemini AI in our applications. We have a

total of 16 artificial intelligence tools that we can implement within our own application . The first application we're going to create is the following one; I'll leave the prompt below in the description. Once we've passed the prompt, we have to select the Google tools or services that we're going to implement or that we need for this application. In my case, we'll need the Yemini AI, the image analyzer, Google Maps, and finally, the audio transcription tool. Once we've selected the tools we'll need to develop this application and the prompt, we click "Build." These cards that appear here on the right, if we read

a little, offer users the flexibility to adjust the generated itinerary, allowing them to add or remove activities, change the order, or adjust timings. They are generated based on the prompt, that is, the application we requested. Google i Studio generates cards that are recommendations we can implement to further improve and enhance our own application. It asks for permission to access the microphone and location, and we grant it. And there you have it, our app, which we've called Smart Trip.

What's its purpose? This app will solve a need: when we travel, we can take out the app and send it a photo of our location or give it voice directions for the route we'll follow in the city we're visiting. Here we can attach a photo or use voice commands. Let's try the voice mode first. I'm going to be in Seville for a day, and I want it to generate a route to visit the most typical sights. I was thinking of Plaza España, Puerta de Jerez, Las Zas, and also recommend

a place to eat. And there you have it, a one-day itinerary in Seville divided by different time zones. In the morning, architectural beauty and a historical walk, according to the time and the descriptions of the places it recommends visiting. We have the lunch section, where it recommends the tapas passage. It tells us, "The street and the description: the popular restaurant offers an excellent selection of Andalusian dishes in a welcoming atmosphere. It's ideal for trying local cuisine with good value for money.

In the afternoon, it recommends visiting the Mushrooms and also, in free time, a stroll through the city center. And for dinner, the same; it suggests we go to the Alameda de Hércules area and also recommends a restaurant. If we press play, everything I just read will be read aloud. If we now try to attach a photo, we select 'add photo' here. In my case, I'm going to send it this one, which is of Alamillo Park, located in Seville. And we would have exactly the same thing here, a small exploration of the

park in which it recommends restaurants like Kosco and Naranjal, and the activities we can do there." Things to do in the afternoon, and even where we can have dinner, like at Cervecería Alamillo. And here, very importantly, below it links to key places, such as Cervecería Alamillo. If we click, it automatically opens in Google Maps showing the brewery's location. Here's also this application; if we click on "code," we can see the source code, and there's even a button here to download it. The next application we're going

to create is a productivity app, for which we'll send the following promo, which I'll also leave in the description. The goal is to increase the user's personal or professional productivity ; that is, for the user to deliver a clear summary and a list of concrete actions based on the meeting or content, ready to be used in their daily work. We select the audio transcription function, video compression, and Yemini's artificial intelligence, and then click "build." And again, we have a series of cards here that help us improve our application. And there we have the application created. We grant

microphone access and we have different sections, as we can see: a meeting section, a video section, and a content section. If we go to the meeting section, we can press start to begin transcribing the meeting in real time. Today we're going to talk about the S&P 500, how it has performed in recent years, and how it's averaging 8% annually. Young people should really start investing using dollar-cost averaging (DCA), that is, investing a small, fixed amount every month regardless of market value, with the goal of securing their retirement in the future. If we press stop, everything we discussed in the mock meeting has been transcribed, and we have the option to generate summaries and action points.

If we click that, we'll have a summary and action points here. In short, the meeting focused on the S&P 500, highlighting its historical average return of 8% annually. It was proposed as an investment strategy for young people in CA, consisting of investing a fixed amount periodically, for example, monthly, regardless of market fluctuations. The main objective is to build long-term wealth, and the action points involve implementing a personal investment plan using the CA strategy, investing a fixed monthly amount in the S&P 500 with the goal of securing future retirement. On the fly, I thought we could modify this, since if we have our meeting already recorded in MP3 format, we can attach that MP3 audio to our application so it generates the summary and action plan.

We send the following proposal. In the meeting view, add a button to attach an MP3 audio file so that if we already have an audio recording of our meeting, it can transcribe it, generate a summary, and an action plan. And we click send. The modification would then be complete. In my case, I attached an audio file that Notebook LM had previously generated for me, which is this one that summarizes the topic of retirement. I downloaded it in MP3 format.

Right now, I'm transcribing the audio to extract all the information and then generate the summary and action plan. We already have the generated transcript here, and it offers the option to generate summaries and action items. If we click, as you can see, it was quite fast to generate the audio transcript, which is 7 minutes long, as we can see here. And in just a few seconds, we already have our generated summary and action items here. If we move on to the video section, we can select a video, just like I did with the MP3 audio format. Here, we can paste the meeting

we recorded in video format. If we copy the entire audio transcript from the previous step and go to the content section, we can paste the transcript content here, although this doesn't make much sense, since it would generate it in the meeting section anyway. This would be useful if we have a PDF and want to create a summary and action plan; we can extract it, paste it here, and click "generate summaries and action items." And we would have the summary and action items here. The established action points, such as creating an emergency fund, preparing a detailed budget, and utilizing retirement plans. This application is

basically focused on transcribing audio or video recordings from meetings. The goal is that if we have a meeting at our company, with a lawyer, or any other important meeting, we can later transcribe it and generate a summary of the most important points discussed . What did you find interesting about this application, and especially useful for transcribing and summarizing meetings? I'll read your comments. The next application we're going to design is called Nanobrand, with the goal of creating an application to help us promote our products. I'll also leave the promo code below in the description.

The ultimate goal is for the user to upload a photo of their product and receive an edited version, an ad-style animation, and text optimized for social media. The functions we need are photo editing with Nanobanana and the Gemini function, and then we click "Build." In my case, I've attached a photo of a mug with my channel's icon, and we're going to ask it to do the following: Edit this image to make it visually appealing, so it shows a 60-year-old woman drinking coffee from a warm mug in her rustic home with a fireplace in the background. Then we click "edit image." And here's the result. If we right-click, we can save the image, or

we can even modify the application here on the left to say, "Hey, add a download button to the image you generate if that's more convenient for you." And here we have the image of the approximately 60-year-old woman at home drinking coffee from my mug. This works to promote any product we sell in our business, with the goal of not depending on models, image editing, or anything like that. Simply attach a photo of our product and know what we want to convey with it, and we'll get a result like this. I'll give you another example. If we click "delete" here

and then add a photo of an empty gym—let's say we have a gym, a shop, or any kind of business—and say, "Edit this image to make it visually appealing, to show people using these gym machines," and click "edit," we'd have the result here. As we can see, there are people using these gym machines. If we have a business and want to attract people and show that our business is full, with photos like this we can psychologically trick people into coming to our business. I'll give you another example. If we click "delete" and add a photo of cheese and say this simple command: "Edit this image and show a goatherd in his country hut eating this spectacular cheese with sheep in the background," and then click "edit image," the goal is to give more prominence and create a stronger sense of, "Hey, this farmer is eating this cheese made with the sheep in the background." If we zoom in a bit,

we see the cheese, the shepherd, and the sheep in the background. If we click "generate post," we'd already have a title for the post, a short description of the Extremadura cheese, and some hashtags, so we wouldn't have to think about what description to put on the photo or what hashtags to use; it's generated automatically. We also have the video format. Ideally, we would have added the BO3 function, but as you know, BO3 requires an API key, meaning it's a paid service, so we don't have a free option to generate these videos. If we had a BO3 API key, we could connect it here and generate a video from these photos explaining, "Hey, have the shepherd say that this Extremadura cheese is amazing." What do you think about

having a business that could use this branding tool to promote any of its products? This could also be applied to a small clothing store with its own brand. Countless businesses can use this tool. The fourth The application we're going to create also seems very interesting to me, as it could be used daily by anyone. I've called it AI Personal Mentor. Its purpose is to guide the user

toward their personal or professional goals through guided conversations. The ultimate goal is for the user to be able to speak or write their goals, and the app will return a motivating action plan with three concrete steps to achieve each week. I'll include the promo code below in the description. We'll add Gemini's features, the voice generator, audio transcription, and the ability to think more deeply when needed, and then we click "Build." We'll have the application created here. We grant

microphone access, and this is the application. Here we have a " Deep Thinking Mode" button so it can think more deeply when we feel it's necessary. For example, it says, "I want to learn to play the guitar in three months." And we'll ask it the following using voice mode: "I'd like to stop drinking alcohol and also stop smoking." Now we click "Send ," and it will start generating an action plan, which it says may take a few seconds. And

that's it for your weekly action plan. First, decide today. This week, your first and most powerful action is to make a firm, irreversible decision. Reflect deeply on why you want to quit drinking alcohol and smoking. Write these reasons down somewhere visible, for example, a note on the mirror or a reminder on your phone. Second, conquer your habits.

Focus on this week. Instead of thinking "never again," think about this week, right? What you're being given are small goals you can achieve each week, not a final objective. Because the final objective is quite unattainable at first, but if we set small goals, we can eventually achieve it. And point three, strengthen the connection. Seek support

and celebrate yourself. This week, identify at least one person in your circle with whom you can be honest about your challenge and ask them to accompany you on this journey. You can even read aloud . If you click this button, decide today on your unwavering commitment. This week, your first and most powerful action is to make a firm, irreversible decision. If we now press the button for

deep thinking mode, let's hit send to see the difference it makes. And here we see that it changes completely. Step one, your first mission this week is to create a sanctuary for your success. Completely eliminate all alcohol and cigarettes from your home, car , and workplace, and keep something healthy like nuts on hand to replace the urge to smoke. Point two, replace the habit. Don't fight it. Identify the three times of day

when you most crave a drink or a cigarette. And step three, each day you complete without alcohol and tobacco is a huge achievement. At the end of the day, acknowledge your effort and treat yourself to something you enjoy. This deep thinking mode truly changes your perspective completely. Personally, I would always activate it. Before we move on to the next application, I would

really appreciate it if you liked this video if you haven't already, and especially if you subscribed if you haven't already. Having said that, the next app we're going to look at is designed for lazy people, that is, for people like me. This app is called Home Task I, and its goal is to help the user with household chores and home organization. The ultimate goal is for the user to point the camera at the inside of the refrigerator and receive suggested recipes, all with spoken and visual interaction. I'll explain it briefly in the description below. The

elements we need to select are image analysis, AI quick responses, Gemini intelligence, and voice generation, and then we click "build." There we have the app created. We grant it camera access, and as you can see, we could already share our refrigerator with it. Since I'm on my computer right now, I'm not going to take it to the fridge. What I'm going to do is request a small modification for this app and send it the following: Add a button so it can also combine photos of my refrigerator. And I downloaded this photo from the internet.

In it, we see carrots, zucchini, yogurt, and tomatoes, and we're going to run it through. And that's it—we'll have the complete analysis of our refrigerator. This is what I found in your refrigerator and some ideas to get started. It even has a button to read the summary aloud. The recipes: Fresh pasta salad with turkey and vegetables. It lists the ingredients and

steps. Quick tuna and celery sandwich in pita bread with its ingredients and steps. We could even be more specific and modify the app by saying, "Tell me exactly how many grams of each ingredient I need." And an energy smoothie with fruit and yogurt. If we go to the shopping list, it recommends we buy eggs, onions, garlic, and sliced ​​bread. And in the identified items, here are all the items

it saw in the image. If we press the play button in voice mode, okay? I've looked in your refrigerator and I see things like bottled water and whole milk. Are you going to take a picture of your refrigerator? I read your comments. If this video has been helpful and you'd like me to continue

bringing you powerful tools and tutorials on artificial intelligence, I'd really appreciate it if you hit the hype button. It helps me more than you can imagine to keep creating content like this. And if you haven't already, subscribe and turn on notifications. Artificial intelligence isn't slowing down, it's accelerating. And those who learn to create with it, not just use it, will be the ones who lead this new digital era. Yeah.