---
video_title: "🚀 GOOGLE acaba de soltar 6 funciones SECRETAS de Gemini (¡y son GRATIS!)"
video_id: Oe8QEkxaNjg
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oe8QEkxaNjg
video_date: 2025-10-27T18:00:25+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdYuwICxvQGvmXR0sA5Kzwm2P1OAWoi_hDtC4Pm3lCeDdjzHA/viewform?usp=sharing&ouid=117813617178051035877
  
  ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: 💼 optimizacion.empresas@gmail.com
  
  ¿Y si te dijera que Google acaba de lanzar 6 funciones ocultas en Gemini que pueden cambiar por completo tu forma de trabajar con inteligencia artificial?
  
  Desde asistentes que automatizan tus tareas, hasta herramientas que generan imágenes, controlan tu ordenador o editan apps por ti… todo sin pagar ni un euro.
  
  En este vídeo te muestro, paso a paso y con ejemplos reales, cómo aprovechar cada una de estas novedades de Gemini para ahorrar tiempo, ser más productivo y sacarle el máximo partido a la IA.
  
  🔗 Enlaces: 
  Gemini: https://gemini.google.com/app?hl=es-ES
  Stitch: https://stitch.withgoogle.com/
  Google AI Studio: https://aistudio.google.com/
  
  👇 Suscríbete, activa la campanita y no te pierdas lo que se viene, porque esto… acaba de empezar.
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:54 Novedad en Gemini CLI
  04:31 Novedad en Nano Banana
  05:58 Novedad Editar Canvas en Gemini
  07:04 Novedad en Stitch
  08:58 Novedad Modo IA
  10:31 Novedad Agentes IA Google Enterprise
  11:49 Reflexión
  
  #Gemini #GoogleAI #InteligenciaArtificial #Productividad
---
Do you feel like a new artificial intelligence tool comes out every week and you don't even know where to start? Don't worry, it's not that you're late, it's just that the pace of AI is faster than ever. And while everyone is talking about OpenI or Grock, Google has just quietly made its move. Gemini has just launched six new features that can completely change the way you work. From activating Gemini's agent mode and connecting extensions, seeing the image editing improvements implemented by Nanobanana, being able to edit specific parts of an application, or even learning about Google's new AI search engine . And best of all, it's completely free. In this video, you'll discover how to take advantage

of these new features with real-life examples that you can apply starting today. Let's get started. The first new feature that Gemini has implemented is within its AI assistant section, which is called Gemini Celey. As you can see here on the screen, I'm showing you the Gemini CLI installation code. Anyway, I'll leave you a video up here, in which I have a dedicated video talking about how to install, configure, and use cases with Gemini Celey.

If we go to the extensions section, which are the new features it has implemented, here we can connect to different tools, such as GitHub, Google Chrome, Nanobanana, and many more. We're going to install the extension for Google Chrome. If we click this copy button here and open a new terminal, right-click to paste, and hit enter. We confirm by pressing, and it tells us that the installation is complete. Now if we access Gemini CLI by pressing Gemini, once we're in Gemini CLI, we'll select the extensions bar and press enter. And here we'll see that we have the Google Chrome extension

activated. And the installation would be that simple for any type of tool you want to connect with this AI assistant. Now we're going to ask it the following: We're going to tell it to go to the Mercadona website. We allow full access by pressing option three and hitting enter , and it would automatically open the Mercadona page. Once it's opened, let's tell it the following: Enter the postal code for Seville and add the necessary ingredients to make pasta carbonara to the cart, and then hit send. And we'll see how

it gradually adds the ingredients. Now it's finished searching for the eggs and adding them. Now it's adding the bacon, a package, and all that's left is to add the cheese. Absolutely amazing. And with this, we can send it our entire shopping list, and it will add everything to our cart. And as you can see, we'll have the result for the basket,

cheese, bacon, eggs, and macaroni. For the next use case within the Gemini Celei tool, we'll ask it to log in to renew our ID or passport, and we'll send it the following average to renew my Spanish passport. Open it in our browser to book the appointment. We click allow access, and it tells us it had already found the page. If we open the browser here, we can see that it would be open. We're going to put it in parallel and tell it, "From booking an appointment to

the step where I enter my passport number and hit send. It automatically gives in.

And I would have already found the place to enter my ID number. Speechless. And with this, what we gain is not only that it works for us, but that if we need any bureaucratic paperwork that we have no idea on which page to locate it, with this assistant it locates it exactly to the point where we want to go. We can use this to request aid, to apply for a scholarship, to renew the MOT (Technical Inspection of our car), that is, for any type of document. The next new feature that Google has implemented is in the Google Nanobanana section. If we access

Google Live Studio here, which I will leave the link below in the description and select the nanobanana model, this new version, here in aspect ratio we can select what type of format we want it to return. In my case, we're going to select 1699. This is the format used for YouTube thumbnails. We're going to add These two photos, which is one photo mine and a Google icon, and we pass it the following prompt, which I'll leave below in the description. And here we would have the result. We see that I appear with the text I indicated

about six new functions and holding the Google icon, quite electric, and most importantly, respecting the proportions I told you. If we now try to change the aspect ratio and put 21 ninth, this means a panoramic photo, and we send it the following photo of a snake on a log. And the prompt we're going to pass it will be this one. Imagine the environment where this snake is and take a photo further away and hit send. And here we would have the result. The truth is that it looks quite realistic, respecting above all the main image, which was

the shape of the snake and on this same log. And as I was saying, in this case it was created by panoramic. The next new feature we find within Gemini is the canvas section, in which we can do specific sessions. To do this, we're going to create a professional website for an academy that offers advice on how to implement AI in people's lives, whether they're entrepreneurs or not. We select the canvas option, and here we'll have the design of the website that was created for us. And this is where the new function resides.

If we click Select, we can select this text and tell it to change the blue letters to yellow. And then we click Send. And here it would have already made the change. Now we're going to tell it that we want a different type of button, that we don't like this one. It changes the design of this button and tells us, "To give it a more modern look, I'll apply a subtle gradient. I'll increase the font size

so it stands out more and I'll improve the shadow. And if we hover over it, it's true that it looks like a kind of yellow glow. With this, what we save is time and that it doesn't modify things that we don't want to change. Another of the new functions that Google has implemented is within its tool called Stitch, which is used to create the design of web applications or mobile applications. And we are going to ask it the following. Create an app called José Ángel I,

which is based on an app that is used to book appointments for a women's hair salon and that decorates it in a Christmas style and we click on generate designs. I will also leave this link below in the description with the prompt it tells us the screens it is going to create and we tell it yes, to create them all. Here we would have the design of the three screens in which the client would see. The novelty is here, that if we don't like the appearance of a screen, we can Give the option to create variants and we can tell it, change the background from white to Christmas red with typical Christmas tree elements. And we hit send. With the idea

of ​​keeping all the elements, since I like the layout and how I've approached it, but only changing the background. And down here, I would create the different variants, and it has done so based on the initial screen, which is the one we selected. The design that convinces me the most due to the type of red and the font would be the first one. This tool is quite good in that if we want to create an application and we want to send the design to our web designer, simply by sending them a screenshot of this or even clicking here to view code, we could send them the source code of this design that they created. The purpose of this application would be to save us costs and create a design based on our tastes and needs. It's true that we can later discuss this with our web designer

in case they think there's something we could modify, but we already have a base of what we like. Another of the new functions That Google has finally implemented in Spain, since it was currently only available in the United States, is the AI ​​​​search mode. If we access this search engine, which I will leave below in the description, or simply by searching Google, as you can see here on the screen, the mode appears here on the right and we already see an interface similar to Comet's, which I will also leave the video up here, which is the AI ​​​​browser that has been implemented Perplexity. We're going to send you the following. Summarize today's news about finance, gold, Bitcoin, and the SP500, and hit send. We'll then have the result in different blocks. A first

block on finance, a block on gold in which the fall and partial recovery, the weakness of the dollar, the Bitcoin section, and the SP500 section are discussed. And here on the right, we'd have the source where the information was extracted. With this new browser, what Google intends is to implement AI search so that we no longer only get the typical links we see on the right, where we don't know which page to view the news we specifically want. With this, it extracts only what we need, and we don't have to go page by page looking for the real news. This gives us an exact and specific search for what we need. And now, let me know in the comments:

do you plan to implement this search mode in your daily work? Google has also just launched its first artificial intelligence agent focused on work. This requires an Enterprise license, the new business facet of AI. It accesses top-notch Gemmenis models. It grounds agents in the reality of your business. And here,

if we look at marketing resources, it has a very specific case. It instantly analyzes global market trends to stay one step ahead, generates campaign content, and also automates performance reports across all channels to obtain a unified view. If we view the video we have, we see how it connects with the same agent, gives them CEDA permission to wherever they have the resource gallery, such as a jacket, and in which it tells them to create a person based on the resource gallery for that jacket, that is, a model wearing said jacket in the snow, as we can see here on the screen. In other words, we are already creating custom agents and giving them permission to connect to our Google Drive, where we have our product resources, and we ask them to create a marketing campaign of models using those products, be it a jacket, a mug, or whatever . If you want to stay one step ahead and not be left behind in this new wave of AI, subscribe and activate the bell. And get ready because what's coming is unstoppable.