---
video_title: "3 IA Chinas que Occidente NO quiere que VEAS 🚫"
video_id: tdP6N3_dxFo
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tdP6N3_dxFo
video_date: 2025-09-29T17:01:15+00:00
video_description: |
  En este vídeo te muestro 3 inteligencias artificiales chinas que están dando mucho de qué hablar:
  
  ✅Seedream: edición de imágenes precisa, incluso mejor que NanoBanana.
  ✅Ernie x1.1: transforma un PDF en dashboards interactivos.
  ✅ChatZ: crea aplicaciones completas.
  
  🌍 La batalla entre Occidente y China por la IA está más viva que nunca, y en este vídeo lo vas a ver con ejemplos prácticos.
  
  ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: 💼 optimizacion.empresas@gmail.com
  
  👉 Prompts: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfcAOUEe6O_rEX7bV-ESS6yDHqGRcQ5Vr7VF_EPUmtZ7_Cp1A/viewform?usp=dialog
  
  🔗 Enlaces:
  👉 LMArena: https://lmarena.ai/?mode=side-by-side&chat-modality=image
  👉 Ernie: https://ernie.baidu.com/X1
  👉 ChatZ: https://chat.z.ai/
  
  ✍️ ¿Cuál de estas 3 IA’s crees que tendrá más futuro?
  Déjalo en comentarios y no olvides suscribirte para no perderte lo próximo 🚀
  
  👇 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:48 Seedream Edición de imágenes 
  04:17 Ernie x1.1 Crear Dashboard
  07:13 ChatZ Crear App Finanzas Personales
  12:10 ChatZ Crear App Alimentación Saludable
  14:21 Reflexión
  
  #IAChinas #InteligenciaArtificial #ernie #chatz #seedream
---
Until now, when we talk about artificial intelligence, we only think about the United States. Google, Open Eye, Antropic—large companies with multi-million-dollar budgets and products that advance at an incredible speed. But what if I told you that on the other side of the world, in China, artificial intelligences are emerging that not only compete with these companies, but in some cases surpass them? Today I'm going to show you three Chinese tools that are revolutionizing AI: capable of editing images with more precision than Nanobanana, transforming documents into executive dashboards, and even creating entire applications from a simple screenshot . And best of all, you can try them out right now completely free. Want to see how they work?

Let's get started. The first use case we're going to look at is image generation with Sidring, which is currently considered a better model than Google Nanobanana. We need to access LM Arena, which I'll leave the link below in the description of that page. Once we're here, we need to select the second option in Battle. Once selected, we have to click on "Generate Image" here, and automatically the first model that appears on the left is the Nano Banana, and on the right, we have to look for the Cidrin 4 2K. Once selected,

we'll combine two photos. In my case, I've attached one of the Apple icon and another of me holding a red bottle. We'll send the following prom, which I'll leave below in the description. What's the objective? To be able to modify our photo on a personalized resume. That is, if we're going to send a resume to Coca-Cola, we could have our

T-shirt have the Coca-Cola icon here, or we could be holding a Coca-Cola, and so on with any type of company. And we hit "Send." Let's see which of the two models is faster and the result convinces us even more. We start from the basis of this image, in which my shoulder isn't visible here, so you have to imagine what the stripes on the shirt would look like following the orientation. If we look at the result generated by Nano Banana, we see that the stripes have been integrated completely to the end of the shoulder, and it's quite correct. The icon theme is well integrated into the shirt

and I've shown the mug I requested with the white Apple icon. In the background, an office, as if we were in New York with a Mac turned on. Honestly, the photo fulfills everything I asked for. Here, the cider part, I don't know if it was a bit stuck for me specifically, as I had to launch it in another browser, but the same thing happens. As for Nano Banana, it's integrated well again. It's true that the

background isn't of an office; rather, it left my background, as it appears with this pink light that I had on. The shirt may have been done well. The same goes for the cup. He even placed my fingers around the cup, which is quite good, and a Mac in the background. He didn't include the actual office, so I'm more comfortable with the first version of Nano Banana. I don't know if you

agree. Regarding Sidrin's, the downside I see is that he didn't add the icon to my shirt. The upside is that it looks like a pretty realistic office. He's using a Mac in the background, and he's using the black mug I asked for with the white Apple icon. Of all the options he generated, which do you think is best for a resume if we want to use it to work at Apple? If we try a direct chat with Cream 4 now, we can see what potential it

has. To do this, we'll click here again and press direct. We'll send him the same image as before and ask him to change the red bottle to a realistic snake that the guy is holding. And if we click send, we'll have the result, which would be this. He's once again connected the theme of the lines on the shirt very well with my face, and he hasn't changed my expression at all. He put the snake around my neck. It

's true that I wanted it in my hand. After seeing these AI image modifications, which one do you prefer? Nano Banana or Sidrin 4? I'll be in the comments. Now we move on to AI.

from Erni, which I'll leave the link below in the description, in which we'll send him a PDF about inflation in Spain, the evolution it has had and we'll ask him to create a fairly modern executive dashboard for us with a series of improvements that I asked him in the pron, which I'll also leave below in the description. Once we are inside this AI, the Erni 4.5 turbo mode is selected by default, which is the fast mode, but we want the most powerful and deep-thinking mode. And for that we have to select this Earning X1.1. Once selected, we attach the PDF document I told you about here in the MAS.

We send him the prom asking him to create this interactive executive dashboard for us in Spanish in a single HTML. The dashboard must analyze inflation in Spain based on the report that I attached to it. We click send. We would then have the final HTML here and down here it also shows us the key characteristics that have been taken into account when developing said executive dashboard. A futuristic design in dark mode, with the upper area causing an inflationary impact, a trend analysis in the middle, and a critical breakdown in the lower area. To run

this HTML, we have to go to the very beginning and hit copy here. We go to the desktop, hit new, open a text document, and type test dash, adding dot html as the extension. We hit save. Now we open this with Notepad Plus+. Once we have it open, we have to copy the code Erni generated for us and hit control S, that is, save. Once we have it with the code, simply double-clicking it

will give us the dashboard. Violation dashboard in Spain, interactive analysis in dark mode with historical data and comparisons for the eurozone, the general CPI rate, core inflation, and the monthly CPI variable. Here we have a graph of the historical evolution of the CPI, and if we hover over it, elements will open up . It has a series of filters, like here in this case for the last 24 months. We have the breakdown by consumption component. In components, we have energy, services, industrial well-being,

food, and transportation. The largest one is energy, and it appears here as if floating. The truth is that this dashboard, which he generated for us in a matter of five minutes, is quite powerful. This is perfect for an executive presentation, whether at university or at work . And what did you think of this DBAR that Ernie generated for us? Let's now jump

to Chat Z's AI, which I'll also leave the link to in the video description. We'll send him the next one soon, which I'll also leave in the description, so that he can create an application for us to monitor the flow of money into our account. That is, so that we can enter into the application how much money we earn monthly and what we don't spend it on. I also specify the design I want and, above all, that it be responsive for both tablets and mobile devices. We select the full-stack function here and hit send.

We'll now have the application created, and this would be the result. As you can see, it's called, as we've mentioned, Dynamic Balance. If we want to make it bigger, simply by clicking this button here, it would open in a full screen. What stands out about this application is that here in the menu we have Dynamic Balance, data entry, category analysis, and My Goals. If we go to Dynamic Balance, which is this first screen, on this first screen we have a summary showing total income, total expenses, available balance, and recommended investment. Here we have a small

cheese-shaped graph showing the distribution of expenses on housing, food, transportation, entertainment, health, and the investment recommendation. What almost all investors recommend is the 503020 rule: Spend 50% on fixed expenses, 30% on wants, and 20% on investments. And the investment suggestions are emergency funds and long-term investments. If we go here to this data entry section, we can enter the amounts. of money. Well, in my case, we'll hit add. Type, we select that we're going to make a deposit.

Category, our salary, we'll enter a salary of €15,500. The date would be current. The description, "I received my payroll," and we hit add. It's automatically added to the transition history. "I received my payroll of €1,500." We can edit this transition history,

or even delete it. It also offers us the option to export. We now move on to the category analysis, which is the expenses by category. The total expenses are $3.50 and a budget of $2,900 across three categories, a budget usage of the next 5%, that is, higher than recommended. That's why it indicates it in this yellow warning color. Here we have a filter.

We can filter by this month, this quarter, or this year, the format we want the graph to generate , whether bar or pie, the categories for the budget on food, transportation, and entertainment, and all categories, where red means we're not doing exactly right, since we're exceeding the recommended amount. If we go to my goals in goal progress, it shows the goals we have active, such as saving for an emergency fund, a European vacation, and investing in the stock market. Those are the three goals we have active. The goals we have completed, which in this case is getting a new computer. The total savings would be $6,200, an overall progress of 51%, which is pretty good. We can add a new goal called YouTube, with a description of José Ángel, a

goal of $5,000, and that we're currently at $1,500. We can even mark the deadline, as in the case of a couple of months, and we'll set the category to technology and the medium priority. If we click Create, here we would have the goal we created for YouTube. In itself, the application it created for us is quite powerful and quite dynamic. Personally, I wouldn't change anything because it's the color scheme I requested, as I wanted a dark mode and, above all, neon colors to stand out for the video. Another very

important aspect of this AI is the fact that you can download the project. Also, if we click this button here, we can see the code for the different folders it has created. What I highlight most about this is the fact that we can click this Publish button, which generates a URL for the application. If we click Copy URL, we can pass this URL of the application we create to a family member or friend so they can use it. When I saw this feature, I was quite surprised by the fact that anyone around you can use the application you created with it. While I was creating the previous application,

I signed up with another Google account to create a new one. This new app is called Nutrigenius, which will help you generate a meal plan. Once the app has finished generating, it tells me the main features that have been completed. If we view the app on a new page by clicking the "Open in the new tab" button again , this would be the app, your intelligent personal nutritional assistant. I'll also leave the prom I used to generate this app in the description below so you can use it: Personalized, smart, and healthy. If we click next,

we select the gender as male, age 26, height 1.5 meters, and weight 70 kg. If we click next, we'll select "very active" and the type of job, "office job." For the type of diet, we'll say "omnivore." And also very importantly, it asks us if we are allergic to any food.

We won't indicate anything. What is the goal? In my case, we'll say "gain muscle mass." And we click "Start my journey." Right now, I'd be analyzing my profile to create a special diet for me, taking into account all the aspects we've filled out. This

tells us that it's quite customizable for each of you depending on your situation. After waiting a while and clicking here to start my journey, I haven't finished generating it. My eating plan. After this, I could just cut this video and not show you this app. I like to show both the positive and negative aspects. In

this case, when I clicked on it, it didn't generate my plan. I wrote to it again in the chat, since when I clicked on "Start My Trip," it didn't do anything. It was here modifying some parts of the code. It told me it was finished, but it didn't generate it. The same thing happens if I insist and tell it it doesn't generate my plan, it ends up generating it, but it didn't generate it at first. Do you like me to show you both the positive and negative aspects when

something doesn't work out? I'll read you in the comments. After seeing these three artificial intelligences, the conclusion is clear. AI dominance is no longer solely in the hands of the United States. Tools like Sidrin, Ernie, and Chas Z show that China is betting heavily and that its technology is not far behind, but in many cases offers options that exceed what we thought was the limit. What does this mean? Competition is more intense than ever

, and in the end, that only benefits us. More options, more innovation, and best of all, often at no cost. Now, my question is this: Which of the three surprised you the most? Let me know in the comments. And if this video was helpful, subscribe and hit the bell because what's coming in the world of AI is even more incredible.