---
video_title: "Restaurantes pagan esto por fotos de IA con Gemini"
video_id: hUP2kcNwwqs
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hUP2kcNwwqs
video_date: 2025-12-22T18:00:51+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts: https://forms.gle/uu4xmrrM7cbnqHpj9
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  Hoy muchos restaurantes tienen comida increíble…
  pero pierden clientes cada día por algo tan simple como malas fotos.
  
  En este vídeo te muestro cómo ganar 250€ ofreciendo un servicio real a restaurantes, mejorando sus fotos de comida con inteligencia artificial, sin ser fotógrafo ni diseñador.
  
  Aprenderás:
  
  🔵Por qué la imagen es clave para que un restaurante venda más
  🔵Cómo transformar fotos normales en imágenes estilo estrella Michelin   usando IA
  🔵Cómo ofrecer este servicio a restaurantes locales de forma profesional
  🔵Cómo presentarlo como una oportunidad de negocio real y escalable
  
  Por qué este modelo seguirá funcionando en 2026 y más allá
  
  Este no es un vídeo de hype ni de “dinero fácil”.
  Es una idea práctica, aplicable y pensada para generar ingresos a largo plazo usando IA de forma inteligente.
  
  
  Si quieres aprender a usar la inteligencia artificial para crear servicios reales, monetizables y aplicables a negocios, este canal es para ti.
  
  👉 Suscríbete y activa la campanita para no perderte los próximos vídeos.
  
  🔗 Enlaces: 
  👉 Gemini: https://gemini.google.com/app?hl=es-ES
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:39 El método paso a paso
  04:18 Importante
  
  #gemini #gemini3 #nanobananapro  #googleai #ganardinero  #ia
---
There are restaurants with incredible food that are losing customers every day for one simple reason: their photos look like they were taken with an old, poorly lit phone. The most interesting thing is that today, with artificial intelligence, you can fix that in seconds and, most importantly, get paid for it. In this video, I'm going to show you a real service you can offer to local restaurants starting today: how to transform their photos into Michelin-star-level images using AI, how to present this improvement as a professional service, and how to turn it into a revenue stream that works today and will continue to work in 2026. Let's get started. The first thing we need to do is identify our ideal client: a restaurant with great potential that neglects its social media presence, especially on Instagram. Here, I searched for "bar in Brenes," a town near Seville,

and the first result is called Puro Picoteo. If we go to Instagram and find this restaurant's account, we see that it's marketed as a gourmet restaurant, but some photos, like this one, don't quite live up to the "gourmet" label. You can see the floor, and you can see a bit of the shelf down here; it doesn't quite feel like a professional photo. There are others, like this one of the rice with meat, that look quite good and professional, but this particular dish here, which caught my eye, has tremendous potential and could make it appear more premium. Once we've found the first photo, we 'll take a screenshot. After taking the screenshot,

we need to go to Gemini. There, we need to select the " Create Images" tool and the "Reasoning" mode. Remember that we can only edit five photos per day with one account. If we have multiple Google accounts, we can create five photos for each account . Let's combine the following promo, which I'll leave along with all the promos that use the video below in the description. We'll also add the photo we captured.

Once it's uploaded, we click send, and there we have the result. If we compare the image generated by Nanobanana Pro on the left with the original restaurant image on the right, we can see that the one generated by Nanobanana Pro looks much better. The next step is to download the image generated by Nanobanana Pro. Once we have the image open, we have two options. Option one is to crop this image to remove the watermark generated by Yemini, which is the star of the show. Simply click edit and crop it here,

and we'll have the photo. Or, another option, which is the one I use to avoid cropping the images, but is a bit more tedious if you want to do it a bit more professionally, is to open it with Photoshop. The Photoshop I have is a pirated copy and not a paid one. There are several links on YouTube to download Photoshop. If you have Photoshop, the tool I use is this one, which looks like a bandage. I click on it. Here, I make the size a little bigger. I hover

over the star and click, and it simply disappears. It's just a matter of going to File, Export , and then Quick Export as PNG. Once we have the image, we need to offer this service to the restaurant. To do this, we're going to send them the following message, which I'll also leave below in the description. It's a message with the goal of selling our services, but in the first message, especially, don't mention any prices. Once they reply,

I recommend you talk to CH GPT. I just generated this message, which I sent them, and they told me to send a persuasive message, but above all, in a friendly and human tone so it doesn't seem like we're in a rush to sell. That's why we don't include any prices in this first message. Once we've attached the message, all we have to do is click send and the two photos will be combined. We are not selling anything.

It's simply a service; we're selling a need that restaurants have these days. Before going out to eat, the first thing anyone does is check social media, even TikTok, to see reviews and feedback on the restaurant's dishes. You can have an amazing product, offer exquisite dishes, but what matters most is the first impression before going to the place. So, seeing this calamari dish visually grabs your attention and makes you want to go more than seeing the other photo I showed you earlier. And remember, I'm offering this service to restaurants, but you can apply it to physiotherapists, beauty salons—any type of business. As for the price, I think it's

quite reasonable to charge between €5 and €10 per photo. It's up to each business to set their own price for packages; for example, charging €150 for 20 photos. What do you think about offering this service? I'll be reading your comments. If this video has given you an idea you can apply, you'd really help me out by sharing it, subscribing, and turning on notifications so you don't miss any future AI updates.

And remember, my WhatsApp community is completely free and open (link in description below). The difference between a brand and one that sees opportunities where others see problems is that of a brand that stands out.