---
video_title: "Google rompe todo con Gemini 3.0"
video_id: a47eDUAVqU0
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a47eDUAVqU0
video_date: 2025-12-01T18:00:00+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts: https://forms.gle/gPiE545jwL93ogYH7
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  🤯Gemini 3.0 ya está aquí… y Google acaba de cambiarlo TODO.
  
  En este vídeo te enseño todas las nuevas funciones que acaban de llegar a Gemini, NotebookLM, Antigravity y NanoBanana Pro, con ejemplos reales y casos de uso que podrás replicar GRATIS.
  
  Vas a ver cómo funcionan las nuevas capacidades visuales, cómo crear apps avanzadas sin saber programar, cómo generar presentaciones profesionales en segundos, cómo automatizar tareas que antes llevaban horas… y las novedades ocultas que Google no mostró en el evento.
  
  En este vídeo aprenderás:
  
   🔵Las nuevas funciones de Gemini 3.0 Pro
   🔵Lo nuevo de NanoBanana Pro
   🔵Cómo usar Antigravity para crear y organizar proyectos
   🔵Casos de uso prácticos que puedes aplicar HOY
   🔵Ejemplos visuales, productividad y automatización real
  
  Si quieres estar al día del futuro de la IA y aprender a usar estas herramientas para tu trabajo, tus estudios o tu negocio… este vídeo es para ti.
  
  🔗 Enlaces: 
  👉 Gemini: https://gemini.google.com/app?hl=es-ES
  👉 Antigravity: https://antigravity.google/
  👉 Prompts: https://forms.gle/gPiE545jwL93ogYH7
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:49 Antigravity
  04:21 Nano Banana Pro
  09:45 Diseño Visual Gemini 3.0
  14:07 Novedad en NotebookLM
  14:46 Reflexión
  
  #antigravity #gemini #gemini3 #notebooklm #diseñovisual #nanobananatutorial #nanobananapro
---
In technology, something curious happens: sometimes it's not the one who makes the most noise, but the one who makes the right move at the right time. And today, Google has just made some moves, unveiling Gemini 3 Pro. What's surprising isn't its sheer power, but that it has overtaken its biggest competitors, such as OpenEye and Grock, topping the rankings. This is because, along with the new model, it has received updates within Gemini, updates within Notebook LM, and even incorporated NanoBanana Pro and a new development environment called Antigravity. In this video, I'm going to show you the most important thing: how to implement these new features in your daily life, whether for work, study, or managing your projects.

Let's get started. The big new feature that Gemini 3 has brought is the creation of a new ID, a development environment . If you go to this page (I'll leave the link below in the description), click on the download for Windows. Once you have it downloaded, let's run the installer. We access it, run it, and accept the agreement. Next, next,

next, next. Install. The installation is now complete. Now we click Finish, and it will automatically start running. Here, during installation—very important—we can start from scratch or even import projects from Visual Studio Code, since this ID works exactly the same as Visual Studio Code. We click Next. In my case, I won't import

anything from my Visual Studio Code. We select the dark theme. Next. We leave everything selected by default and click Next. Next. And once we've configured it with our

Google account, we'll have this ID here. As you can see, the aesthetics are very similar to Visual Studio Code. And here on the right lies the magic of this new ID, which includes an integrated AI assistant to work on our project or create a project from scratch. In my case, we're going to create the following project from scratch. We now have the application created. He tells us that he has already created our web application for the Brasas restaurant,

the main features of which he mentioned earlier, and that we can see the result in the index.html file in the browser. He also mentions that since we don't have the paid version, he couldn't generate the images correctly, but we can generate them separately in Gemini and simply implement them in our HTML, regardless of our business. If we click "Accept Everything" here, we'll have all the code. Here we have the index.html file

, which, if we open it in the folder he created, shows us this result, missing the images, as he mentioned. The homepage features "The Art of Fire," a premium gastronomic experience with grilled meats. Scrolling down reveals "Our Passion," or "About Us," and then our menu, which has floating elements when you hover over it —quite interesting. There's also the contact and reservation section. We're going to request a change here . We have the name, email, date, time, and number of people. Let's ask it to also

add a field for surnames, and we'll send our artificial intelligence agent the following command: "Add a surname field to the contact form." We click submit, accept all the changes to all the documents it will modify, and it tells us that it will change the index.html, view.js, and punn.js controller. And there we have the change

implemented. If we go to our form and press F5 to refresh and scroll down, the surname field will automatically appear. An artificial intelligence assistant like this one we're seeing is a great improvement and evolution in the field of by-coding. With this, we not only create an application, but we can work on an existing application, requesting modifications without having to touch any code ourselves. What do you think of this artificial intelligence assistant that modifies the code you're working on? It even adds comments so you know exactly what each line means.

I'll read your comments. Another great new feature in Gemini 3.0 is the new Nanobanana Pro, which creates absolutely incredible images. One of Nanobanana Pro's new features is the ability to increase the amount of text in an image and still have it look really good. We access Yemeny. It's important to select the option here in

the image creation tools, choose the reasoning with three pro models, and send it the following promo, which I'll leave in the description. What we want with this is for it to create a whiteboard as if we were in a classroom and explain the topic of how AI is transforming the job market. Then we click send. In just 1 second, we'll have the result here, and we can click "view reasoning" to see the flow of reasoning it followed to generate the image. We see a whiteboard that's perfectly usable and looks like it was written by a human, following a flow of arrows. The topic is AI versus the job market: transformation and adaptation. Highly

susceptible to repetitive, predictable tasks, and structured data, what 's valued now is the combination of human skills and artificial intelligence. In other words, we have a fairly complete map on this whiteboard, and as you can see, there are no errors in the text. With the previous model, we had more spelling mistakes, and it didn't generate it perfectly . Even this type of design, asking it to present an idea on a whiteboard, is quite representative and something we can use in presentations. What do you think about being able to generate such complex designs with so much text using Nano Banana Pro and having them look particularly good? Let me know in the comments. But it doesn't stop at creating a

whiteboard; we can also generate a comic, and for that, we're going to send it the following exercise. I'll also include it in the description below. Create a four-panel comic about how AI will replace the work of accounting fiction writers and then submit it. He explained to me what the four panels would consist of, and then I told him, "Recreate them visually." And here's the result. If you

look at it, I'm overwhelmed: quarterly reports, 300 emails without even reading the presentation for yesterday. I need three lifetimes to finish this. Relax, Paco. The future is here. Our AI Omitac 3000 has already done all your work for the month in 0.4 seconds. Uh, all of it. So, I'm free. Here he

repeated the speech bubble a bit. Finally. Time for creativity to live. The end of office slavery. Faster, Paco. If the processor gets any hotter, it'll dry out the

global servers. Keep fanning it. Paco's new position: AI manual cooling technician and server emotional support. It's actually quite funny. It's pretty good that he generated the four panels and the text perfectly. What I'm getting at is

that a person who dedicates themselves to creating comics doesn't make much sense anymore. Let me explain. With this, if we already have an idea in mind, or we can ask the AI ​​to generate a comic idea, it can then take care of creating the panels, even the speech bubbles, as we see here on the screen. Tell me what you think about this. I'll read your comments. I wanted

to mention beforehand that you should leave your comments. We can generate up to five images per day with Nanobanana Pro. What we can do, as I'm doing in this case, is switch Google accounts and continue generating another five. For the next use case we're going to see with Nanobanana Pro, I think it's quite interesting, especially if you're building a house or if you're an architect. Why? Well,

we give it a floor plan—here I've found a 2D floor plan of a house, specifically a living room— and we ask it to do the following. It creates a realistic representation of how this living room would look from a human perspective, with more attention to detail, respecting the layout of the 2D plan next to it, and then we click send. And there we have the result. We go from a 2D plan to the interior of a house. We see that the sofa is facing the television and to the right, and we see that we have the A table with eight chairs. If we look at the floor plan here, we see that there are three chairs on each side;

we could even add a second one. And here we have the sofa with the television in front of it, and here we have the open space that connects to the kitchen. And indeed, if we look at the floor plan, here we have an open space that connects to the kitchen. It's truly impressive, but we can go a step further and ask them, "Redesign the interior to be minimalist, modern, and with LED lighting in the ceiling." And we hit send. And here we have the change applied;

that is, they've just installed the LED lighting in the ceiling as I requested. I'm going to give you an example of how we can go from this house to telling them that we want a blue sofa. We send them the following: change the sofa to a blue leather one, and we hit send. And here we have the result. We see that they've kept the entire layout and all the existing elements, and they've changed the sofa to a blue leather one. With this, we can send them photos of our own

living room to see which element might look better or worse in our home's decor. How powerful do you think this is for an architect, or even for yourselves, to be able to transform your rooms or houses without having to buy things without knowing if they'll turn out well or not? I 'll read your comments. The next big new feature is found within Yemini. If we go to the tools section, we see a new one: visual design. This will

return the information we request in a more visually appealing way than if it were in plain text format. To discuss this new tool, we're going to test it with three different cases. For the first case, I'm going to send you this promo, which I'll include in the description below. What I need is to understand how a solar panel works to heat a house's water heater. And we click send. And here we have the result. The

solar system uses collectors installed on the roof, the process is explained step by step, the key components of the domestic hot water system, and there's a diagram of a forced circulation installation. And here in this diagram, we see where the sun's rays enter and how they heat the water in the tank. This next use case seems very interesting to me when planning a trip. We're going to send it the following proposal in which I want to take a 10-day trip to Japan and I want it to organize a route of the monuments I consider important to visit. Above all, depending on the day and the monuments I plan to visit, I want it to recommend highly-rated places to eat. Then

we click send. And here we have the visual result. It's true that the image preview isn't quite loading completely, but the application itself is ready. Here we have "Gourmet Japan in 10 Days," and day 1 focuses on traditional Tokyo and the Red Temple. It recommends that we visit this temple, which, if we click "View" on the map, automatically zooms in so we can see its location. And for a place to eat, it recommends this one, which,

if we click "Locate," is practically next door. In other words, here in the little red camera, we have the temple, and the place to eat is practically next door. It has a total of 11,000 reviews and a rating of 4.8 out of 5. If we go to day 2, the location changes completely; day 3, day 5, the bamboo forest. And another place to eat—if we click on its location, it zooms in on the map since it

connects with Google Maps. Day 6 would be Kyoto, day 7 we have Nara, day 8 Osaka, day 9 Osaka Castle, and on day 10 we would return to Tokyo. It also offers a section of travel tips in the upper right corner . It recommends using the 7-day Travel Pass for transportation , which is worthwhile. It also notes that tipping is not customary in restaurants, and many popular places require reservations or have long lines. And the connectivity feature allows you to reserve a pokeWi

-Fi hotspot or Wi-Fi hotspot before arriving. What do you think about planning a trip this way? It is true that we could use it to visit more monuments in a single day. Another use for this dynamic view tool is in the In the section for sending large PDF documents, I'm going to send one on cell biology, but you can send notes from your studies, exam preparation, or anything else you like. We're going to send the following: I need to learn this document quickly and easily . We click the plus sign, upload files, and attach our PDF. Once attached, we

simply click send, and here's the result. We see that we have "Master Cell Biology," an introduction, a key timeline, and section two, which is about the boundary and the plasma membrane. If we click here on "Composition," the elements expand; this on the right is section three and the cell matrix. As you can see, it's all very visual, simplified, and quite easy to learn. Section five, which covers the differentiated energy transformation between plants and mitochondria, and section six, which is the nucleus, where a quick click reveals a short self-assessment.

As you fill in the questions, it tells you the correct and incorrect answers. How powerful do you find this feature for transforming a rather lengthy PDF into something simple and easy to learn? Let me know in the comments. Another new feature I wanted to mention in this video is the three new functions they've added to Notebook LM. But as you can see on the screen, I've tried, but I don't know if this is happening to you, but when I go to the infographics section, it says "currently unavailable, but we're working to make it available again." It's been like this for

two or three days now, and I can't find any information about whether they'll unlock them or if they're only for paid users. That's why I haven't mentioned Notebook LM yet. As soon as it's available, I'll make a video dedicated to these new features. I also wanted to know if you'd like me to dedicate a video solely to discussing and using Antigravity. I read your comments.

Every new tool opens a door, but you decide which door you want to enter. If this video has helped you understand how to use these new Google features, you'd really help me out by liking this video, subscribing, and turning on notifications so you don't miss future videos about new features. And remember, in a world that changes every day, the advantage isn't anticipating the future, but daring to build it.