---
video_title: "Google acaba de soltar GEMINI 3.0 🚀… y es una LOCURA 🤯"
video_id: wA2XDe_A8qE
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wA2XDe_A8qE
video_date: 2025-11-24T18:01:10+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts: https://forms.gle/Q6v7XxrWeiQMfMyS7
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  Google acaba de mover ficha… y fuerte. Gemini 3.0 ya está disponible en Google AI Studio y hoy te enseño casos reales y brutales que puedes usar desde YA en tu día a día, tu trabajo o tu negocio.
  
  En este vídeo vas a ver:
  
  🐱 1. Análisis automático de vídeo
  Le paso a Gemini un vídeo de 13 segundos de un gato y le pido que me diga EXACTAMENTE qué ocurre.
  Multimodal real. Sin trucos. Sin ediciones.
  
  📚 2. Extraer apuntes para estudiar
  Gemini 3.0 es capaz de ver una clase teórica (vídeo o enlace) y transformarla en:
  ✔ apuntes,
  ✔ puntos clave,
  ✔ resumen para examen,
  ✔ y posibles preguntas del profesor.
  Sí: estudiar en 2025 nunca volverá a ser igual.
  
  🎮 3. Crea un mini-juego desde una foto
  Le paso una imagen de Mario Bros y le digo: “Créame un juego para saltar y recoger monedas”.
  Gemini lo genera. Código funcional.
  Esto es elevar la multimodalidad a otro nivel.
  
  📨 4. Un Agente IA que organiza tu email
  Un asistente que:
  ✔ entra en tu bandeja,
  ✔ agrupa todo,
  ✔ te propone acciones claras,
  ✔ y solo ejecuta lo que TÚ valides.
  Productividad real, no teoría.
  
  💼 5. Crear una landing page completa
  Le pido una landing page profesional para promocionar servicios (por ejemplo, del mundo del filmmaking).
  Diseño, estructura, textos, CTA… todo generado en segundos.
  
  Este vídeo NO es una reacción.
  Es una demostración real de lo que Gemini 3.0 puede hacer hoy mismo.
  Y créeme: Google acaba de poner presión al tablero de la IA.
  
  🔥 Si te gusta este contenido, suscríbete y activa la campanita para no perderte lo que viene.
  💬 Déjame en comentarios qué quieres que pruebe con Gemini 3.0 en el siguiente vídeo.
  
  🔗 Enlaces: 
  👉 Gemini: https://gemini.google.com/app?hl=es-ES
  👉 Google AI Studio: https://aistudio.google.com/prompts/new_chat
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:41 Novedad 1 Gemini 3.0
  04:24 Novedad 2 Gemini 3.0
  06:17 Novedad 3 Gemini 3.0
  08:11 Novedad 4 Gemini 3.0
  09:06 Novedad 5 Gemini 3.0
  11:51 Novedad 6 Gemini 3.0
  14:50 Reflexión
  
  #gemini #gemini3 #ia #googleai #googleaistudio
---
Google has just made a move, and not just any move. This latest release is a game-changer. Google has finally released Yemini 3.0. It's the first move in a long time where Google demonstrates once again its control over artificial intelligence, leaving OpenEye and Grock behind. And the best part

is, I'm already testing it. But listen, this video isn't going to be about comparing it to other AI systems. We're going to get straight to what we can do with Yemini 3.0, how to apply it to your projects, your daily life, and above all, how to get the most out of it. Let's begin. The first function we're going to check is how Yemini 3.0 can

analyze videos. If we access the Google Studios platform, which I'll link below in the description, we need to select "Nanobanana" in the menu on the right and then choose "Gemini 3 Pro." Once selected, this new Gemini AI, version 3.0, will start using it. If we scroll down and attach our video to the "Attach Documents" button, the video will be uploaded. If

we play it, you'll see two cats walking across a kitchen counter. We 'll ask it, "What's happening in this video?" I'll also include all the promotional clips I used in this video in the description. Then we click "Submit." And remember, we have 1 million tokens. Analyzing this video only cost 825 tokens.

But as I always say, if you run out of tokens in a day, you can always use another Google account and get more tokens. I hadn't even finished speaking and he was already here. It took him 15 seconds to analyze the video. The video shows a scene in a bright, modern kitchen where two cats are walking on the countertop and stove. The main cat in the foreground is a black and white cat, like a Sedo. I

honestly don't know what breed it is. Walking on a white gas stove, it strolls carefully past a stainless steel pot and then down the wooden surface of the countertop. It stops briefly to sniff nearby. The second cat, in the background on the left , is another cat, orange or brown tabby, walking along the countertop. The kitchen has a rustic style with white subway tiles. And he does indeed analyze

the video in detail. You might be thinking, "Hey, who's going to send a video of a cat for analysis?" It doesn't really make much sense in our daily lives, but if we transform this into something we can actually use, it's quite helpful. If we go to YouTube and I've included a 1 hour and 42 minute course on how to learn English, you already know where I'm going with this, right? If, for example, we're taking a course or want to learn something and we have an explanatory video and what we need is a summary of what the video is about, we do have this tool that does it for us. If we press Ctrl+V and paste the

video link, it only uses 633,000 tokens. And now we ask it the same thing: what's happening in this video and a summary of the most important points. And if we hit send, we'd have the answer right here in just 72 seconds, which is less than a minute and a half. It would have summarized a 1 hour and 42 minute video. Honestly, the change is completely worth it. As we can see in the video, the protagonist is a language learning expert

. He presents a complete English masterclass for beginners. The video is structured around 22 key concepts, and here's a summary. Point number one: pronunciation, basic structures, verbs, how to form questions and negations, the verb "to be," and the verb "to have." It's a fairly compact summary that, as the name suggests, condenses a 1 hour and 42 minute video. And we can apply this to both an English course and a

programming course. Let me know in the comments if you were familiar with this and if you find it practical for everyday use. Another great new feature implemented in Yemen 3.0 is the ability to...

We can send it a photograph and have it transform it into whatever we want. Let's delve a little deeper into this. If we go back to Google Studio and select Gemini 3.0 again, we can send it the following prompt: "Recreate this game for me so I can play it." We send it a picture of Mario Bros. to see if it can recreate the game and then

run it. In just 16 seconds, we get the answer. Naturally, it tells me it can't recreate the entire Super Mario Bros. game. However, it will create a playable and simplified version right now using HTML5 and JavaScript. If we preview the code,

we see the game. To move, we press A to go backward, D to go forward, and W to jump. So, if we pick up a coin, it should add one coin to the top, and it does indeed add 10 coins. I give up because I can't reach the coins up there. Now we're going to give it the chess game, and I'll say the same thing: recreate this game so we can play it. Let's see how long it takes to recreate this game. I smile because it's incredible

that in just 23 seconds we already have the game developed. Oh, and here it tells us, just like with the Mario game, this code creates a chessboard where you can play against another person, a friend, or yourself controlling both sides. And if we click here on "preview" or " show preview," we already have our board and a "restart game" button. If we check to see if it can capture this piece, it does. Tell me what you think about how it was able to understand what the photo is about, which in this case was a chessboard, and how quickly it created the game in 20 seconds. A fully functional game, amazing! The thing about

analyzing images isn't just that we can use it to create games; we can also create applications. Here I found a design online, a kind of motion capture of the design of a weather app, which is this one. If we go to Google i Studio, upload the image, and select the following prompt (which I'll include in the description below), it will recreate this weather app, adding color and life to the design. The functionality is shown in the image, and we click "Run." Again, it only took 20 seconds to create our application. We go here, and

it tells us we can preview it, but if we do, the preview is quite small, and we want to see it full screen in our browser. We select Dunloa and click "Open." To advance to the next view, simply click the three buttons below. The first view recreates the application, the sun, and 27 degrees Celsius. The second view recreates rain with a rain effect and 16 degrees Celsius. Correct? The conclusion

I draw from this is that if we're developing an application and our designer has already created a kind of motion capture, we can bring it to life by using this tool. Or, if we're the ones designing applications and already have our motion capture (mocap) designed, we can bring it to life by transforming it here. In a matter of seconds, we'd have a visually appealing and dynamic HTML file before presenting this flat image, which doesn't sell as well as this one, where the sun appears in motion. Here, the rain appears as downward-pointing lines, as if it were raining. Let me know what you think about this in the comments. Another new option offered by Yemini 3,

currently only available in the United States or if you have a VPN to connect to the US, is Agent Mode. I find it quite interesting. Why? Because we can ask it to access our email, even organize it by tags and so on, as we see here on the screen with the example it's creating. I'll leave the prompt you need to send it to organize your email in the description; it would be this: "Access my email and organize my inbox," but give me the option to validate what you're going to do. What we achieve is that once Seda displays a dropdown menu like the one

we see here on the screen, we can confirm or deny the desired operation. Creating this artificial intelligence agent seems very interesting to me, and I don't think it will be long before it's available in Spain. Another major improvement in Gemini 3.0 is the landing page creation feature. Here, we're going to launch two different landing pages, which I'll share below in the description. One is for a restaurant called José Brasas, which offers grilled meats

. It should be very visual, direct, and have an instant "wow" effect when you access it and click submit. Meanwhile, we'll also generate another landing page to promote my filmmaking services. My company name is José Ángel Phil, and it should be visual, direct, and have a "wow" effect—exactly the same as the other one. We'll also click submit that one. We'd have

the design here. If we open it in a larger, full-screen view, we see that we have "cosebrasas," the experience, cuts and reviews, and a "book" button. Master the fire. Below, we have a fire effect that adds a lot of vibrancy to the page. If we scroll down a bit, we see that our philosophy isn't just about the meat; it's a ritual with a quality certificate. The untouchables, that is,

the dishes you can't miss: the tomahawk steak at €85, the cold skirt steak, and the burger. If we hover the mouse over them, we see that the elements expand. See the full menu. Here's a review. You're going to leave hungry. I want my table. The location, reservations, and opening hours.

Filmaker's would also be ready. If we view it in full screen—all I did was copy the HTML code and create a fairly simple HTML—Visual Legacy. I don't just capture images; I build visual narratives that define brands and artists. If we scroll down, new elements open up: your vision, my lens, a short description, and the works. Here we would have our portfolio of the videos or photos we've created. And as we can see, we have

this mouse element, which isn't just a mouse, but a little circle that follows us. Quite different from current websites. A section with three menus: music and video, branding, color and editing, and "Let's create something iconic," "Start a project," and even my Instagram contact. What this tells us is that this landing page is visually aggressive, elegant, and cinematic. And as I mentioned, the custom cursor, a subtle detail that follows the mouse and expands on the links, gives a premium feel. Which landing page

did you find more visually striking? The one with the meat or this one promoting our filmmaker service? Let me know in the comments. If I had to choose, I'd go with the meat one because it looks amazing. Another great feature where we can implement Gemini 3.0 is in

the application building section of Google Studio. Since I already have a video on my channel talking about this section of Google i Studio, which I'll link above, if we access the "Build" button here, we see that the Gemini 3 Pro preview template appears by default. There are even pre-built applications, like this toy box one. If we press play, we see that if we break this owl, the pieces break and we can build a cat with them. But getting back to our part, which is creating applications, let's create the next application, which I'll leave in full below. It's an application

for analyzing documents. This application could be used, for example, by freelancers or people who want to analyze documents. Here, to enhance your applications with AI, we're going to apply Gemini's intelligence to my application and the option to analyze images, and then we press build. In just 28 seconds, we'll have our application here. If we now attach a photo, what I'm going to do is download this one, which is a fictitious invoice.

Once we have it attached, we press analyze with Gemini. Here we have the result: an executive summary, invoice number [number omitted] issued by Rojo Polo for her. The total amount is €199.65. The invoiced products are a suit. There are

different addresses for the Burgos invoice and the shipment to Cádiz, and payment is specified by a Bank transfer from Banco Santander. The extracted data shows all the fields and the value of each field. Risk and observations, and a simple explanation. Financial interpretation. The financial structure is standard for a retail sale in Spain, with a taxable base of €165 subject to the general VAT rate of 21%. I've used the example of sending a photo of

an invoice, but we can also send a complete PDF of our company's quarterly financial statements. If, for example, we now send this photo, which is an anatomy summary, and analyze it with Gemini, it will provide the following: Executive summary, handwritten educational document on the anatomy of the human eye. Includes a flow diagram of tears from the gland to the nasal duct. Contains an anatomical illustration of the eyeball and its external muscles. Extracted data. Title: Anatomy of the Eye. Main topic: structure of the anatomy. Risks

and observations. The document is a personal study note and therefore does not replace a professional medical reference. The handwritten text has cropped edges around the image, a simple explanation: it's decorated school notes. Let me know what you think of this app and if you find it useful in your daily life. I'll read your comments. If you found this video

helpful, please give it a like, subscribe, and turn on notifications, because what 's coming next week could be a game-changer. And remember, in the world of artificial intelligence, it's not the one who knows the most who wins, but the one who learns the fastest.