---
video_title: "La nueva IA de Google que está dejando atrás a Photoshop"
video_id: AWT8QDxJrJ0
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AWT8QDxJrJ0
video_date: 2025-08-27T17:30:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Google acaba de lanzar Google Nano Banana, la nueva inteligencia artificial para crear y editar imágenes gratis con una calidad brutal 🤯.
  
  En este video la pongo a prueba:
  ✅ Creo imágenes desde cero
  ✅ Edito fotos como si fuera Photoshop con IA
  ✅ Fusiono imágenes imposibles
  ✅ Y te muestro por qué muchos dicen que es la mejor IA de imágenes hasta el momento.
  
  ¿Será el fin de MidJourney y DALL·E? Descúbrelo conmigo 🚀
  
  ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: 💼 optimizacion.empresas@gmail.com
  
  🔔 Suscríbete y activa la campanita para no perderte más vídeos sobre Inteligencia Artificial.
  
  🔗 Enlaces:
  Google AI Studio: https://aistudio.google.com/prompts/new_chat
  
  👇 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:51 ¿Cómo utilizar Google Nano Banana?
  05:56 Reflexión
  
  #GoogleNanoBanana #InteligenciaArtificial #IA
---
What Google just released is crazy. It's called Google Nano Banana and promises to be the best in the world for creating and editing images. And as Google has accustomed us to free, today I'm going to put it to the test by creating images from scratch, editing photos as if it were Photoshop with superpowers, and merging multiple images to see how far it can go. Is it really the best of the moment or just pure hype? Let's find out right now. To give you a quick context, Nano Banana is

Google's new model specialized in images. It can create stunning images from text, edit existing photos without ruining details, merge multiple images into one, make edits in stages, and how to adjust them step by step. It sounds incredible, but I want to see how good it is in real life. Let's get started. To use this model, we need to access the Google i Studio platform, which I'll leave the link for in the description below. It's completely

free. We have two ways to select this Nano Banana model. As you can see here in the entry, Gemini Native and Magic select it for us. Or here on the right, we can select the model , which is Gemenis 2.5 Flash Image Preview. And as you can see, it has the New icon.

Don't worry about the cost of the tokens, because as you can see here, you have a series of tokens, and creating an image is relatively cheap. To put it in perspective, it's 10 times cheaper than creating it in CH GPT if you use its API. If you use all the tokens in a single day, simply by opening another Google account, you'll have infinite touch again, which means that using this model is unlimited and free. Once we select the model here, we'll ask it for the following: We'll start creating an image and pass it the next one. Soon. It creates a bear running through a dense forest,

running from bees chasing it, and we hit execute. You'll notice that this model is much faster than other AI image creation models. And in a matter of seconds, we'll have it. I haven't even finished the sentence, and we already have it. The truth is that it's quite well done, given that the bear has that anguished expression, as if it's being chased by bees.

Let's send him a photo of mine now. The photo I sent him is this one. And as you can see, ducks appear in the water. Let's ask him not to change it to fish. And we send him the following: Change the ducks in the water to Japanese koi-style fish. And hit send. I don't know if they'll put them in

the style of fish we asked for or another type of fish. In theory, he should only modify what I asked for in the rest of the image. He shouldn't touch it. If we compare the two photos, on the right we have the original and on the left the one he created for us. The truth is that he fulfills his promise. It's true that I haven't asked him to change it where he's standing,

but it really gives a pretty cool touch, as if he's standing on glass with the fish underneath. If we had asked another AI, either Chat GPT or Yemini, it would have probably changed our face, hands, and so on. Let's continue modifying the photo. To do this, we're going to ask it to change the sky to a cloudy day. I don't have to tell it to use the last photo, nothing; it knows that on its own. And we hit execute. Here we would have the difference. On the left,

it would be sunny, as it was the day it was, and on the right, cloudy. And it 's true that it has modified my face a little, but it maintains my expression and my face. Tell me what you think about this pass. Let's open a new window and ask it to merge images to see how it behaves. We select the model and attach the two images we want to merge. And we'll ask it the following: In the image where I appear sitting,

I want my pet to appear in the area where my feet are, maintaining the sitting position. And we'll hit execute. Here, the truth is that maybe I made the mistake, but it 's true that it didn't get it right the first time. I continued to struggle a bit with the AI, as you can see, but the result wasn't what we were looking for. I re-swiped the two photos and put this dog next to the person, just the dog. And the result is...

It's generated this for me. It's true that it creates a very strange blend of the background, as if it were the original background plus the background of the park where the dog is. But honestly, I don't see the result of the background as far-fetched at all, and the dog fulfills the objective that's integrated. We're going to continue reediting the same photo. It eliminates the dog's leash because we don't want the leash to be there. It's mind-blowing. In just 10 seconds that it took, if we look at the photo, it has eliminated the

dog's leash. It's true that maybe in Photoshop it would take a little longer. We would do it, yes, but with this command, we don't have to do absolutely anything, just send it commands and it does it for us. Let's say, "Change the ducks to swans." And we hit send.

I'm really freaking out about how well it's done, because the dog, first of all, doesn't look like a copy and paste; it's not superimposed; it's quite well integrated, and the color issue. Then, the ducks for swans, it looks like there really was a swan. I'm truly amazed at how AI is evolving. And what do you think of this crazy Google Nano Banana? I'll read your comments.

Honestly, I've been incredibly surprised. Google Nano Banana not only creates incredible images, but also edits them with a level of consistency I've never seen anywhere else. The good part is that it's free and accessible to anyone. The dangerous part with such powerful tools is the risk of deep faces, so you have to be responsible with this and, above all, be very careful. In short, Google has just raised the bar for image creation and editing with this video. Share this video with your friend who still edits with Photoshop.

Subscribe and activate the bell. Now tell me, what crazy idea are you going to ask to create this one for you? Yeah.