---
video_title: "¡Google desata su IA MÁS PODEROSA y NADIE la está usando! 😱"
video_id: 9xmvnGBlqso
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9xmvnGBlqso
video_date: 2025-07-14
video_description: |
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  ¿Sabías que Google tiene una de las IAs más potentes... y que está disponible totalmente GRATIS?
  
  En este vídeo te muestro cómo Google está revolucionando el mundo de la inteligencia artificial con herramientas como Gemini, NotebookLM y Google AI Studio.
  
  👉 Prepárate para descubrir el poder oculto de la IA de Google y cómo puedes empezar a usarlo hoy mismo.
  
  📌 ¿Cuál de estas herramientas te gustaría dominar? Déjalo en los comentarios.
  
  🔗 Enlaces:
  Google AI Studio: https://aistudio.google.com/prompts/new_chat
  NoteBookLM: https://notebooklm.google.com/
  Gemini Gems: https://gemini.google.com/gems/create
  
  
  👇 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:27 Gemini Gems  
  03:05 NotebookLM 
  05:34 Búsqueda Profunda con Gemini 
  07:17 Como Crear una App con Gemini  
  09:45 Como Crear una App con Google AI Studio
  11:47 Reflexión
  
  #Gemini #IA #GoogleAI #GeminiDiffusion #GeminiFlashLite2.5 #notebooklm
---
Everyone's talking about CH GPT, but meanwhile, Google is quietly playing in a different league. It's launching free AI tools that very few people know about, and they can change the way you work, think, and even do business. Today I'm not bringing you theory, I'm bringing you practical examples. Real-life cases that you can apply starting today, all from Google's own platform. The good part is that you can replicate step by step. So let's get started. The first tool we're going to look at is

GEMS, which is the synonym for GPTs within the GPT chat tool. But in this case, within Gemini, it's going to be completely free, and we'll be able to create our own personalized one. As you can see, my account isn't paid, and what we have to do is go here on the left to the three lines and select Explore Gems. And here, within Explore Gems, we already have some GPT synonyms already created, such as Chess Champion, Brainstorming, Career Guide, and Coding Partner. That is, this one, for example, would help you when programming, but we're going to create our own custom one. We're going to name it

Nueva Joya here and the name we're going to give to our Jens, a business management, digital marketing, and finance specialist. All of this is what our business helps us with. Now you'll understand a little better. In the instructions section, we're going to give him the following: You are a specialist in physical or online business administration with experience helping increase sales in businesses. As you can see, I've written it quite poorly, so to speak. And now the magic

lies here: pressing this button, which will transform what we just added into a correct prompt. We press it, and it automatically improves the more detailed instructions: Behaviors and rules. Initial interaction. Greet the user. Advice and solutions.

Provide detailed advice and specific examples based on the user's situation. Once we've created it, we click on "Save" here. We press it. Once we've created it, we'll start the chat and send the following message. I have a cheesecake business located on Sierpes Street in Seville.

Currently, sales decrease in the summer due to the heat. What campaign do you recommend I launch? Consider that my cheesecake shop uses the image of Puss in Boots, which is the icon for people to upload their cake to social media next to the cat, which is 2 m in size, and we'll hit send. And here we would have detailed the campaign that Gemini would generate for us with this 2.5 Flatl version. The campaign it generated is called The Refreshing Secret of

Puss in Boots. Create frozen or semi-frozen versions of the most popular cheesecakes. You can launch Puss in Boots' frozen cheesecake, cheesecake popsicles, a cheesecake shake, a store promotion, a digital marketing strategy with Puss in Boots, a theme for collaborations, and themed events. We now have our own GPT, which in this case is James, customized for our business. You can customize this for any type of business. Unlike CH GPT,

this one is completely free. Another tool that Gemini also uses is Notebook LM. I'll leave the link below in the description. This tool is based on collecting all the information we provide, bringing summaries and concept maps from PDFs or documents we provide. We're going to create a notebook to help us with finance, savings, compound interest, equities, fixed income, a bit of everything related to finance. We'll click on "Discover Sources" and we'll send it the following:

Free PDFs and books on finance, mortgages, equities, and fixed income. And we'll click "Send." Right now, it's collecting all the information, and this is what it has extracted for free: 75 personal finance books, the taxation of a mortgage loan over the course of its life, and importing these 10 selected sources. Once we've imported these 10 selected sources, we'll continue to expand our book's knowledge and give it a try. We'll tell it to search for scientific studies.

about compound interest, and we'll hit send. Again, gather all the free information you can find, and we'll import these 10 sources. Finally, to give it a more human touch, we'll extract the information from YouTube. We'll hit discover again and pass on the following: Featured YouTube video on how to maintain monthly savings to be able to live financially off passive income. And we'll mark site 2.youtube.com as very important so that the information isn't extracted from YouTube videos. We'll hit

send. Once we have it, as in the case of how €100 a month can change your life, three mistakes with passive income, and we'll hit import. Once we have all the information, we can generate summaries by clicking this summary document button. If we click here, a summary will be generated. Another very important point we can generate here is the conceptual map, as it helps us have a broader view of the knowledge.

Here we already have the conceptual map on the keys to personal finance and investment. We'll access it with a click. It's quite visual and intuitive. Personal finance is divided into passive income, financial freedom, investment, and money management, and as you can see, it opens up, opens up, and opens up so we can better understand each aspect. For any summary, if you need a conceptual map, it's quite good. The summary it generated is the following:

personal finance and investment, strategy, and growth. I've skimmed it, and it's actually quite complete and good. Another very important tool within Gemini is the deep search section, which is this deep research button. We'll tell it to search for the evolution of the SP500 over the last 20 years. And we'll press enter. The first thing it generates is a

research plan, and we'll press it here to start the research. It's now finished generating. Here we have a fairly complete summary, detailed by graph, on how much growth there has been. The topic of this summary is pretty good, but we can give it a more podcast-style look, and to do that, all we have to do is transform this entire summary into an audio. And it's so simple, just click on "Create" here and select "Audio Summary." All of this is free.

We'd already have the audio created here. Let's play it. We're starting this deep dive, traveling through the last two decades of the S&P 500, from 2005 to today, 2025. Yes, we have a detailed analysis on the table, right? Tell me you don't think it's amazing that we can even generate podcasts from summaries that have been made for us, we can even create infographics.

We'll click on "Create" and select "Infographic." And here it would be generated, and we'd already have the infographic here. As you can see, it's quite visual, with quite relevant data, a graphic theme, and it's much more intuitive when it comes to absorbing the information than the summary. We can port this to canvas mode, such as by clicking on "Share" here and sharing the canvas or copying the content. Or if we want to modify some of the code, click on "Code" here, and we'll have all the code for this infographic. We return

to our book on the fundamentals of finance, personal finance, and investments and send it the following. From all the information, it identifies the important features and key information for creating an application about saving and investing in the SP500. Once we have all these features, we'll select everything, copy it, take it to Gemini to a new chat, paste it, and at the very top, send it the following: create a finance application called Finance Hose with the following features. That is, with this one generated by Noted Book LM, select version 2.5 Pro instead of the Flash version, and click "Send." In a matter of seconds,

our application would start to load, as for the code, and in just a few minutes, we would have our application created. Here on the first page we have a section called In the menu called concepts, they name passive income, the power of compound interest, such as the snowball effect, the silent impact of inflation, a glossary of financial terms such as savings, investment, and assets. Then, regarding planning, we would have a compound interest calculator here. If, for example, we make an initial investment of €1,000 and a monthly import of €100 over a period of 25 years and an annual return of 7%, which would be, so to speak, 8%, minus inflation. In 25 years, we could have €103,000. As you can see, we can modify

the initial investment, which would be €50,000 or €1,000, and it will automatically modify itself. Instead of 25 years, we can put 30 years. This would also be my monthly expenses, where we can indicate how much we have each month. We can set, for example, that we have 100 expenses, and then it calculates financial security, financial independence, when we can achieve it, financial freedom, how much money we need to achieve total financial freedom, the budget, and savings capacity. Then, ETF investments, as well as a series of concepts, and another section in the menu called tips. The truth is that the

application is quite complete and meets our needs. As you can see, this is in line with the world of finance; we can create an application, but we can also create an application for anything we want, such as food, to ask it to recommend healthier foods when following a diet. If we want to create a more complete application, we would only have to copy the same prompt, that is, this one to create a finance app called Finance Holset. With the following features: We copy absolutely everything, we will copy it, and we will go to the Google i Studio tool. Here is a video in which I discuss some of the features of this tool. Once

we're inside this tool, we'll go to the build section and send it the PROM we copied and hit send. Here, it will create a complete application project. Our application would be created in a more complex way. As you can see, the previous application we created only consisted of an HTML file, while this one has several codes in the project. The application looks more complex, although it looks a little different. Here we have a

calculator and budget section, a financial dashboard, which calculates the total contributions, the interest generated, and the final balance. A monthly budget planner. If we go to the financial education section, we have the fundamental concepts of financial education , debunking passive income, compound interest, the snowball effect, the silent impact of inflation, a glossary of terms such as savings, investment, and wealth—all of this much better structured than the previous application—planning and goals. Here we have the financial freedom calculator, the levels of financial freedom according to Tony Robbins. If we go to the tips and warnings section, patience, perseverance, equity risk, leverage your own skills, customize your strategy, and consider professional advice. We already have all the code here; it would just be a matter of

downloading the application and running it. Tell me what you think about the fact that we no longer need to find a programmer to create our own application for our business. We can now transfer the application we want to this one and it will be created for us. It's true that we would have to connect the issue to a server and a database, but so to speak, the most important thing is to create an application in a matter of minutes and our own personal application. What application would you think of creating with this one? If this has opened your eyes, wait until you see

what I'm preparing. I'm building a real community of people who want to master AI without having to pay, without empty promises. So if you want to continue exploring real-life cases, Subscribe and activate the bell. And if any of today's cases gave you an idea, leave it in the comments because I want to continue creating videos about what's really useful.