---
video_title: "Adiós PowerPoint… Google lo Cambia TODO con Estas Novedades 🤯"
video_id: bEUvWlAMEBs
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bEUvWlAMEBs
video_date: 2025-11-17T18:00:48+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts: https://forms.gle/ASa2SwMQ6T7mJFHA9
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  Google acaba de actualizar Gemini y Notebook LM con algunas de las funciones más potentes que hemos visto hasta ahora… y sí: crean presentaciones solas, investigan por ti y se integran directamente con Google Slides y Google Sheets.
  
  En este vídeo te enseño todas las nuevas novedades que acaban de llegar, cómo funcionan y cómo puedes aplicarlas para trabajar más rápido y con mejores resultados usando inteligencia artificial.
  
  🔵 NOVEDADES EN GEMINI
  
  – Nuevo Canvas para crear presentaciones completas en un clic
  – Exportación directa a Google Slides
  – Deep Research para investigar a fondo cualquier tema
  – Mejoras en generación de contenido y precisión
  
  🟢 NOVEDADES EN NOTEBOOK LM
  
  – Lectura directa de Google Sheets
  – Nuevas funciones de análisis automático
  – Historial de prompts para mejorar tus proyectos
  – Mejor organización y workflows más rápidos
  
  
  🔗 Enlaces: 
  👉 Gemini: https://gemini.google.com/app?hl=es-ES
  👉 NotebookLM: https://notebooklm.google.com/
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  01:02 Novedad 1 Gemini
  08:11 Novedad 2 Gemini
  09:43 Novedad 1 NotebookLM
  11:24 Novedad 2 NotebookLM
  12:33 Reflexión
  
  #gemini #notebooklm #googleai #novedades #ia
---
Did you know that Google just updated Gemini and Notebook LM with features that completely change how we work with artificial intelligence? And the best part is, it's already available to all users. In this video, you'll discover the new tools that have just arrived for both Gemini and Notebook LM and how to take advantage of them for everyday use. You'll see how you can now create complete presentations in one click with the integration between Slide and Canvas. Use the DI research model, which allows you to perform deep and contextual searches from a single point, from Gmail and other Google tools. Directly read your Google Sheets spreadsheets

from Notebook LM and generate your corresponding reports. So, if you're interested in what's coming in the world of artificial intelligence, you'd be helping me a lot by liking this video, subscribing, and turning on notifications so you don't miss the next updates that no one's talking about yet. Let's get started. The first big new feature is in Gemini, in its Canvas section, showing how we can export and create presentations. To do this, we need to access Gemini and send it a fairly simple prompt.

I'll leave all the prompts I'll use in the video below in the description. Create a Google Slides presentation about the professions of the future driven by artificial intelligence with a gradient color from blue to purple. By default, the canvas option should be activated. If it isn't, activate it yourself. In my case, I'm going to select it without activating the template, use Flash 2.5, and

click send. The presentation should now be created. In my case, it wasn't necessary to activate the canvas option, but if it doesn't create one for you, it's best to activate it. Here, as I mentioned, is under Canvas Tools. The presentation would be the one I'm showing you here.

It has correctly preserved the color gradient from blue to purple. It has included photos, different types of icons, and even charts. The big new feature here is exporting presentations. If we click this button, it will automatically create these slides in Google Slides, and we'll have the newly created slides right here. If we click "Open presentation," it will bring the presentation it created from Gemini into Google Slides.

Here, we can modify some of the icons if we don't like them, or even some text that doesn't quite fit, or even add more slides to the presentation it created. The last slide includes a section listing the sources of the information, that is, a bibliography. The next quite interesting use case we can apply when creating presentations is for our own business or even our own studies. Let's suppose we have a PDF. We'll click "Add files." I've just attached a

17-page PDF about the role of artificial intelligence in productivity, trends, and challenges. It's quite a long PDF, and we're going to send you the next promo, which I'll also leave in the description. Analyze this PDF document, which contains a study on the impact of artificial intelligence on workplace productivity, and create a Google Slides presentation summarizing the key points, conclusions, and highlighted examples using a red-yellow gradient. Click "Submit," and it returns the following: This is a structured summary of the PDF document for a Google Slides presentation. As you can see, it didn't return the same format as the first time. Why? Because, so to speak, we need to find a shortcut

to create a presentation from a document we attach. It might even tell you that it's not possible to create a Google Slides presentation from a combined PDF, but based on what we already have—that is, a summary of the PDF we sent—we'll tell it the following: Create a presentation in Canvas based on this summary. And to be even more certain, we select the Canvas option and click "Submit." And there you have it, our presentation. As we can see on the cover, the red-yellow gradient I requested earlier has stood out. And now we'll export it.

Presentations. Down here on the left, you'll see "Creating slides," and as soon as it's finished, you'll get this alert: "New slide created." Click "Open presentations." The role of AI in productivity, and here we have the presentations already created, respecting the red and yellow colors we requested. A total of 13, including the bibliography at the end with its corresponding photos and graphics, which we can modify. This example can be applied

to students who already have a syllabus and want to create presentations based on it, and also to a company. If you already have a PDF of the company's annual or quarterly financial statement, you can combine it here and create a presentation to show the team: "Hey, look, this month we billed this much, the profit was this much." In short, we no longer have to waste time creating presentations. With this new feature, we're saving you a lot of time. As we know, Gemini is a multimodal language, and we can apply many functions to achieve our goals, as is the case with presentations. The last example I'm going to give about presentations

seems quite interesting for setting up a business we have in mind. We send the following prompt, which I'll also include in the description: "Create a business plan for opening a coffee shop in Seville city center, including the pros, cons, revenue, return on investment, and everything else a business plan entails." Then we click "Submit." The business plan will then be generated, including an executive summary, market analysis, a very important data analysis, an estimated initial investment, financial projections, estimated monthly cost structure, net profit, return on investment, and a conclusion. Once we have our summary, we'll ask the client to create a presentation and send the following prompt: "Create a visually appealing presentation to present to my bank so they can provide financing for this business. Use a gradient color scheme of brown

and yellow, which I think would work well for a coffee shop." Then we click "Submit." We now have the canvas, maintaining the brown and yellow color scheme. Let's export the presentation. And now we're going to open the presentation. We should have them here. The center with flavor,

a concept, specialty coffee and local products. Another slide about the opportunity in the center, a market with demand. Our clients would be tourists, offices, and residents, the competitive advantages, risk analysis, drawbacks and mitigation, financial request, a total initial investment of €65,500, the projected revenue in one year, the projected profitability, the return on investment between 12 and 18 months, and our vision. With this, what I'm showing you is how we can ground the ideas we have in mind when we want to start a business. Hey, I want to open a bike shop. Okay,

so I'm going to ask Gemini to create my business plan, analyzing numbers and being realistic. Once I have the summary of my business plan, what I'm going to do is ask it to create a presentation, and then I'm going to export that presentation to Google Slides. For what purpose? My goal was to prepare it myself, take my laptop to the bank, and say, "Hey, I need financing for this business." It's not the same to hand over a shoddy PDF, so to speak, as it is to show the bank a presentation and sell yourself much better to secure that financing.

What do you think of this use case when it comes to taking an idea we have in mind and turning it into a possible reality? I'll read your comments. The second new feature we find in Gemini is in the deep search section. If we go to Tools and click on Deep Search, we see that the interface has changed a bit. There's a new section called Sources.

Choose one or more sources. At a minimum, we always have to select a source from which we want the deep search to begin. By default, the Google search option appears , but we can even tell it to search our Gmail or our Drive. or even through our chat, or simply request in-depth research based on our Gmail. For example, if I send the following proposal, it will briefly summarize the commonalities in collaboration proposals from small YouTubers with 2,000 followers, and we click send. The response will be based on what it reads in

my email. Here, it tells us to activate the smart features. Once we've activated the smart features, we click connect and then start research. The in-depth search is complete. An executive summary of the shared-risk economy in the AI ​​niche. Contextualization of the micro-influencer segment. Content requirements,

the channel as a proof-of-concept platform. Quantitative analysis of the standard compensation structure. The critical range between $30 and $100 with a small table including some commission-based options, strategic conclusions, and monetization recommendations. Another major improvement Google has implemented in its Notebook LM section is the ability to create a notebook by adding a Google Sheet. If you select Google Drive and choose a Google Sheet you have—in my case, I've added this car sales spreadsheet, which is quite simple, showing the total number of cars sold by three agents, along with an average—you'll see the only resource provided: a spreadsheet titled "Car Sales," which records the monthly car sales of three salespeople: Luis, Ana, and José. The data covers a 10-month period. Finally, the spreadsheet presents

the monthly average sales for each salesperson. Once you have your Google Chip linked to Notebook LM, you can use any of these six functions. Clicking on "Reports," selecting "Summary" in default mode , and then clicking "Generate" will create the report. If we open an executive summary, the sales performance analysis for the period from January to October reveals a clear performance hierarchy and a consistent growth trend among salespeople, a monthly sales surge, a breakdown of performance by salesperson, and even shows the salesperson's position, total sales, and average monthly sales. We can even add an audio summary or a video summary. I already have a complete video demonstrating

these Notebook LM features, which I'll link above for you after this video. The latest feature implemented in Notebook LM is the ability to view the prompts we've passed to it. If we go to, for example, the quiz and pass a prompt there, it creates a simple test to find out who sold the most each month, and then we click "generate." And there we have the quiz. If we click "view," the new feature is "show prompt," which displays the exact prompt we used to create these types of questions.

This applies to audio mode, video generation mode—in short, all modes. This feature only works with this new update. If we go to a previously created LM notebook, it won't show the prompts we've used. Let me know what you think; do you find it interesting that we can preview the prompts we've already added? I'd also like to know your thoughts on the ability to attach Google Sheets, since many people work with spreadsheets these days, and being able to implement this function within Notebook LM completely changes everything. Every week, Gemini

not only demonstrates that it's catching up to CH GPT, but has even surpassed it with the features it's constantly releasing. Do you agree with me that CH GPT is falling behind and Gemini has completely overtaken it? Let me know in the comments. If this video has been helpful, I'd really appreciate it if you liked it, shared it, subscribed, and turned on notifications so you don't miss any future AI updates. artificial intelligence that can completely change how we work. And remember, this isn't about

competing with artificial intelligence, but about learning to create alongside it. Yeah.