---
video_title: "ChatGPT vs Gemini: cuál te conviene según lo que haces cada día"
video_id: mmkO4Q9Xm4s
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mmkO4Q9Xm4s
video_date: 2025-10-13T17:01:06+00:00
video_description: |
  Este año he estado probando a fondo ChatGPT 5 y Gemini 2.5 Pro, y después de cientos de pruebas, tengo claro algo que casi nadie cuenta:
  la clave no es cuál es más potente, sino cuál te conviene según lo que haces cada día.
  
  En este vídeo comparo ambos modelos con casos reales de uso:
  
  📄 Lectura y análisis de PDFs
  💻 Creación de landing pages con HTML y CSS
  🧠 Investigación y redacción de textos
  🖼️ Generación de imágenes con IA
  ⚙️ Productividad y flujo de trabajo diario
  
  Verás dónde ChatGPT brilla y dónde Gemini sorprende, sin tecnicismos ni relleno.
  Solo usos reales y resultados reales, para que sepas exactamente qué IA usar para estudiar, trabajar o crear contenido.
  
  ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: 💼 optimizacion.empresas@gmail.com
  
  👉 Prompts: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeyH_tneG-PbBkSjuScucNbd-1sLHY0wqaYtF5Vku7EqrPAAw/viewform?usp=header
  
  🔗 Enlaces:
  👉 ChatGPT5: https://chatgpt.com/
  👉 Gemini 2.5 Pro: https://gemini.google.com/app?hl=es-ES
  
  👇 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:48 Caso Investigación y redacción de textos
  06:30 Caso Análisis de Datos
  10:17 Caso Creación de Landing Pages
  12:00 Caso Productividad y Ecosistema
  14:27 Caso Generación y Edición de imágenes
  16:33 Reflexión
  
  💬 Pregunta para ti:
  ¿Con cuál te quedarías tú después de ver la comparativa: ChatGPT o Gemini? Cuéntamelo en los comentarios 👇
  
  #GPT5 #Gemini25Pro #InteligenciaArtificial #Productividad
---
This year I've used CH GPT and Gemini extensively, and the more I test them, the clearer I become about something that almost no one tells you. The question isn't which is more powerful, but which one suits you best based on what you need each day. Because choosing the wrong one not only wastes your time, it also causes you to lose ideas, opportunities, and focus. Today we're going to compare them in real-life cases: writing, creating websites, analyzing data, and improving your productivity. You'll see where CH GPT5 shines and where Gemini surprises.

There's no technical jargon or theory, just real, working use cases. So if you're wondering which one to use for studying, working, or creating content, this video will save you many hours of trial and error. Let's get started. We're going to start with the research section with the goal of researching a topic and creating a publishable draft. The topic we're going to cover is going to be about savings and personal finances with artificial intelligence in 2025. We'll move on to CH GPT and we'll pass on the next one soon. Act

as a writer specializing in technology and personal finance. Topic: How is artificial intelligence changing the way we save and manage money in 2025? Objective: Create a clear and informative article between 900 and 11 words. The structure should be an outline of four or five sections, current trends, most popular applications, risks or biases to consider, and practical tips to take advantage of the most. We click here and select the option to think about it. We click send. In a matter of a minute, we would

have the research section here. Section one, current trends, how AI is changing savings and money management. It gives us an article from March 12, 2025, which means it meets my requirement that it only show me articles that are 12 months old. Point number two, most popular applications and tools for managing money, tells us about some of these applications, research questions, useful sources, and real-life examples, and what they do. Point three: risk, biases, and regulatory alerts.

Point four: practical tips for leveraging AI in personal finance. And it ends with a brief closing. Now, we're going to ask you to create the draft for us. To do so, we'll send you the following prompt, which I'll also include below in the description. Using the outline and sources above, write the full draft of the article and hit send. In just a minute,

we'll have our draft here. A brief introduction that's no longer a technological curiosity. In 2025, it acts as an intelligent layer that personalizes advice, automates microsavings, and makes operational decisions in financial products. In section one, we also have the reference that will ultimately be included in the bibliography, some research questions, and suggested sources . Point two: tracking and budgeting app, automatic savings, robot advice, and index managers: research questions. Point three: we have a brief

introduction again with the references. Point number four, also quite comprehensive, is a visual session as a proposal and a bibliography in order of appearance of the elements with their corresponding links. Three actions you can take today. Activate an automatic saving rule, install a tracking app, and before accepting AI recommendations on complex products, request a written explanation and compare it with at least one human or regulated source. Let's now compare it with what Gemini can generate for us. To do this, we'll combine Notebook LM with

Gemini 2.5 Pro, Notebook LM to be the research section, and Gemini 2.5 Pro to convert it to canvas mode. Once we're in Notebook LM, which I'll leave the link below in the description, we click on Create Notebook and click on Discover Sources. We pass it the same promo we passed to CH GPT and click Send. By default, I'm going to leave the 10

sources that Notebook LM has preselected for me selected and click Import. We're going to ask the same thing we asked CH GPT: that he write the full draft of the article using the outline and font above. Click send. I'll also leave all the promos in the description. In just a minute, we'll have the result here. A brief introduction,

the four sections we requested. We'll scroll to the end and hit copy. We'll move on to Gemini, which I'll also include the link in the description. We select version 2.5 Pro. We select Canva under Tools. We paste what we copied from Notebook

LM and, at the top, we'll type the following line, which I'll also include in the description. Turn this research outline into a complete, publishable article of between 900 and 1,100 words and hit send. We'll now have the generated canvas, a brief introduction that has gone beyond the realm of fission science to fully integrate into our daily lives. Point number one is the brain behind your spending, savings, and smart budgets— quite comprehensive. The democratization of wealth, investing without emotion, with the effects of disposition and loss aversion, overconfidence, herd counseling, making decisions that everyone is making. Point number three, productivity and complex management,

AI doing the work. Point number four, the invisible shield of security and financial ethics. How the response to regulation is strengthening. CR: Three steps toward financial freedom with artificial intelligence. Automate your budget, explore BSO robots, and prioritize security. Followed by the bibliography. Once we have obtained both results, both from Chat GPT

and Yemeny, we see that Chat GPT is much faster in generating said draft. It's not entirely bad, but what Gemini is referring to is that the process is a little longer, since we have to use Notebook LM followed by Gemini, but the result is cleaner and more publishable. In this case, for me, Gemini would win. The next point we're going to look at is data analysis, how the two artificial intelligences behave to see which one responds best to the analysis of a fairly long PDF . As you can see, here on the screen I have the PDF, which we're going to pass to the AI.

This PDF is for the financial education plan from 2022 to 2025 and consists of 73 pages. We've sent it to CH GPT and attached it here, plus add photos and files, and we'll send them our PDF. We've attached the following PDF file, which I'll also leave in the description. You have a complete PDF report in front of you. I want you to act as an analyst who must prepare a visual and useful summary. Objective:

Turn the document into a quick guide that summarizes the important points. Summarize the content into eight key ideas. Create a small dictionary with 10 important concepts. Identify five possible risks or conclusions from the document. What is the risk? What impact could it have? What

solution or recommendation would you give? If there are relevant graphs, data, or quotes in the report, mention them according to the PDF page. If you don't know where that PDF page is, don't make up the data. And then hit send. In just a few seconds, we'd have the generated report here: a first section with eight key ideas, a dictionary of 10 key concepts, fairly well-structured with the elements it considers most important and their simple definitions. And this gives us the option

to copy the table. Here we have five risks or critical conclusions: digital and financial exclusion , online fraud and misinformation, the gender gap in financial literacy, low financial literacy among young people, and the lack of resilience in the face of a crisis, each with its own impact and recommendation. And finally, we have the relevant data and quotes section, in which it mentions where it found each piece of information. If we send this PDF to Yemen, we select version 2.5 Pro again, send it to them, and hit send. In

just a minute, Gemini would have generated it. A quick guide to a financial education plan. The first section of eight key ideas from the 2022-2025 plan. It adapts to new times, has a new key ally, education starts earlier, and a dictionary of the 10 key concepts. We have the analysis of the five critical risks and recommendations, which also offers us the option to export to spreadsheets and sources. We noticed improvements in Gemini compared to CH GPT.

We go here to CH GPT, when it puts a link, it doesn't tell you the page from which it has extracted said information. But in Gemini, here in the links it tells you page 4 of the PDF, page 46, page 50. The second aspect that I also find important is the fact of exporting to a spreadsheet. Why? Because this is in the Google ecosystem, it's simply a matter of clicking a button and we already have it in a Google Sheet. An extra point is that Yemen has a limit of up to 1 million tokens, meaning

we can send it a PDF of more than 300 or 400 pages, and it will accept it and extract the information we request. Even if we want to attach three PDFs of 100 or 150 pages, Gemini accepts it, since, as I mentioned, it has a million tokens. Unlike CH GPT, if you send them a 300-page PDF or three 100-page PDFs, they'll tell you they don't accept it because they have more limited tokens. So I see a clear winner here, Gemini. The third case we're going to compare is which one creates a better landing page for us. So we access CH GPT,

select the best one, click the canvas option, and send them the following prompt, which I'll leave below in the description. It acts as a web designer specializing in financial education projects . It creates a landing page in HTML and CSS within a single block of code ready to copy and paste. The goal is to capture subscribers for a free newsletter on smart finances in 2025. And this would be the complete prompt. We hit send, and this

would be the result of the landing page that CH GPT created for us: Transform your personal finances in 2025. Learn to invest and save with the help of AI. And here we have a contact form with floating elements if we hover over it. That would be the landing page that CH GPT generated for us. We go to Yemen and enter the exact same keyword, select the canvas option, and hit send. And this would be the result it created for us. Honestly, I

laugh because what Chas GPT generated for me has nothing to do with what Gemini generated for me. I think it's really cool and there's a huge difference. Intelligent AI by 2025. Learn to invest and save with the help of AI and experts. Here we would have the form. Receive

weekly analysis, strategy, and advice directly in your inbox. It's 100% free. We would enter our contact email and hit the "I want to learn" button. And a short sentence here at the end: the future of economic stability is built today with smart decisions. I think a picture is worth a thousand words, and in this case, the clear winner is Gemini. We now move on to the productivity and ecosystem

section, where we should highlight that CH GPT has a project section. We select, for example, a health project called José Ángel Health and click Create Project. Here in the side menu, already in the project section, we would see the health project, José Ángel. If we click Add Files here, this allows us to send our clinical reports, which we're allergic to, so that it has a context of everything that's happened to us throughout our lives and what makes us feel good and what makes us feel bad. Once we have our attached files, we can ask any questions we have about our health without having to contextualize the previous question, such as, "Well, on that day I had appendectomy surgery." What we're saving is time so we don't have to contextualize

a new chat about our health situation. And this can be applied to health, finances, education, and work. That is, we can attach all the information about our company here, and whenever we have a question, whether it's about marketing or accounting, the project will already have context about what our company is about, the accounts our company keeps, and it will be much faster, and the answer will be based more on everything you've learned about our company. The truth is that in this aspect, in the project section, I find it quite complete and, above all, necessary. So, no We wouldn't have a global chat asking about health or our company, but we'd organize our project folder into subprojects, meaning one project for our health, one project for our company, and one project for our finances. And did you know about this projects section within

Chat GPT? Gemini doesn't have the project section that Chat GPT has, but it does have integration into the Google ecosystem, since we can use it, for example, here in our Gmail and in any Google tool. We can highlight that in terms of productivity, CH GPT would win with the projects section, and Gemini would win with the ecosystem. If we talk about image creation and editing, CH GPT had no competitors a few months ago until Gemini Nano Banana came out, which was a huge success. Let's do a little test in which we'll send it a photo of mine and a simple prompt. In this case I say,

"Put a mustache on this guy and a realistic tattoo of a dragon's face on his neck . We'll give both Gemini and Char GPT the same photo and the same pron and compare which of the two creates a more realistic result. We would now have the result of both photos. Let's compare them. On the right we would have Gemini's result and on the left we would have Cha GPT's result. The main difference I see is the issue of my face in which Cha GPT

puts makeup on me or an effect in which the skin of my face is not completely sharp. Another flaw that Chas GPT has is the fact that he has changed my eyes, they are not mine, as Gemeny has maintained. If we continue reviewing the eyebrows, they do not assimilate to the reality of my eyebrows, as Gemini has maintained. If we move on to what I asked for, which is the mustache and the tattoo, honestly the most realistic mustache would be Gemini, since it doesn't change the thickness of my lip, unlike Chat GPT, which makes me look like a walrus. The really complicated thing is the tattoo itself, seeing which one would integrate it best. And it's true that it absolutely looks like real shadows,

the tattoo has been on my skin for a couple of months and looks quite realistic. Unlike the dragon that Chas GPT painted for me, which wasn't quite what I was looking for. I'm putting Gemini as the clear winner, since it only focuses on modifying what I asked for. In the end, neither Cha GPT nor Yemen are the best at everything. The key is understanding when to use one and when to use the other. Gemini is context, a global vision, while Chat GPT is speed,

precision, and structure. If you learn to combine them, they don't compete, but rather enhance each other. And that's the real leap in productivity: knowing which tool to use at each moment. If this video helped clarify this for you, leave me a like, subscribe, and activate the bell. And remember, intelligence Artificial doesn't replace someone who thinks, but it does replace someone who doesn't know how to use it. Yeah.