---
video_title: "¡GOOGLE lanza 4 funciones de IA que NADIE está usando! 🤯 (GRATIS)"
video_id: gfkzri_3SyM
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gfkzri_3SyM
video_date: 2025-08-18T17:00:53+00:00
video_description: |
  Google sigue sorprendiendo con la Inteligencia Artificial 🚀.
  En este vídeo te enseño 4 nuevas funciones ocultas que casi nadie está usando:
  1️⃣ Notebook LM ahora puede hacer resúmenes automáticos de vídeos.
  2️⃣ Gemini incluye un modo de aprendizaje guiado para idiomas y cualquier tema.
  3️⃣ Una nueva gema creativa que permite generar cuentos únicos con IA.
  4️⃣ Opal, la herramienta que automatiza tareas y te ahorra tiempo.
  
  Lo mejor: ¡todo esto está disponible GRATIS! 🙌
  
  ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: 💼optimizacion.empresas@gmail.com
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  🔔 Suscríbete y activa la campanita para no perderte más vídeos sobre Inteligencia Artificial.
  
  🔗 Enlaces:
  - NotebookLM: https://notebooklm.google.com/
  - Gemini Gems: https://gemini.google.com/gems/view
  - Gemini Aprendizaje Guiado: https://gemini.google.com/app?hl=es-ES
  🔗 Prompts utilizados: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfn2qrIHv0IhRsq4bVV3wC7O00Xk0SRIxmT9vYwHjyt31BF0w/viewform?usp=sharing&ouid=117813617178051035877
  
  👇 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:29 Caso Crear StoryBook
  03:41 Caso Aprendizaje Guiado
  05:00 Caso Resumen de Vídeo
  07:36 Caso Opal
  08:00 Reflexión  
  
  👉 Mira el vídeo completo para descubrir cómo aprovechar estas funciones antes que nadie.
  
  #ia #gemini #notebooklm #storybook #resumenvideo #aprenderidiomas #automatización
---
While many are talking about CH GPT5, Google has just launched four new features that can change your life today, and best of all, they're completely free. One of them can teach you any language in record time. Another can write a personalized story with just a photo of you, and yet another can make videos in seconds. And as a bonus, I'll tell you about a secret feature that 's only available in the United States and that almost no one knows about. Let's get started. Imagine you pass

a photo of yourself to the AI, and in a matter of seconds, it creates a story where you're the protagonist. To do this, we have to go to Gemini. Here in the section on the left, we have Explore Jens, which, in the end, Explore Jens is like the GPTs within CH GPT, which are personalized assistants trained for a specific task. If we go here to Explore Jens, we have a new one that Google has introduced, which would be this one from the storybook. And as you can see, it's being tested. We access it and pass it the following prompt. I'm making up a story about how

I became, and I'm attaching a photo of myself now, the first programmer who adapted to AI and built a great personal brand. The goal is to highlight the image of struggle and self-improvement so that in the future I can sell consulting services. The target audience is between 15 and 20 years old, and we're going to upload a photo of myself, and I'll have one attached. We can create a children's story, yes, but we can take it a step further to create a storytelling about ourselves with the goal of perhaps offering consulting or a specific service in the future. Just because it's a story doesn't mean it has to be childish, always aiming to get the most out of it and make a profit. And

we're going to hit send. In just a few seconds, we'll have it ready, and we'll see what the digital pioneer by my name has generated for us. And it's generated 10 pages, as you can see, each with a different chapter. I'll send it to you so you can read it. Each page, as you can see, has a different photo. There was a moment of frustration, of wanting

to throw in the towel. The code wasn't working. The algorithms refused to cooperate, but every mistake was an injury, and every failure a step closer to success. We also have the option of reproducing it if we press listen. He spent entire nights studying, experimenting, learning how AI worked, not to compete against it, but to work with it. And as

Google has accustomed us to, we can also share the story, even print it. If we press print and select save as PDF, we would have the book that the AI ​​generated for us . Now let's try it as if we were parents and we want to generate a story for our children. We'll send you the following: I want you to use the same photo to generate a children's story about me being a superhero dad, with the goal of getting my 6-year-old son to read my story. Press send, and in just a few seconds we'll have the story for our children. Let's press

listen. Superhero Dad. In a house full of laughter and games lived a very special boy named Leo. We can even use the name of our child or children to make it even more personalized. We're going to flip through the pages, which is quite childlike and dynamic. And you,

if you're a mom or dad, are going to create the personalized story for your children. I'll read it to you via comments. The new implementation that Gemini has introduced is guided learning. As you can see below, this isn't simply a translator; it's like having a teacher at your side, available for you. Let's select it and send it the next one soon. I'm going to Japan on a trip in a month

and I want to learn this language to communicate the basics. Can you teach me this language without it being boring and, most importantly, make it easy for me, since I have a hard time learning new languages? And we'll hit send. It asks me how I want to approach it, whether I should use more formal or informal greetings, and we'll say formal. Here it tells us that the most common greeting for saying good morning is Ohio Gosaimasu. The truth is, I have no idea how to pronounce Japanese, and

we're going to give you the following. Could you tell me what each sentence would sound like in Spanish so I can understand it better? It would read "Ohio Gosaiu." Now, what do you think about trying a Japanese afternoon greeting to say good afternoon? It would be coniguous. Many cases and many tests to learn any

language. And not just language, we've already talked about how you can learn history, programming, and whatever you need. And what are you going to learn with this? We move on to Notebook LM, in which we'll generate presentations with audio and content generated by AI. Once we're in Notebook LM, here in the selected sources, it's based on the video I'll leave you up here, in which I discuss Notebook LM in more depth and how we can do these types of searches. Once we have the source we want selected,

here in the video summary section, which I'm going to go to another one, since I just used all my credits on this one, you have the option to customize. And why do I want to access it here? Because if we click here, down here it tells us that only the English language is available. And what we can do is customize this prompt and send it the next one. It generates the presentation video in Spanish, both the audio and the content, because if we don't tell it that, it'll generate it like it did in English for me. If we play the one it generated in English,

but once we send it that, it doesn't end up in Spanish, but at least the most important thing for me is the content being in Spanish. Why? Because if we play it, why? Because we would have to create the content ourselves, change the language. But if it's only the audio that's in English and we want it in Spanish, just by downloading the video here and passing the audio to Labs or some AI that converts the audio from English to Spanish or vice versa, we would already have it in Spanish. This is by searching for sources on the internet,

as is the case with personal finance. What happens? We can even add a document to it. Let's suppose we have a PDF document about the spatial area and we want it to generate a video summary from that PDF. Tell me, what do you think about being able to generate presentation videos now with AI? It's true that the language isn't entirely defined in Spanish,

but hey, it's not a problem since we can change it, and what matters, as I said, is that the content is in Spanish, as is the case with these slides, which are in Spanish. And you have a presentation pending, Opal. And this secret Opal feature is currently only available in the United States. But if you're from another country, you can use a VPN and connect. What it does is take process and task automation to the next level. As soon as it's available here in Spain, I'll make a specific video just

talking about that application, since it's quite comprehensive and you can get a lot out of it. Thoughts. These features have just been released, and very few people are using them. Which one are you going to try first? Let me know in the comments. And if you want me to bring you more news and hidden Google tricks,

leave a like, subscribe, and activate the bell; what's coming is much bigger. Yeah.