---
video_title: "🚀 El navegador con IA que trabaja por ti (¡ADIÓS Chrome!)"
video_id: VPC-WDlSur0
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VPC-WDlSur0
video_date: 2025-10-20T17:00:45+00:00
video_description: |
  Perplexity acaba de lanzar COMET, un nuevo navegador con inteligencia artificial que promete cambiar por completo la forma en la que usamos Internet.
  En este vídeo te muestro qué es COMET, cómo funciona este navegador del futuro, y 11 casos de uso reales que demuestran por qué podría superar incluso a Google Chrome.
  
  Te enseño cómo COMET integra la potencia de Perplexity AI directamente en el navegador, permitiéndote navegar, buscar y automatizar tareas sin salir de una sola pestaña. 🚀
  
  👉 Prompts: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdEWqcsn1dEAljSld4kyrs_R9HgVV7enbDMjLpxUwLQ4D7Yfg/viewform?usp=sharing&ouid=117813617178051035877
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  🔗 Enlaces: 
  👉 Comet:  https://www.perplexity.ai/comet
  
  👇 Cuéntame en los comentarios:
  ¿Crees que COMET sustituirá a Chrome o Edge en el futuro?
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:45 Instalación
  01:08 Caso Aplicar Cupones Descuento
  02:31 Caso Planificar Ruta Google Maps
  04:17 Caso Hoja de Cálculos
  06:03 Caso Modo Voz
  07:16 Caso Resumir Vídeos YouTube
  08:45 Caso Redactar Emails
  09:47  Configurar Privacidad
  10:44 Reflexión
  
  #Perplexity #Comet #InteligenciaArtificial #NavegadorIA
---
And if your browser stopped being a simple page viewer and started acting for you, Perplexity just launched something that could completely change the way we use the internet: a browser with built-in artificial intelligence agents. Imagine, you're on Google Maps, you say, "Give me a route comparing these points," and the browser moves the mouse and traces the route for you. Or you're in an online store and you ask it to add a product to the cart, look for coupons, and do it all for you. This is what Comet promises, the new browser from Perplexity, which not only responds, but also acts. In this video, I'll show you several examples of what you can do. Let's get started.

We begin by installing Comet, which I'll leave the link in the description. We have to click this button here. Once we have the installer downloaded, we click on start installation. We wait a few seconds for all the packages to download. We launch Comet. Once we have it configured with our Google account, it will be ready to use.

The first use case we're going to test is how to apply promotional codes with the AI ​​assistant. To do this, we're going to access an online store. In my case, I'm going to enter the Prosis website in the search engine, which is a sports supplement store. We access the first page, and once we've finished our shopping cart, we see a promotional codes section. It always comes to mind, "Hey, there must be some promotional code I can apply to get a discount, even if it's just €5 or €10." This is where

the magic of her assistant comes in. If we click on the assistant and send it the following prompt, which I'll leave below in the description, it will locate any promotional codes for our products from different sources. If you see the screen turn blue, it means that the assistant has control of our browser and will check each promotional code. And we had already entered a code that worked, and it tells us, "The Málaga Entrena discount code works correctly at Prosi. Apply €10.50 and

add several gifts to your cart." We select a gift and here we see that the Málaga Entrena code is applied to our gift and here we have the -€10.50 discount. It really surprises me, and we can apply this to any online store. The next use case we're going to test is how it behaves when planning a route for us on Google Maps. To do this, we have to click here in the search engine and enter Google Maps. Once

inside, we have to locate our destination. In my case, let's say I'm staying at this hotel called Ibis Sevilla. What is the objective I want to ask our assistant? Plan a route to visit the most important monuments in Seville Center, marking places to eat typical food that have more than four stars in Google reviews . All of this has to be enough time to see it in one day knowing that my hotel is the one I marked.

I don't even tell him it's the Ibis, but we send him the following pronoun, which I'll leave in the description. He 's already got our hotel as a reference and will now make the various stops so we can see the most important monuments in one day. And that's it, after a few minutes it tells us, "Ready, I've marked the route on Google Maps with the first 10 most important destinations. Seville Cathedral, Real Arcázar, Santa Cruz neighborhood, Plaza de España, María Luisa Park, Torre del Oro and it also shows us the winery of the three columns and the La Girard brewery to the bar. And the most important thing is that it has marked the route here on Google Maps with the points at which we have to stop. And this seems like a great help to me. It's no longer just asking CH GPT to

generate a planning for you, but we already have an AI assistant in which it transforms the main idea, which is what we want to visit, but now it marks it for us with this assistant itself on a map. Honestly, for any trip, it's a function that we should all use. The next use case that we are going to see is going to be how to implement our assistant for to help us with a spreadsheet. As we see here, I've designed a simple car sales spreadsheet, depending on the person, Luis, Ana, or José, how many cars they've sold during each month. And the goal is to ask our assistant the following: We click on "Assistant" here and send it the following avg. What we want is for it to calculate the total number of cars each person has sold

in row 13 , and for it to calculate the average in row 14. And we're not just looking for it to calculate it, but for it to fill it in for our Excel sheet. To do this, we're also going to ask it to fill in each value correctly and click "Send. " Currently, we have a blue screen, which means it has control of our browser and will apply the formulas to each column. As we can see, it's not just enough for it to give you results; it's working for you. You don't have to do anything at all. I had to make

a small change to the avg, which I'll also leave in the column, I promise. The goal is to not only show the result in the column, but also the formula in case I modify tomorrow , for example, Luis, who sold 158 cars in July, to say that he sold 160 cars, and the total is automatically modified. Perfect. And I'd be done. If we review the columns, we see that each one has its own formula to calculate the total and to calculate the average based on the total. It leaves me speechless. In this new use case, we're going to test

how voice mode behaves, and we're going to ask it the following: Hello, can you hear me? Yes, I can hear you fine. What do you need? I'm from a town in Seville called Carmona, and I need to renew my car's MOT. Can you access the page where I need to renew this MOT?

Amazing. And we'll say up to the point to fill in our details. You can select the municipality of Carmona in the province of Seville.

You can select the Carmona ITV station and help me book my appointment to register my vehicle. Honestly, it amazes me because I don't even have to type anymore, and we can use this same thing to search for any government document we can't find. In my case, I used the ITV as an example, but you can apply it to filing your tax return or renewing your ID. In this new use case, we're going to check how it behaves on YouTube and we're going to ask it the following. We already see that it's detected that it's on YouTube and is in one of my videos. This video is 17 minutes long, and I'm in a hurry, so we're going

to send them the following prompt, which I'll leave in the description. I'm going to ask it to give me a summary of the most important points of this video and to detail where each point is located in the video. That is, to give me the exact minute so I can jump to the part I'm interested in, and we'll hit send. What this is going to do is transcribe the entire video in a minute and extract the key points. We already have it here, a general summary, the key points of the video, and it tells me the exact time, the section so I don't have to waste time watching the entire video, but instead go straight to what interests me. We actually applied this to

a 17-minute video of mine, but what makes you think you can't apply it to a podcast that lasts an hour, an hour and a half on nutrition, and you're only interested in a specific part? The truth is that this assistant is streamlining things a lot for us, allowing us to increase our productivity. I know I'm emphasizing each point so much that I'm amazed, but this really is the future of browsers. We no longer have to think or waste so much time doing things that an assistant can do. As we can see, another use case in which we can take advantage of this assistant is to compose emails for us.

Here on the screen, I've entered "aesthetic clinic in Seville," and we're going to click on the assistant. We'll send you the following avg. Take the email from the aesthetic clinic that appears on the screen, Astetic. Edit a Gmail and leave it for me in the draft with the aim of offering this clinic a task automation service that you think is interesting to offer to a clinic. Aesthetics and highlighting the benefit you can get by hiring my service. And we hit

send, and it offers us what you'd like to change about this email. Once we've reviewed it, we hit skip, and it tells us it's ready. If we access our email and go to drafts, the message would already be there. Hello, Astetic team. I introduce myself as an automation specialist through the automation of tasks such as scheduling . We can schedule a call this week. Best regards, José Ángel. The most

important point we have to keep in mind when using this browser is the issue of our privacy. To do this, we have to click on our profile ball here. Click on customize profile, click done, and here in the privacy and security section, here in privacy details, I only recommend leaving the " Comit assistant" option checked. The rest would ideally be unchecked so that we don't receive hyper-personalized advertising. Therefore, to avoid these risks of receiving hyper-personalized advertising, we only leave the "Comit assistant" option checked. And finally, as a piece of advice, I also don't recommend

using your personal account where you have sensitive data. That is, you should set up a secondary account to avoid any data leaks if they occur. The most striking thing about Comet today is what it hints at for the future: a browser that thinks, acts, and collaborates with you. In the end, the browser with the most features won't win, but rather the one that uses the least to do the most. And if this content has been helpful to you, subscribe and hit the bell.

The next revolution won't be searching the internet; it will be the internet searching for you.