---
video_title: "La IA GRATIS de Google que NADIE está aprovechando 🚀"
video_id: fR3gCkZBvXQ
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fR3gCkZBvXQ
video_date: 2025-08-11
video_description: |
  🔗 Prompts utilizados: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSd8N8SKc3-VAriCqesbbdiPu2ZpmlGBGuUi7OK6EFSBK_Ub7Q/viewform?usp=sharing&ouid=117813617178051035877
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  Google lo ha vuelto a hacer… 💥
  Ha lanzado Gemini Code Assist, una herramienta que puede cambiar la forma en la que trabajas, tanto si eres programador como si no tienes ni idea de código.
  
  En este vídeo te enseño qué es, cómo instalarlo y cómo usarlo para automatizar tareas, crear proyectos y hasta aumentar tu productividad sin esfuerzo.
  
  Lo mejor: es totalmente GRATIS y casi nadie la está aprovechando todavía.
  
  ⏩ No dejes pasar esta oportunidad y descubre todo el potencial de Gemini Code Assist.
  
  
  🔔 Suscríbete y activa la campanita para no perderte más vídeos sobre Inteligencia Artificial.
  
  🔗 Enlaces:
  Visual Studio Code: https://code.visualstudio.com/download
  
  👇 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  01:05 Instalación & Configuración 
  03:09 Caso Modo Buscador 
  04:27 Caso Crear una App
  06:40 Caso Crear Dashboard Análisis de Ventas
  09:17 Caso Crear Agente Personalizado
  11:29 Caso Crear Presentación
  12:39 Reflexión
  
  #gemini #geminicodeassists #programador #developer #ia
---
What if I told you that a few months ago Google launched a free tool that turns Visual Studio Code into your new personal assistant with artificial intelligence? And no, it's not another chatbot, this is Gemini Code Assistant. And what it can do for you as an entrepreneur, programmer, or even if you don't know anything about coding, can save you hours of work and unlock your full potential with AI. Today I'll show you how to install it, how to use it, and, above all, how to apply this technology in your real-life daily life without any theory. What is Gemini Code Assistant? It's a Google extension that connects

Visual Studio Code with its Gemini 2.5 Pro model. The best part is that you don't need advanced knowledge, although it may be hard to believe. Just install it, connect your Google account, and that's it. You can use up to 60 requests per minute and a total of 1,000 requests per day. And you'll think, "What if I spend

those requests?" Just by changing your Google account, you'll have another 1,000 requests, so it's totally free. The first step would be to have Visual Studio Code installed. To do this, we go to the official Visual Studio Code page, which I'll leave in the video description, and download it. Once it's downloaded, it's a matter of installing it. Run it, accept, next, next, next. Install it. Once

it's installed, all we have to do is go to the extensions section and type in Gemini. We'd have to download this Gemini Code Assist and click the install button. It would now be installed here on the left. The Gemini icon appears here , and now we have to link it to our Google account. We allow access, log in with our account, and our account would be authorized.

We return to Visual Studio Code, and here we have Google Gemini Code Assist installed, but we're going to go one step further and also install the personal agent. As you can see, there's no button for the personal agent here. What we have to do now is go to the search engine, up here, and type the following: greater than symbol, and we write open user setting and select the one that is JSON. We're going to modify the content of this JS and we're going to enter the following. Once we've entered this, what we have to do is save it and press the control key S and down here it says updating. Once it finishes updating,

what we have to do is reload the Visual Studio Code page. If we now click on reload, the agent mode should appear here on the left. And indeed, here we would already have the agent button. And finally, for personal taste, I would like to have the code part on the left and the Gemini Code Assist part on the right. Up here in the name, if we right-click, we can move the slider to the right. Click and we would have it

integrated here on the right. Once we have the Gemini Code Assist part configured, we move on to the practical cases. Let's start by testing it in search mode to see if it finds the data we need. Here I'm asking for the customer service number, contact email, and address of a MediaMark located in Seville to return a computer, and we're going to hit send. Always remember to have agent mode selected. As you can see,

this error just popped up, and this is because we need to allow Yemin access to a folder on our computer, so we create one on the desktop called "others" or "test Yemini" and give it access to that folder. So, if we go to the desktop and click "New Folder" and select "others" and insert a text file here. "Hello." If we go to Visual Studio Code, click "File," "Open Folder," and select "others." We select the folder, and it will now have access.

We send the same request again as before, click "send," and it will finally find it for us. In a matter of seconds, we'd have what we asked for: the address, contact phone number, and email address. The email tells us you can contact her through a form on her website. Let's move on to the next level. Let's put it to the test by asking her to I created an application for managing appointments at a men's hair salon. In this application, I indicated

a series of prices depending on whether he only wanted a haircut or a beard cut, and that the app should be modern. We'll press run. In a matter of seconds, he told me the main features of the application, the appointment system, which will be simple, and a list of scheduled appointments. And a little bit about the design. He asked me if this plan seemed okay to me to begin developing the prototype for the Pain Jose application. And I told him yes

. So to speak, the objective of giving Gemini permission to a folder on our computer is primarily so that, once the application is configured and designed, it can be placed in said folder. In just a few minutes, the application would be created, and here it tells us that we have it on port 3000, but I get an error about that port and it just created it on port 3002. If we open it, this would be the application that was just created for us in a matter of minutes. Let's remember this. Here we have to choose the service, the date and time, and an email address.

Let's select, for example, the haircut and beard for tomorrow at 11 a.m. Here we can specify the schedule in much greater detail, including how long each session takes. We can say, "Well, look, it takes half an hour for haircuts and 15 minutes for beard cuts." We enter an email address @joseggmail.com

and confirm the appointment, and it tells us "Appointment Confirmed." Thank you for booking. Your appointment with a haircut for that day has been confirmed. Check your confirmation email. We'll see you soon. As you can see,

this makes a lot of things easier for us. This, of course, then needs to be linked to a database and uploaded to a server. But the application code itself would be ready; it would just require modifying minor details. And if we go to the "Other" folder, here at Pain Jose we would have all the code that Gemini Code Assis created. Tell me what you think of this marvel.

Let's assume we have a car dealership. I just asked you to create a fictitious sales CSV for a car dealership that sells cars throughout Spain, and you're going to create it for me. We accept, and you just told us that you just created it in the desktop folder within "Others." If we go to the "Others" folder, we have dealership sales. If we open that CSV, the sales ID, sale date, make, model, province, price, interest, taxes, final price, profit, and customer name. Now we ask you to create a dynamic, interactive, and modern dashboard

based on the CSV you just created of the sales of a dealership located in the "Others" folder on my computer's desktop. We want the visualizations: a line chart showing total sales over time by month and week, a bar chart, a heat map or bar graph showing sales by region , and a card with the total sales KPI and interactive filters. And we're going to hit send. As you can see, here we're asking it to search for a file located in my desktop folder, meaning I don't have to send it the CSV. Once it finds the CSV file, it generates the interactive dashboard with the necessary filters. Let's click yes.

It just told us that it would already be created in the Others folder. We go to the Others folder and there we have the dashboard. We double-click. This would be the dashboard it generated for us. Dealership sales dashboard. Total sales of €1,400,000. Regarding the filters

we requested, such as the provinces, if we select only Seville, it would change. If we select Alicante, the graphs would also change. Let's try with Malaga. Same thing. Let's select all. Car brands, exactly the same. Here we would have the

sales distribution graph by brand and the sales distribution graph by province. Here we can print it, we click on the camera and if we open the PNG that has been downloaded, it will only download the graph we have selected. Tell me what you think about the fact that in a matter of seconds from a CSV, if we are a company and we need an analysis of How our company is evolving, in a matter of seconds we have a dashboard on our company's sales , and you're going to use it for your company. We move on to creating our MD point file. What's the objective? In the end, an MD point is like the gems in Yemen or

the GPTs themselves in CH GPT. In the video I have, which I'm leaving up here for Gemini CLI, we also create an MD file that, so to speak, is a specialist in something we ask of it. Here I'm sending it the following instruction. Look for the key points analyzed in a diet consultation. Create an instruction to act as a nutrition specialist who creates complete diets depending on sex, age, habits, etc. Save the instruction in a

gemini.md file. We'll press enter. Here you would be compiling all the information to become a nutrition specialist. You would have finished creating the gemini.md file.

Here it tells us a bit about the first point, which would be a thorough initial evaluation, design of a personalized eating plan, nutritional education, monitoring, and adjustment. And we give him the following: Create a diet for an office worker who is 185 cm tall, weighs 76 kg, and is a 26-year-old man. His goal is to gain weight, goes to the gym 5 days a week, and walks 2 km daily. We'll hit send and ask him, since everything looks very compressed here in text, to create it in HTML. Here he tells me it's going to be called plalimentación.html

HTML on my desktop. We accept, and he tells us it would be created. If we click from here , we'd see what he's written: our profile, goals, physical activity, and a summary of the plan. Here we had the detailed plan for breakfast, mid-morning, lunch, and guidelines and tips, such as drinking between 2.5 and 3 L of water throughout the day. In a matter of

seconds, we'd have a personalized plan with our desired goal, such as, in this case, healthy eating. Tell me what you think about the power we can get out of this tool. As such, we can't tell you to create a presentation for us, but based on any document or information we tell you to look for, we can tell you the following: Create an HTML app in a simple presentation format with all the information about the diet. It should be very visual with graphic slides and images. And we'll hit send. We allow access,

and it tells us that it would have created the file "dietapresentación.html" in the "others" folder. If we go to the "others" folder, we would have "dietapresentación.html." We access it, and here we have it in presentation format. Diet plan. Objective: to increase muscle mass.

Your profile. Distribution of nutrient intake, meal one, meal two, meal three, snack, and dinner. Key habits for success. In a matter of seconds, we would have a presentation. Of course, we can also tell you about the design we would like for the presentation.

We can tell you to create a modern style, a dark style with different fonts and photos, so you can see how you can create a presentation based on a document. Reflection: Gemini CA isn't the future, it's not a fad, it's the future of working with AI, and the best part is that you can get it today for free and in your Visual Studio Code. If you want to work faster, automate, and improve your productivity without relying on other tools, this is your chance. And tell me in the comments which practical case from what we saw in the video you liked the most and, above all, which one you're going to implement. Subscribe, activate the bell, and share this video with someone who hasn't yet heard about this amazing Google tool. Yeah.