---
video_title: "Claude Code hace tu trabajo mientras tú descansas"
video_id: gX5Y3ixldLg
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gX5Y3ixldLg
video_date: 2026-04-20T17:01:00+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts utilizados en el vídeo: https://joseangelai.com/recursos
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  Esta IA ya no responde… TRABAJA POR TI.
  
  En este vídeo pongo a prueba Cloud Code con casos reales: desde automatizar tareas en tu ordenador hasta crear contenido y aplicaciones sin programar.
  
  El objetivo no es solo enseñarte la herramienta.
  
  Es que entiendas cómo puedes usarla para ahorrar tiempo… o incluso generar ingresos.
  
  🔥 Qué vas a aprender:
  
  🔹 Cómo funciona el modo Chat con respuestas visuales
  🔹 Cómo usar Cowork para automatizar tareas reales
  🔹 Cómo delegar trabajo repetitivo a la IA
  🔹 Cómo crear contenido automáticamente
  🔹 Cómo generar aplicaciones sin programar
  
  💰 Oportunidad:
  
  Miles de negocios siguen perdiendo tiempo en tareas manuales.
  Con esto puedes automatizar procesos y ofrecer servicios reales a empresas.
  
  💡 Si quieres aplicar esto a tu negocio o empezar a ofrecer este tipo de servicios:
  👉 Puedes verlo aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  🔗 Herramientas mencionadas:
  👉 Claude Code: https://claude.ai/new
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  
  00:00 Introducción
  00:25 Modo Chat (respuestas visuales)
  02:17 Qué es Cowork
  02:52 Compra automática en Mercadona
  05:04 Creación de contenido en Canva
  07:25 Automatización con Excel
  09:30  Automatización de publicaciones en Make
  12:21 Creación de app sin programar
  13:25 Oportunidad de negocio
  13:39 Importante
  
  #InteligenciaArtificial #ClaudeCode #CloudCode #IA #Automatizacion #IAparaNegocios #AgentesIA #Productividad #HerramientasIA #IA2026 #NegociosDigitales
---
What you're seeing isn't a demo; it's artificial intelligence using my computer, doing things for me without me touching a thing. In this video, we're going to test it at three levels: basic tasks, real automations, and finally, something I didn't expect. And if you have a business, stick around until the end because this could save you many hours of work. Let's get started. I'll leave all the promotional links I use in this video on my website, which you can find in the description below. Once we have Cloud installed, I've subscribed to

the Pro plan, which offers a series of features not included in the basic plan. I'll show you these features next, so we'll start with the basics and work our way up. The first thing we're going to test is the chat feature. Here we have different models. We have Opus 4.6, which is the most powerful, and I recommend using it

when creating applications. But for using the chat and asking basic questions, we'll always use Sonet 4.6. Once we have it selected, we'll add our request, in which I want it to create a plan for visiting the most typical monuments in Rome over 3 days, in an economical way, and above all, presented visually and in an easy-to- understand manner. Here we have the 3-day Rome itinerary. Unlike other

artificial intelligence models, this one, with its chat section, is much more visual. Day 1 includes the historic center and a visit to the Colosseum, and it also recommends a place to have lunch where it costs between €5 and €8. Day 2 recommends visiting the Vatican and the Tres Tabere, and Day 3 suggests visiting squares, fountains, and neighborhoods. It even shows the schedule for visiting each place. Finally, it concludes with a series of tips, such as transportation, free water, Roman coffee, and estimates of between €150 and €200 per person for the 3 days. This might seem trivial, but imagine this applied to real business data

. But that's not the interesting part. The interesting part comes now with the Cowork section. Now comes the powerful part. This isn't a chat; it's an agent that works for you. Let's start by

asking it for something very basic, yet very powerful. As you can see, the interface changes a bit, since we now have a section that says "Work on a project." If we click here, we can choose a folder on our computer. In my case, I'm going to select one on the desktop called " cloud," and then click "select folder" and "allow it to modify any type of file." Any file we request will be saved in that folder.

We'll add our request: that it access the Mercadona website, which is a grocery store, and place an order for me, filling my basket up to a limit of €150 with healthy food items, but not actually placing the order, just preparing it. We click "execute." Since this is the first time I'm using it, it tells me I need to have the Cloud extension installed in Google Chrome. To do this, we go to Google Chrome extensions. We click on "Discover more Chrome extensions" and search for "Cloud." We select it first and click "Add to

Chrome," and it's activated. It tells me that for security reasons it can't enter my password. It will take me to the Mercadona website so I can enter my password. I confirm that the extension is enabled and give it free rein for the food shopping experience, then click "Submit." As we can see on the right, we have the steps it will follow, such as navigating the Mercadona website, waiting for the user to log in, selecting products , and verifying the cart and total. It says it's already open, so we log in.

We go to the "Sign in" section. We sign in, confirming that I've already entered my email, and we'll be in the browser watching what it's doing. As we can see on the right, the cart is empty, and it's just finished searching for oils to add them to the cart one by one. We've added olive oil, and it's now displaying the items it finds. I'm eating fruit, adding a variety of healthy fruit. I've added a banana.

I'm going to add more units, and grapes too. And all of this without us having to do a single thing. And it's already telling us here that it's finished. It has filled the cart with a total of €90, well below the €150 limit, and the cart is broken down into fruits and vegetables, proteins, dairy, healthy carbohydrates, and healthy fats. If we access our cart, here are all the ingredients it has added, and indeed, a total of €90.60. Let's continue

leveling up. To do this, we'll click on the connectors function here (the plus sign) and add a new connector. As you can see, we can connect it to any type of application, since there are many connectors, but we're going to look for the Canvas connector. Once we have it, we click "Add." We log in to Canvas, allow access to the Cloud, and it 's authorized. And as we can see, Canvas is now connected. In this option, we can both allow

and deny certain types of permissions. In my case, we're going to enable them all. We're going back to the Cowor section and we're going to add our prompt. What we want here is for it to access Canvas and create five posts, one for each cake we're going to launch in our bakery. I'm applying this to a bakery, but you can apply it to any type of business with the different cake flavors, which are the ones I'm telling it to have here: pistachio, Oreo, Lotus, Kinder, Nosilla, like a carousel for Instagram. I'm also telling it to download the posts

it creates in Canvas and save them in a folder inside my own cloud folder, which will be called "Weekly Instagram," and then we click "Run." Now we have the task list it will carry out, such as creating a pistachio post in Canvas, creating a post for the Oreo cake, and then exporting and saving all the posts in the folder called " Weekly Instagram." Here we can see that you're working within Canvas. We would already have the pistachio cake carousel created with four different photos. We allow the folder creation. We can see that the Lotus post is already there. The Oreo post would also have

the different publications here, and we already have the result: six posts created and saved in your Canvas account. We can even edit some of them by clicking "Edit Kinder Cake" in the Canvas editor, then clicking "Open Link," which takes us directly to the Kinder Cake post in case we want to modify some text or even a photo. If you have a business, this replaces hours of work that could take you a week. In a matter of minutes, Cloud does it for you. And if you want to implement this in your business, I've included my website link in the description below. Now let's put it to the test by asking it to do some office work.

We'll attach our promo file; I have a file in downloads called "Car Sales" with some data, and I'm going to ask it to analyze the data, create a summary of the best-selling products and a visual graph, save the result as a new file, and then click "Submit." The task at hand is to locate the car sales file, analyze the data, create a new Excel spreadsheet with a summary and visual chart, and save the result to check for errors. We've granted access to the downloads folder. This is the car sales file, which contains the sales figures for each month. It also indicates that a file called "Car Sales Summary" has been created and saved in the downloads folder. This file contains the original data, which is the clean table with the

source data and regional totals, the summary, and the charts. If we access the downloads folder, we see the "Car Sales Summary" file. Opening it, we can see that the design has been improved, as it previously had virtually no formatting. We can see that the total for each year has been implemented here. Accessing the executive summary, we see the total for each year, the overall sales figures, the top-selling months in 2025, and a monthly breakdown comparing sales to the previous three years. Moving on to the graphs section,

we have two types of graphs: a bar graph that shows monthly sales. by year from 2023 to 2025, differentiated by color, and a line graph that is also interactive when you hover over it, and all of this can be modified if we need to change any data. This is real work, the work that a person does, but in this case, you're doing it alone, and now we're going to do something even more impressive. We've already seen how we can create automatic posts using Canvas, and now we're going to ask it to create an automation to publish automatically and on a schedule using the Make tool. To do this, we'll click the plus sign and then select connectors. We add

the connector, search for Make, and click Add. We log in with our account, accept everything, and click Allow. If we click on connectors now, we see that we already have the Make module added. And now we're going to ask it to do the following, without having absolutely any idea how Make works or how to create scenarios. Hello, I want to create an automation in Make that includes an AI module, either from Gemini or CH GPT, to generate photos and keep my AI-powered Instagram account active . The automation will create photos with text daily,

be published every day at 3 PM (Spanish time), and then send. The process involves checking Make's connections, designing and creating the scene, setting the time to 3 PM, adding an AI image generation module , and adding the Instagram publishing module. We'll enable it, and it will tell us that the scene is already created. All I need to do is connect it to Openi, meaning I'll enter my Openi username and connect it to my Instagram account. The steps are quite simple: just activate the power button, and it should be working. If we access the scenarios I have,

we see that I've already created today's scenario, which is for Instagram, at 3 PM. And if we access the scenario, here we have the two different modules that I need to configure: the GPT Chat module and the Instagram module. We see that it has correctly selected the Dali 3 template; the program needs to be created, and here's the Instagram account, which simply requires clicking the connect button and logging in with your account. And remember that your Instagram account must be a business account; it can't be a private account. Once you have that set up, click here, activate, and you're done. What do you think? Without

having any idea how to create an automation within Make using Cloud, we could have our automation up and running in just a few minutes? Let me know in the comments. Now let's create something from scratch. To do this, we access the code section, attach our program, select Opus version 4.6, and click submit. What we want here is a

simple web application to manage clients for a local business. It should have a form to add clients, a list of saved clients, a notes field, and a clean, modern interface. In just a few seconds, we'd have the application created. The application is ready and visible. If we access the folder I have on my cloud desktop, the clients.html file has been perfectly created. And if we open it, we see this: the client manager. We've already filled in the data

for a new client. We click "save client," and it's automatically added as a saved client. We can modify this data as needed. In the notes, we'll leave only "first" and click "save." It's saved. We can even delete it. We accept, and we've

created something so simple in a matter of seconds. And this is where the opportunity lies. Many businesses don't have automations in place, wasting time and not unlocking the potential of artificial intelligence. And you can implement this and get paid for it. If you'd like me to make a video implementing Cloud Code within Antigravity, let me know in the comments. And if you have

Having reached this point, you know what to do. Get hyped for this video, subscribe, and hit the notification bell so you don't miss any upcoming AI news. Remember that my WhatsApp community is still open and completely free. I've included the link below in the description. The difference is no longer about who works harder, but about who knows how to delegate, even to a machine.