---
video_title: "Google acaba de regalarte un Gestor Financiero que Trabaja por Ti"
video_id: n6aNsQbdL0Y
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n6aNsQbdL0Y
video_date: 2026-08-31
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts utilizados en el vídeo: https://joseangelai.com/recursos
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  Google acaba de regalarte una IA capaz de revisar tus facturas por ti.
  
  En este vídeo vamos a crear una aplicación web con Google AI Studio, Gemini y Google Sheets capaz de analizar grandes cantidades de facturas automáticamente.
  
  La aplicación permitirá subir múltiples facturas, extraer toda su información, detectar facturas duplicadas, analizar los gastos y encontrar posibles cambios de precios entre proveedores.
  
  Pero este vídeo NO va simplemente de extraer datos de facturas.
  
  👉 Va de convertir cientos de documentos que normalmente revisarías manualmente en información útil para controlar mejor las finanzas de una empresa.
  
  🔥 Qué vas a aprender en este vídeo:
  
  🔹 Cómo crear una aplicación de gestión de facturas con Google AI Studio.
  🔹 Cómo utilizar Gemini para analizar documentos automáticamente.
  🔹 Cómo subir múltiples facturas a la aplicación.
  🔹 Cómo extraer automáticamente los datos importantes de cada factura.
  🔹 Cómo guardar la información directamente en Google Sheets.
  🔹 Cómo detectar facturas duplicadas.
  🔹 Cómo identificar cambios de precio en proveedores.
  🔹 Cómo analizar cuánto está gastando realmente la empresa.
  🔹 Cómo conocer los proveedores que concentran una mayor parte del gasto.
  🔹 Cómo analizar el IVA de las facturas.
  🔹 Cómo consultar la situación de las facturas desde un dashboard.
  🔹 Cómo utilizar Gemini para generar análisis sobre la información financiera.
  🔹 Cómo convertir los datos de las facturas en información útil para tomar decisiones.
  
  💰 Oportunidad para empresas:
  
  La mayoría de negocios todavía:
  
  ❌ revisa las facturas manualmente.
  ❌ introduce los datos de cada factura a mano.
  ❌ utiliza diferentes documentos para controlar los gastos.
  ❌ tarda demasiado en detectar errores o duplicados.
  ❌ no sabe cuándo un proveedor ha aumentado sus precios.
  ❌ tiene dificultades para conocer cuánto está gastando realmente.
  ❌ pierde tiempo buscando información entre cientos de documentos.
  ❌ utiliza la IA únicamente para redactar textos.
  
  Con Google AI Studio, Gemini y Google Sheets podemos convertir este proceso en un sistema mucho más inteligente.
  
  La IA puede analizar las facturas y relacionar la información para detectar situaciones que podrían pasar desapercibidas durante una revisión manual.
  
  👉 Facturas duplicadas.
  👉 Cambios de precios.
  👉 Proveedores con mayor impacto en los gastos.
  👉 Evolución de los costes.
  👉 Distribución del IVA.
  👉 Información financiera relevante para el negocio.
  
  Y esto abre una oportunidad enorme para:
  
  👉 empresas.
  👉 autónomos.
  👉 comercios.
  👉 restaurantes.
  👉 constructoras.
  👉 empresas de reformas.
  👉 talleres.
  👉 agencias.
  👉 tiendas online.
  👉 negocios locales.
  👉 empresas que reciben grandes cantidades de facturas cada mes.
  
  Durante el vídeo utilizamos Google Sheets como base de datos porque es una opción sencilla y visual para entender cómo funciona todo el sistema.
  
  En una implementación real con mayor volumen de información, varios empleados, autenticación, permisos o información sensible, el sistema podría adaptarse utilizando una infraestructura y una base de datos más robustas.
  
  💡 Si quieres implementar algo parecido en tu empresa o necesitas adaptar la Inteligencia Artificial a tus propios procesos:
  
  👉 https://joseangelai.com/
  
  En mi web encontrarás tres servicios diferentes para empresas.
  
  📌 También puedes reservar una asesoría personalizada desde el comentario fijado.
  
  💼 Para colaboraciones o consultas:
  👉 joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  
  🔗 Herramientas utilizadas:
  
  👉 Google AI Studio:https://aistudio.google.com/apps
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  
  00:00 Introducción
  00:21 El problema
  00:48 Facturas a utilizar
  01:09 La base de datos
  01:48 Qué vamos a crear
  02:22 Creando la aplicación
  02:48 Misión 1: Procesar las Facturas 
  02:48 Misión 2: Encontrar Duplicados
  04:20 Misión 3: Controlar Proveedores y Precios
  05:36 Misión 4: Alertas de gastos
  06:42 Misión 5: Resumen de IVA
  07:27 Misión 6: Gemini Analiza todos los Gastos
  08:25 Misión 7: Pregunta a tus Facturas
  08:43 Misión 8: Generar informe PDF
  09:36 Que hemos construido
  09:58 Reflexión
  10:19 Importante
  
  #GoogleAIStudio #Gemini #GoogleSheets #InteligenciaArtificial #IA #IAparaEmpresas #Automatizacion #AutomatizacionEmpresarial #Facturas #FacturasIA #GestionDeFacturas #AnalisisDeDatos #Dashboard #DashboardIA #Negocios #Empresas #IAparaNegocios #AplicacionesIA #Google #Productividad #ConsultoriaIA #HerramientasIA #IA2026
---
A company can receive hundreds of invoices a month and not realize that a supplier has been raising prices for months, that they have duplicate invoices, or that their expenses are growing much faster than their sales. Today, we're going to create an application with Gemini that analyzes all those invoices at once and tells you exactly where you should be looking. The real problem isn't storing the invoices; the problem is that within those PDFs lies information that no one is really analyzing together. How much are you spending with each supplier? Which products have increased in price? Which categories are growing? How much VAT is being charged? Or have you

accidentally uploaded the same invoice twice? So, we're going to turn an entire folder full of PDFs into a financial control center. The invoices we'll use: For this demonstration, I've prepared 10 fictitious invoices. Each one corresponds to a month. This one would correspond to January, and this one to February. And so on with the rest.

I've even included two duplicate invoices to see if the application we're going to create can detect them. Our database. Here's a look at my hypothetical database for this bakery. First, we have this supplier sheet with five suppliers, and then this sheet, which is the invoice log, currently set up like this. Both tables are linked by the supplier ID field. The interesting thing about this application we're going

to create is that we won't have to enter any fields manually. We 'll simply send our invoices to Gemini, and the application will automatically populate all the columns based on the information it extracts from all our invoices. What will we build? The application will have six sections: suppliers, alerts, VAT, AI analysis, and a summary of our business. But the most important part is this: I'll be able to select multiple invoices at once, send them to Gemini, and it will extract all the information. And before we begin,

if you have a business and want to implement a system similar to this, I'll leave my contact email here so you can write to me without any obligation. You also have three different services available on my website. Now, let's build it. Google i Studio. The first thing we're going to do is access Google i Studio, which I'll link below in the description, along with all the promo files I'll be using in this video, which are available on my website completely free. Once we're in the app building section,

we'll select the following modules you see on the screen. We attach our promo file and click build. And there you have it, our application is created. Mission one: process all the invoices. Instead of uploading invoices one by one, we're going to upload all 10 invoices at once. To do this, we'll access our invoice upload section. Here, it indicates

that we can upload them in PDF, PNG, JPG, or any other format that best suits the invoices we generate in our business. Once we have it selected, we click "open" and see that the processing queue is handling the batch, meaning it goes from er to 10, which are the ones we're loading. Mission two: find the duplicates. Once the load is complete, we see that it has detected the duplicates. This invoice indicates that it's a duplicate and that it matches the number of the next invoice with the supplier for amount X. If we continue scrolling down, we see that the

same thing happens with this invoice, so of the 10 invoices we've loaded, two haven't been loaded because they're duplicates. The ones that have been loaded show them in green and the amount of each. If we scroll down here, showing eight of the eight invoices, we see the ones that have been loaded, differentiated by their status, the total, the VAT amount, and the most interesting thing is that if we access our Google Chip, we can see here in the invoice table that these eight have been loaded automatically without us having to type anything. Mission three: control suppliers and price. We access the section Regarding suppliers, here we have an analysis of suppliers and dependencies to see how our suppliers have behaved this year, specifically whether they've been gradually increasing the price of any product. These are my suppliers, and we see that two of them

are high risk and two others are medium risk. If we access the invoice for flour from Gran Sur, we see that the price has varied across the three invoices issued in January, March, and July . It started in January at €400, then dropped to €360 in March, but the last invoice issued in July was €575, which should raise a red flag and prompt us to change suppliers. If we access the invoice for Acteo Central, we see the same pattern. Following the same sequence, it started at €532, then rose to €600, and then climbed to almost €800. This type of information can remain hidden for months among your invoices

, leaving you unaware of price increases from your suppliers. Mission four: Spending alerts. In the alerts section, we can centralize everything that requires our attention. In our case, we have two types of alerts: one for high severity and another for medium severity. If we analyze each one, one would be the price increase for strong flour, which we saw earlier, indicating an 18% price increase.

The other is for an overdue invoice where we're awaiting a payment that hasn't yet been received. We can filter all our alerts by priority and type, and there's a button to mark the alert as resolved. This is where it starts to make sense for a real business, because ultimately, all companies have suppliers, and here we can see exactly what's throwing our operations off. If you'd like to implement something similar for your company, I'll leave my contact email here so you can get in touch. And I'd also like to remind you that I have three different services available on my website . Mission Five: VAT Summary. We can also automatically organize the VAT

shown on our invoices, as we can select by full year, quarter 1, quarter 2, quarter 3, and the system groups the taxable amount. For those of you who aren't from Spain, VAT is a tax. It provides a summary of how VAT has performed this year, since I have it set to full year, showing the total VAT paid, the total taxable amount, the total including VAT, and the invoices processed, in this case, eight. It's important to note that this is just a summary; it doesn't replace an accountant. It's simply to give us an idea of ​​approximately how much we have to pay. Mission six: Gemini analyzes

all expenses. Let's now access the analysis section, where Gemini performs an analysis of our expenses. In point one, we have the general diagnosis of our workshop, an opinion section: if only one thing could be done, what would it be? And it tells me to settle outstanding chocolate and dairy invoices to negotiate the price of strong flour, followed by the main sources of expenses in our business, recent changes and trends, alerts, risk points, savings and investment opportunities, and it ends with a tactical plan, that is, three actions recommended by Gemeny. Action one would be to renegotiate the price of strong flour. Action two would be to settle overdue payments, and

action three would be the quarterly purchase of a box of cakes. And most importantly, the economic impact of taking these three actions, as we see below each card. Mission seven, ask your invoices, and we can also talk directly with all our information. We access the "ask your invoices" section, and here we have our chat with a series of generic questions, since it would answer us based on all the information it has collected, in this case, invoices and suppliers. Mission eight, generate PDF report. And if I want to get

a summary of all my company's information, in this case, suppliers and invoices, simply By clicking the PDF report button, we would first get a cover page with general information, a financial executive summary, key metrics, a detailed invoice record, supplier and dependency analysis, raw material price trends, the alert center (i.e., what it has detected), a summary and audit of registered VAT, and a strategic recommendation. Then we can click the download PDF button, and we'll have the downloaded PDF, which is exactly the same as what I showed you earlier. And now we have a summary that's much easier to understand than a folder full of invoices. What have we

actually built? And look at the difference. At first, we had a folder full of invoices. Now we can upload them all together, check for duplicates, structure the data, monitor prices, analyze if any supplier has raised their prices, and even find anomalies and ask Gemini directly how to fix them. Reflection: a company doesn't need more data; it needs to identify the data that truly matters first, and I think that's where artificial intelligence becomes much more valuable than simply summarizing documents. And

I want to ask you a question. If Gemini could automatically analyze your company, what would be the first thing you'd want it to detect? Let me know in the comments. And if you liked this video, you know what to do. Give this video a thumbs up, subscribe, and turn on notifications so you don't miss any upcoming AI news. And remember, my

WhatsApp community is still open and completely free. I've included the link below in the description. M.