---
video_title: "Google acaba de Regalarte un Analista que Vigila tu Negocio"
video_id: akq0IhMlNtI
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=akq0IhMlNtI
video_date: 2026-08-24
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts utilizados en el vídeo: https://joseangelai.com/recursos
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  Google acaba de regalarte un centro de control con IA para tu empresa.
  
  En este vídeo vamos a convertir los datos de una empresa en un dashboard profesional utilizando Google AI Studio, Gemini y Google Sheets.
  
  Ventas, gastos, clientes, pedidos, productos y stock estarán conectados dentro de una misma aplicación para poder visualizar qué está ocurriendo en el negocio y tomar decisiones utilizando Inteligencia Artificial.
  
  Pero este vídeo NO va simplemente de crear un dashboard bonito.
  
  👉 Va de convertir los datos que una empresa ya genera todos los días en información realmente útil para tomar decisiones.
  
  🔥 Qué vas a aprender en este vídeo:
  
  🔹 Cómo estructurar los datos de una empresa en Google Sheets.
  🔹 Cómo conectar ventas, gastos, clientes, pedidos, productos y stock.
  🔹 Cómo crear un dashboard empresarial con Google AI Studio.
  🔹 Cómo sincronizar los nuevos datos de Google Sheets.
  🔹 Cómo visualizar las métricas más importantes del negocio.
  🔹 Cómo utilizar Gemini para analizar toda la información de la empresa.
  🔹 Cómo generar automáticamente un resumen ejecutivo.
  🔹 Cómo detectar tendencias, problemas y oportunidades con IA.
  🔹 Cómo obtener recomendaciones basadas en los datos reales del negocio.
  🔹 Cómo generar y descargar un informe profesional en PDF.
  
  💰 Oportunidad para empresas:
  
  La mayoría de negocios todavía:
  
  ❌ tiene la información repartida entre diferentes hojas de cálculo.
  ❌ revisa ventas y gastos manualmente.
  ❌ controla el stock sin alertas claras.
  ❌ tiene datos de clientes que apenas utiliza.
  ❌ prepara informes de forma manual.
  ❌ tarda demasiado en detectar problemas.
  ❌ toma decisiones sin tener todos los datos delante.
  ❌ utiliza la IA únicamente para generar textos.
  
  Con Google AI Studio, Gemini y Google Sheets podemos transformar esos datos en un verdadero centro de control para el negocio.
  
  La diferencia está en que Gemini no solamente muestra gráficas.
  
  👉 Puede analizar lo que está ocurriendo.
  👉 Relacionar diferentes áreas de la empresa.
  👉 Detectar información importante.
  👉 Y convertir todos esos datos en recomendaciones que ayuden a tomar mejores decisiones.
  
  Y esto abre una oportunidad enorme para:
  
  👉 empresas.
  👉 autónomos.
  👉 comercios.
  👉 restaurantes.
  👉 agencias.
  👉 consultores.
  👉 tiendas online.
  👉 negocios locales.
  👉 responsables de operaciones.
  👉 empresas que todavía gestionan gran parte de sus datos con Excel o Google Sheets.
  
  Durante el vídeo utilizamos Google Sheets como fuente de datos porque permite entender perfectamente el funcionamiento del sistema.
  
  En una implementación real con mayor volumen de información, varios empleados, autenticación, permisos o datos sensibles, el sistema podría adaptarse utilizando una infraestructura y base de datos más robustas.
  
  💡 Si quieres implementar algo parecido en tu empresa o necesitas adaptar la Inteligencia Artificial a tus propios procesos:
  
  👉 https://joseangelai.com/
  
  En mi web encontrarás tres servicios diferentes para empresas.
  
  📌 También puedes reservar una asesoría personalizada desde el comentario fijado.
  
  💼 Para colaboraciones o consultas:
  👉 joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  
  🔗 Herramientas utilizadas:
  
  👉 Google AI Studio: https://aistudio.google.com/apps
  
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  
  00:00 Introducción
  00:22 El problema
  00:47 La base de datos
  01:08 Que vamos a crear
  02:00 Crear aplicacion
  08:00 Reflexión final
  08:50 Importante
  
  #GoogleAIStudio #Gemini #GoogleSheets #InteligenciaArtificial #IA #IAparaEmpresas #Automatizacion #AutomatizacionEmpresarial #Dashboard #DashboardIA #Negocios #Empresas #AnalisisDeDatos #BusinessIntelligence #Productividad #AplicacionesIA #IAparaNegocios #Google #Emprendimiento #ConsultoriaIA #HerramientasIA #IA2026
---
Many companies have sales, expenses, customers, orders, and inventory scattered across spreadsheets, but the problem is that they have the data but don't know what's really happening in their business. Today, I'm going to transform a simple Google Sheet into an AI-powered control center capable of analyzing the company, detecting problems, and generating an executive report in PDF format. The problem is, having data doesn't mean understanding your business. You can have hundreds of sales recorded, perfect expense sheets , and all your inventory up to date. But if every time you want to know which product is performing best, what expenses you're incurring, or which customers you need to win back, you have to manually filter through all these spreadsheets. And in the end, that just boils down to a waste of time.

So, let's centralize everything. The database. For this demonstration, I'm going to use a fictitious database. In this case, I'm going to unify everything in a single Google Sheet, differentiated by six different tabs: one for expenses, one for customers, one for orders, one for suppliers, one for sales, and one for inventory. Each table has its own unique IDs so that they are all related to each other. What are we going to create?

What I want to build is a system where, instead of having to navigate through six different sheets every time I want to review data, everything is unified in a single view—a dashboard— and includes two key functions. One is an automatic update button for our Google Sheet, so that when we enter a new order, we can click "sync" in our dashboard and it's automatically added, keeping them connected. The other is a Yemen button that analyzes how my business is performing and whether I need to restock or if any orders are at risk—essentially, an AI assistant within my own dashboard. Before we begin, if you'd like to set up something similar for your business with real data, you can email me directly at the address I've included here. Now, let's get started. To

build it, we'll open Google i Studio and select the four modules displayed on the screen, then import our promo. I'll make this promo available completely free of charge on my website, which you can find linked below in the description. Once we have it, we click " Build" and then select our style. We now have the result, and it's exactly what I wanted. Before, we had six Google Sheets, all unified in one dashboard , and it's perfectly understandable. First, we have an executive summary with

monthly revenue, monthly expenses, estimated results, pending orders, active customers, and critical stock. Up here, we have two buttons for two important functions: one to sync with our Google Sheet and another for our Gemin assistant, which we'll look at later. Scrolling down a bit, we have the section for today's critical status in your company, meaning what we need to resolve urgently. We continue with the analysis of interactive charts. One chart shows the evolution of revenue, quite visual, and another shows revenue versus expenses. Another shows sales by the different

categories in our business, the top-selling products, orders by status (in this case, all delivered), and the evolution of active customers, that is, how our customer base has grown. Now we move on to the sales section. It would show us the total revenue, the number of sales, the average ticket price, the best sales day, and the top-selling products—in this case, the complete candy table. Below that, we see all the sales we have in our Google Chip. We also have a button if we want to register a new sale, which would automatically update in our Google Chip. In the

expense control section, we have the total expenses, the average expenses, the largest category (personnel and salaries, which account for about €12,000), and the largest supplier (in this case, HL), which indicates that it has detected four critical anomalies. There's also a graph of expenses by category and all the itemized expenses, which are the same as those we have in our Google Chip. Let's continue with the clients...

In this section, we have the total number of clients, which in this case indicates we have 121. If we access our Google Sheet, it's correct; we have 121 because it shows 122 there, but if we remove the header line, it's 121. Let's add a new client here in our Google Sheet and click " Sync" to see if it syncs correctly. Once it's added, we access our dashboard and click "Update Data." It automatically tells us that the data has synced correctly and indicates that we now have 122 active clients, so the connection is working perfectly. A very important section within the client data is "

Recovery Clients," that is, clients who haven't made a purchase in over 60 days. Here we have their last purchase, when it was made, how much they spent, and a contact form to reach them directly via email. This client section also includes a directory of all our clients. In order management, we have orders placed today, orders for tomorrow, overdue orders, and the outstanding balance. In this case, we would have all the orders here with their different statuses. And here

we could directly change the status to confirmed, ready, delivered, or canceled. We can view this in table, chart, or calendar format. Now we move on to the product catalog, where we have active products, units sold, revenue generated, and the overall average margin, followed by high-volume, high-profit items, which it indicates would include custom fondant cakes and custom superhero cakes. Finally, with a ranking of the best-selling products, the stock section in the side menu indicates a critical status, which we need to review urgently. We have 25 items in good condition . Seven items are marked as yellow (low stock). Fourteen items are marked as critical (red), requiring

replenishment. Four items are out of stock. It provides a recommendation for inventory replenishment, differentiated by priority. In this case, we would absolutely have to buy the animal cake, the video game cake, and below, the entire inventory where we can add stock. The most interesting feature, in my opinion, would be this AI analysis tool. If we activate it, it would generate an executive summary of the overall status,

what's going well, detected alerts, opportunities, three recommended decisions, and another section asking if we could only do one thing this week—what would it be? In other words, the most urgent task. There's also a chatbot in case we want to ask related questions like, "Which product generates the most revenue?" or "Which product has the highest margin?" If we ask, for example, "Which product generates the most revenue?", the chatbot would gather all the information about our products

and give us an answer. The product that generates the most revenue is the complete dessert table, that is, the events cake. And to think that this executive summary we generated earlier can be exported to PDF. If you click "Generate PDF Report," it will download right here, as you can see. Open it, and you'll have an eight-page executive summary with all the information from your dashboard. Finally, this application has a settings section, and

in the "Spreadsheet ID" field, you'll need to enter your spreadsheet's ID . In other words, in your spreadsheet, click "Share" and then "Copy Link." Paste it here and click "Save and Connect." This demo uses a bakery and Google Chip because I want it to be easy to understand. But imagine this system connected to your real database of customers, inventory, and sales. If you'd like me to explore building something

similar tailored to your business, I'll leave my contact email here, where you can reach me without any obligation. I also have three different services available on my website. In this case, we used Google Chip because it's perfect for a demonstration, especially for small businesses. In an implementation with more users, more sales, that is, with a flow For larger datasets, we would use a more robust database and an architecture tailored to the specific case. The important thing is that the concept will remain the same. Having a lot of data doesn't

automatically make a company intelligent. The real change happens when you can transform all that data into decisions without having to spend hours interpreting a database. If you liked this video, you know what to do. Give it hype, subscribe, and turn on notifications so you don't miss the next AI updates. And remember, my WhatsApp community is still open and completely free. I've included the link below in the description. M.