---
video_title: "Google acaba de regalarte un Departamento de Presupuestos con IA"
video_id: uCvDtmVELkI
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uCvDtmVELkI
video_date: 2026-08-10T17:00:09+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts utilizados en el vídeo: https://joseangelai.com/recursos
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  Google acaba de regalarte un comercial capaz de preparar presupuestos por ti.
  
  En este vídeo vamos a crear una aplicación web con Google AI Studio, Gemini y Google Sheets capaz de recibir solicitudes de clientes, analizar la información, detectar qué datos faltan, calcular una estimación inicial, generar un presupuesto profesional y organizar todas las oportunidades comerciales desde un único panel.
  
  Pero este vídeo NO va simplemente de crear una página web bonita.
  
  👉 Va de entender cómo cualquier empresa puede convertir una consulta comercial en una propuesta preparada para revisar y enviar.
  
  🔥 Qué vas a aprender en este vídeo:
  
  🔹 Cómo crear una aplicación web completa con Google AI Studio.
  🔹 Cómo utilizar una plantilla de precios como fuente de conocimiento para Gemini.
  🔹 Cómo recibir solicitudes mediante un formulario.
  🔹 Cómo importar correos, mensajes de WhatsApp y notas de llamadas.
  🔹 Cómo detectar automáticamente información ausente.
  🔹 Cómo clasificar una solicitud según su viabilidad.
  🔹 Cómo generar partidas, materiales y mano de obra con IA.
  🔹 Cómo crear una estimación mínima, recomendada y máxima.
  🔹 Cómo generar propuestas comerciales profesionales en PDF.
  🔹 Cómo organizar clientes, presupuestos y seguimientos.
  🔹 Cómo utilizar Google Sheets como base de datos.
  🔹 Cómo preparar la aplicación para utilizar Firebase en una implementación más robusta.
  
  💰 Oportunidad para empresas:
  
  La mayoría de negocios todavía:
  
  ❌ tarda demasiado en responder presupuestos.
  ❌ utiliza documentos diferentes para cada cliente.
  ❌ busca precios y materiales manualmente.
  ❌ calcula márgenes sin un sistema centralizado.
  ❌ pierde oportunidades por no hacer seguimiento.
  ❌ guarda la información en correos, notas o conversaciones de WhatsApp.
  ❌ depende de que una persona recuerde cada próxima acción.
  ❌ utiliza la IA únicamente para redactar textos.
  
  Con Google AI Studio y Gemini puedes crear sistemas en los que la Inteligencia Artificial utiliza los precios, servicios, condiciones y reglas reales de una empresa para preparar una propuesta mucho más completa.
  
  Y esto abre una oportunidad enorme para:
  
  👉 constructoras.
  👉 empresas de reformas.
  👉 instaladores.
  👉 talleres.
  👉 agencias.
  👉 consultores.
  👉 autónomos.
  👉 empresas de climatización.
  👉 servicios técnicos.
  👉 negocios que trabajan con presupuestos personalizados.
  
  Durante el vídeo utilizamos Google Sheets como base de datos porque es una opción gratuita, visual y fácil de entender.
  
  En una implementación real con varios empleados, mayor volumen de solicitudes, autenticación, permisos o información sensible, utilizaríamos una base de datos más robusta, como Firebase.
  
  El apartado privado aparece dentro de la misma aplicación únicamente para poder enseñar todas las funciones durante la demostración.
  
  En producción, esta sección estaría separada y protegida para que solo pudiera acceder el propietario o su equipo.
  
  💡 Si quieres implementar este tipo de sistema en tu empresa o necesitas ayuda adaptándolo a tus precios, márgenes, servicios y proceso comercial:
  
  👉 https://joseangelai.com/
  
  En mi web encontrarás tres servicios diferentes para empresas.
  
  📌 También puedes reservar una asesoría personalizada desde el comentario fijado.
  
  💼 Para colaboraciones o consultas sin compromiso:
  👉 joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 También puedes entrar en mi comunidad gratuita de WhatsApp:
  👉 https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  🔗 Herramientas utilizadas:
  
  👉 Google AI Studio: https://aistudio.google.com/apps
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  
  00:00 Introducción
  00:25 El problema de los presupuestos manuales
  00:55 Qué vamos a construir
  02:39 Estimación frente a presupuesto definitivo
  03:06 Creando la aplicación en Google AI Studio
  11:23 Reflexión final
  12:02 Importante
  
  #GoogleAIStudio #Gemini #InteligenciaArtificial #IA #AgentesIA #Automatizacion #IAparaEmpresas #Negocios #Empresas #Presupuestos #PresupuestosIA #AutomatizacionEmpresarial #GoogleSheets #Firebase #AplicacionesIA #IAparaNegocios #Reformas #Constructoras #Ventas #CRM #Productividad #Emprendimiento #Freelance #ConsultoriaIA #HerramientasIA #IA2026
---
A company can lose thousands of euros simply by taking too long to prepare a quote, forgetting to follow up, or sending an unprofessional proposal. Today, we're going to create an AI-powered system that receives a request, calculates an estimate, generates a PDF quote, and automatically organizes all business opportunities. And we're going to do it using free Google tools. Problem statement: Most companies prepare their quotes in a very similar way. The client writes via email, WhatsApp, or simply a form. Then,

someone has to interpret the client's request, look up prices, calculate materials, add labor, and apply markups. The problem isn't just the time it takes. The real problem is that while you're preparing the quote, another business can respond first and win the client. What are we going to build? To solve this, we're going to create a web application for a fictitious company called Reformas Nova Sevilla. The

client will be able to enter the basic details of their project, and Yemini will use the company's real prices, terms , and rules to prepare an initial estimate. Afterward, the owner can review the items, modify prices, generate a professional proposal, download it as a PDF, and even send an email to the client—all controlled from a single dashboard. Before we begin, if you already have a business and want to set up a similar system, but adapted to your pricing, services, and actual sales process, you can email me at the address shown here. My website also offers three different services for businesses, and I'll leave a direct link in the pinned comment so you can book a private session. Now, let's get started. Before asking Yemen to generate anything for us, we need to provide it with the

necessary information about the company. Therefore, I've prepared this document with entirely fictitious, yet quite realistic, data. It includes company information, a service catalog, indicative pricing structure, levels of finish, calculation rules, complete examples of possible estimates, feasibility rules, the essential questions we must ask our client, commercial terms, security and limitations, and most importantly, the structure for how we want the system to respond to our client. A document like this is essential, as we need Yemini to understand how we evaluate and generate a budget. If we don't provide a document like this, all the data will be completely fictitious.

There's a key difference between an estimate and a final budget. This application shouldn't promise a final price for the renovation. The condition of the installations, access to the property, and many other factors can only be confirmed by a technical site visit. Therefore, this system will generate a preliminary estimate and indicate what information is missing to create the final budget. We access Google i Studio and select the following tools shown on screen, then attach our promo. Remember that all the promo templates I'm using in this video are

available completely free on my website. Then we click "Build." And here's the result. If we look at the side menu, we have two distinct views: the view the client would see and the view you, the business owner, would see. I'm showing this on a single screen to make it more visual in the video, but in real life, we would have two separate views, and the client wouldn't see our view, which would be this control panel view. Going back to the public-facing part that the client would see, we would have a

home window with this series of panels, and the most interesting thing is the "Request an Estimate" button. If we go to the "Request an Estimate" button, the client would fill in all their information and request a project description in this message. Once they have that, they would accept the terms and submit the request. Let's look at an example. To request this quote with this information, and above all, I want to let you know that I need to replace my kitchen floor and build an island that will be 2 meters wide by 1 meter high. Now, let's

request an estimate. Before clicking "Request Estimate," as you can see here on the right, I have two requests, so when you click the button, it should increase to three. Let's click it. It now tells us that the request has been received correctly, and if you look here in requests, we already have three requests. Let's click it. This is what we,

as the owners of our business, would see. Here we have the latest request from Ana Arenas Pérez, with her request and the clarification she needs. Here we could click "Open File," and we would see the client's information, the property details, logistics, an initial estimate of between €4,000 and €7,500, the feasibility assessment, and a pending report, meaning we still need to know the actual square footage, the plumbing installation requirements, and the type of flooring she wants in the kitchen. In the project description, we would have what the client has entered, a section for internal team notes in case we need to add anything, and the sales follow-up. Very important in the sales follow-up, the AI ​​recommends that we contact the client to find out the exact square footage of the kitchen and the type of flooring they want. We could then send, accept, or reject this. The

"How it Works" section would be the budgeting system. Here we would have an analysis of how it works and a call to action in case they have a project in mind that requires a quote. We now move on to the dashboard section, which has a very visual panel that includes total requests, quotes, total amount, and acceptance rate. There's also a box with recent requests, the Yemini assistant that automatically generates a feasibility analysis, and here we could click to generate line items, which would be the section for confirming a quote, not just making an initial estimate. Finally, the dashboard would end with the most requested services, which is "complete" followed by "kitchen," and a fairly interactive graph showing the monthly trends.

On this management dashboard, we could click the "Import Inquiry" button, which would be useful if we receive a request from outside our website, such as a quote request via WhatsApp or email. Here, we could extract and create our quote request. In the "Requests" section, we would find all the requests created by the client or by us. The interesting thing about this section is that when a new request is created, in addition to being automatically added, it's also added to a Google Chip. I have the Google Chip setup configured this way for visual clarity and ease of understanding, but if you need a more robust database, I would recommend Firebase or another database. Here we have my database, which is connected

to this application I'm showing you. It has extracted the data from my last request, in the case of Ana Arenas Pérez, including her email address and all the other information she provided. All of this is to maintain control over my request history. For requests that already have a viable path, [music] as is the case with this one from Manuel García Fernández, if we open the file and then select "prepare proposal," we would already have the entire proposal generated, including the total estimated investment. We could then send this by email [music] to our client and a copy to ourselves, or generate a PDF. If we click the "send by email" button, in this case, they would have my

email address as a test, and we would have the message generated by Gemini, personalized with all the details of the minimum, recommended, and maximum estimated costs. We can then click "send email," and it will tell us that the request has been sent, and we would have the email here . This email would be sent to both the client and me with all the details, including the contact phone number in case the client has any questions. And if we click Clicking the "Generate PDF" button will print the document as a PDF. Next, we have the budget section, which displays this view. Here, we can select the request we have. In this case, I'm going to

choose the most recent one from Ana Pérez, which is the one we just created. We now have a minimum estimate, a base recommended estimate, a maximum estimate, and a breakdown of the items— that is, the costs for each item we need to replace the flooring and build the kitchen island. Below, we can adjust the profit margin and the contingency reserve. In this case, I've set it to 5%. What's interesting about this? We don't have to

fill anything in, but we can modify everything. When you create a new client here, everything will appear blank, and if you click the "Suggest with Gemini" button, everything will be updated and automatically filled in. Then you simply need to change the quantity, description, or price if you're not satisfied. Even if we need to add another item, we can click the " Add Item" button, or even delete an existing one. Next, we have the client directory, which displays all our clients and their individual profiles. For example, if we click on our client's profile,

it will open their profile—in this case, for the kitchen. Now we move on to the follow-up section, which is very important. Here, we have a system for managing our clients so we don't lose track of any, using scheduling and follow-up. We can also add Google Calendar functionality to mark events on our calendar, such as contacting a client by phone to confirm the square footage and flooring type , and apply filters for upcoming or past appointments. There's also a statistics section, which displays the same information as the home screen, including the sales funnel for inquiries and the acceptance rate by specialty—all presented visually and dynamically. And finally, we have the configuration

and integration of our system, that is, the connection with our Google Sheet. Here, in the spreadsheet ID field, you'll need to enter your database ID (if you have it in Google Sheets) and the web URL of your AppScript. In my case, my Apple ID is this one, which I'll also include in the promotional document completely free of charge. Anyway, here's the code that 's automatically generated, which is fantastic for copying and pasting into your AppScript. And finishing up the inspection of the official pricing template for Seville 2026, I forgot to mention that we also have an AI co-pilot button in case we need to ask our chatbot any questions about a quote. This application was created for a

fictitious renovation company, but every business calculates its prices, margins, and even proposals in a completely different way. If you want a system adapted to your services, prices, and clients, I'll leave my contact email here so you can get in touch without any obligation. Reflection. The real opportunity of artificial intelligence isn't generating more documents, it's reducing the time between a client showing interest and a company delivering a professional proposal. Companies that respond faster, ask better questions, and follow up will have a much better chance of closing the sale. If

you liked this video, you know what to do. Give it hype, subscribe, and turn on notifications so you don't miss the latest news on artificial intelligence. And remember, my WhatsApp community is still open and completely free. I've included the link below in the description. Now tell me in the comments which company you would create a budget-generating app for.