---
video_title: "Google abre la puerta: apps Android al alcance de todos"
video_id: QbKNP8QWzz8
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QbKNP8QWzz8
video_date: 2026-06-08T17:00:09+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts utilizados en el vídeo: https://joseangelai.com/recursos
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  Google acaba de romper el desarrollo de aplicaciones.
  
  Ahora, con Google AI Studio, puedes crear Apps Android completamente funcionales usando únicamente lenguaje natural, sin escribir código y totalmente gratis.
  
  En este vídeo te enseño cómo crear aplicaciones reales enfocadas a negocios, automatización y productividad utilizando la nueva función de Google.
  
  Pero este vídeo NO va simplemente de crear una app.
  
  👉 Va de entender cómo cualquier persona podrá construir software para su empresa sin necesidad de programar.
  
  Porque hasta ahora desarrollar una aplicación requería meses de trabajo y miles de euros.
  Hoy basta con tener una buena idea y escribir un prompt.
  
  🔥 Qué vas a aprender en este vídeo:
  
  🔹 Cómo funciona la nueva función de Apps Android de Google AI Studio.
  🔹 Cómo crear una aplicación sin saber programar.
  🔹 Cómo conectar tu App con Inteligencia Artificial.
  🔹 Cómo añadir análisis de imágenes y documentos.
  🔹 Cómo crear herramientas útiles para empresas.
  🔹 Cómo probar la App antes de instalarla.
  🔹 Cómo pasar la aplicación a tu móvil Android.
  🔹 Cómo aprovechar esta oportunidad para crear negocios.
  
  🚀 Casos de uso reales que veremos:
  
  🔹 Misión 1: Crear una App de gestión inteligente para negocios.
  🔹 Misión 2: Crear un CRM comercial con IA integrado.
  🔹 Misión 3: Crear una App que analiza facturas mediante una fotografía y genera informes automáticamente.
  🔹 Misión 4: Instalar la aplicación en un teléfono Android real y comprobar cómo funciona.
  
  💰 Oportunidad de negocio:
  
  La mayoría de empresas todavía:
  ❌ sigue usando Excel para todo.
  ❌ pierde horas gestionando documentos.
  ❌ no tiene aplicaciones propias.
  ❌ cree que desarrollar software es caro.
  
  Con Google AI Studio ahora cualquier emprendedor, agencia o freelance puede crear aplicaciones reales en cuestión de minutos.
  
  Y esto abre una oportunidad enorme para:
  
  👉 emprendedores.
  👉 agencias de automatización.
  👉 freelancers.
  👉 consultores.
  👉 negocios locales.
  👉 creadores de contenido.
  
  💡 Si quieres aplicar todo esto a tu empresa o necesitas ayuda implementándolo:
  
  👉 https://joseangelai.com/
  
  🔗 Herramientas utilizadas:
  👉 Google Ai Studio: https://aistudio.google.com/apps
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  
  00:00 Introducción
  00:35 Misión 1: App Inteligente para Negocios
  04:54 Misión 2: App Crear contenido Automáticamente
  07:00 Misión 3: App para Analizar Facturas
  09:24 Misión 4: Instalando la App en un Android Real
  11:43 Importante
  
  #InteligenciaArtificial #GoogleAIStudio #GoogleAI #Gemini #Android #Apps #CrearApps #NoCode #LowCode #IA #Automatizacion #Emprendimiento #NegociosDigitales #Freelance #Productividad #GoogleGemini #IA2026 #AppsAndroid #Negocios #Tecnologia
---
Google has just launched a feature that could completely change how we create apps, because now you can create complete Android apps using artificial intelligence, literally by writing prompts. And today we're going to put this to the test, creating real apps focused on business, automation, and productivity without coding a single word. We'll start small and gradually build up to the basics, and at the end, we'll even install one of these apps on a real Android device to see if this really works. Let's get started. All the prompts I'll be using in this video are available on my website, which I'll link to in the description below, completely free. Mission one: an app to manage clients and quotes.

We're going to start with something very useful for businesses, freelancers, and agencies, because so many people still manage clients and quotes via WhatsApp, Excel, notes, and now you can literally create a custom app to manage all of that. To do this, we need to access the Google i Studio platform and go to the Build section. Once we're there, we need to select the following modules. The first step is to build an Android application, then add a database and authentication, and finally, we need to select the module to add Gemini AI. We've attached our promo code, which will integrate with Google Sheets, Google Calendar, and my Gmail account. Google Sheets will be used to store data,

Calendar to manage appointments, and Gmail to send quotes. With that explained, we click the "Build" button. As you can see, we're using the Gemini 3.5 Flash model. It already offers several different styles. In my case, we'll select the "

Elegant Dark" style and click "Select this design." In just a few minutes, we'll have the application created. Let's preview it. To do this, we click "Full Screen," and this is the main panel. We have active clients, quotes, monthly income, pending tasks, and the AI ​​generator. Let's add a new client. We enter my name,

phone number, email address, and project details. In my case, we'll enter "AI Consulting" and click " Save." The client will now be listed as active here. We would have one. If we go to the clients option, we would have our client here, whom we could modify or even delete. Once we have the client, we're going to create the quote for them.

We click here on the quote generator or here on the quote option, which is exactly the same thing, to create with AI. We select the client, in this case, José Ángel. What does the service consist of? AI consulting to improve the KPIs of his marketing business. We'll enter €1500 for the total budget and click on generate quote with AI. Gemini is currently generating

the quote, and we'll have the generated quote here. If we scroll down, we can select the option to save or send via Gmail. If we select save, it will be saved in the quote history, and we'll also have a shortcut to send via Gmail. If we go to the appointments and cloud option, we can schedule a new meeting. If we click the plus sign, we'll enter "initial consultation" as the title. And since the client we're going to select is José Ángel,

we'll set the scheduled date to tomorrow. We don't add any notes, so we sync with Google Calendar and then schedule it. It's now set up and scheduled for tomorrow, the 1st, at 7:20 PM. Finally, we have a section for follow-up tasks. If we click the plus sign, we can choose a description, like "Task One."

We select our client and click "Create," and the follow-up task is created. If we click the checkmark, it will show that the task is no longer pending, as we've completed it. And notice this: this used to require programmers to work for weeks or months, and now Google gives us the same thing in just a few minutes. But now we're going to take it up a notch because the next application seems like something many of you would pay to use. Mission Two: AI application for content creation Automatically. Imagine having an app where you type in an idea and it automatically generates

content for your social media. Well, let's build it. These are the modules we'll need to build our app: creating an Android app, creating and editing images, generating high-quality images, adding Gemini intelligence, adding Firebase and Google authentication, and adding voice chat. We attach our promo and click "Build." Let's select our design; in my case, vibrant color palettes, and click "Select this design." Here's the result. Let's put it in

full screen. First, we have a section to tell it what we need. In our case, we'll tell it the following: "French Pastry Café." And we click "Generate." Keep in mind that we also have a dictation section if we want to do it in voice mode. We click "

Generate Studio," we have the Instagram post strategy, and we also have the copy, that is, what we would paste. We also have the titles we're going to use, the scripts, the hashtags, and all of this with a copy button to paste directly into our posts. If we go to the history section, we already have what we've done for the café, and one last section I forgot to mention called Visual AI, where we already have the image it generated of a typical traditional French pastry shop, although it looks more like a very futuristic pastry shop. Finally, we have the favorites section, which is currently empty, but if we add the one we just created, it will be saved as a favorite. Okay? But

now comes probably the most useful use case of the whole video: Mission 3, a financial application with AI and invoices. This can save freelancers and agencies countless hours of their time. We access a new chat, and the plugins we'll need are: creating the Android application, an image analyzer, using Google search data, the Fairbase database, authentication, and Yemeny's intelligence. We're putting our program together so it can create a financial dashboard from the invoices I send it, whether I take a photo with my phone or upload a PDF or other images. We click " Build." We select the design we like best; in this case, "Elegant Interface." And we

select this design. Here's our application. We have a total balance, income and expenses, expenses by category, an AI-generated financial summary, and all the transactions . If we click the camera icon and attach an image from the gallery, we can see how the company has perfectly extracted the data: the tax ID, the date, the total amount, and the tax (in this case, VAT, which was €34.65). The

selected category type is "Other." We also have a brief breakdown of recurring expenses, specifically a one-off purchase of clothing. And now we can click the option to save and integrate it into Google Sheets. Once we've integrated it into our Google Sheet, the main panel updates with the expenses, which totaled €199, and the total balance. Since we haven't had any income, it's detected that this invoice was for expenses, not income. As for transactions, we have the entry for this new invoice we've

attached, and we can also generate an AI financial summary. If we enable it, it will be based on the current data. For now, it only generates the summary for this invoice. It's a fairly comprehensive financial summary. If you want to implement artificial intelligence in your business or in your daily work, I've pinned a comment with my personalized consulting services, where we'll focus 100% on your specific needs so you can start applying AI today. And now, let's move on to the final mission. We're going to test this on a real mobile device.

Mission 4: AI-powered business application with Android mobile integration. We're going to create a business assistant. The necessary tools will be to create an Android application. Add authentication via Google, use Google Search, and integrate the Gemini Assistant. We attach our promo and click "Build." And here's the result

of our application: a small dashboard showing the business balance, both income and expenses, a chat assistant, an AI generator to create our emails, goals, and completed cards. Here's a list of recent transactions, such as sponsorships, licenses, and partnerships. The personalized assistant tells us how we can reduce costs directly in our company and answers questions like marketing suggestions. All of this is focused on our business. Here we could integrate our Google Sheets spreadsheets, the goals we have for our company, and we can change the status and add new goals.

The AI ​​copilot can also compose emails, helping us write emails to send to our clients or generate new business ideas. And now we're going to move on to the most interesting part of this video: how to install these applications we create on our Android devices. To do this, we'll select the option to install on your device. And here it tells us a series of steps. We need to have Developer Mode enabled on our Android device.

Enable USB debugging. Step number three: connect your USB device and click the "Install via USB" button. Once Developer Mode is activated, we'll click "Install via USB," and our application will be fully installed, as you can see on the screen. Another option that Google Studio offers is the ability to publish, which indicates that we'll soon be able to publish directly to the Play Store, and even publish two applications at once. So, if you want more videos about artificial intelligence and automation, you know what to do. Hype this video, subscribe, and

turn on notifications so you don't miss the latest news on artificial intelligence. And if you want to implement artificial intelligence in your daily life or business, I've included my website link below in the description, where you can contact me to schedule a call. I also want to remind you that my WhatsApp community is still open and completely free. I've included the link below in the description.