---
video_title: "Claude Design acaba de reemplazar TODO (no es broma)"
video_id: _QONbj7DmQQ
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_QONbj7DmQQ
video_date: 2026-05-04T17:00:46+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts utilizados en el vídeo: https://joseangelai.com/recursos
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  Claude Design acaba de cambiar por completo cómo se crean webs, apps… y negocios.
  En este vídeo te enseño cómo usar esta nueva herramienta para pasar de una idea a una aplicación funcional con un solo prompt… sin diseñadores, sin Figma, sin código.
  Pero lo importante no es la herramienta.
  👉 Es entender cómo puedes usar esto para crear sistemas reales que generen dinero.
  Porque a partir de ahora…
  no necesitas saber diseñar.
  necesitas saber pensar.
  
  🔥 Qué vas a aprender:
  🔹 Qué es Claude Design y por qué está revolucionando el diseño
  🔹 Cómo crear una landing page desde cero con IA
  🔹 Cómo generar dashboards y aplicaciones funcionales en minutos
  🔹 Cómo usar estilos de otras webs (design systems) automáticamente
  🔹 Cómo convertir esto en servicios para negocios
  
  💰 Oportunidad:
  Miles de negocios siguen pagando diseñadores, desarrolladores o agencias…
  ❌ Procesos lentos
  ❌ Costes altos
  ❌ Dependencia externa
  👉 Con Claude Design puedes crear soluciones tú mismo… o vendérselas a empresas.
  
  💡 Si quieres aplicar esto a tu negocio o empezar a ofrecer estos servicios:
  👉 Puedes verlo aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  🔗 Herramientas mencionadas:
  👉 Claude Design: https://claude.ai/
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción
  00:30 Misión 1: Crear una Landing desde cero
  03:40 Misión 2: Crear un dashboard interactivo
  06:36 Misión 3: Crear una App de Captacion de Leads
  08:56 Bonus Secreto
  10:05 Importante
  
  #InteligenciaArtificial #ClaudeDesign #IA #Automatizacion #IAparaNegocios #HerramientasIA #DiseñoWeb #NoCode #Emprendimiento #IA2026 #AppsConIA #NegociosDigitales #ClaudeAI #Productividad #IAEmprendedores
---
Antropy has just launched something that will completely change how businesses create their digital presence forever. It's called Cloud Design, and in the next few minutes, you'll see how with just one promo you can have a landing page, an app, and a dashboard for your business ready to use. But stick around until the end because we're going to look at something very few people know about until now. How to use this specifically to attract customers and scale your business? Let's get started.

All the promo files I'll be using in this video will be available on my website, which you can find in the description below. Let's start easy. We're going to create a landing page for a real business. Once we're in Cloud Design, we'll see the Design section, so let's access it. This is only available for Pro accounts and above. Once

we're in the Cloud Design interface, let's name our project. In this case, we'll call it José Bakery and click Create. Here we have two options: either start from scratch or import our brand's icon theme, colors, and the typography we use for our business. In my case, for this pastry shop example, we're going to start from scratch. Here, we attach our proposal and click send. I'm asking them to create a

modern landing page for an artisanal pastry shop called José Beckery, including a section with an attractive image and title, a showcase of featured products, and a WhatsApp order button . And they tell me my landing page will be ready. At the beginning, we see that it says "Handmade at dawn every day, freshly baked," with the time it's baked at 6:30 in the morning. There's a button with a clear call to action for customers to order via WhatsApp. We can also see our product menu here. We see a banner that scrolls over our products,

such as the Basque cake and the butter croissant, and it's constantly moving, quite dynamic. Here, we would add photos of our products, indicating the product, the price of the pistachio cake, and the double butter croissant, which would cost 320. All of this can be edited later. If we scroll down further, we have the history section, which tells us when our company was founded. The next section is about testimonials— fictional reviews to grab customers' attention, plus more than four Google-verified reviews, and a WhatsApp group of 10,000 neighbors where we announce when a new pastry is fresh out of the oven.

It's quite interesting, actually. It ends with a call to action (CTA): your order in a message, which includes the location, delivery time, and a button that redirects you to WhatsApp. Look, I'm not touching anything, and it generated this in minutes without any programming knowledge. This is the frontend, the visual part of the landing page, but we can then add functionality to each button in the backend. The easiest way to do this is using the cloud. Here, as you can see,

we have a share button, and if we click it, we can send the code to the cloud to create and add functionality to each button on our landing page. And as you can see, we can also send it to Canvas, to a separate HTML file, export it as a PDF—the options are endless. If you have a business or want to offer this as a service, this has just been an incredible opportunity for any type of business. Mission two. Real dashboard, intermediate level. Okay, now we're taking it up a notch. Let's leave

landing pages aside and move on to sales dashboards. We'll name this new project " Fruit Shop Dashboard" and click "Create." Here, we'll click the "Attach File" button. In this case, I've just attached my cone so it can be included in the dashboard it creates for me. We attach our promo, which, as a reminder, is available on my website (link below in the description), completely free, and click "Submit." I've asked it to create a dashboard for

a fruit shop called José Banana, which should include daily, weekly, and monthly sales , visual charts, best-selling products, and a comparison with the previous period. And in just a few minutes, we'll have our dashboard created. He tells us that he has already created the SAS For José Banana, the sidebar includes sales, inventory, products, customers, suppliers, and reports. Focusing on the dashboard, we see a summary by day, week, and month. There's even an export button, allowing you to save to CSV, PDF, or any other format you need. Remember, this is just the visual aspect;

the functionality is implemented in Cloud Code by selecting the desired date. We have today's sales with an 8% positive balance, the ticket price, the average ticket price, and the number of units sold. Revenue is displayed in a dynamic graph when you hover over it, and there's a breakdown by category. Here we have different types of graphs, such as tropical, citrus, seasonal, and pome seeds. The top-selling products are also shown, with avocados generating $7,000 in revenue.

This can be changed to euros instead of dollars, depending on your country's currency . The alerts we have show a low stop-loss for premium strawberries, another section of the comparison, that is, revenue, ticket, average ticket, and recent sales. Here you can see it both by counter and independently. Marisol, Café, the corner. We have live control of the products being sold. If we go here to the design file section, we see that

here we have all the files used to create this. And remember that we can click the share button and transfer it to Cloud Code, which is the really powerful part. This is what a CEO would see, and you're creating it with just a promo. Imagine selling this to companies; many of them are still working with Dashbel, and it's absolutely chaotic. Mission three, complete system, high level. Now comes the hard part. This is no longer a design; this is a system. We

name it Delips and click create. We attach our promo and click send. Here I'm asking you to create a web application for IPS casting that must include a homepage , a form, visual confirmation, and be ready to connect to a database. And this is quite interesting because sometimes, as in this case, it asks you a few questions before proceeding to create the page. What type of business or industry is the application aimed at?

Let's say a marketing agency. What is the main value proposition of the product or service? Let's say offering AI consulting to companies to improve their capabilities. For the content language, we'll select Spanish. Regarding AI, we'll select the three previous options combined. For variations, we'll say we only want one and click continue.

And there we have the system created: AI consulting to boost your KPIs. If we scroll down, we see the services offered and the three phases to follow: discovery, 90-day impact, and implementation. Here we have a reviews section, the pricing section for the three types of packages offered, and it ends with a closing. Tell us which KPIs you want to improve. And here we have a simple form where we collect the company's data. This is no longer a website;

it's a lead generation machine, but we're going to improve it. We attach our promo and click send, asking them to improve the application by implementing a simple admin panel, an ellipse list, a new registration indicator, and a basic CRM-style design. And here we have the admin panel, which includes a dashboard, leads, a new message inbox, and a general summary of what we requested: the total number of new leads not yet contacted, qualified leads, conversion rates, and if we scroll down, we have the leads captured that day. You've just created something that many companies spend thousands of euros on, and it's completely customized. Finally, we're going to ask them to create a promotional video in HTML to promote the website we just created and sell it to companies. Create it in

both reel and landscape formats. And we click send. And here's the result. As you can see, we have the promotion in both vertical and horizontal formats. Let's view it in landscape format. It's an animated HTML video.

Especially by promoting the website, in this case, the application we just created. Consulting services to help you boost your KPIs. Landing pages ready in 24 hours. Here's how our landing page works in animated format. In this case, it was in the admin format, which includes 24-hour turnaround, 100% customization, €0 maintenance, and, most importantly, Casta Lips.

The vertical format is exactly the same video, but in portrait orientation. In this case, I prefer the horizontal format, as it showcases the application we just created much better. Did you know about this feature within Cloud Design that allows you to create animated videos? Let me know in the comments. If you have a business, you can eliminate these design and development costs, maintain an up-to-date digital presence, and create professional materials without relying on anyone. If you want to implement Cloud Design in your business or start offering it as

a service, my website has the solution. I've included the link below in the description. If you found this video helpful, please share it, subscribe, and turn on notifications so you don't miss any future AI updates. And remember, my WhatsApp community is still open and completely free. You can find the link in the description below.