---
video_title: "5 Formas de Ganar Dinero con IA (Que Sí Funcionan)"
video_id: 3AJcexRdJOs
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3AJcexRdJOs
video_date: 2026-01-05T18:00:06+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts: https://forms.gle/953uPdsuhYYfK49k8
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  En este vídeo te muestro 5 formas REALES de ganar dinero con Inteligencia Artificial en 2026, pensadas especialmente para principiantes y personas que quieren aplicar la IA a la vida real, sin ser programadores ni expertos técnicos.
  
  No son teorías ni tendencias pasajeras. Son ideas prácticas, servicios que ya se están pagando y modelos que puedes adaptar a tu situación actual: negocio, trabajo o proyecto personal.
  
  A lo largo del vídeo verás:
  👉 Ideas de negocio con IA que funcionan
  👉 Servicios que puedes ofrecer a empresas y autónomos
  👉 Cómo empezar sin inversión ni conocimientos técnicos
  👉 Casos aplicables a 2026 y más allá
  
  Este contenido está pensado para el largo plazo, para que vuelvas a él cuando quieras empezar o escalar algo con IA.
  
  Si quieres más vídeos sobre cómo aplicar la IA para generar ingresos, crear proyectos reales y entender hacia dónde va el futuro del trabajo, suscríbete y activa la campanita 🔔
  Me ayudas mucho dejando un like y compartiendo el vídeo.
  
  📩 He abierto asesorías personalizadas para ayudarte a implementar la IA en tu día a día o en tu negocio (Contáctame: optimizacion.empresas@gmail.com)
  
  🔗 Enlaces: 
  👉 Flow VEO 3.1: https://labs.google/flow/about
  👉 Pixabay: https://pixabay.com/es/music/
  👉 Capcut: https://www.capcut.com/my-edit?from_page=landing_page&start_tab=video
  👉 Gemini Gemas: https://gemini.google.com/gems/create
  👉 NotebookLM: https://notebooklm.google.com/
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  00:00 Introducción  
  00:29 Método 1
  03:55 Método 2
  05:55 Método 3
  06:46 Método 4
  09:49 Método 5
  13:19 Importante
  
  
  #inteligenciaartificial #ganardinero #ia2026 #negociosconia #emprender #automatizacion #ingresosonline #futurodeltrabajo #chatgpt #gemini #emprendimiento
---
Everyone's talking about making money with artificial intelligence, but almost no one tells you where to actually start. We're at a point very similar to the beginning of social media or e-commerce. Those who start now will get there faster. In this video, I'm going to show you five realistic ways you can make money using artificial intelligence, without hype, without absurd promises, and that you can start even if you're a beginner. And at the end, I'll tell you which one I think is best based on your profile. Let's begin. The first way is to create a content channel without

ever showing your face. Today, you can generate complete videos using artificial intelligence , voice, music, scripting, even thumbnails. You don't need to record yourself, you don't need a camera, and you don't need to be an expert. The important thing here isn't the AI, but the topic your channel will cover. Curiosities, stories, motivation, finance, education—in other words, a very specific niche on a single subject. It's a model that

's slow at first, but very powerful in the long run. The first thing we need to do is access the Flow tool, which uses Google BO3.1 to generate videos. Once we're in the tool (I'll leave the link below in the description), we click on "New Project" and select "Convert from Text to Video." Here, we choose version 3.1 and an

aspect ratio of 16:9. We attach our promo and click "Submit." And there we have the result. If we preview it, we see both a dog and a cat with a fireplace in the background. Once we have the generated video, we click "Download." Using

this Flow tool, you have a daily limit on the number of videos you can create, but I recommend that when you run out of credits, you switch to another Google account so you can create more videos. The next step is to choose the music for our video. To do this, we access the PichaBY platform. There, we select "Music" and submit the following. Once we find the one we like best and that suits our type of video, like this one which is quite relaxing, we click here to download it. We have the generated video on one hand and

the background music on the other. Now it's just a matter of combining both parts. In my case, I'm going to use Premiere, but you can use free tools like CapCap, TikTok, or even Instagram to create this type of video, as it's simply a matter of linking the video first and then the music we've chosen. The video is indeed 5 seconds long; it's simply a matter of copying the video fragment and putting it after the other to create a video of 10 minutes, 45 minutes, or even an hour, since what we're really looking for is the importance of the audio, in this case, with calm ambient background music. And you might ask, how can such a repetitive video be monetized? Simply by changing the songs.

Here we have a clear example of a channel uploading a scene of a living room with just background music. And here we see the most popular videos. One has almost 7,000 views, another a million. And if we access one of them and turn off the sound, we see that the only thing that changes is the image, but the music remains the same, since people usually leave this type of video playing in the background, as is the case with this one that uses work music. In other words, you can create a channel like this that simply uploads music to relax pets, another channel that uploads work music, and you can make quite a bit of money using this method. The second

way is by creating short videos with AI to sell products. Many brands and creators need short videos to sell their products on platforms like YouTube Videos and TikTok Shots, but they don't know how to do it quickly or effectively. With this method, you can earn money through affiliate marketing as well as by promoting your own products from your online store. The key here isn't the technology, but understanding how to make a video that keeps someone watching the whole thing and ultimately leads them to buy your product. Moving on to the practical part, we access the tool for We'll use Flow and start a new project. What we want to sell is this trimmer we have

here, which is available on Amazon, and we'll go to the Flow tool. Here, we have to select "Video Ingredients," upload our image, and once we attach the promo, we'll have the video here if we press play. If you're a gorilla like me, use this trimmer. Tell me that's not an absolutely insane thing we can create. In this case, it's quite similar because men tend to grow a lot of hair, and logically, we're like gorillas. The goal is for a gorilla to want to sell you the trimmer he

uses to shave or remove some of his hair. And in the end, what we can do is link the direct link to this product, and we would get a commission for selling it . That's how affiliate marketing works. And if we want to sell on TikTok, one of the requirements we have to meet is having 1,000 followers. But by creating a daily video using this tool, it's usually quite easy to reach 1,000 followers, which means artificial intelligence is a huge help when it comes to e-commerce.

The third model consists of offering visual services to local businesses—restaurants, dental clinics, beauty salons—all of which must have something in common: their product is truly excellent, but the image they project isn't as good. With AI, it's very easy to improve photos on social media, even in Google Maps reviews. I've included the link to the previous video above, where I explain step-by-step how to apply this to restaurants, but it would be the same for beauty salons and gyms. What I want to highlight about this service is that it's easy to understand, easy to charge for, and above all, easy to implement. The key message of this service is: visible improvement equals guaranteed sales. The fourth model is one of the easiest and simplest AI services to

explain to the client and one that sells best to traditional businesses. Because we're not talking about complicated automations or anything that requires technical skills like programming. We're talking about something that all the businesses I've already mentioned receive daily: inquiries about prices. And the best part is that the AI ​​itself can already respond in your friendly, approachable tone, without sounding robotic. I'm going to show you how we can apply this to a dental clinic, but it can be applied to all the businesses I've mentioned, and even to anything you can imagine. In

this PDF, we can see the price of a root canal, the type of root canal, and all the services offered with their corresponding prices. Let's go to Gemini, to the gems section, which is essentially creating a custom GPT, and click on "New Gem." We'll name it " Dental Clinic Assistant." We won't put anything in the description, but in the instructions, we'll attach the following phrase, which I'll also include in the description. And now, in the knowledge section— very important—we need to attach the price list for the services we offer. We click on upload file. Once the file is uploaded, we simply

click save. And now we click on start chat. And now we have our assistant here, so that every time we send it a message from a client, it generates an automatic response and sends us what a client might ask. How much does it cost to get braces and teeth whitening? We click send, and it tells us that the braces would cost €2,250. If we go to the metal braces section,

press Ctrl+C, then go to the PDF and press Ctrl+V, we can see that the metal braces would indeed cost €2,250, which is the same price it generated here. The same would happen with teeth whitening. If we search for in-office whitening, it should show €340. If we search for it under whitening treatments, the first result is in-office teeth whitening, €340, and this would be the message it generated. Hello, it's a pleasure to greet you here at the Dental Clinic.

We'd be delighted to help you achieve the smile you're looking for. And it has a closing at the end. As I mentioned in the previous instruction, if you'd like, we can assess your situation in a consultation and provide you with an exact quote tailored to your needs. Would you like us to schedule an appointment for your first review? We could even offer the first review completely free of charge.

We can also go business-to-business, install the service, or explain how it works so you can have your own GPT (Gems Per Point), in this case, your own gem installed in your Google account. It's very easy to explain, very easy to implement, and very easy to understand. The fifth service is one of the most in-demand, yet most undervalued. These days, almost every business needs it, but they don't realize it. I'm going to focus solely on the aesthetic clinics I'll use as examples, but in the video description, where I'll include the prompts, I'll provide a list of niches where you can apply this. Whether it's a beauty salon, a law firm, or a management consultancy,

most businesses, like this beauty salon, as we can see here on this website , offer treatments that are truly interesting, but they don't have the potential to be purchased. For example, this collagen treatment, which, unless I specifically search their website for treatments and stop to read, doesn't catch my attention enough to book it. What we're going to offer businesses here is services to implement infographics and visual presentations of their service catalog. If we go to Notebook LM, which will be the main tool for this, we add the link to the page we're viewing and click "Insert" in the "Websites" section. Once we have the context, we'll create the infographic, but only the one about the collagen treatment. And here in the description, we create an infographic

explaining what the collagen treatment entails. Selecting the orientation is very important here, because if we want it for the website, we might want it horizontal, but if we want it for social media, vertical is more suitable. In this case, I'm going to select vertical and click "Generate." And there we have the infographic created. If we click "View," we can see the best way to understand the collagen treatment for hair vitality.

We can see that the text is perfectly integrated, and here it shows a price starting from €78. What are the key benefits? It provides flexibility and increases strength. In other words, it's not the same to offer plain text as it is to have this visually striking presentation that attracts more attention and encourages people to book this service. Let's move on to the section for creating presentations and click "Edit." We want it to create presentations for these services, which include

manicures, eyebrow shaping, makeup, eyelash tinting, and facials. We'll ask it to create presentations only for these types of services, and then click "Generate." We can edit this to suit any style we want. In other words, if the company tells us, "Hey, I want you to use blue and yellow as the background color for the slides because those are my brand colors, " it can be perfectly indicated in this presentation, and it does it flawlessly. And we'd already have the slides created here. If we look at the beauty ritual, we see that it covers

nails, feet, and the face. Here it mentions facial cleansing. And if we go through the slides, they're all quite visual; it even shows the before and after of eyebrow shaping and tinting. And it ends with booking your ritual at Botanic Sevilla, including the contact information and address. Now, leave me a comment telling me which of the five services you found most interesting and which one you're going to start using today. I'm reading your comments. The best

option isn't the one that promises the most money, but the one you can start using today. If you like creating, I'd go for content. If you like selling, I'd go for services. And if you like optimizing, I'd go for automation. If this video has given you real ideas, help me reach more people. Hype this video, subscribe, and turn on notifications so you don't miss any updates!

Upcoming developments in artificial intelligence. And remember this: technology changes every year, but the advantage is always the same—being ahead of the curve. Yeah.