---
video_title: "Anthropic acaba de lanzar Routines: tu IA trabaja sola sin que estés"
video_id: mc5s7YJwDww
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mc5s7YJwDww
video_date: 2026-04-27T17:01:03+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts utilizados en el vídeo: https://joseangelai.com/recursos
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  Claude Routines ya trabaja por ti… sin que estés delante.
  En este vídeo te enseño cómo usar Routines dentro de Claude para automatizar tareas reales desde cero, sin programar, sin servidores y sin depender de herramientas complejas como Make o n8n.
  
  El objetivo no es solo enseñarte la herramienta.
  Es que entiendas cómo puedes usarla para recuperar tu tiempo… o incluso montarte un sistema que trabaje mientras duermes.
  
  🔥 Qué vas a aprender:
  
  🔹 Qué son las Routines y por qué cambian todo
  🔹 Cómo crear una newsletter de IA automática cada semana
  🔹 Cómo responder a clientes automáticamente con webhooks
  🔹 Cómo generar un dashboard de ventas diario sin tocar Excel
  🔹 Cómo diseñar sistemas que trabajen solos sin conocimientos técnicos
  
  💰 Oportunidad:
  
  La mayoría de negocios sigue respondiendo clientes a mano, analizando datos manualmente y perdiendo horas en tareas repetitivas. Con Routines puedes automatizar todo eso y ofrecerlo como servicio real a empresas.
  
  💡 Si quieres aplicar esto a tu negocio o empezar a ofrecer este tipo de servicios:
  👉 Puedes verlo aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  🔗 Herramientas mencionadas:
  👉 Claude Code + Routines: https://claude.ai/new
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  
  00:00 Introducción
  00:27 ¿Qué son las Routines en Claude?
  00:56 Misión 1: Newsletter automática de IA
  06:07 Misión 2: Respuesta automática a leads con Webhook
  09:17 Misión 3: Dashboard de Ventas diario Automático
  11:35 Límites de Routines diarias
  11:58 Oportunidad de negocio
  12:15 Importante
  
  #InteligenciaArtificial #ClaudeCode #Routines #Automatizacion #IAparaNegocios #AgentesIA #Productividad #HerramientasIA #IA2026 #NegociosDigitales #AutomatizacionIA #ClaudeRoutines #SinProgramar #FlujosDeTrabajo #IA
---
Imagine an AI that works for you while you're away, responding to your customers, analyzing data, creating content, and all without your computer being turned on. This already exists and it's called Routines within Cloud Code. And in this video, I'm going to show you how to automate real-world tasks step by step, but stick around until the end because we're going to build something amazing: a system that responds to customers when they fill out a form. Let's get started. Until now, automations had a problem: they required tools like Make, N8N, servers, and complete workflows. With Routines,

you simply describe what you want, and it runs in the cloud. You don't need a computer, you don't need to know how to program, and it works by day, hour, or even by whook—that is, when an action is executed. Let's start with something simple but really useful that you can use yourself. Mission: automated newsletter. The goal is to launch this automation once a week. Imagine

you have a newsletter. In this case, let's assume we have an AI newsletter , or perhaps we're simply creating a new one from scratch and don't want to waste time searching for relevant news each week. We're going to let the cloud do it for us. I'm on the desktop interface, which has a slightly rebranded layout. Previously, the chat, co-for, and code sections were in the center, but now they're on the left.

Personally, I prefer them on the left. If we go to the code section, we have the new " routine" section. Clicking on it, then selecting "new routine," gives us two options: local mode and remote mode. Local mode runs on our computer , which needs to be turned on. However, we're going to explore the new " remote" section, where tasks are executed in the cloud, so our computer doesn't need to be on. Clicking on "remote" allows us to fill in the information section by section.

The first field we need to fill in is the name, which in my case will be "automatic newsletter ." In the description, we'll outline the automation we want. All the promo files I'll be using in this video will be available on my website, which you can find in the description below. The automation we're requesting is for it to find the most relevant artificial intelligence news stories of the week, select five, and compile them into a Notti called "Weekly AI Summary" (which should be easy to understand). Then, it should access my email and send the draft newsletter to me, allowing me to decide who to send it to.

The model we'll be using is Sonet 4.6, which, as you can see, also incorporates Opus 4.7, making it a newer version than the Opus 4.6 we were using. When selecting the trigger, the scheduling section is crucial—specifically, when we want it to run. In my case, we'll set it to run weekly on Mondays at 9:00 AM, for example,

and then click "Add Trigger." Currently, the connectors we have are these ones below, but neither canvas nor make are really useful to us, so we'll delete them. Here, very importantly, you have to select your GitHub repository, which is where your routine will be hosted . In my case, I created one called cloud, and once it's configured, we click "create," and here we have our routine created. If we view it, we see that it will run on April 20th at 9:00 AM, and we have a "run" button. Now let's

run it right now. There's also a history section, as we can see here the executions that have been carried out, such as today at 6:00 PM. If we access the automation script , it asks me if it first needs connectivity with Notion. I told it that I already have it configured, and it says that the tool is indeed available. And here's the plan it will follow. One, create the program with the instructions for the weekly task. Create

the script invoking Cloud Code and register the Chrome Job to run on Sundays at 10 AM. It confirms that Notion has already created it, but it asks for my Gmail address; I provide it. I open it and it tells me that the page has already been created in Noctum, which would be this weekly summary page with today's date. And Gmail confirms that it has already been saved in drafts. Let's check it.

If we go to the weekly tasks section in Notion, we see that the weekly summary is there. If we view it, we see that we have the five most important and relevant news items of this week. Now let's access our email. We go to the drafts section. Here we have the email created with the subject "Weekly AI Summary" with the date.

It's true that we can modify this in the automation prompt to create an attractive subject line for the email. But as for the email's presentation, we have exactly the same thing we would have in Notion: a fairly professional and eye-catching summary that we can use as a newsletter. This is already crazy because you've just scheduled a task without having any idea how to do automation, whether in Make or N8N. You haven't touched a single snippet of code; you've simply added connectors and the two tools, Notion and Gmail, and it's done the work for you. We already have a task scheduled to run every Monday at 10:00 AM, but this is just the beginning. Let's take it to the next level. Mission two: automated leads. Now imagine

this. You have a web form. A customer fills out the form, and the AI ​​automatically responds for you. Let's create this new routine. We go to "New Routine." We select "Remote." We name it

"Web Form." We attach our promise to activate this webhook when a new customer submits the form. And once we have the customer's data, we want it to analyze their name, especially their company (if applicable), generate a personalized response , create a draft email ready to send, and send us an email notification with a summary of the list. In this case, the trigger type we'll select is API-based. We click "Add trigger," and then the token will be generated, which we'll insert into our HTML. For connectors, in my case, we'll use Gmail. While we could

use Notion to store the client's data, we're already storing it behind the scenes in a Google Chip, which I'll show you next. Once we have the routine, we click "Create." If we access the routine and go to the "Edit Routine" section and select the API trigger, the URL and token will appear. With this information, we'll use Yemini, which is the fastest method, and pass it the URL and token so it can integrate it into my Apps Screen within the Google Chip. After specifying this in the prompt, I click "Submit," and it tells me that the script is ready to be passed to Google AppScript. And this is the Google

Chip I have. Now, if I go to Extensions > Apps > Script, and replace the old function with the new one, and then save it, every time I fill out this form, it will save the data in my Google Chip and also collect the information it gathers, generating a draft in my Gmail. This is the data I'll use to send it: my name, my Gmail address, and that I want to improve the SEO of my website. I click "Submit request." We see that it's already sending, and here in the Google Chip, it's automatically filled with the data and the current date. If we access my email, we see the draft here,

which includes my name and a message about how to improve the SEO of my website. It says it has reviewed my website and that what we normally do in cases like yours is an SEO audit, a Cakew strategy, and on-page and content optimization. And this is where the Webhook comes in, which is essentially a trigger that fires automatically when a form is filled out. This literally generates clients for you without you having to lift a finger. And if you want this implemented in your business, I've included my website link below in the description. But

Now let's look at a use case that companies use. Mission three: automated sales dashboards. Imagine you have sales every day and you need to analyze the data to see how sales performed the previous day. Don't worry, Cloud does it for you. Let's create this new routine. We'll name it "Automated Sales Dashboard." What do we want?

We want it to analyze the previous day's sales data, calculate key metrics, generate an executive summary highlighting improvements and declines, create a visual dashboard in HTML, save the dashboard in a folder called "Daily Reports" with the current date, and create a draft summary in my email. As a trigger, we'll select that it runs every day at 8:00 AM, and as a connector, we'll only use Gmail. Then we click "Create." I forgot to mention that we also need to edit the routine, and here in the repository, we'll select the one I have for supplement sales. And now we click "Save." In the supplement sales repository,

I have the following, which is this CSV file, containing the sales ID, date, customer, product, category, and quantity. Now that we have this information, let's run it manually, and that's it. It tells me that it has generated the complete push in my branch, that it has also generated the HTML summary I requested, and that it has created the draft in my Gmail. And here we have a mini-summary of the analyzed data. If we access my branch and go to the daily reports section with today's date, here we have the dashboard.html file. We access

it and then click the download option. Once downloaded, we open it, and here we have the generated dashboard report. Here it shows the total sales, average order value, transactions, the top-selling product, which in this case is casein, and unique customers. What has improved are total sales, which have increased by 300%, and the average order value, which has also increased by 300%. And if we move on to our email, here we have the sales report.

We see that we have exactly the same thing as in the HTML, just imported here. This is no longer just simple automation; this is real work that a person can do. The plan I have is the Pro plan, which includes five daily routine executions. Then there's the Plus plan, which includes 15 daily routine executions, and the Enterprise plan, which includes up to 25 daily routine executions. But honestly, for €20 a month, this is pretty good with five executions. Most businesses don't know this exists and continue responding manually,

wasting time and ultimately losing customers. If you want to implement this in your business or offer it as a service, I've included my website link in the description below, where you'll find all the information. And you know what to do. Give this video a like, subscribe, and turn on notifications so you don't miss the next AI updates. Remember that my WhatsApp community is still open and completely free. I've included the link in the description below.