---
video_title: "Gemini ahora habla contigo (y crea apps en SEGUNDOS)"
video_id: X3-_loh78to
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X3-_loh78to
video_date: 2026-04-13T17:00:45+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts utilizados en el vídeo: https://joseangelai.com/recursos
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  Gemini acaba de dar un salto que… sinceramente, no es normal.
  
  Ahora no solo es capaz de crear aplicaciones completas en segundos,
  sino que además puedes hablar con la IA en tiempo real… como si fuera una persona.
  
  Y no es teoría.
  
  En este vídeo lo pongo a prueba con casos reales.
  
  👉 Desde crear aplicaciones completas con Gemini 3.1 Flash Lite
  👉 Hasta usar Gemini Live para hablar, resolver dudas y entrenar habilidades
  
  Pero lo más importante no es lo que hace…
  
  👉 Es lo que esto cambia.
  
  Porque pasamos de escribir…
  a interactuar directamente con la IA.
  
  🔥 Qué vas a aprender en este vídeo:
  
  🔹 Cómo funciona Gemini 3.1 Flash Lite (ultra rápido)
  🔹 Cómo crear aplicaciones completas en segundos
  🔹 Cómo usar Gemini Live para hablar con la IA
  🔹 Cómo compartir pantalla y recibir ayuda en tiempo real
  🔹 Cómo entrenar habilidades como ventas con IA
  🔹 Cómo crear una web que incluye un asistente por voz
  🔹 Cómo aplicar todo esto en casos reales
  
  🚀 Qué está pasando realmente:
  
  La inteligencia artificial está dejando de ser una herramienta…
  
  y se está convirtiendo en un sistema con el que interactúas.
  
  Ya no necesitas saber exactamente qué hacer.
  
  👉 Puedes hablar… y la IA te guía.
  👉 Puedes pedir… y la IA lo construye.
  💰 Oportunidad de negocio:
  
  Esto abre una puerta enorme.
  
  Miles de negocios todavía:
  
  ❌ No tienen automatizaciones
  ❌ No usan IA en sus procesos
  ❌ No entienden lo que está pasando
  
  👉 Resultado: van tarde.
  
  Aquí es donde puedes entrar tú.
  
  Con este tipo de herramientas puedes crear aplicaciones, automatizaciones o soluciones reales en cuestión de horas.
  
  💡 Si quieres aplicar esto a tu negocio o empezar a ofrecer este tipo de servicios:
  
  👉 Puedes verlo aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  🔗 Herramientas mencionadas:
  
  👉 Gemini: https://gemini.google.com/
  👉 Google AI Studio: https://aistudio.google.com/
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  
  00:00 Introducción
  00:28 Misión 1: ¿Qué tan Rápido es Gemini 3.1 Flash Lite?
  03:38 Misión 2: Gemini habla Contigo
  10:36 Misión 3: Crear Web con Asistente por Voz
  12:37 Importante
  
  #InteligenciaArtificial #Gemini #GoogleAI #IA #Automatizacion #IA2026 #CrearApps #NoCode #AItools #Productividad #NegociosConIA
---
Gemini just released two features that are truly extraordinary. One is so fast it creates apps in seconds, and the other lets you talk to it as if it were a real person. In this video, I'm going to put them to the test, but not in a basic way. I'm going to try to break them, and at the end, I'm going to create an app that literally talks to you to see if this can replace many things. Let's begin. Mission one. How fast is Flashlight?

First, let's start with the craziest thing: speed. This model promises to create things in seconds, so let's start easy and then make it more complex. All the PROMs I'm going to use in this video will be available on my website, which you can find below in the description along with all the links to the PROMs I access. Once we're in Google i Studio, we need to click on this option here and select Flashlight version 3.1. Now, let's ask it for

something very basic. We attach our PROM and click submit. Let's see how long it takes to develop this small HTML file we requested. Do you believe us? We'd have the HTML developed right here in just 5.9 seconds. Let's go up and click on the preview option and

then click on "Acho preview." The application I asked it to create is one for adding, modifying, and deleting tasks. We add a new task called "clean the room," and once we've completed it, if we click on it, a horizontal line appears, indicating completion, and we also have the option to delete it. Something very simple, but we developed it in just 5.9 seconds. Okay, that was fast, but let's take it to the next level.

We attach our prompt, and what we're asking it to create is a reservation application for a restaurant, similar to a SAS system, and we click submit. We want to be able to select the date and time, the number of people, a contact form, and visual confirmation. In just 6.7 seconds, we'd have it. Let's click on preview [music], and we'll have the form here. Let's

fill it in with a date and time, and we'll select two people. We confirmed the booking, and it already says thank you and that we've received your request. We'll send you a confirmation email soon. A few months ago, creating a complex application like this would have taken many minutes. [music] In fact, if you have a business and are thinking about setting something like this up, whether it's a website or a custom application for your business, it's exactly what I'm implementing with my clients. I'll leave my website link in the description if you'd like us to

see it applied to your case. Now let's try something a little more ambitious. We'll combine our promo, a web application like a dashboard to analyze sales data, with a series of features it must have, such as a date filter, KPI indicators, and again, in less than 8 seconds— in this case, 7.5 seconds—we'll have our application ready. Let's take a look. This dashboard

includes a filter where we can filter by the last 7 days, this month, or this year, total revenue, completed orders, and average order value. If we hover the mouse over it, we see that it's interactive, as it tells us that $3,000 was sold on Wednesday, along with the days of the week. It's not just fast, it's actually useful. But that's not the really crazy part. Now comes the part where this seems human. Mission two:

talk to Gemini. Live. Going back to the main menu, if we select the models here, we'll go to the live option and select it. Once selected, we can choose three different modes, which we'll analyze one by one. First, we'll select the screen sharing option. We accept. We share. Are you seeing

my screen right now? Yes, I'm seeing your Google spreadsheet with the numbers 60, 30, and 10 in the first cells. What do you plan to do? Well, where I have this option selected—I don't know if you can see it's in column B, row BCC—I want to put the total of the numbers I have at the top left. Understood? In cell B5, where you are,

you can type the formula A1 + A2 + A3 and then press Enter. That will give you the total sum. Does it work for you? And instead of selecting up to A3, isn't there another way to select from row one to row three? Of course, instead of typing each cell individually, you can use the SUM function. In that same cell, B5, try typing equals, sum, open parentheses, A1, colon, A3,

close parentheses, and press Enter. This will automatically sum the values ​​from row one to three. What do you think? I want to change the blue color of the cell I'm in. How do I do that? To change the background color, first make sure cell

B5 is selected. Then, look in the toolbar for the paint bucket icon, which is the fill color tool, and choose your preferred shade of blue. It's the one that looks like a paint bucket. If you click on it, the color options will appear so you can choose blue. Okay, this isn't a chatbot anymore; it's something else. I've used Excel as an example, but really, in any

program you're using and you're stuck, you can share your screen in real time, and this artificial intelligence will instantly resolve your question. But let's make it much more interesting. I'm going to use it to improve my sales skills. For this, we can select either the webcam option or the voice option. In this case, we'll select the voice option. I want you to act as a difficult customer, since I want to improve my

sales skills. So, for each thing I offer you, you have to give me a fairly tough objection, and at the end, give me your feedback when I tell you I've finished this example, so I can see how you perceive my sales abilities. Okay? Sounds like a good exercise. I'll take on the role of the difficult customer. What do you have to offer me today? Surprise me. Well, I have a service

where I offer companies consulting on how to implement artificial intelligence in their businesses. Artificial intelligence, huh? It sounds good in theory, but the truth is, we're doing quite well with our current methods. Why change if what we have works? Besides, [music] that must be very expensive, and I don't think we'll see a return on investment for a long time. [music] What do you have to say to that? You're completely wrong because by actually

applying artificial intelligence to your processes, even automating some tasks, you can improve response times, that is, your CAPEIs. Automating tasks and improving times, you say. Well, that sounds interesting, [music] but who would be in charge of that whole implementation process? My team is already overloaded with their current work. We don't have time to train ourselves in something new. Do you also offer that support so it's not a burden for

us? And what would the real economic impact be? We would mainly train your CEO or a senior person so that that person could train the rest of the employees. There are two ways to achieve this benefit: it could be improved KIS times, or you might even realize you have excess staff in your companies, since the task performed by one person using artificial intelligence can replace the work of three. So, you're telling me I'd have to take time away from a manager to learn something new and then teach it to others, and that the end result could be layoffs . I don't know if that's very motivating, and the work environment could be

negatively affected. Don't you have a more gradual solution that doesn't involve so many drastic changes or even put jobs at risk? It's true that layoffs are an option, but if your profit margins are the same or even better with fewer employees, then you're the ones who benefit. And the other option is that instead of completing 10 tasks per month, for example, with your current employees, if we implement artificial intelligence for those employees, you could increase that by 20% per month— that is, complete more tasks than you currently do. Now, if you frame it as increasing productivity without having to cut staff, that sounds different to me. We could explore that.

Option to improve performance. Do you have any specific success stories you could show me to see how it worked at another company similar to mine? That way I could get a clearer idea of ​​the benefits. Okay, that's it for this example of me acting as the salesperson and you as the customer. What did you think of my performance? What would you improve in my responses? Overall, you were

quite responsive in handling objections, especially when you shifted the focus from layoffs to productivity. That was a good turnaround. As for areas for improvement, perhaps you could try to delve deeper into the customer's pain points from the beginning before proposing a solution so that it seems more personalized. [music] You could also look for ways to quantify the benefits upfront so that the cost objection is harder to argue. How did you feel about that? This is fantastic because you can practice real-life situations without that

pressure, and above all, improve little by little. You'll see that this tool isn't just for improving your language skills, whether it's English or French, but also your sales skills, because nowadays we all need to sell, whether it's a product or ourselves. Mission three: create a talking app. Okay, now I want to take it a step further. If we put together everything we've seen, we go to the build section and add our promo: a simple hotel website where you can make reservations. And most importantly, an assistant that should answer the

user's questions by voice and help them navigate the website. Once we have our promo, we'll add a voice assistant [music]. And once added, we'll run it. And there you have it, the application. Let's test it by taking a quick look . It looks pretty good, actually. Here we have different rooms with

different prices, the experience section, and a reservations section at the bottom. Let's click the robot icon to see if it really doesn't answer our questions. Hello. Where can I book a room? Hi. You can make your reservation directly using the form at

the bottom of our page. If you'd like, I can guide you to that section. Would you like me to help you with that, or do you have any other questions? What kind of rooms [music] do you have? We have three types of rooms: the Ocean View Locks, the Executive Suite, and the Royal Penthouse.

Each offers a different level of comfort and luxury. Would you like to know more? What 's your cheapest room? Our most affordable room is the Ocean View Deluxe, priced at $250 per night. Would you like to know more about it, or perhaps compare? Okay,

this isn't the future anymore; this is already here. It's true that the voice assistant isn't entirely user-friendly, but I understand that it will gradually improve over time. But it's already a huge step forward. This completely changes how we interact with technology. It's no longer about searching; it's about speaking. [Music] And you know what's next. Get hyped for this video, subscribe, and hit the bell so

you don't miss any upcoming news about artificial intelligence. [Music] Remember that my WhatsApp community is still open and completely free. I'll leave the link below in the description. And now I have a question for you. Would you like me to make a video talking about Cloud?