---
video_title: "Antigravity 2.0: la IA de Google que trabaja sola"
video_id: LlErH6JB8Hc
channel_name: "José Ángel AI"
channel_id: UCScrmeLQPHUMqx0QgS73HTQ
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LlErH6JB8Hc
video_date: 2026-06-01T17:00:30+00:00
video_description: |
  👉 Prompts utilizados en el vídeo: https://joseangelai.com/recursos
  
  🚀 Implementa la IA en tu negocio aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  💼 ¿Quieres que colaboremos? Contáctame: joseangel@joseangelai.com
  
  🏡 Comunidad Whatsapp (GRATIS): https://chat.whatsapp.com/Fs5VyR4OPE4JzmmTrxFKlW
  
  Google acaba de lanzar Antigravity 2.0… y probablemente sea uno de los agentes IA más potentes que hemos visto hasta ahora.
  
  En este vídeo te enseño cómo utilizar Antigravity 2.0 para automatizar tareas reales, analizar documentos, crear dashboards automáticamente, generar informes, investigar en internet, organizar datos y ejecutar flujos completos prácticamente solos.
  
  Pero este vídeo NO va solo de una nueva IA.
  
  👉 Va de entender hacia dónde se dirige el trabajo digital.
  
  Porque ya no hablamos solo de asistentes que responden preguntas.
  Ahora hablamos de agentes capaces de utilizar herramientas, analizar archivos, navegar por internet y ejecutar tareas complejas sin depender constantemente del usuario.
  
  🔥 Qué vas a aprender en este vídeo:
  
  🔹 Qué es realmente Antigravity 2.0
  🔹 Cómo funciona el nuevo sistema de agentes de Google
  🔹 Cómo usar comandos como /goal, /browser y /grill-me
  🔹 Cómo automatizar procesos administrativos completos
  🔹 Cómo crear dashboards automáticamente con IA
  🔹 Cómo analizar facturas, PDFs y documentos empresariales
  🔹 Cómo usar IA para ahorrar horas de trabajo
  🔹 Cómo aprovechar esto para negocios, agencias y freelancers
  
  🚀 Casos de uso reales que veremos:
  
  🔹 Extracción automática de datos desde facturas y tickets
  🔹 Creación automática de dashboards financieros
  🔹 Generación de informes empresariales con gráficos
  🔹 Investigación automática en internet usando Browser
  🔹 Organización inteligente de archivos y documentos
  🔹 Automatizaciones reales para negocios locales
  🔹 Agentes IA trabajando prácticamente solos
  
  💰 Oportunidad de negocio:
  
  La mayoría de empresas todavía:
  ❌ pierde horas organizando documentos
  ❌ analiza datos manualmente
  ❌ depende de tareas administrativas repetitivas
  ❌ no utiliza agentes IA reales
  
  Con herramientas como Antigravity 2.0 ahora puedes crear sistemas capaces de ejecutar procesos completos prácticamente solos.
  
  Y esto abre una oportunidad enorme para:
  👉 emprendedores
  👉 agencias
  👉 freelancers
  👉 consultores
  👉 negocios locales
  👉 creadores de contenido
  
  💡 Si quieres aplicar esto a tu negocio o necesitas ayuda implementándolo:
  👉 Puedes verlo aquí: https://joseangelai.com/
  
  🔗 Herramientas utilizadas:
  👉 Antigravity 2.0: https://antigravity.google/product/antigravity-2
  
  🕐 CAPÍTULOS:
  
  00:00 Introducción
  00:37 Misión 1: Contabilidad Automática
  05:18 Misión 2: Investigando en internet Automáticamente
  07:59 Misión 3: Empleado de Marketing IA
  10:34 Misión 4: Cómo hacer que la IA piense mejor
  13:12 Importante
  
  #InteligenciaArtificial #Antigravity #GoogleAI #Gemini #IA #Automatizacion #AgentesIA #IAparaNegocios #Productividad #HerramientasIA #AutomatizacionIA #NegociosDigitales #Gemini35 #GoogleGemini #IA2026 #Emprendimiento #Freelance #Dashboards #GoogleAIStudio #Automatizaciones
---
Google has just launched one of the craziest AIs we've seen this year. It's called Antigravity 2.0, and we're no longer talking about a simple chatbot. This AI can use your computer, analyze documents, browse the internet, organize information, and perform tasks almost entirely on its own. And today, I'm going to show you real-world use cases that any business can implement right now, because this completely changes how we work. The best part is that Google

has created special commands so people can practically work like a virtual employee. Let's get started. Mission one: automated accounting. Imagine you have a business, and instead of manually reviewing all the invoices and receipts, you simply assign it to the AI. All the PRs I'm going to use in this video are available on my website, which I'll link to in the description below. They're completely free. A brief explanation of how Antigravity

2.0 works. Here we have a template section where we can select the new Gemini 3.5 Flash. In this project selection option, we'll choose the folder where we want our agent to work. In my case, we'll click "New Project"

and select the folder I have on my desktop called "Invoices." Once it's selected, we'll create the content for this folder. I have two fictitious receipts from a bakery, as well as a supplier invoice and an income invoice—all fictitious. We've attached our Prompt, and the goal is for it to analyze all the invoices and receipts in that folder, extract income, expenses, and taxes, and then generate a visual dashboard, a financial report, and a spending forecast, along with an executive summary in PDF format. As you can see, we're using the `goal` bar function, which is one of the special commands introduced by Google. The purpose of the `goal` bar is to prevent it from asking me anything,

so to speak. We're telling people what we want and letting them figure out how to solve the problem and deliver what we're requesting. Once this is explained, we click send. It asks for permission to install, and we click yes. The first thing it proposed was an implementation plan. I told it to carry out the implementation plan, and

in just a few minutes, we'd have the result here. We have the executive report in PDF format, which it says I can open directly from here, or we can access the invoices folder, where we'll find the financial executive summary. We also have the index.html file, which is the dashboard it created for us. As you can see here, it's an interactive dashboard. Let's look at the financial executive summary first. This is the

summary it created for us. First, we have an analysis of the income for May, the expenses we had, and the net margin. Then there's a summary of recorded transactions, broken down by concept, customer type, and status (whether paid or pending). The second section would be the tax settlement, that is, the VAT. The third point covers the business analysis and sales breakdown, including a pie chart and demand distribution.

Section four has the financial projection and expense forecasts for the next six months. Finally, we have section five with conclusions and strategic recommendations, a fairly comprehensive financial executive summary, and all of this is based on the invoice I've attached from my business. If we now open index.html, this is the interactive dashboard we have, showing total revenue, recorded revenue, net operating margin, and the VAT settlement. It also shows the May balance sheet comparing revenue and expenses, sales by category (such as wedding cakes, fine pastries, and baked goods), a simulator, and expense forecasts for the next six months. As

we navigate, we see the graph change. It's truly amazing. We also have invoice and receipt details. Here we have all the revenue, expenses, and outstanding balances, depending on the category. depending on its status. And finally, we have the VAT tax settlement and a breakdown.

It also includes a button that generates a PDF report; clicking it gives us the exact same PDF we saw earlier. And honestly, many companies still do this manually. If you want to implement automations in your business or need personalized help, I've included a link to my consulting services in a pinned comment below. Mission two: automated business research. Now we're going to take this a step further because Antigravity can also conduct internet research while working. We're going to use the `barrabowser` function.

This command allows people to browse the internet while performing tasks. Let's open a new conversation, and I've switched projects to a completely empty one called "cafeteria," and we'll add our prompt. As you can see, we introduced `barrabowser` at the beginning to allow people to search the internet while working. The task is for him to research opening premium coffee shops in Madrid, analyze the competition, average transaction value, pricing, trends, and products, and create an executive summary, an investor presentation, a basic financial forecast, and differentiation strategies, so to speak. We're putting together a business plan. Once we have our task,

we send it. We then have the implementation plan he's going to follow . And once he's reviewed it, we tell him to carry out the implementation plan. And in just 44 seconds, we have the result. First, we have the executive report, broken down into an executive summary, a competitive analysis in Madrid with data on the most popular coffee shops, the average price and check (which typically ranges between €15 and €25), this year's benchmark pricing structure, key trends in the Madrid market, and best-selling products such as the flat white, the iced latte, and cinnamon rolls for dessert. Next is the investor presentation, which is presented here

in slide form. Slide one is the cover page, slide two outlines the problem statement, the financial summary, and the investment round. Moving on to the basic financial forecast, it 's broken down into five sections: the initial investment plan (i.e., the necessary machinery ), the monthly cost structure, the sales scenario for one year, the break-even analysis, and the three-year forecast. Everything is fully detailed and supported by real data.

Finally, we have the differentiation strategies, presented in four distinct sections. Open workshop for creative pastry and local identity, intelligent management of coworking and social space. Mission three, marketing employee. AI. Now imagine you have a pastry shop and want to launch new products every week. Normally you'd need a designer,

a community manager, but look at this. We access a new chat with a new folder called marketing and attach our promo. Again, we attach the "goal" command so the agent can find what I need. In this case, I need Instagram posts, promotional copy, a content calendar, ad ideas, a sales presentation, and a strategic document—basically a complete marketing campaign. And we hit send. Once it offers us the implementation plan, we tell it to proceed.

As we can see, it's generating the images. In this case, we have a box of chocolates, a pastry, and everything is being generated with NanoBanana. And we already have the result here. It tells us how we can view the campaign, explaining that if we access our folder, we have all the data used, including the index.html HTML file. Accessing this file

provides a general summary, which is quite dynamic because the image moves when you hover over it. It includes sales target, ad reach, campaign duration, the channels we'll be using, and the "jewels" in the collection—the sweets we have. The strategic plan consists of the strategic objectives, buyer personas, and the marketing strategy. campaign timeline. If we move on to the editorial calendar, we have all the posts we're going to publish for each day. If we only want to filter Instagram posts, we can

do that, including Stories. TikTok posts would only be published on the 13th, but the publication schedule for all posts would be what we have here. The Instagram Mockup section, as we can see, recreates the Instagram website and ad ideas. Here we have a series of ideas, the B2B inspiration pin, and the B2B presentation. Here's the slide it created for us with all the images and content. I think it's absolutely amazing, and any business

should have this to carry out a strategic marketing plan. And this is exactly what many companies are starting to implement in their businesses. By the way, if you have a business, I've included my website in the description below, where you'll find three service packages available. Mission 4: AI interviews you. And now comes a feature that I think is incredible because instead of starting directly, it now asks you the questions. We've attached our promo chat called "Restaurant." As you can see, we're going to use

this Grill 1000 command, which will ask the AI ​​the necessary questions to create, in this case, a personalized restaurant reservation management application tailored to our needs and preferences. We then click "Send." The implementation plan now includes a series of open-ended questions; simply choose the option that best suits your needs. We do the same for question number two and question number three. Once we have the answer, we click "Send." This no longer feels

like using GPT chat; it feels like working with a person who asks questions to help create an application that meets your requirements. We tell it to implement this updated plan with the information we provided, and here's the result. As you can see, it's a fairly comprehensive application. We can now make a new reservation. In this case, we'll enter my name, select table four in the center, and click "Save Reservation." If we go to

table four, we already have the one we just entered, which is on hold, and we can seat the customer and edit the reservation. If we select "seat customer," it's highlighted in yellow, meaning the customer is already selected. Here on the left, we have all the people in our restaurant. We can filter by status. Who's on hold? Here we have

three people on hold. Those who are seated and confirmed are listed as seated. And those who have finished are listed as finished. If, for example, José Ángel has finished, he can ask for the bill, and once he's asked for the bill, he can release the table, and then table four would be completely free and available. We can divide this by shift, both for dinner and lunch. And here on the right, we have the reservation, the total number of seated guests, the

available tables, and the occupancy percentage. Do you realize the potential of Antigravity? We've just created an app, version 2.0, that's incredibly marketable for any type of restaurant, bakery, and more. It's ready in seconds and completely free.

What do you think of this new Antigravity 2.0? Let me know in the comments. And honestly, I think many people still don't understand what's happening, because it's no longer just about asking AI questions. Now we're talking about agents capable of performing entire tasks. Just a

year ago, you needed several tools and several people. Today, a single AI-powered agent can do the work of many people. So, if you want to stay up-to-date on all the latest AI tools and innovations, you know what to do. Get hyped for this video, subscribe, and turn on notifications so you don't miss any updates. And remember, my WhatsApp community is still open and completely free. I've included the link in the description below.