---
video_title: "The Tools Every Hacker ACTUALLY Uses"
video_id: AqMkb00_4IE
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AqMkb00_4IE
video_date: 2025-10-14T14:30:10+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  Want the eight non negotiable hacking tools every serious bug hunter uses? This video breaks down a practical stack you can build today: Burp Suite proxy, recon tools like Amass and httpx, Nuclei templates, fuzzers, Nmap and Wireshark, Metasploit style exploit frameworks, cookie and session inspection tools, and the automation scripts that stitch it all together. Watch to learn what each tool does, how to chain them into a nightly recon pipeline, and why human validation still beats blind AI scanning.
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
If you want to know the eight hacking tools that are non-negotiable and actually worth your time, first hear me out. This is not a shopping list for a hacker fantasy. It's the bare minimum survival kit for anyone who wants to be useful, repeatable, and not that guy who runs one scan and post the screenshot. The first non-negotiable is a capable interception and manipulation proxy. Because if you can't see and alter the conversation between browser and server, you're flying blind. Burpuite still owns

this space and you should know it like a piano you can play in the dark. Learn the paxi, learn repeater, learn how to chain a scan into a manual exploit flow, and don't be shy about paying for pro when you're serious because its features and extensions speed up realorld work. The second is a modern recon stack. Fast scriptable tools that find subdomains, probe, which hosts are alive and fingerprint tech stacks. Things like Subfinder/Aass, chaining into HTTPX and then into a template scanner has become the industry pipeline for triage because it weeds out noise and surfaces interesting targets at scale. Treat this like hygiene, run

it nightly, and if you can build that chain into a single cron job, you'll leave 90% of opportunistic hunters crying in the console. The third is a templated communitydriven vulnerability scanner, nuclei style tooling, because the template ecosystem lets you automate the boring part of pattern matching across thousands of hosts and catch class level issues long before you open burp. Keeping templates up to date and writing your own is how pros scale reconnaissance into reports. Fourth is the fuzzing and enumeration toolkit. FFUF, Go Buster, and SmartWord lists because most hidden endpoints and parameterized bugs live behind a guest path or mangled file name. Mastering

fuzzing syntax, recursion, and payload placement is where simple curiosity turns into reliable impact. The fifth is a solid network and packet visibility tool. Wire and end mapap. Because sometimes the web stack lies and the network tells the truth. NAP maps the attack surface. Wire lets you follow the

wire when sessions, tokens, or off handshakes are doing weird stuff. And knowing when to drop into packet analysis is a skill that separates junior hunters from people who build narratives in their reports. The sixth is an exploitation and post exploitation framework like metas-ploit or a lightweight equivalent for when you need to validate impact fast and safely. Don't fetishize fuzzing for hours. If you can prove impact with a controlled exploit or proof of concept, you win attention, credibility, and higher payouts. The seventh is tooling for

credential session and cookie inspection. Browser extensions, cookie editors, burp plugins, and small scripts because many real world attacks come from clientside quirks, insecure cookies, or leaked session tokens. If you can quickly pivot from a discovered endpoint to demonstrating an account takeover path, you've just multiplied impact. Finally, the eighth non-negotiable is automation and orchestration. A few Python scripts, teamup sessions, a taskr runner, or tiny CI pipeline that link subdomain enumeration to probing to templated scanning and screenshotting. The pro

advantage is not that they are smarter in the moment. It's that they can do 100x the surface area in the same time. So, you show up to the interesting stuff before anyone else. There's a practical meta point here. Tools don't make you good the way you combine them does.

So treat these eight as a stack you glue together. A recon pipeline that coughs up live hosts, a templated scanner that calls out likely issues, a proxy for manual verification, fuzzers for discovery, packet and port tools for context, and exploit framework for impact proof, cookie session tools for pivoting, and scripts to stitch it all into a nightly harvest. But the end goal isn't just learning these skills. It's knowing how to turn them into serious income. And that's exactly what we teach inside. Our members aren't just finding

bugs. They're cashing out big. Just last month, one of our guys pulled $12,000 from a single critical he found using advanced techniques we teach in the academy. We're talking about people who invested a less than $30 and made it back 20x over in their first quarter. Because here's what nobody tells you.

The technical skills are just the entry fee. The real money comes from knowing which programs pay fast, how to write reports that get maximum payouts, building relationships with security teams, and scaling your workflow so you're not trading time for money anymore. We teach you the business side that everyone else ignores. And since you made it this far, I'm hooking you up with 50% off using code cyber50, but this expires in 24 hours because I can't keep this price forever. First link in the description.