---
video_title: "cybersecurity is easy, actually..."
video_id: Z7Zk898x75c
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Science & Technology"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z7Zk898x75c
video_date: 2025-04-21
video_description: |
  Join up and get everything you *actually* need to start hacking like a pro 🎓💻✨https://cyberflow-academy.github.io/
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  cybersecurity is easy... actually. most hacks aren't some 10,000 iq genius using a zero-day. they're dave from accounting clicking a phishing email. in this video, i break down why cybersecurity seems complicated on purpose, how gatekeeping culture makes it worse, and what you really need to focus on to get good (and even get paid). stop memorizing commands you’ll never use. start breaking things, fixing them, and having fun doing it.
  
  ready to take it seriously without the bs? check out cyberflow’s academy — where we teach web hacking, bug bounty, and reverse engineering the right way.
  
  📚 extra resources to help you get started:
  
  tryhackme: tryhackme.com
  
  hack the box: hackthebox.com
  
  malware traffic analysis: malware-traffic-analysis.net
  
  overthewire: overthewire.org
  
  wireshark basics: wiki.wireshark.org/CaptureFilters
  
  
  
  #cybersecurity #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #webhacking #cybersecuritytraining #infosec #hackthebox #tryhackme #learnhacking #malwareanalysis #pentesting #hackingtutorial
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
Cyber security is easy. You just don't get hacked. That's it. Done. Thanks for watching. No, but seriously, if you've

ever tried learning cyber security, you probably started with a YouTube video titled Top 10 Cyber Security Skills You Need in 2025 that made you feel like you had to master networking, learn every Linux command ever created, reverse engineer a nuclear reactor, and build your own seam from scratch. And that was just to pass the first interview. But here's the twist. Most of cyber security isn't hard. It's just over complicated on purpose. You've got people on Reddit

talking in acronyms like they're summoning demons. Make sure your sock is aligned with your seam and follows zero trust while integrating your CCEDR pipeline with AIdriven anomaly detection and you're sitting there googling what is a safe and wondering if it's a security framework or a new K-pop group. The truth is people love to gatekeep. It makes them feel smart. But in reality, cyber security is mostly about one thing, figuring out how things break.

And that part is kind of fun. And let's talk about real hacks for a second. Not the Hollywood kind where a guy slams a keyboard and yells, "I'm in." I'm talking about actual cyber security incidents. Most of them don't happen because some elite hacker from the dark web found a zero day in your colonel.

They happen because Dave in HR used the password 123 across 18 different login and clicked on an email that said, "Click here to receive your $100 Amazon gift card." That's it. That's the hack. And boom, ransomware. You look at companies getting breached and you think it must have been some state sponsored cyber ninja. But nah, it was an open s3

bucket named public backup final final zip and a missing firewall rule. Uber literally got breached because someone left admin credentials in a PowerShell script. Rockstar Games got pawned by a teenager. Most breaches don't start with a buffer overflow. They start with someone forgetting to log out of Slack.

The problem is we've built this mythos around cyber security. like you need to understand every single layer of the OSI model just to get started or you need to know how to code in C, Rust, Python and Morse code. But if you look at actual professionals, what do they do? They Google a lot. They read documentation, try something, it breaks, they panic, fix it, it breaks again, then they copy a Stack Overflow answer that somehow works. That's it. That's the job. You

don't need to know everything. You don't even need to know most things. You need to be curious. You need to not be afraid to break stuff. And you need to be able to laugh when things go horribly, horribly wrong because they will and that's how you learn. Want to actually

get better at cyber security? Stop trying to master every tool. Pick one thing and break it. Spin up a try hackme box. Do a hack the box beginner machine.

Set up a lab and mit your own traffic. Play with wire shark. Look at what normal traffic looks like. Then throw malware in there and see what changes. Don't spend 6 hours memorizing end map flags. Just scan something, then Google

what it means. It's like learning to fight by watching UFC videos versus actually getting in the ring and getting punched. Reading blog posts is cool, but nothing teaches you like breaking into a box and yelling yes when you finally find that one hidden base 64 string that leads to an SSH key. That feeling, that's when cyber security clicks. Or you can keep googling how to hack for the next 3 years. Or you can just join

Cyberflows Academy and start turning hacks into payouts. We cover what actually gets you paid. You don't need to be perfect. You just need the right system. Some members have made back their investment in weeks. Others have

turned hacking into a full-time job. Click below, get inside, and start making hacking pay. So, yeah, maybe cyber security isn't easy in the sense that it takes zero effort. But it's not some mythical art that only geniuses can do. It's a puzzle, a bunch of little puzzles stacked on top of each other, and you get better at solving them one broken terminal at a time. You're going

to fail. You're going to feel dumb. You're going to spend 3 hours chasing a bug only to realize you were editing the wrong config file. the whole time, but you're also going to pop your first shell or bypass your first login screen or catch your first fishing attempt in the wild and feel like a god. And in that moment, you'll realize cyber security is kind of easy, actually.