---
video_title: "ALL of HACKING (No BS, No Fluff) in 6 Minutes"
video_id: PF2TjY06nzc
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PF2TjY06nzc
video_date: 2025-11-16T15:00:46+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  If you have ever wondered how hacking actually works without the clickbait, the hype, or the endless fluff, this video is your complete high speed breakdown of the entire hacking process from start to finish. In just 6 minutes, you will understand the real workflow hackers use in the wild. No filler, no wasted time, just exactly how hacking works in the real world.
  
  This video covers the full attack lifecycle used by ethical hackers, penetration testers and red teamers. Everything from reconnaissance to privilege escalation is explained in simple, practical language so you finally understand how real hacking actually happens. Whether you want to learn cybersecurity, bug bounty, or just understand how attacks unfold, this is the fastest and clearest explanation you will ever see.
  
  We break down how hackers gather intel, how they scan for vulnerabilities, how they exploit systems, and how they gain deeper control inside a network. You will learn the difference between active and passive recon, how enumeration exposes hidden entry points, why misconfigurations matter more than Hollywood hacks, and how attackers escalate privileges to take over entire environments.
  
  This video is designed for beginners, students, IT professionals, and anyone who wants a complete overview of hacking without long lectures or technical overload. If you are tired of vague tutorials and want the actual structure behind every cyber attack, this guide is built for you.
  
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  Thumbnail Inspo: 20 Minute University 🙏
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
Listen up because I'm about to explain the entire hacking process from reconnaissance to covering your tracks. Most hacking tutorials spend hours teaching you tools without explaining the actual methodology. And that's why people stay stuck running automated scans without understanding what they're actually doing. But if you're watching Cyberflow, you're about to understand the complete picture in just a few minutes. And before we get started, if you want to actually learn the stuff properly with real labs and step-by-step courses, join our private community.

First link in the description. More on that later. Hacking isn't some magical process. It's a systematic five-phase methodology that every single successful breach follows. Whether it's a nation state apt group or a bug bounty hunter finding a critical vulnerability, the five phases are reconnaissance, scanning and enumeration, gaining access, post exploitation, and covering tracks. And

if you understand these phases, you understand literally everything about how hacking works. Phase one is reconnaissance. And this is where 99% of amateur hackers completely fail because they skip this step and jump straight to running exploits. Reconnaissance is about gathering information about your target without them even knowing you exist. And it comes in two flavors, passive and active. Passive

reconnaissance is when you're collecting publicly available information without ever touching the target system. We're talking about Google dorking, checking social media profiles, finding employee information on LinkedIn, checking the Wayback Machine for old versions of websites, and basically becoming a digital detective. The goal is to know more about the target than the people who actually run it. And this phase is completely legal because you're not interacting with their systems at all. Active reconnaissance is where things get spicy because now you're directly interacting with the target system to gather information. This includes

running end mapap scans to find open ports and services using tools like Nikto to scan web servers, checking for vulnerable versions of software, and basically mapping out the attack surface. The risk here is you can get detected because you're touching their systems. But the reward is you get way more accurate and detailed information. Professional penetration testers spend like 70% of their time in the reconnaissance phase because the more you know about a target, the easier everything else becomes. And this is what separates script kitties from actual hackers. Phase two is scanning

and enumeration, which is basically taking all that reconnaissance data and turning it into a detailed map of vulnerabilities you can exploit. You're using tools like end mapap for port scanning, burp suite for web application enumeration, vulnerability scanners to identify known cvees, and basically building a complete picture of the target security posture. The difference between scanning and enumeration is scanning tells you what's there and enumeration tells you what you can do with it. For example, scanning might tell you port 445 is open, but enumeration tells you it's running SMB version whatever with specific misconfigurations that make it exploitable. This phase is where you're building your attack plan and deciding which vulnerabilities are worth exploiting based on impact and ease of exploitation. Phase three is gaining

access. And this is what everyone thinks hacking is, but it's actually just one phase out of five. Once you've identified vulnerabilities during enumeration, you exploit them to gain initial access to the system. This could be exploiting a known CVE using metas-ploit, running a SQL injection attack with SQL map, exploiting a file upload vulnerability, social engineering someone into clicking a malicious link, or literally any technique that gets you a foothold inside the target network. The key thing to understand is gaining access doesn't mean you own the system.

It just means you have a toe in the door and now the real work begins because most initial access is with low privilege accounts that can't do anything interesting yet. Phase four is post exploitation and this is where amateur hackers get caught and professional penetration testers prove their value. After gaining initial access, you need to escalate privileges to get admin or root access. Maintain persistence so you can come back even if your initial entry point gets patched. Move laterally through the network to reach more valuable targets. Gather

credentials and sensitive data. And basically turn that initial foothold into complete control of the environment. This phase is what determines whether you found a low severity bug worth $200 or a critical vulnerability worth $12,000 because it's all about demonstrating impact. Phase five is covering tracks and this is what keeps you from getting caught or in the case of ethical hacking, this is what you document to show the client exactly what an attacker would do to hide their presence. You're clearing logs, deleting uploaded files, removing back doors, hiding malware using root kits, modifying timestamps on files, and basically erasing any evidence that you are ever there. In real world attacks,

this phase determines whether the breach gets detected in hours or goes unnoticed for months. And in penetration testing, this phase shows clients how sophisticated attackers operate so they can improve their detection capabilities. If you like the way I break this stuff down and you actually want to learn hacking the right way, then check out Cyberflows Academy, my private community. Inside you get full step-by-step courses on ethical hacking, bug bounty, web hacking, osent, Python, C++, and reverse engineering, plus a private Discord where you can ask me anything and learn alongside people already getting insane payouts. You also get all my cyber docs, the cheat sheets, workflows, recon templates, osent checklists, exploit notes, and practical challengebased labs that actually force you to apply the skills, plus the $1,000 playbook that shows you how to make your first grand from hacking. And we include

all my tools and setups so your machine is ready from day one. If you want all that, courses, labs, playbooks, everything, it's in the first link in the description. See you inside.