---
video_title: "Windows is Just a Spyware.."
video_id: sT9neSt8g2U
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sT9neSt8g2U
video_date: 2025-08-22T14:30:56+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family + Get The Tool:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/ 
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  You just unboxed a brand new Windows laptop and think it’s clean and private? Think again. From the second you press power, Windows 10/11 starts connecting to Microsoft, Steam, McAfee, Bing, DigiCert, and geo-tracking servers all before you even open a browser. In this video, I’ll break down exactly what’s happening in the background, why Windows acts like spyware, and how much of your personal data is leaving your device without your consent. We’ll compare modern Windows telemetry to Windows XP, show you the servers your PC quietly talks to, and explain how Microsoft’s “diagnostics” double as corporate surveillance. By the end, you’ll know how to monitor, block, and harden your system to regain control of your privacy.
  
  If you’re serious about stopping Windows from leaking your data, I’ll also show you a powerful hardening script (available inside Cyberflow’s Academy) that disables risky services, blocks shady outbound connections, and locks down your machine the right way.
  
  Ressources:
  Microsoft Telemetry documentation: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/privacy/windows-diagnostic-data
  Wireshark (network monitoring): https://wireshark.org
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
You just unboxed a brand new Windows laptop and think it's clean, private, ready to go. Think again. The second you hit power, it's already calling home to Microsoft ad networks, geoloccation trackers, Steam servers, McAfee, Bing, and a dozen others before you even open a browser. In this video, we're breaking down exactly what Windows is doing behind your back, why it might be spying on you, and how much of your personal data is leaving your machine without your consent. Stick around because by the end you'll see the shocking truth about modern Windows versus Windows XP.

And I'll show you a real way to take back control. The moment you hit power, this thing is already gossiping with the internet. Microsoft is pinging store images.microsoft.com.

Checking your account, verifying certificates through Digiert, autodetecting proxies via WPAD, even connecting to SteamCloud in London. Geotracking. Yep. Geo.pro.do.microsoft.com.

do.microsoft.com. McAfei's trusted source collecting stats. Bing, MSN, Smart Screen, multiple URL filters, all running silently, all sending info back, all helping reset your search engine to whatever Microsoft wants, even though you haven't typed a thing. And here's the kicker. You

haven't done anything yet. No web browser, no search queries, no clicks. Just powering on a fresh laptop triggers all of this. Is Windows spyware? Well, let's unpack that. Spyware is software

that secretly collects user information and sends it to a third party, often without consent. Modern Windows absolutely collects data, telemetry, diagnostic info, usage patterns, location data, app usage, but it does give you some options to limit it, hide it, or anonymize it. It's not exactly a malicious backdoor like a classic spyware Trojan, but it is a corporate surveillance machine. Every update, every security feature, every background service has a dual purpose. Keep your system running while feeding Microsoft and in some cases advertising and security partners tons of info about what you do. Some of it is useful. Crash

reports, update telemetry, Windows Defender stats. Some of it, not so much. search engine resets, Bing preferences overriding your choices, ad and market research networks logging activity, and background connections you didn't authorize. Even Windows XP did updates, but it didn't report to ad networks or third party research companies every few seconds. The telemetry itself isn't inherently malicious, and in theory, it's meant to improve your experience, enhance security, and prevent crashes.

But in practice, it's opaque. You can't see all the servers it talks to. You can't fully control every request and your consent is implied through long unreadable license agreements. So, is it spywear? Strictly speaking, no. It's not

malware. But if you define spyware as software collecting your data continuously and sending it to a company you didn't explicitly choose to share with, then modern Windows flirts dangerously close to that line. The truth is, the only reason it's not classified as malware is because Microsoft built it into the operating system itself and gives users some vague toggle switches in settings. But if you care about privacy control, and knowing what's leaving your system, you need to act. You can monitor traffic with Wireshark, block connections with intrusion prevention systems, check communitydriven blacklists, and disable as much telemetry as you can, but it's tedious and requires technical knowhow.

And if you want a shortcut for people who actually want to lock down Windows safely, I made something for that. Inside Cyberflows Academy, there's a Windows 101 hardening script I built. It locks down insecure features, hardens macros and Office, enforces stricter Defender policies, tweaks the registry, blocks risky outbound traffic, and even stops dangerous scripts from running automatically. It's aggressive, so you should test it in a VM or back up your system first. But it's the fastest way to take control of your Windows machine.

You can only get it inside Cyberflows Academy. And it's exactly the kind of tool that turns Windows from a telemetryfed spy into a system that actually works for you. But that's honestly just the beginning. See, finding vulnerabilities is only half the battle. The real money comes from knowing how to turn those skills into serious income. And that's exactly what

we teach inside. Our members aren't just finding bugs, they're cashing out big. Just last month, one of our guys pulled $12,000 from a single critical he found using advanced techniques we teach in the academy. We're talking about people who invested a less than $30 and made it back 20x over in their first quarter. Because here's what nobody tells you.

The technical skills are just the entry fee. The real money comes from knowing which programs pay fast, how to write reports that get maximum payouts, building relationships with security teams, and scaling your workflow so you're not trading time for money anymore. We teach you the business side that everyone else ignores. And since you made it this far, I'm hooking you up with 50% off using code cyber50. But this expires in 24 hours because I can't keep this price forever. First link in

the description.