---
video_title: "The Fun Way To Learn Hacking"
video_id: RDAIbM0-A4c
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RDAIbM0-A4c
video_date: 2025-12-25T15:00:50+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  learning hacking doesn’t have to be boring, slow, or stuck in tutorial hell. in this video, i break down how to learn hacking the fun way? by building skills through challenges, real-world thinking, and hands-on practice instead of endless theory.
  
  if you’re into ethical hacking, cybersecurity, bug bounty, or just want to understand how hackers actually think, this video will help you build momentum without burning out. this approach is designed for beginners and intermediates who want real progress, not just certificates.
  
  you’ll learn:
  
  why most people quit learning hacking
  how to stay motivated without forcing discipline
  how to turn hacking into something you actually enjoy
  how real hackers learn faster than everyone else
  
  this video is about mindset, learning strategy, and practical growth, whether your goal is bug bounty, pentesting, red teaming, or just becoming dangerous with a terminal.
  
  📚 useful resources:
  
  tryhackme: https://tryhackme.com
  hack the box: https://www.hackthebox.com
  overthewire (great for fundamentals): https://overthewire.org
  portswigger web security academy: https://portswigger.net/web-security
  kali linux: https://www.kali.org
  
  ⚠️ for educational purposes only. always hack legally and ethically.
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
[music]

[music] Yeah, you get the point. Hacking can be incredibly fun and lucrative if you do it the right way. But most people end up quitting after 2 weeks because they start off like this. Download Kali Linux, watch a 4-hour endmap tutorial, and try to hack Facebook, fail miserably, give up. So, let me teach you the fun way to learn hacking. If you

want to do this properly, you need to follow three very important rules. First, experiment with every tool and understand what you're actually running, not just copying commands. Second, make your own small projects that you actually enjoy working on. And third, make sure the way you're doing it is the best way before moving forward. Let's say you're watching a hacking tutorial and the guy tells you that NAPAP scans networks and finds open ports. In the

example, he types nmap-s192.168.1.1 and shows you a list of open ports, but then the YouTuber moves on. You might not really understand what the tool does if you stop there. So, you need to

experiment. First, I take the end mapap command and I try it on my own router. I can see port 80 is open, which means there's a web server running. But what happens if I scan my own computer instead? I run nap localhost and now I see completely different ports. This is

starting to make sense. End mapap is literally just checking which doors are unlocked on a computer. But then I wonder what does the - SS flag actually do. So I try the scan without it. Now it takes way longer. I look it up and find

out - SS is a stealth scan that doesn't complete the TCP handshake. This changes everything because now I understand why I use that flag, not just that I'm supposed to use it. Now I want to personalize it and make a small project out of it. Throughout bug bounty hunting, you need to run the same end mapap commands over and over on different targets. So, let me show you what that looks like. Let's say I'm

hunting on multiple bug bounty programs and I need to scan all their subdomains. First, I gather subdomains with tools like Subfinder. Now, instead of manually running end mapap on each subdomain like an idiot, I can write a simple Python script that reads my subdomain list and runs end mapap on each one automatically. I tell chat GPT to write me a script that takes a file with subdomains, runs nap- SS-p on each one, and saves the results. Now I have an automated recon tool that I can run while I sleep. But here's where

it gets even better. I can modify my script to only show me hosts with port 80 or 443 open, or automatically screenshot every web server it finds using eyewitness. This is way more fun than following tutorials and you're learning Python and bash scripting and reconnaissance methodology all at once. And now the last step is making sure you do it properly. Throughout this video, I've been doing reconnaissance wrong because this is usually how beginners learn it. The way you're actually

supposed to do it is by following a methodology. First, passive reconnaissance with DNS enumeration, then active scanning with end mapap, then service enumeration, then exploitation. How do you know how to do it properly? Well, honestly, just study what professional pentesters do. Go read bug bounty reports on Hacker 1 and see how hunters found critical vulnerabilities. They systematically

enumerate the entire attack service, then focus on the most promising targets. Now, let me give you a better example. Let's take Burpuite. Burpuite is basically a proxy that sits between your browser and web servers, so you can intercept and modify HTTP requests. Let's say I'm playing a web-based game and I notice that when I collect coins, the URL looks like game.com/collect

question mark amount equals 10. What if I change that 10 to 10,000? I open Burpuite, intercept the request, and modify the amount parameter. I just learned how to find and exploit ID bugs by hacking my own game progress. Okay, so now it's time to pick a field to specialize in. Web application hacking

is probably going to need Burp Suite, SQL Map, deep understanding of HTTP protocols. Meanwhile, network penetration testing focuses on end mapap, metas-ploit, privilege escalation techniques. These are completely different skill sets. Regardless of how complex the target is, you should still attempt it if it's something you want to act. Don't just use a tool because you're comfortable with it when there are much better alternatives. And when

it comes to AI, once you already learned basic syntax, don't overuse it for problem solving or you're going to become a useless hacker who can't troubleshoot without chat GPT. When it comes to projects, get creative and do stuff for things you actually use or enjoy. You could write scripts to automate your recon workflow. You could build a custom tool that doesn't exist yet, like a subdomain monitor. You could build a password manager that uses encryption you implemented yourself.

What I'm trying to tell you is you have so many options and all you have to do is get creative and not be scared to just hop in and try to build it. From now on, it just comes down to you putting in the work and trying to have fun. In the beginning, it's quite important that you have fun or you're going to get bored and quit very early. And other than that, see you in the next one. If you like the way I break this stuff down and you actually want to learn hacking the right way, then check out Cyberflows Academy, my private community. Inside you get full

step-by-step courses on ethical hacking, bug bounty, web hacking, osent, Python, C++, and reverse engineering, plus a private Discord where you can ask me anything and learn alongside people already getting insane payouts. You also get all my cyber docs, the cheat sheets, workflows, recon templates, osent checklists, exploit notes, and practical challengebased labs that actually force you to apply the skills, plus the $1,000 playbook that shows you how to make your first grand from hacking. And we include all my tools and setups so your machine is ready from day one. If you want all that, courses, labs, playbooks, everything, it's in the first link in the description. See you inside.