---
video_title: "How to Tell If Your PC Is Hacked (No BS Guide)"
video_id: 49r0YfSBmX8
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=49r0YfSBmX8
video_date: 2025-12-02T15:25:55+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  Your PC might already be hacked, and you wouldn’t even notice.
  In this video, I break down the clearest signs your computer is compromised, how malware actually behaves, and the exact red flags cybersecurity professionals look for. No fluff, no fear-mongering, just straight, practical value so you can protect yourself immediately.
  
  If your PC is acting weird, running slow, or doing things you didn’t tell it to do… this video will help you figure out what’s really going on.
  
  what you’ll learn:
  
  the most common signs your pc is hacked
  how malware hides in plain sight
  how hackers maintain persistence on your system
  simple steps to secure your pc fast
  
  Recommended tools & resources:
  
  Windows Sysinternals Suite – https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/
  
  Malwarebytes Scanner – https://www.malwarebytes.com/
  
  VirusTotal (file & url scanning) – https://www.virustotal.com/
  
  NIST Cybersecurity Guide – https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework
  
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  Tags:
  how to know if your pc is hacked, signs your pc is hacked, how to check if computer is hacked, is my pc hacked, malware signs, how hackers access your pc, computer virus symptoms, spyware detection, ransomware symptoms, how to remove malware, windows security tips, cybersecurity for beginners, pc acting weird, check for virus windows, how hackers break in, cyberflow academy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
Your PC might already be hacked and you wouldn't even know it. No pop-ups, no hackers typing in green matrix code, just your computer quietly snitching on you like it's working a double shift for the FBI. So, here's the deal. In the next 6 minutes, I'm going to give you everything you need to know to confirm if you're hacked. If you just want the TLDR and leave, fine. Check your network

connections, unknown processes, startup programs, browser extensions, and logins. If any of that looks weird, congratulations, someone else owns your PC. For everyone who wants actual depth, let's keep going because your computer might be betraying you in ways you haven't even imagined. And before we get started, if you want to actually learn this stuff properly with real labs and step-by-step courses, join our private community. First link in the description. More on that later. The

biggest sign of a hacked machine is unexpected network activity. Malware today is quiet, passive-aggressive, and extremely online. It sits there, polite as hell, until it starts sending your entire life story to some random server in Russia, India, or let's be honest, probably Kansas. To catch this, open task manager or resource monitor and look at what's using your network. If you see a process you don't recognize connecting to an IP address you've never heard of, that's already a red flag. If

that process is something like PowerShell, WScript, or a fake svchost.exe with a zero instead of an O, uninstall your house. A hacker's favorite move today is abusing built-in Windows tools, so nothing looks suspicious. They don't need fancy malware when they can just weaponize PowerShell. If you open PowerShell logs and see base64 encoded commands, that's not Windows doing Windows things. That's malware doing

malware things, all pretending to be a productivity app. Copy that encoded string into a base64 decoder and read what it's actually doing. If it mentions downloading files from weird domains or running scripts from public.downloads, yeah, your PC is cooked. Next, check your startup programs. If something

launches automatically on boot and you don't remember installing it, that's basically malware doing the Fortnite default dance on your system. Open task manager, startup. Everything there should be familiar. If not, disable it before it decides to enable remote webcam access at 3:00 a.m. Browser

extensions are another war crime. Hackers love planting malicious extensions because most people install them like candy. If you see an extension with a random name, no publisher, or something pretending to boost your FPS, remove it. A single browser plugin can read your passwords, capture your cookies, steal your sessions, and watch everything you do online. Yes, even that. You know exactly what I mean. Now,

check your accounts. Go to your Google, Microsoft, Discord, Steam, whatever you use, and look for recent logins. If you see sessions from countries you've never visited or at times when you were asleep, that's either a hacker or your sleepwalking is getting way too impressive. Sign out everywhere and change your password immediately. If you can't sign out because the hacker keeps beating you to it, that's when you calmly throw the entire computer in the nearest ocean and start a new life.

Let's talk performance. If your PC is slow for no reason, your fans sound like they're trying to take flight, or your CPU stays at 60% even when you're doing nothing, congratulations. You either installed Chrome or you have malware mining crypto. Open task manager. If you see weird processes you don't recognize, Google them. If Google doesn't know what

they are, that's even worse. Another fun sign, files moving, disappearing, renaming themselves, or new folders showing up without your permission. Hackers love dropping payloads into appdata, temp, or public folders. If you see random.js, .vbs, .ps1, or .exe files

you didn't create, don't open them. Another thing most people forget, scheduled tasks. Hackers love persistence. They'll create hidden tasks that run scripts every minute, every startup, or every login. If you open task scheduler and see jobs with random names, foreign languages, or update service123 when you clearly have no idea what it updates, delete them before they delete your bank account. Now, the

nuclear-level check. Run TCPView or any network monitor tool and observe every connection your PC makes. If something is phoning home to a sketchy IP at weird hours, that's your smoking gun. Google the IP, check VirusTotal. If it's flagged by multiple malware engines, stop what you're doing and isolate your machine. Hackers rely on you never

checking this. Most people don't. Be the exception. So, how do you fix all this? Disconnect from the internet, boot in a safe mode, run a full antivirus scan, use Malwarebytes, Defender, or whatever you trust. Check startup programs,

scheduled tasks, installed programs, browser extensions, and network connections. If the infection is deep, back up your important files and reinstall Windows. Don't cry, it's okay. Think of it as wiping your sins. If you like the way I break this stuff down and you actually want to learn hacking the right way, then check out CyberFlows Academy, my private community. Inside,

you get full step-by-step courses on ethical hacking, bug bounty, web hacking, OSINT, Python, C++, and reverse engineering. Plus, a private Discord where you can ask me anything and learn alongside people already getting insane payouts. You also get all my cyber docs, the cheat sheets, workflows, recon templates, OSINT checklists, exploit notes, and practical challenge-based labs that actually force you to apply the skills. Plus, the $1,000 playbook that shows you how to make your first grand from hacking. And we include all my tools and setups, so your machine is ready from day one. If you want all

that, courses, labs, playbooks, everything, it's in the first link in the description. See you inside.