---
video_title: "I Solved a CIA Challenge."
video_id: rN-L9Z2hSF4
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rN-L9Z2hSF4
video_date: 2025-11-19T15:45:10+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  In this video, I take on an insane real-world OSINT challenge: a declassified CIA document from 1953 describing a missing photo, a dead agent, and a mysterious telescope assembled in Berlin. With nothing but the text description, I attempt to track down the exact photo, the exact location, and verify the entire story using only free OSINT tools.
  
  This is a full OSINT investigation: image hunting, reverse research, geolocation, historical intel analysis, satellite verification, and video confirmation. If you’ve ever wondered how real OSINT investigators solve cases or how far you can get with free tools, this is the perfect breakdown.
  
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  Thumbnail & Idea Inspo: @bogxd ❤️
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
I just found a declassified CIA document from 1953 with a caption report describing a secret telescope being assembled in Berlin. And the agent who took the photo is dead. The photo is missing. And we have exactly zero resources except this text description. But here's the insane part. Using

nothing but free OSENT tools, I'm going to find the exact photo the CIA agent took, the exact location where this telescope ended up, and verify everything with video evidence. And if you think this is impossible, you're about to watch me do it in real time using techniques that OSEN investigators charge $2,000 per case to use. And before we get started, if you want to actually learn this stuff properly with real labs and step-by-step courses, join our private community. First link in the description. More on that later. All

right. So, we're staring at this CIA declassified document, and I'm reading through this caption report. It says, "The photo was taken in Berlin, Germany on January 18th, 1953 describing a telescope being assembled at the Askania factory for University of Bon. The description is weirdly specific. It says the field is 20 times Mount Palomar telescope. The camera is 20 ft, weighs 3

tons, and stars of 23rd magnitude can be seen. There's even coordinates, but we're ignoring those because I want to find this photo first. Here's our strategy, and I'm keeping this stupid simple. We have three key pieces. The what, which is telescope, the where, which is Berlin, and the when, which is 1953. That's all we need. So, let's just

Google it. I'm typing Telescope Berlin 1953 and hitting enter, thinking there's no way this is going to be this easy. Wait, the first result is from some stock image site. And I'm scrolling and holy crap, there it is. A massive telescope being assembled with people working on it. And this looks exactly

like the caption described. The description says, "January 1953, gigantic telescope built in Berlin at Askania Factory for University of Bon." and then lists all the same specs. The 20 times Mount Palomar telescope, the 20 foot camera, the three tons, the 23rd magnitude stars. This is either the exact CIA photo, or someone copied the description word for word. And I'm

thinking this was way too easy. Something feels off. I need to verify this is the right telescope. So, let's change strategy. Instead of searching Berlin, let's search University of Bon because that's where it ended up. If

this thing was delivered, someone definitely took a photo there. I'm searching telescope Bond University 1953. And the first result is the observatory website. Perfect. I'm scrolling through photos. And there it

is. A color photo of what appears to be the same telescope. And I'm putting these side by side now. The black and white assembly photo and this color photo. Look at this. They're definitely

the same. You can see the tube structure, the two door things on the side, this massive round mounting system. The caption says Schmidt telescope, Askania Berlin, 1954. So, we've got Askania Berlin matching our document, and the dates make sense for assembly and delivery, but I'm not satisfied. I want to see actual assembly photos. Now, we have new information.

This isn't just a telescope. It's a Schmidt telescope. That's way more specific. So, let's use that. Going back to Google, searching Schmidt telescope in quotes, then Berlin and 1953. Going

straight to images. Boom. Two photos from Getty Images, both from 1953, showing the telescope being assembled. And you can see workers actually building this thing. They're opening panels working on the lens assembly.

This is exactly what this CIA caption described. So now we have three different photos and they all match. First task complete. We found the photo. Now for the hard part, finding the exact location where this telescope was placed. We know it went to University of

Bon, but where specifically? Going back to the observatory website, scrolling for location details. And here we go. It says the telescope is positioned on tower 1 of List Observatory with coordinates listed. I'm copying these and dropping them into Google Maps.

Google Map shows the observatory with multiple buildings and domes, but we need to figure out which is tower 1. Going back to the website and there's a photo of tower 1 showing the tower with the dome. Now I need to match this to Google maps looking at distinctive features. The tower itself, the dome, [snorts] a wall, some stair pattern, a white building nearby, and a big tree. Problem is Germany doesn't allow Google Street View. So we can't just look around. But

wait, there's one panoramic image available. Let me click it. And oh my god, it's literally tower 1. I can see the tower, the same tree, the same wall, the same stair pattern, perfect match. But we still need to pin exact coordinates. So, I'm studying this

panoramic view, memorizing details. There's a clear path to the entrance, a building standing alone at the bottom, another dome nearby, a massive tree right at the entrance. Going back to satellite view, zooming in, looking for these features, and there it is. I can see the path, the big tree, the tower, the other dome, the isolated building. Everything matches perfectly. So these

are the coordinates of tower 1. But are we done? No. Because we're getting all our information from one website and I want a second source. I'm thinking if this telescope is really in tower 1, there should be a video. So I'm going to

YouTube, searching hoer list observatory. There's a video showing the tower and I'm fast forwarding to the relevant part. And there we go. The video shows inside the observatory and there's the telescope. The same Schmidt telescope with the massive round mounting system, the openings, the tube structure, everything we saw in 1953 assembly photos. The German narration

confirms this is tower 1 of List Observatory. So, let me recap. We started with nothing but a text description from a 1953 CIA document. We found the exact photo using simple Google searches. We verified it was correct by finding multiple sources. We

geollocated the final position to tower 1 using coordinate satellite imagery and architectural features. And we verified everything with video evidence all using completely free tools. So what are the key takeaways here? Keep searches simple. Use what, where, and when as foundation. Always verify with multiple

sources. One match isn't enough. Use distinctive architectural features for geoloccation when street view isn't available. Search for video evidence to verify static locations because movement provides context photos can't. If you like the way I break this stuff down and you actually want to learn hacking the right way, then check out Cyberflow's Academy, my private community. Inside

you get full step-by-step courses on ethical hacking, bug bounty, web hacking, osent, Python, C++, and reverse engineering, plus a private Discord where you can ask me anything and learn alongside people already getting insane payouts. You also get all my cyber docs, the cheat sheets, workflows, recon templates, osent checklists, exploit notes, and practical challengebased labs that actually force you to apply the skills. plus the $1,000 playbook that shows you how to make your first grand from hacking. And we include all my tools and setups so your machine is ready from day one. If you want all that courses, labs, playbooks, everything, it's in the first link in the description. See you inside.