---
video_title: "How To Find Your 1st Bug Bounty (100% Guaranteed)"
video_id: JPwRoFDv4eI
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JPwRoFDv4eI
video_date: 2025-11-22T14:30:14+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  Most people entering bug bounties are told to learn the OWASP Top 10, finish PortSwigger labs, and jump straight onto HackerOne’s biggest programs. That advice no longer works. In 2025, public bug bounty programs are oversaturated, heavily automated, and dominated by elite researchers, leaving beginners discouraged and finding nothing for months.
  
  In this video, I break down a real case study of a student who earned $7,650 in 150 days by using a completely different strategy, one built for the current bug bounty landscape, not outdated advice from years ago. You’ll learn the exact approach he used, why most beginners fail, how to choose the right programs, how to learn efficiently, and how to actually compete in a field full of automation and high-level researchers.
  
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
Everyone telling you to learn the OWASP Top 10 and start hunting on HackerOne is setting you up to fail and waste six months finding absolutely nothing because here's what nobody tells you the programs on the front page of HackerOne have been picked clean by hackers who've been doing this for five years and you're competing against people running custom automation while you're manually clicking through Burp Suite like an idiot but I just found a student who earned 7600 dollars in 150 days by doing the complete opposite of what everyone recommends and I'm going to show you his exact strategy that actually works in 2025 not some outdated garbage from 2020. And before we get started if you want to actually learn this stuff properly with real labs and step by step courses join our private community. First link in the description. More on that later. Alright so let's address the elephant in the room. You're sitting there thinking I can't

compete I'm too late everyone's already found all the bugs and honestly you're not completely wrong if you're doing what everyone else is doing. The traditional advice is spend three months learning OWASP Top 10 grind PortSwigger labs then jump on HackerOne and start testing Facebook Google Twitter. Here's why that's stupid those programs have thousands of researchers testing them every single day and the low hanging fruit got picked in 2019. So here's what we're doing instead and this comes from someone who actually documented their entire journey. This guy was enrolled in university had a full time job and still managed to earn 7650 dollars in 150 days averaging about 5.2 hours per day. His strategy was completely

different from the traditional approach and it's what actually works right now in 2025. First thing he did was ignore public bug bounty programs entirely for the first two months. Instead he focused exclusively on VDPs which are Vulnerability Disclosure Programs. These are programs where companies accept vulnerability reports but don't necessarily pay bounties. Now you're thinking wait why would I hunt on programs that don't pay and that's exactly why this works. Experienced hunters making six figures a year aren't wasting time

on VDPs they're chasing high paying bounties. This means VDPs have way less competition and you can actually find bugs without competing against automation and elite researchers. He specifically chose Bosch VDP because they weren't even featured on any bug bounty platform. After he submitted his first report through their website Bosch invited him to their program on Bugcrowd. From there he went hard on them for two weeks and found multiple vulnerabilities. This is the key insight you want to find

programs that aren't saturated where your beginner level skills can actually compete. But before any of that he spent two months just studying and here's what's critical about his approach. He didn't try to learn everything about web security he focused on pattern recognition. His goal wasn't to understand every technical detail of how XSS works at the browser level it was to understand when to look for XSS. You're not going to find local file inclusion in a contact form right. This is about being efficient with your

learning focusing on where vulnerabilities actually appear in real applications. He completed about 80% of PortSwigger Academy labs during those two months and the key thing is he was learning the patterns not memorizing exploits. Where do SQL injections typically appear. What kind of input fields are prone to XSS. What application features might have IDOR vulnerabilities. This pattern

based thinking is what separates people who find bugs from people who just know theory. After those initial two months of pure learning he started hunting but here's the part everyone gets wrong. He didn't hunt on five different programs simultaneously. He picked one target and went deep on it for two weeks straight. This is critical because understanding one application deeply is way more valuable than surface level testing on ten applications. When you spend two weeks on

one target you start understanding the business logic you identify the interesting features you map out the entire attack surface and you can spot vulnerabilities that quick automated scans miss. His daily routine was simple. Two hours of studying something he found on his target that he wasn't familiar with or something that interested him. Then two to three hours of active bug hunting on that same target. This is the routine that got him to 7650 dollars in five months. Not jumping around between programs not chasing the

latest vulnerability trend just consistent focused work on targets where he could actually compete. Now let's talk about what actually gets you paid because finding a bug is only half the battle. The report matters more than you think. His approach was documenting everything clearly including how to reproduce the vulnerability what the business impact is and potential fixes. Programs want reports they can immediately hand to their development team not cryptic screenshots with no context. A

well documented medium severity bug will get paid faster than a poorly documented critical. Here's the reality check about bug bounties in 2025 that nobody wants to say. The field is oversaturated. There are multiple documented cases of hunters finding deep logical vulnerabilities in applications that required understanding complex business logic and still duplicating because someone else found it first. Public programs with good payouts have insane competition. You need to be strategic about where you hunt.

The move is starting with VDPs and lesser known programs to build confidence and skills then transitioning to paid programs once you understand your workflow. The guy I've been referencing eventually moved to paid programs after building experience on VDPs and that's when his earnings increased. You're building a foundation first then scaling. One more critical thing he mentioned was self hosted or self managed programs. These are programs where companies manage the bug bounty internally instead of through a platform like HackerOne. These programs often have way less visibility which means less competition.

Finding these programs requires more work you have to actually look for them instead of just browsing HackerOne's front page but that extra effort is exactly what gives you an edge.