---
video_title: "Why Linux Isn’t Private (Until You Do This!)"
video_id: Tg3B6IrniPQ
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tg3B6IrniPQ
video_date: 2025-08-23T14:30:21+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  So you just installed Linux thinking you’ve escaped Big Tech spying? Hate to break it to you, but you’re still leaking data like a busted faucet. In this video, I’ll show you the real Linux privacy setup—the one nobody tells you—so by the end you’ll know if your “secure” machine is actually just Windows with a fake mustache. We’ll cover privacy-focused distros like Tails, Qubes, and Debian, DNS encryption, full-disk encryption, browser compartmentalization, tracker blocking, and the habits that really make or break your digital privacy.
  
  Your personal data isn’t just valuable—it’s the new oil. Hackers, governments, and corporations all want it. Every click, search, and YouTube binge builds a profile of who you are. Most people throw on a VPN and call it a day, but real privacy is layers. That’s why I built the Privacy Setup Toolkit, a command-line wizard that automates firewall profiles, hardened browser defaults, Firejail sandboxing, encrypted DNS, and metadata stripping—all inside Cyberflow’s Academy.
  
  If you want to stop leaking data and finally run a Linux system that’s more than just a “privacy aesthetic,” this is where you start.
  
  Ressources:
  https://www.torproject.org/ (Tails OS)
  https://www.qubes-os.org/ Qubes OS)
  https://www.debian.org/ (Debian Linux)
  https://dnsprivacy.org/ (DNS Privacy Project)
  https://www.keepassxc.org/ (Password Manager)
  https://www.eff.org/privacybadger (EFF Privacy Badger)
  https://www.openwall.com/firejail/ (Firejail Sandbox)
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
So, you just installed Linux thinking you've escaped big tech spying, right? Hate to break it to you, but you're still leaking data like a busted faucet. In this video, I'm going to show you the real Linux privacy setup. The one nobody tells you. So, by the end, you'll know if your secure machine is actually just Windows with a fake mustache. Your

personal data isn't just valuable, it's basically the new oil, and everyone wants a piece of it. Hackers, governments, corporations. If you so much as Google cat memes at 2:00 a.m., congrats. That's now part of your

permanent psychological profile. Every click, every scroll, every late night YouTube binge paints a crystal clear picture of who you are. And the worst part is you gave it away for free. Most people try to fight back with a VPN and call it a day, which is like putting sunglasses on a snowman and thinking nobody will notice. No, privacy doesn't come from one app. It's layers, actual

systems that cut off leaks before they happen. And the first league to plug is your operating system. Windows, forget it. Microsoft collects telemetry even if you smash the disable button. Mac OS, same story, but with a shinier logo.

These aren't private systems. They're surveillance machines wrapped in marketing. Linux though. Linux is different. Nobody's forcing you into one ecosystem. You can actually pick distros

built around privacy. Tails, for example, is a live OS that forgets everything once you shut it down, like digital amnesia. Cube splits your system into isolated compartments, so if malware breaks one, it dies there. Debian, a rockolid base you can strip down to the bare essentials. That freedom is the first real step toward privacy. But don't think you're done

just because you installed Linux and changed your wallpaper to a hacker anime GIF. Your DNS requests are screaming your browsing history to your ISP in plain text, unless you encrypt them. your storage. If you're not using full disc encryption, a thief could yank your data with a USB stick faster than you can say data breach. And then there's your browser, the single biggest snitch you own. Google and Meta don't just know

what websites you visit. They know what device you're using, what time you're usually awake, how fast you type, and yes, even what fonts you've got installed. Creepy doesn't even begin to cover it. So, you compartmentalize. One browser for personal stuff, another for work, another for shopping. You throw in

tracker blocking extensions. Refuse cookies you don't need and stop letting one company stitch your entire life into a giant map of this is you. It's not bulletproof, but suddenly you're scattering crumbs instead of feeding them a buffet. And here's the thing people forget. Privacy isn't just tech, it's habits. You can run the most

hardened Linux distro on Earth, but if you're reusing the same dumb password everywhere, you're toast. You need unique, strong passwords, a manager if you have to. two-factor authentication on every account that offers it. And don't just trust any service because it's free or convenient. If you dump your whole life into Gmail or iCloud, then yeah, congratulations. You've built

the most secure Linux machine in the world that still reports everything straight to Silicon Valley. Privacy isn't about turning invisible. It's about making yourself harder to track, stacking layers until you're not the easiest target anymore. You're not erasing yourself. You're raising the cost of surveillance high enough that you're not worth the effort. Now, here's

where it usually falls apart. All of this sounds great in theory, but actually doing it, absolute nightmare. You're bouncing between outdated blog posts, halfbroken GitHub repos, forum threads from 2014, and the one tutorial that assumes you already memorized the Linux kernel. You try to fix one thing, break another, and after 5 hours, you're back where you started. That's why most people give up after installing one browser extension and pat themselves on the back. And that's exactly why I built

something for you. I call it the privacy setup toolkit. It's a simple command line wizard that does the boring part for you. Bundling together the best open- source privacy tools and hardening your system in one go. one command and it sets up a proper firewall profile, locks down your browser defaults, configures Fire JL so shady apps can't touch your files, auto enables encrypted DNS, and even strips metadata out of your files so they don't leak secrets.

And it's not some black box. You see every step, you approve it and you actually learn what's happening. The kind of tool I wish I had when I started. It's inside Cyberflows Academy because that's where I drop the tools and workflows you won't find anywhere else. But that's honestly just the beginning. See, finding vulnerabilities

is only half the battle. The real money comes from knowing how to turn those skills into serious income. And that's exactly what we teach inside. Our members aren't just finding bugs, they're cashing out big. Just last month, one of our guys pulled $12,000 from a single critical he found using advanced techniques we teach in the academy. We're talking about people who

invested a less than $30 and made it back 20x over in their first quarter. Because here's what nobody tells you. The technical skills are just the entry fee. The real money comes from knowing which programs pay fast, how to write reports that get maximum payouts, building relationships with security teams, and scaling your workflow so you're not trading time for money anymore. We teach you the business side that everyone else ignores. And since

you made it this far, I'm hooking you up with 50% off using code cyber50. But this expires in 24 hours because I can't keep this price forever. First link in the description.