---
video_title: "How To Escape To Linux (From Windows)"
video_id: y4PuJmn57DI
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y4PuJmn57DI
video_date: 2025-08-17
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  So you’re sick of Windows? Constant updates, forced ads, and bloatware everywhere it’s no wonder people are jumping ship. In this video, I’ll show you exactly how to escape Windows and transition smoothly into Linux Mint, the perfect beginner-friendly distro. You’ll learn how to test Linux safely with a live USB, set up persistence, dual-boot if needed, and finally take control of your computer without Microsoft getting in the way. Whether you’re reviving an old laptop or just curious about Linux, this guide walks you step-by-step through the process.
  
  Resources:
  Linux Mint Official Download: https://linuxmint.com/download.php
  Linux Hardware: https://linux-hardware.org/?view=trends&rel=linuxmint-22.1
  Rufus Bootable USB Tool: https://rufus.ie/
  Linux Forums: https://forums.linuxmint.com/
  Ubuntu Forums (support for Mint too): https://ubuntuforums.org/
  Arch Wiki (general Linux troubleshooting): https://wiki.archlinux.org/
  ProtonDB (gaming compatibility on Linux): https://www.protondb.com/
  
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
So you’re sick of Windows, huh? I get it. The constant updates that break more things than they fix, the bloatware that comes preinstalled even on a “brand-new” machine, the ads shoved into your start menu like it’s some sort of digital billboard… at some point, you start asking yourself: why am I putting up with this? But then you look at Linux, and it’s like staring at a completely different universe. Command lines, weird names for distros, all these people online saying “by the way, my system broke after an update, but I fixed it by recompiling the kernel.” Yeah. Not exactly a confidence booster.

But here’s the thing: Linux doesn’t have to be scary. In fact, the smoothest way to transition isn’t to just wipe your drive and throw yourself into the deep end, it’s to try it first. And this is what most beginners don’t realize: you can actually run Linux straight off a USB drive without touching a single file on your current system. That’s called a live boot, and it’s basically like test-driving a car before you buy it. You plug it in, restart your computer, and boom you’re running Linux. No risk, no data loss,

nothing permanent unless you decide to install. And this is what makes the whole switch way less terrifying, because instead of “goodbye Windows, hello panic attack,” it becomes “let’s poke around, see how this feels, and shut it down when I’m done.” Now, the hardest part isn’t running Linux. It’s actually choosing which version or distro you want to start with. And let me just save you a couple weeks of YouTube rabbit holes: your first distro is not your last. Everyone goes through this thing called distro-hopping,

where you try one, then another, then another, until you find what fits. It’s completely normal. But if you’re coming straight from Windows, the one that’s going to feel the least like an alien landscape is Linux Mint, specifically the Cinnamon edition. Why? Because Mint was designed with people like you in mind. It looks familiar, it works right out of the box, and if you really

want, you can even theme it so it looks like Windows 10 or 11. It’s like tricking your brain into thinking you never left, while secretly ditching all the junk Microsoft forced on you. And here’s something that’ll blow your mind: Mint is light. Even with Firefox tabs open, the system barely uses 4 gigabytes of RAM. Compare that to Windows, which burns through that amount just by existing. So if you’ve got an old laptop lying around,

one that Microsoft abandoned years ago, Linux can straight up revive it. You don’t need to toss it or let it gather dust throw Mint on there and it’ll feel like a new machine. And unlike Windows, you can uninstall anything you don’t want. No more Edge forced updates. No more junk apps reappearing after every update. If you don’t want it, it’s gone. Simple as that.

So how do you actually get started? Step one: download Linux Mint. If you want eye candy, get the Cinnamon version. If your system is older and has 4 gigs of RAM or less, grab XFCE instead it’s super lightweight. If you want a middle ground, go MATE. Once you’ve got the ISO file,

you’ll need a tool called Rufus. Rufus takes that ISO and makes it into a bootable USB drive. When you’re setting it up, you’ll need to choose between GPT and MBR partition schemes. If your computer is from the Windows 8, 10, or 11 era, pick GPT. If it’s older, like Windows 7 or earlier, pick MBR. One cool trick is enabling persistence. This lets the live USB actually save

files and installed apps between reboots, which means you’re not just test-driving for a few minutes you’re basically getting an extended trial run without touching your hard drive. Now reboot, go into BIOS or UEFI, set your USB as the first boot option or just use Windows advanced startup and select “boot from USB” and suddenly you’re inside Linux Mint. And here’s the part where most people are shocked: it loads fast. Even from USB, the whole desktop is up and running way faster than Windows usually takes to boot. So what do you actually do inside Linux Mint? Well, the first thing you’ll notice is

that everything is already there. You’ve got the Software Manager, which is basically an app store, and inside you’ll find all the essentials: VLC, Audacity, Spotify, Dropbox. A ton of them are one click away. Instead of Microsoft Office, you get LibreOffice, which works for most people. If you’re hardcore about Office, you can still use the online version in your browser, or run the full version through Wine, but honestly, it’s a little clunky. For Photoshop

users, you’ve got GIMP or Krita, both of which are insanely powerful. If you’re into browser editing, Photopea works perfectly too. Firefox is installed by default, but you can easily grab Chrome or, ironically, even install Microsoft Edge on Linux if you want to. Hardware support is another thing people stress about. Like, will my Wi-Fi even work? What about

Bluetooth, or sound? And the truth is, most of it just works. Linux has come a long way in hardware support, and Mint is one of the best for out-of-the-box compatibility. Gaming, which used to be Linux’s weak point, has leveled up massively thanks to Valve’s Steam Deck and Proton, which translates Windows games to run on Linux. More and more games are playable every single day, and you can check compatibility on ProtonDB if you’re curious about a specific title.

When you’re ready to go all in, installing Mint is just a click away. There’s an “Install Linux Mint” app right on the desktop. From there, you can either wipe Windows completely just make sure you backed up your files first or set up a dual boot so you can have both side by side. That way, if you’re not ready to cut ties completely, you can bounce between the two until you’re comfortable. And if you ever run into issues, you’re not alone. Mint has its own official

forums, but you can also tap into Ubuntu forums since Mint is based on Ubuntu. And then there’s the Arch Wiki, which is like the holy bible of Linux troubleshooting even if you’re not on Arch. So here’s the bottom line: Linux is free, it’s faster, lighter, customizable, more private, and it actually gives you control over your machine instead of treating you like a product. You don’t have to dive headfirst into the deep end. Boot it live, play around, maybe set up a dual boot, and only fully commit when you’re ready. And once you do,

you’ll never look at Windows the same way again. But here’s the thing nobody tells you: just because you installed Linux doesn’t mean you’re automatically secure. Out of the box, Mint is good, but it’s not hardened. Most people stop at installation and think “well, I’m on Linux now, I’m safe,” but that’s like buying a lock and never actually using it. And that’s why I put together something I wish I had when I first switched the Linux Hardening Checklist and Script Pack. This isn’t just random commands

copy-pasted from a forum. It’s a step-by-step process that walks you through locking down Mint for privacy and security, while also installing the exact hacker toolkit I use myself. So not only do you get a clean, private system, but you also end up with an environment that’s actually ready for practice, whether that’s ethical hacking, CTFs, or just learning the tools. I keep it inside Cyberflow’s Academy, along with the courses where I don’t just teach you the technical stuff, but also the business side. Because knowing how Linux works is one thing, but knowing how to turn that knowledge into your first thousand dollars online? That’s

a completely different game. And since you’ve made it this far, you can grab it now with code CYBER50 for 50% off. Thanks for sticking with me through this now go make Linux fear you.