---
video_title: "Things To KNOW Before Switching To Linux"
video_id: Dfz7lxWkx_8
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dfz7lxWkx_8
video_date: 2026-06-09T15:00:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  This video is about everything I wish someone told me before I switched to Linux for the first time. If you're thinking about installing Linux, moving from Windows to Ubuntu, trying Linux Mint, Fedora, Kali Linux, or Parrot OS, this guide covers the biggest mistakes beginners make, how to avoid common Linux problems, and what to expect during your first weeks using Linux as a daily driver.
  
  You'll learn why Linux is fundamentally different from Windows, how to check hardware compatibility before installing, why dual booting is safer than wiping your drive, the Linux terminal commands every beginner should know, how package managers work, and why file permissions are one of the most important concepts in Linux and cybersecurity.
  
  Whether you're interested in ethical hacking, cybersecurity, programming, system administration, privacy, open source software, or simply want a faster and more customizable operating system, understanding these Linux fundamentals will save you countless hours of frustration.
  
  Topics covered:
  • Switching from Windows to Linux
  • Ubuntu vs Fedora vs Linux Mint
  • Kali Linux for beginners
  • Parrot OS vs Kali Linux
  • Linux hardware compatibility
  • Linux terminal basics
  • Essential Linux commands
  • Package managers explained
  • Linux file permissions
  • Troubleshooting Linux errors
  • Dual boot setup advice
  • Linux for cybersecurity
  • Linux for developers
  • Linux beginner mistakes
  
  Resources:
  Linux Hardware Database:
  https://linux-hardware.org
  
  Ubuntu:
  https://ubuntu.com
  
  Fedora:
  https://fedoraproject.org
  
  Linux Mint:
  https://linuxmint.com
  
  Kali Linux:
  https://www.kali.org
  
  Parrot OS:
  https://parrotsec.org
  
  Arch Wiki:
  https://wiki.archlinux.org
  
  Learn Linux Commands:
  https://linuxcommand.org
  
  If you're learning cybersecurity, ethical hacking, bug bounty hunting, penetration testing, Linux administration, reverse engineering, or programming, mastering Linux is one of the highest ROI skills you can develop.
  
  Subscribe for more videos about Linux, ethical hacking, cybersecurity, bug bounty, penetration testing, reverse engineering, privacy, programming, networking, and the technology that powers the internet.
  
  #linux #ubuntu #linuxmint #fedora #kalilinux #parrotos #cybersecurity #ethicalhacking #opensource #linuxforbeginners #terminal #programming #sysadmin #networking #tech
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  0:00 My First Linux Disaster
  1:16 Linux Is Not Windows
  2:13 Hardware Compatibility Can Break Everything
  3:41 Why You Should Dual Boot First
  4:17 The Terminal Is Not Optional
  4:59 Essential Linux Commands for Beginners
  5:36 Choosing Your First Linux Distribution
  6:47 Why Package Managers Are Amazing
  7:40 Understanding Linux Permissions
  8:31 How to Troubleshoot Linux Problems
  9:21 Cyberflow Academy
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
I remember the first time I switched to Linux. I was confident. I'd watched enough videos, read enough Reddit posts, I thought I knew what I was getting into. I wiped my drive, installed Ubuntu, booted in, and within forty-eight hours I was staring at a broken display driver, no Wi-Fi, and a terminal full of error messages I didn't understand. I fixed it eventually.

But I wish someone had told me what I'm about to tell you before I touched that installer.

The most important thing to understand before you do anything else is that Linux is not an alternative to Windows. It is a completely different relationship with your computer. On Windows the operating system manages everything quietly in the background. Drivers install themselves. Updates happen automatically. Software comes in a neat installer that walks you through

five clicks. Everything is designed to hide the complexity from you. Linux does not do that. Linux assumes you want to know what's happening. It surfaces the complexity instead of hiding it.

That is not a flaw. That is the entire point. But if you go in expecting Windows behavior from a Linux machine you will be frustrated constantly and you will quit within a week. So before anything else, adjust the expectation. You are not switching to a faster, cheaper Windows. You are switching to a system that

will teach you how computers actually work in exchange for a steeper learning curve upfront. Now let's talk about the thing that burns most people before they even get started. Hardware compatibility. Not everything works on Linux out of the box. This is less of a problem than it was five years ago — most common hardware is well supported now — but there are still categories that cause real pain.

Wi-Fi adapters are the most common one. Certain Broadcom and Realtek chips have notoriously bad Linux driver support. You install the OS, everything looks fine, you try to connect to Wi-Fi and the adapter isn't even detected. Fixing this requires either a wired connection or a USB Wi-Fi adapter that works, neither of which you'll have ready if you didn't see it coming. NVIDIA GPUs are another one.

The open source Nouveau driver that Linux uses by default for NVIDIA cards is functional but limited. For gaming or GPU-intensive work you'll want the proprietary NVIDIA drivers, which means an extra installation step after your first boot. Fingerprint readers often don't work. Some laptop-specific function keys don't work. Thunderbolt docks can be inconsistent.

The fix is simple but you have to do it before you install anything. Go to the Linux Hardware Database at linux-hardware.org, search your laptop model or your specific components, and check the compatibility ratings. One hour of research before installation will tell you exactly what you're in for. If your hardware is well supported, the installation will be smooth. If

it's not, you need to know that so you can either prepare workarounds or pick different hardware. On that note — do not wipe your drive for the first installation. Set up a dual boot. Keep Windows or whatever you're currently running on one partition and install Linux alongside it. This gives you a fallback when things go wrong, and things will go wrong. Not catastrophically,

but small things break during the learning phase. Having Windows available means you can look up solutions, download things you need, and stay functional while you're figuring Linux out. Most people who quit Linux in the first two weeks removed their existing OS too early. Give yourself three months of dual booting before you make a final decision either way. The terminal is unavoidable and the sooner you accept that the better. Every beginner

guide says something like "modern Linux has great graphical tools, you barely need the terminal." That is misleading to the point of being harmful. Yes, you can browse the web and edit documents without touching a terminal. But the moment you need to troubleshoot anything, install a tool that isn't in the graphical software center, configure a service, do anything security-related, or fix something that broke — you will need the terminal. If you've been avoiding it, you'll have no experience with it precisely when you need it most. Start using it from day one. Not because

everything requires it, but because you need to be comfortable in it before the situation is urgent. The commands you actually need to know to get started are fewer than you think. `cd` moves you between directories. `ls` lists what's in a directory. `sudo` runs a command with administrator privileges. `apt install` installs software on Debian-based systems like Ubuntu.

`chmod` changes file permissions. `grep` searches through text output. `man` opens the manual for any command — if you don't know what something does, type `man` followed by the command name and it will tell you everything. That is genuinely enough to handle most situations in the first few months. Everything else you will learn as you need it.

Choosing the right distribution matters more than most people realize. The Linux ecosystem has hundreds of distributions — different versions of Linux with different default software, different desktop environments, different philosophies. For most people switching for the first time the choice comes down to a small handful. Ubuntu is the most beginner-friendly option with the largest community and the most documentation. If you hit a problem on Ubuntu, someone has already solved it and written it up somewhere. Fedora is slightly more cutting-edge than Ubuntu,

ships with newer software, and is what a lot of developers use as a daily driver. Linux Mint is built on Ubuntu but with a desktop that feels more familiar to Windows users — if the adjustment feels overwhelming, Mint is worth considering. If you are here for cybersecurity specifically, Kali Linux and Parrot OS come with hundreds of security tools pre-installed, but they are not designed to be beginner daily drivers. Learn Linux basics on Ubuntu or Fedora first, then move to a security distribution once you understand what you're doing. Trying to learn Linux and learn security tooling simultaneously on Kali as your first experience is a reliable way to burn out.

The package manager is one of the things Linux does genuinely better than Windows and it's worth understanding why. On Windows, software installation means going to a website, hoping it's the right website, downloading an installer, running it, clicking through dialogs, and hoping there's no bloatware attached. On Linux you run one command. `sudo apt install vlc` installs VLC. `sudo apt install git python3 nmap` installs all three at once.

Every package comes from a verified repository maintained by your distribution. Everything is checked, everything is clean, and everything gets updated with a single `sudo apt upgrade` command. No going to twelve different websites to check for updates on twelve different programs. One command updates your entire system. For security work this is not just convenient — it's important. You know exactly where your software came from.

File permissions will confuse you and then they will change how you think. Every file on a Linux system has an owner and a set of permissions defining who can read it, write to it, and execute it. In the beginning you will hit permission denied errors constantly and it will feel like the system is being unnecessarily difficult. It isn't. It is being precise.

Learning what `chmod` and `chown` do, understanding the difference between running something as your regular user versus running it with `sudo`, understanding why certain files are owned by root and cannot be touched by regular users — this is not just Linux housekeeping. This is foundational security knowledge. Every privilege escalation exploit, every misconfigured server vulnerability, every local access CTF challenge comes back to permissions. You are not just learning to use a file system. You are learning to think about access control.

When things break — and they will — the approach matters more than the specific solution. Copy the exact error message into a search engine. Not a paraphrase. The exact text. Stack Overflow, Reddit, the Arch Wiki, GitHub issues — these will solve the overwhelming majority of problems you encounter. The Arch Wiki specifically is one of the best technical resources on the

internet and it applies to almost every Linux distribution even though it's written for Arch. If the search doesn't immediately give you an answer, check the logs. `journalctl -xe` shows recent system logs. Most services write their own logs to `/var/log`. The error is almost always described there in plain text, waiting to be read. Most

people spend hours trying random fixes when the answer was sitting in the logs the entire time. You still stuck in tutorial hell? We got full courses step-by-step as well. Web hacking labs, real attack flow, Not “click here”… actually break the code. Reverse engineering crackmes inside, Ghidra open, ego died.

Bug bounty methods that actually scale, Find one vuln that’s grocery money mail. Twenty-nine dollars that’s it, bro. Skill goes up. That’s Cyberflow.Python for hackers, C++ pain, Build your own tools, don’t just complain.

New course dropping every month, No content drought, we stack it up. Private Discord killers in chat, Stuck on a bug? We fix that.