---
video_title: "OSINT: Find Everything About Anyone!"
video_id: zhTjzscNLEI
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zhTjzscNLEI
video_date: 2026-06-22T15:00:16+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  OSINT is one of the most powerful skills in cybersecurity... and also one of the most misunderstood.
  
  In this video, we're diving deep into the world of Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) and breaking down tools and techniques that can reveal shocking amounts of information from usernames, emails, social accounts, metadata, public records, and digital footprints.
  
  We're going beyond beginner OSINT and looking at the tools that professionals actually use, the stuff hidden deep inside forums, investigator workflows, and research communities.
  
  💻 In this video you'll learn:
  
  • How investigators connect digital identities
  • Username hunting across hundreds of websites
  • Email intelligence and account discovery
  • Advanced OSINT workflow techniques
  • Geolocation and image investigation methods
  • Investigation documentation and evidence collection
  • Public records and hidden information sources
  • Tools used by researchers and investigators
  
  Tools covered:
  
  * IntelTechniques
  * Epieos
  * Sherlock
  * Holehe
  * Hunchly
  * Overpass Turbo
  * OpenStreetMap
  * SpiderFoot
  * Public record databases
  
  ⚠️ Educational disclaimer:
  
  This video is strictly for educational and defensive purposes. Everything shown uses publicly available information. No hacking, unauthorized access, or bypassing systems. The purpose of OSINT is understanding how information becomes exposed so you can better protect yourself and improve your cybersecurity awareness.
  
  Resources:
  
  IntelTechniques
  https://inteltechniques.com
  
  Epieos
  https://epieos.com
  
  Sherlock
  https://github.com/sherlock-project/sherlock
  
  Holehe
  https://github.com/megadose/holehe
  
  SpiderFoot
  https://www.spiderfoot.net
  
  Hunchly
  https://www.hunch.ly
  
  Overpass Turbo
  https://overpass-turbo.eu
  
  OpenStreetMap
  https://www.openstreetmap.org
  
  Michael Bazzell Resources
  https://inteltechniques.com/book1.html
  
  #osint #cybersecurity #ethicalhacking 
  
  0:00 OSINT Got Way Crazier Than I Thought
  0:23 IntelTechniques: The FBI-Level OSINT Toolkit
  1:03 EPOS and Email Intelligence
  1:28 Sherlock: Tracking Usernames Across the Internet
  1:55 Holehe and Email Footprint Mapping
  2:30 How Investigators Build Evidence Trails
  3:07 Geolocation Tricks Used by Investigators
  3:37 SpiderFoot: Automating OSINT
  4:05 Court Records and Hidden Public Data
  4:43 Why Most People Never Find These Tools
  5:10 The Andrew Tate Geolocation Challenge
  
  
  
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
So I already did a video on OSINT a while back. Decent video, solid tools, did its job. But since then I've gone way deeper into this rabbit hole and learned tricks that genuinely made me sit back in my chair like there's no way this is legal to know. So tonight I'm dropping everything I've found since then the stuff nobody else is sharing, the actual FBI type shi, tools that make Maltego and Shodan look like the beginner tier they actually are. Quick reality check before anything else. Everything here uses public information.

No breaching, no hacking, no unauthorized access. The reason this matters as much as it does is because almost nobody understands how much of their life is sitting in public, searchable, cross-referenceable places. Understanding these tools is how investigators find people. It's also exactly how you find out what's findable about yourself. Let's start with something most people sleep on completely, Pipl and Spokeo are fine for surface level stuff but the real professionals reach for something called IntelTechniques, built by Michael Bazzell, a former FBI cyber crimes investigator who now runs the most respected OSINT training operation in the field. His site has a free search tool collection that aggregates dozens of lookups

into one place, usernames, emails, phone numbers, all cross-referenced instantly. This is the same methodology actual federal investigators are trained on, available to you for free, right now. Now let's talk about something that will genuinely blow your mind, Epieos. You give it an email address and it tells you which Google services that email is tied to, whether there's a profile photo associated with it, sometimes even a real name pulled straight from Google's own systems. People think their email is anonymous. Epieos will frequently prove otherwise in about four seconds.

Sherlock is the next one and if you've never used it, prepare to lose an evening. You give Sherlock a single username and it checks that exact username against over four hundred websites simultaneously to tell you everywhere that name has an account. Someone uses the same username on their throwaway Reddit and their real Instagram? Sherlock just connected them. Run it from any terminal, `python3 sherlock.py username`, and watch the results populate in

real time. This is genuinely one of the most underrated tools in the entire OSINT space. Then there's Holehe, which does something similarly unsettling but with emails instead of usernames. Feed it an email and it silently checks that address against over a hundred platforms to see which ones it's registered on, without sending a single password reset email, without alerting anyone. It works by exploiting subtle differences in how registration pages respond to existing versus nonexistent accounts. One email address in,

and thirty seconds later you have a partial map of someone's entire digital footprint. Now here's where it gets genuinely federal level. GrayKey and Cellebrite are the actual tools law enforcement uses to extract data from seized phones, but the public-facing equivalent that regular researchers can access is something called Cellebrite's own published methodology documents, and more practically, Hunchly, a browser extension built specifically for investigators that automatically captures and timestamps every single page you visit during an investigation, building a fully documented evidence trail as you browse. Real investigators use this so that everything they find is admissible and reconstructable later. Most OSINT hobbyists have never even heard of it.

For geolocation, forget basic reverse image search for a second and look at something called Overpass Turbo combined with OpenStreetMap data. Investigators use this to cross-reference visual landmarks in a photo, a specific style of streetlight, a particular road marking, an unusual building shape, against actual geographic databases to pin down a location with shocking precision. This is exactly the kind of technique Bellingcat uses to geolocate conflict footage down to the exact street. SpiderFoot deserves a mention here too because it automates almost everything I just described into a single scan. Point it at a domain, an email, or an IP, and it pulls from dozens of data sources simultaneously, including breach databases, building a full relationship map automatically. It's open source,

it runs locally, and most people who've heard the name still have never actually run it. And then there's something most OSINT content completely ignores, court records and public filing databases. PACER for federal court records in the US, and equivalent public registries in most other countries, contain an enormous amount of information that nobody thinks to check. Lawsuits, property disputes, business filings, all public, all searchable, and frequently containing addresses, employment history, and financial details that no social media platform will ever give you. None of these tools are illegal. None of them are hacking. Every single one works because

the information was already public, posted, filed, registered, or leaked into a breach database that anyone can search. The skill in OSINT isn't accessing secret information. It's knowing that the information was never secret to begin with, and knowing exactly where to look for it. This is also exactly why I built a full OSINT course inside Cyberflow Academy, because the tools I just listed are genuinely scattered across forums, GitHub repos, and obscure training pages that ninety percent of people learning OSINT never find on their own. The course goes through this entire methodology, the tools, the actual investigative workflow professionals use, how to chain findings together instead of just running tools in isolation, and the community inside is full of people actively doing this, cross-referencing findings, helping each other when a lead goes cold. Link's

in the description, code Cyber50 for fifty percent off. Now let's wrap this up properly.