---
video_title: "OSINT 2026: How to Gather All the Info You’ll Ever Need on Anyone"
video_id: 6PdjK9kuTD0
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6PdjK9kuTD0
video_date: 2026-01-16T15:00:13+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  i googled myself and found my home address from 2009 listed on a data broker site for three dollars. that moment sent me down a rabbit hole that explains why osint (open source intelligence) quietly became one of the most powerful tools in cybersecurity, investigations, and modern warfare.
  
  in this video, i break down how real-world attacks and investigations rely almost entirely on public data, no malware, no zero-days, just information people and companies accidentally leave exposed online. from the sony pictures hack to modern military intelligence failures, osint has been shaping outcomes for years while most people still think “hacking” means typing fast in a dark room.
  
  you’ll learn:
  
  how attackers and investigators use google dorking to uncover exposed files and internal data
  
  why leaked pdfs, metadata, and forgotten cloud assets are still one of the biggest security risks
  
  how usernames, photos, and social media profiles quietly connect your entire online identity
  
  how metadata and geolocation techniques can reveal exact locations from a single image
  
  why osint is legal, ethical when used correctly, and terrifyingly effective
  
  this isn’t theory or hype. these are real techniques used in bug bounty hunting, investigations, journalism, and cyber operations, explained clearly so you understand how the internet actually leaks information.
  
  if you’re interested in cybersecurity, hacking, osint, bug bounty, digital privacy, or understanding how exposed you really are online, this video is for you.
  
  resources mentioned:
  
  Geoguessr Guide: https://www.plonkit.net/beginners-guide
  
  jeffrey’s image metadata viewer: https://exif.regex.info/exif.cgi
  
  google advanced search operators: https://www.google.com/advanced_search
  
  suncalc (shadow & sun angle analysis): https://www.suncalc.org
  
  sherlock osint tool (github): https://github.com/sherlock-project/sherlock
  
  have i been pwned: https://haveibeenpwned.com
  
  ethics note
  all techniques discussed are for educational, defensive, and legal purposes only. always follow the law and respect privacy.
  
  hashtags
  #osint #cybersecurity #hacking #bugbounty #infosec #digitalprivacy #opsec #ethicalhacking #internetsecurity #dataprivacy #googledorking #metadata #socialengineering #openintelligence
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
Here's what actually happened in 2024 that nobody talks about. Hamas compiled dossas on over 2,000 Israeli Air Force officers using LinkedIn, Facebook, and Google Earth. Names, addresses, family photos, license plates, bank details, all from public sources. Or the Sony Pictures hack in 2014. Attackers used OSENT to profile executives and employees before launching targeted fishing. found their social media, their

connections, their habits, then crafted emails so convincing that people just handed over credentials. That's oh, since in 2026, it's literally just knowing how to Google things normal people are too lazy to Google, combined with understanding what metadata actually means. Google dorking. In 2018, Exactus exposed 340 million records on a publicly accessible server. Security researcher found it by using simple search operators to scan for unsecured databases on cloud platforms. Wait,

what? You're telling me I can find confidential documents just by typing file type colon PDF confidential? Yes, exactly. In 2019, First American Financial exposed hundreds of millions of sensitive customer records through a simple URL manipulation. After spending three hours manually researching someone, I discovered automation tool called Sherlock. Free open- source. Give

it a username and it checks 300 sites automatically. Sounds perfect, right? Wrong. Sherlock found 47 accounts for the username I tested and 43 were the wrong person or abandoned or someone trolling with that name. Now I had to manually verify each one. I automated

myself into more work. But here's the gut punch nobody mentions. Your username is probably the same across 30 platforms because remembering different ones is annoying. I tested this on myself. Found the Soundcloud I made drunked in 2015.

Three songs, all terrible. Can't delete it because I don't remember the password. It will exist forever as evidence of my poor life choices. Every photo has metadata. Eekift data, GPS coordinates, device info. Your phone

embeds GPS by default unless you manually disabled it, which you definitely didn't. Most of your photos are geo tagged. I found someone's apartment building from a cat photo once. The cat was inside, but metadata set exact GPS location. That cat didn't consent to this. Organizations leak info

through employee social media profiles. If you can find which employees work where and what their interests are, you can craft fishing so targeted it's almost unfair. People post photos with zero location tags and you can still find where they are. How? Reflections in windows showing street signs. Mountains

in the background that only exist in specific regions. Shadow angles indicating latitude and time of day. Brick patterns unique to certain cities and time periods. Real case I know about investigator geoloccated photo from brick pattern visible in the background. Specific pattern only used in Chicago 1920 to 1940. Narrow to 12 buildings.

Checked each on Google Street View. Found it. That's insane person behavior, but it works. Sun angles are predictable. Shadows point specific directions at specific times. If you

know when photo was taken, you estimate latitude from shadow angle. narrows possible locations from entire Earth to maybe 50 cities. This is the denominator problem, but for stalking. Look, all those techniques I just showed you, I had to piece all of this together from sketchy forums and contradictory Reddit threads. So, I put everything in one place. Cyberflow Academy. All the

techniques that actually work. There's a full video walkthrough on the site showing everything inside. You can see exactly what you get before joining. Check it out. You can't unsee how exposed everything is. You'll be at

dinner and someone mentions moving and you'll accidentally say the address because you saw it on Zillow and they'll think you're a stalker, which fair. You start analyzing metadata in everything. Photos, documents, social posts, everything is either a clue or a lie. No in between. Your relationship with information is permanently damaged.

You're cooked. Your brain is cooked. But also, you can find anyone's email in 4 minutes and verify if someone is lying about their background in 10 minutes. And that's genuine power in 2026, where everyone hides behind fake personas. So, here's your challenge. Find out who this

man is and write it in the comments below.

Never never.

All right, enough internet for today. See you in the next video.