---
video_title: "f**k it... let's try blackarch linux"
video_id: pXBwcZh2Q8E
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pXBwcZh2Q8E
video_date: 2026-06-17T15:00:29+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  I switched from Parrot OS to BlackArch and immediately understood why most people never do.
  
  After years of using Kali Linux and Parrot OS, I decided to install BlackArch, the Arch Linux-based cybersecurity distribution with access to over 2800 security tools. What started as a late-night experiment turned into one of the most interesting Linux experiences I've had.
  
  In this video, I explore what makes BlackArch different from Kali Linux and Parrot OS, how the installation process works, why Arch Linux users love pacman, the philosophy behind building your own hacking environment, and whether BlackArch is actually worth using for ethical hacking, bug bounty hunting, penetration testing, OSINT, reverse engineering, malware analysis, and cybersecurity research.
  
  We also take a look at the massive BlackArch repository, Openbox customization, system performance, security tools, workflow differences, and why having complete control over your environment can make you a better security professional.
  
  Whether you're learning cybersecurity, studying ethical hacking, building a bug bounty setup, or just obsessed with Linux distributions, this video should help you decide if BlackArch is worth your time.
  
  🔥 Resources Mentioned:
  
  BlackArch:
  https://www.blackarch.org
  
  Arch Wiki:
  https://wiki.archlinux.org
  
  Arch Linux:
  https://archlinux.org
  
  Nmap:
  https://nmap.org
  
  Wireshark:
  https://www.wireshark.org
  
  Metasploit:
  https://www.metasploit.com
  
  Burp Suite:
  https://portswigger.net/burp
  
  ⚡ Topics Covered:
  
  • BlackArch Linux Review
  • BlackArch vs Kali Linux
  • BlackArch vs Parrot OS
  • Ethical Hacking
  • Penetration Testing
  • Bug Bounty
  • Linux for Hackers
  • Arch Linux Security Tools
  • Openbox Customization
  • Cybersecurity Learning Path
  • OSINT Tools
  • Reverse Engineering
  • Malware Analysis
  • Linux Aesthetics
  • Hacker Workstations
  • Cybersecurity Career Development
  
  #blackarch #linux #cybersecurity
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  0:00 Why I Switched from Parrot OS to BlackArch
  0:21 What Makes BlackArch Different?
  0:44 Installing BlackArch for the First Time
  1:27 Openbox: The Minimalist Desktop Experience
  1:52 Learning Pacman and the Arch Ecosystem
  2:31 Why BlackArch Doesn't Preinstall Everything
  3:07 The Hidden Problem with Learning Cybersecurity
  3:55 Building Your Own Security Environment
  4:15 Discovering Tools Nobody Talks About
  4:53 Why BlackArch Feels So Fast
  5:22 Is BlackArch Better Than Kali or Parrot?
  5:51 My BlackArch Dotfiles and Setup
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
So I've been running Parrot OS for a while now, comfortable, know where everything is, life is good. Then someone in the Cyberflow Discord drops a message saying "why aren't you using BlackArch" and I made the mistake of looking it up. Three hours later I'm downloading a 20GB ISO at two in the morning like a completely normal person making completely normal decisions. For context I know Kali, I know Parrot, I understand how security distributions work. BlackArch is not the same conversation. BlackArch is an Arch Linux based distribution

with over 2800 security tools in its repository. Not pre-installed. In its repository. The difference matters and I'll get to that. But the number alone should tell you that whoever built this was not playing around.

The installation is the first thing that separates BlackArch from every other security distro I've touched. Kali holds your hand through the installer, Parrot is friendly, even Arch Linux has gotten more approachable over the years. BlackArch gives you options a full ISO with a graphical installer, a minimal ISO, or my personal favorite option which is installing it on top of an existing Arch system by running a bootstrap script. I go with the full ISO because I'm not completely insane, but even that process assumes you know what you're doing. It's asking about partitioning schemes, boot loaders, filesystem types. This is not an OS that wants to be your first Linux experience.

It will let you shoot yourself in the foot and then quietly log the timestamp of when you did it. First boot and the default desktop is something called Openbox. Minimal, fast, almost aggressively bare. No dock, no fancy panel, no animations, nothing that could be accused of wasting a single CPU cycle. Right click on the desktop and a menu appears. That's

it. That's your interface. Coming from Parrot's clean MATE desktop this feels like someone handed me a text editor and said good luck. But I keep going because I'm already in too deep. I open a terminal and run `sudo pacman -Syu` to update the system first because that's just what you do on Arch based systems before anything else. Pacman is the package manager

and if you've never used it, it's faster than apt, cleaner than most alternatives, and the commands actually make sense once you spend five minutes with it. `pacman -S toolname` installs something. `pacman -Rs toolname` removes it cleanly. `pacman -Ss keyword` searches the repos. The BlackArch repository sits on top of the standard Arch repos which means you have access to everything in the official Arch repos plus all 2800 BlackArch tools from the same package manager. One consistent system for everything.

Now about those 2800 tools. On Kali and Parrot the tools are pre-installed and organized in menus by category. BlackArch doesn't do that. The tools are available but you install what you actually need. At first this feels like extra work and then you realize it's actually the smarter approach. On Kali you have hundreds of tools sitting on your system that

you've never opened and probably never will. On BlackArch your environment is exactly what you put into it. You install Nmap because you need Nmap. You install Burp Suite because you need Burp Suite. The result is a leaner, faster system where you actually know what's on it and why. For anyone doing serious security work that level of control matters.

This is also the point where I'll be honest about something. Everything I'm exploring tonight the tools, the workflows, the way professionals actually structure a security environment exists in documentation scattered across the Arch Wiki, BlackArch's own docs, random blog posts and forum threads. The Arch Wiki alone is one of the best technical resources on the internet and it's completely free. The problem isn't that the information doesn't exist. It's that when you're building something like this from scratch you're constantly jumping between fifteen different sources with no clear picture of how it all fits together and nobody to ask when something breaks in a way that Google has never seen before.

That's the exact gap Cyberflow fills the tools, the methodology, the structured path through it, and a community of people actively working through the same problems. I'm in there directly when you get stuck. Link is in the description, code Cyberflow50 for fifty percent off. Now back to it. I start installing tools selectively and this is where BlackArch becomes genuinely interesting as a learning experience. Because choosing what to install forces you to actually think about what

you're trying to do. On Parrot you open the menu and everything is already there. On BlackArch you have to know enough to ask for the right thing. I install the tools I know first Nmap, Wireshark, Metasploit, Burp Suite and then I start browsing the BlackArch tool list just to see what's in there that I've never heard of. And this is where it gets actually interesting.

There are tools in the BlackArch repository that I've never seen mentioned anywhere. Specialized wireless attack frameworks, obscure but powerful OSINT tools, reverse engineering utilities, binary analysis tools, network fuzzing frameworks. Things that exist in niche corners of the security community and never made it into the Kali or Parrot default installs. For someone who wants to go beyond the standard toolkit this repository is genuinely one of the most valuable things about BlackArch. You can spend hours just reading tool descriptions and learning that entire categories of techniques exist that you never knew about.

The performance is noticeably better than every other security distro I've run. Lighter on RAM, faster to boot, more responsive under load. This is the Arch philosophy in action nothing runs on your system that you didn't explicitly put there. No background services you didn't ask for, no default applications eating memory, no visual effects consuming GPU resources. For running on older hardware or inside a VM with limited resources BlackArch is in a completely different class.

By the end of the night my honest take is this BlackArch is not for everyone and it's not trying to be. If you want something ready to go out of the box, Kali or Parrot are the right answer. But if you've been using those distributions for a while and you want an environment that you built yourself, that runs exactly what you chose to put on it, that forces you to actually understand your own toolkit BlackArch is the most interesting thing you can do with a spare partition. The learning curve is real but what's on the other side of it is worth it. by the way A lot of you reached out after my last video asking about the setup and the aesthetics of my kali linux so I put the dotfiles for this BlackArch build in the first comment Grab it, make it yours, and if you do something interesting with it drop it in the Discord. I want to see what you build._ that's it, see ya.