---
video_title: "Hermes Agent in 8 minutes (No BS, No Fluff)"
video_id: 7KFrjP7J4mA
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7KFrjP7J4mA
video_date: 2026-06-06T15:00:36+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  This video is about Hermes Agent, the open-source AI assistant from Nous Research that actually remembers your projects, preferences, workflows, and conversations across sessions. Unlike traditional AI tools that lose context every time you start a new chat, Hermes Agent uses persistent memory, reusable skills, and autonomous workflows to become more useful over time.
  
  In this video, you'll learn what Hermes Agent is, how Hermes memory works, how to install Hermes Agent on your own server, why developers and cybersecurity professionals are switching to Hermes, and how the Agent Skills ecosystem allows Hermes to continuously improve itself.
  
  Whether you're a developer, pentester, researcher, creator, or AI enthusiast, Hermes Agent offers a unique approach to AI automation that goes far beyond traditional chatbots.
  
  Topics Covered:
  
  • What is Hermes Agent?
  • Hermes Agent installation guide
  • Hermes Agent memory system
  • Persistent AI memory explained
  • Hermes Agent skills and automation
  • AgentSkills.io integration
  • AI workflow automation
  • Telegram AI assistant
  • Discord AI assistant
  • Multi-agent workflows
  • Autonomous AI agents
  • Open-source AI assistants
  • AI for developers
  • AI for cybersecurity
  • Self-improving AI systems
  • Hermes Agent use cases
  • Nous Research projects
  • Building your own AI assistant
  
  Resources:
  
  Hermes Agent GitHub
  https://github.com/NousResearch/Hermes-Agent
  
  Nous Research
  https://nousresearch.com
  
  Agent Skills Hub
  https://agentskills.io
  
  Hermes Community Discord
  https://discord.gg/nousresearch
  
  DigitalOcean VPS
  https://www.digitalocean.com
  
  Hetzner Cloud
  https://www.hetzner.com/cloud
  
  If you've been looking for an AI assistant that remembers everything, adapts to your workflow, and gets smarter over time, Hermes Agent might be the most underrated open-source AI project available right now.
  
  #hermesagent #hermes #nousresearch #aiagent #opensourceai #artificialintelligence #agenticai #aiassistant #automation #cybersecurity
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  00:00 The Biggest Problem With AI Tools
  01:21 Meet Hermes Agent
  01:50 AI That Actually Remembers You
  02:17 The Self-Improving Skills Loop
  03:07 Installing Hermes Agent
  03:43 Sub-Agents Explained
  04:17 Hermes for Cybersecurity Workflows
  04:50 Open Source vs Closed AI Systems
  05:18 Is Hermes Agent Worth Using?
  05:57 How to Build Your Own AI Agent
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
Every AI tool you've ever used has the memory of a goldfish. You spend 20 minutes explaining your project, your preferences, how you like things done, and the next session it's gone, total reset, you're explaining yourself to a blank slate again like some kind of Sisyphean nightmare except instead of a boulder it's "so I'm building a Python Flask app and—" for the 47th time. Hermes Agent by Nous Research fixes this and it's genuinely one of the most interesting open-source AI projects right now because it's not another ChatGPT wrapper pretending to be revolutionary, it's actually different.

Hermes is an autonomous agent that runs on a server 24/7 and you interact with it through Telegram, Discord, Slack, WhatsApp, basically wherever you already live. No dashboard to open, no browser tab to lose, just text it like you'd text a friend who happens to know your entire workflow and never sleeps. That framing matters because most AI tools require you to go to them, Hermes just exists in your existing communication stack waiting to be useful. Two things make it genuinely different from the AI agent peasants. First is persistent layered memory, Hermes remembers everything across every single session, not just the last conversation, all of them. Your projects, your preferences, how you like problems explained, what you're working

on, your entire context builds over time. Most AI tools are a whiteboard that gets wiped every session, Hermes is a notebook that never closes and actually gets read before every interaction. Six months in it knows your workflow better than tools you spent years setting up, which sounds like marketing but is just how persistent memory with good retrieval actually works. Second is the self-improving skills loop which nobody talks about enough. Every time Hermes works through something complex it saves that solution as a reusable skill built on an open standard called agentskills.io. It doesn't figure out the same problem twice,

it builds a personal library of solutions specific to your workflow. There's a whole community hub with almost 90 built-in skills, 81 optional, and over 500 community skills across 18 categories. Skills that generate motion graphics, monitor GitHub repos and flag changes, send formatted daily briefings filtered for your specific workflow, basically anything repetitive you do becomes a skill Hermes can call automatically. You can even tell Hermes to monitor agentskills.io itself and suggest relevant new skills based on what it already knows about you, the tool looks for its own upgrades which is either efficient or slightly terrifying depending on your relationship with AI.

Installation is a single curl command on Linux, Mac, or WSL2, done in under a minute, which is almost suspicious for something this capable. The important decision is where you run it because Hermes needs a server that stays online 24/7, running it on your main laptop is genuinely a bad idea since it creates prompt injection attack vectors and a bunch of other vulnerabilities you don't want near your personal machine. You want a cheap VPS, something like a $5-10 a month Hetzner or DigitalOcean box works fine, your API keys and conversation history stay on your server, nobody else can access them, and it runs even when your laptop is off. Sub-agents are the feature that doesn't get enough attention. If you've ever watched a single AI session try to handle five different things simultaneously you've watched it slowly forget the first three while attempting the fourth. Hermes handles complex multi-part tasks by spinning up isolated sub-agents,

each with their own focused context and toolset, running in parallel, then assembling results back to the main agent when done. You ask for one thing, a whole process runs in the background, you get back a complete answer instead of "I got distracted halfway through your third request." For cybersecurity workflows specifically this thing is dangerous in the best way. Imagine Hermes knowing your entire recon methodology, what wordlists you prefer, how you structure reports, what tools you use for different scenarios, building on that context every single engagement instead of you re-explaining your entire workflow every session. Tell it once that you use nuclei with specific templates and gobuster with specific flags and it remembers forever, builds skills around your preferences, gets faster at helping you as you use it more.

The open source angle matters too because you're not locked into some company's API pricing or usage limits or "we're deprecating this model" emails. Nous Research built this on open foundations, the skills system is an open standard anyone can contribute to, and the community is building genuinely useful integrations. You own your instance, your data, your skills library, your conversation history, none of it disappears because a company decided to pivot or got acquired. Who is this actually for? Not everyone honestly. If you want quick answers to

random questions you're fine with ChatGPT, no shame. But if you're a developer with repetitive structured workflows who's tired of context reset hell, a security researcher or pentester who wants an assistant that actually builds specialized knowledge about your work over time, a creator constantly re-explaining projects to blank-slate AI sessions, Hermes is the thing that fixes the problem you've been coping with instead of solving. Day one it's capable, day 180 it's irreplaceable because no other tool has six months of learning your specific way of working. Build it this weekend, it's genuinely a good project that teaches you about agentic AI architecture, persistent memory systems, how skills and tool-calling work under the hood, and you end up with something you'll actually use instead of abandoning after a week. The full install guide is in the Hermes GitHub repo, the agentskills.io community hub shows you every

available skill, and the Nous Research Discord has people actively building and sharing workflows. If you want to go deeper on AI security, building your own agents safely, and understanding how these systems can be attacked and defended, Cyberflow's Academy has the content, first link below. Now go build an AI that actually remembers you exist, it's way better than explaining your project from scratch for the 48th time.