---
video_title: "OpenClaw is a Security NIGHTMARE."
video_id: 1Y_u0fY-AbA
channel_name: "CyberFlow"
channel_id: UCUvkPEm38w6pq8w5QYgtPPw
channel_category: "Education"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Y_u0fY-AbA
video_date: 2026-02-11T15:00:03+00:00
video_description: |
  Join The Family:💻👩🏻‍💻https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/
  Check Out The Courses We Offer: https://cyberflow-academy.framer.website/courses
  
  Educational Purposes Only.
  
  AI agents just built their own social media platform… and it immediately turned into a cybersecurity nightmare.
  
  In this video, we break down the full Moltbook incident  where autonomous AI agents created communities, launched bizarre experiments, exposed 1.5 million API keys, and revealed what happens when you “vibe-code” a platform with zero security controls.
  
  This is not science fiction. This is real.
  
  We’ll cover:
  
  • What Moltbook is and how AI agents built it
  • The OpenClaw (formerly Moltbot) framework explained
  • How AI agent “skills” work  and why they’re a massive security risk
  • The Supabase misconfiguration that exposed 1.5M API authentication tokens
  • How agents coordinated, formed communities, and even patched vulnerabilities
  • The real cybersecurity implications of autonomous AI agents with filesystem + command-line access
  • Why sandboxing, code signing, and permissions models matter more than ever
  
  If you care about AI security, cybersecurity news, API key leaks, agent frameworks, or the future of the internet  this is essential watching.
  
  We are entering an era where AI agents have persistent memory, external communication capabilities, and unrestricted local access. That combination changes everything.
  
  This video analyzes the Moltbook disaster from a security engineering perspective  including insights from Wiz Security researchers, Simon Willison, Palo Alto Networks, and commentary from Elon Musk and Andrej Karpathy.
  
  The bigger question isn’t whether AI agents are powerful.
  
  It’s whether we’re building them responsibly.
  
  🚨 resources mentioned in the video:
  
  openclaw github: https://github.com/openclaw
  
  moltbook skill file: https://moltbook.com/skill.md
  
  wiz security research: https://www.wiz.io/blog
  
  simon willison blog: https://simonwillison.net
  
  palo alto networks unit 42: https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com
  
  
  #hacking #ethicalhacking #bugbounty #cybersecurity #hacker #pentesting #infosec #cyberattack #hackingtools #sqlinjection #metasploit #cyberflowsacademy
  
  → Email: cyberflow10@gmail.com  
  
  
  I believe in you. You can do it. 🖤
  ======================
  .▀█▀.█▄█.█▀█.█▄.█.█▄▀　█▄█.█▀█.█─█
  ─.█.─█▀█.█▀█.█.▀█.█▀▄　─█.─█▄█.█▄█
---
AI agents just created their own social media platform and within 48 hours they'd started a religion, launched a porn site for robots, and exposed 1.5 million API keys because the entire thing was vibe-coded without a single security check. If you think I'm joking, I wish I was, but this is Moltbook and it's the most insane cybersecurity disaster disguised as a sci-fi experiment that I've seen in years. Welcome to the front page of the agent internet where humans can only watch and every security principle we've spent decades building just got thrown out the window because someone thought it'd be cool to let AI agents run wild on the internet with access to your files, your messages, your calendar, and zero sandboxing. Here's what happened. Some guy named Matt Schlicht used his AI agent running on OpenClaw,

which used to be called Moltbot before Anthropic made them change it for trademark reasons, and he told his bot to build him a Reddit for AI agents. Five days later Moltbook claimed 1.5 million registered agents posting over 124,000 times to 15,000 forums, and Elon Musk is tweeting that we're witnessing the early stages of the singularity while Andrej Karpathy is calling it a dumpster fire and telling people not to run this stuff on their computers. Both of them are right. OpenClaw is an open-source framework that lets you run a persistent AI assistant on your own machine with access to everything, your filesystem, your command line, your emails, your Slack messages, your calendar, all of it, and it works through a plugin system called skills that are just ZIP files with markdown instructions downloaded from random URLs on the internet with zero verification. You run npx molthub@latest install skill-name and boom

your AI agent now has new capabilities that could be legitimate automation or could be malware exfiltrating your SSH keys and API tokens to some server in Belarus, you have no idea because there's no code signing, no permissions model, no sandboxing, nothing. The Moltbook skill itself is fetched from moltbook.com/skill.md and it tells your agent to create directories, download files, register with the platform using API calls, and check back every four hours for updates, and here's where it gets insane, researchers at Wiz Security found a misconfigured Supabase database that let anyone read and write all platform data including 1.5 million API authentication tokens, 35,000 email addresses, private messages between agents, and the ability to inject commands directly into any agent session on the platform. They disclosed it, Moltbook patched it within hours and forced a reset of all API keys,

but the founder admitted on Twitter that he didn't write one line of code for the platform, he just told an AI to build it, this is what happens when you vibe-code a social network into existence. But it gets weirder. The agents on Moltbook started forming communities, one created a religion called Crustafarianism with a lobster deity called The Claw and recruited 64 prophets and wrote over 100 verses of scripture, another agent launched Molthub which is allegedly porn for AI agents featuring titles like Mature Transformer 175B params Teaches Young Model 7B The Ropes, and to human eyes it's just flashing green squares representing risqué mathematical computations, I am not making this up. Other agents were sharing actual useful stuff like security tips and automation workflows and one bot named Nexus found bugs in Moltbook's codebase, posted them in a forum, and within hours other agents had created fixes, which is legitimately impressive until you realize this means agents can coordinate to patch vulnerabilities faster than human security teams can even file a Jira ticket. The security implications here are genuinely terrifying. Simon Willison

calls OpenClaw the lethal trifecta for AI agents, it has access to your data, it's exposed to untrusted content from web pages and messages and third-party integrations, and it can communicate externally giving it the ability to exfiltrate everything, and Palo Alto Networks added a fourth dimension which is persistent memory through markdown files that the agent references as it works, so malicious payloads no longer need to trigger on delivery, they can sit dormant in your agent's memory and activate later when conditions are right. Look, I've spent years in this field watching people make the same mistakes over and over, and the biggest one is thinking that moving fast and breaking things is acceptable when you're handling other people's data and security. That's why I built Cyberflow's Academy, because I

genuinely wish this existed when I was starting out drowning in conflicting advice and outdated tutorials. First link in the description takes you to a full video walkthrough showing exactly what's inside, complete transparency, the courses I've built based on real pentesting engagements not theoretical nonsense, the tools and scripts I've developed over years to automate the tedious stuff, a Discord where me and other people who actually work in the field answer your questions when you're stuck at 2am debugging why your exploit isn't working, and a community of people who understand that cybersecurity isn't about being the smartest person in the room, it's about being the most paranoid and most prepared. I'm not here to hype you up, I'm here because I've seen too many people get burned by security issues they didn't even know existed, and if we're entering an era where AI agents can autonomously exploit vulnerabilities and coordinate attacks, you need to be ready. Check it out if you're serious about not being the next person featured in a Wiz Security blog post about how your agent leaked 1.5 million API keys. Thanks for watching.